Chemistry at the British Association The President in summing up said that the general opinion appeared to be that the matter should be considered by a committee of the Royal Society, if possible in conjunction with the Physical Society.
THE FRENCH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE It appears, however, that, owing to the cost of the volume of proceedings and of administration, the expenses of the French Association are considerably larger than the receipts from the annual dues of members, whereas, during the past two years, the Ameri- can Association has been able to transfer to the permanent funds a portion of the dues received from members.
The Sporadic Publication of Scientific Papers Lastly, it would relieve the bibliographer from much wearisome labour.
A New Name for a New Science Historiometry bears the same relation to history that biometry does to biology. I am already convinced from the indications of several researches which I have now under way, that the quantitative method may be suc- cessfully applied to historical events of a more general character. The general method of "averaging opinions" is shown to be practical and to give orderly re- sults, harmonious with other researches in heredity.
American Scientific Productivity Fortunately there has been within thirty years a great increase in this country in the number of positions permitting scientific work, and in the opportunities which these positions offer for research work.
The Universities and Investigation A genius is one who moulds and is not moulded by his circumstances, and, in spite of Dr. Lillie's fears, the men he wants will appear in the fulness of time when they are ready. Can we do anything to produce a genius except avoid crushing him when he appears, and is even this nega-tive precaution necessary?
World List of Scientific Periodicals I shall be glad to receive by January 31, if possible, the names and addresses of institutions or individuals who will support this proposal by undertaking to subscribe for one or more copies of the list.
THE COST OF PRINTING SCIENTIFIC WORKS IN ENGLAND The existing scale of book prices means the cessation of book-buying. Unless novels and school books are to be the only output of the future, the present state of things must come to an end. The remedy lies with the trade; the buying public has come to the end of its resources, and refuses to be exploited any longer.
On the Advancement of Science by Published Papers If we do not, the position of science and scientific work may deteriorate without limit. These and other similar rules are, of course, well known to, and observed by, many experienced workers.
Benefactions to Universities: British and American Substantial though these figures are, they do not bear comparison with the record of transatlantic benefactions. To this difference of prevalent sentiment and estimation of values must be due in large measure the difference in magnitude between British and American benefactions to higher education.
Specialization and Cooperation in Scientific Research Mass production in science may prove to become as fatal as it is likely to become in industry, where it bids fair to be master instead of servant. Constant care as to whether new work is worth publishing, whether previous workers have received the credit which their work deserves, whether experiments are accurately made, whether the theory is simplified to the point where it is something other than a cloud of symbols, such considerations would, of their very nature, slow down this high speed production and permit, to some extent, the realization of the hours of philosophic contemplation of the work already done for which Sir Ernest Rutherford makes his plea.
The Michael P. Rich Bequest for the Advancement of Science This leaves far too small a number of men who are capable or are properly prepared to carry on the important work of bringing these two sciences closer together. To pave the way for the coming revolutionary changes in chemistry we must be prepared to modify our methods of thinking, probably along lines now so prevalent in physics. But, above all, we must urge young chemists in the universities and after graduation to become thoroughly well trained in mathematics and in modern physics.
Societies and Academies Slater's curve can be used to apply the necessary correction in the measurement of radium-C, made with respect to a radium standard.
Doctorates Conferred in the Sciences by American Universities, 1929-30 Copies of these publications may be obtained from the Publication Office, National Research Council, Wash- ington, D. C.
Concerning titling of scientific publications. Action, in this case reading, rather than purchase as in advertising, will follow through successfully arranging the title so as to hit the interests of possible readers through the three approaches mentioned above: topic, subject, and apparatus.
Co-operation in Science Such a classification is to hand in the Universal Decimal Classification of the International Institute of Bibliography. Its suitability is proved by the gradual increase in its use, until, at the present time, the number of articles indexed by its means exceeds by fifty per cent the number of those that were included in the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature.
The Lag of Publication in Journals of Psychology The conclusion is that, as Fernberger averred, a rigorous editorial policy can hold the lag to whatever amount of latency is desirable. A steadily increasing lag which approaches no limit is intolerable. If equilibrium is to be maintained editorially, there will, after a short period of readjustment, be no loss of material if it is held at six or nine months instead of at fifteen or twenty months, and the gain that prompt publication gives in the stimulation of research will be tremendous.
Science and the Social Order The main conclusions of this paper may be briefly summarized. There exists a latent and active hostility toward science in many societies, although the extent of this antagonism cannot yet be established.
On the Physicist in the Government Service The pure and applied aspects of scientific endeavor are not conflicting but are supplementary and, together, form a harmonious whole.
The Education of the Younger Starred Scientists The evidence as to the vital importance of young, hopeful, enthusiastic presidents and faculty upon the yield of graduates who later become distinguished in research is perhaps not adequate as yet, but certainly it is suggestive. No longer must ambitious American scientists go to foreign countries for their training. Instead, hundreds of foreigners have come to America for advanced education.
Membership of the American Association for the Advancement of Science In spite of the limited funds of the association available for operations, these services to its members by no means exhaust the possibilities.
The Distribution of the Periodical Literature of Science It may be concluded, therefore, that this improved means of acquainting research workers with the cur-rent periodical literature, and promptly supplying them with microfilm copies of it, will enable many more persons to undertake research than can now do so with profit, and permit everyone to make better use of the published work of others for the advancement of science. For this purpose indices will be required, but their preparation need not add greatly to the expense, and with them it should certainly be possible to trace desired references to articles of which the titles have been recorded in the preceding issues of the catalogue.
A National Science Foundation? The important question is whether they will be resolved on the basis of considered opinions of scientists, educators, and others, or whether the whole matter will simply be left to resolve itself or perhaps be left to the Army and the Navy to decide in the way that seems best to them.
The Publication Records of Certain American Physicists In conclusion, it might be repeated that the information supplied is only for starred physicists listed in American Men of Science. Only a very comprehensive study could take into account the many factors involved and answer the questions possibly suggested here.
Postwar Distribution of Scientific Research Activity Our composite chemist has taken out a patent for every three papers he has pub-lished during the past 20 years and he is perhaps more industrial than he is pure, though differences in publication habits make this hard to measure.
Coverage of Scientific Personnel in American Men of Science, Eighth Edition The coverage in both cases is substantial and represents the preponderance of personnel trained to this level. If the present emergency results in a need for a registry of information, the present file will obviously furnish a very important resource of information in dealing with persons of advanced training in the various sciences.
Trends in Authorship Instead of being a means of giving credit for creative endeavors, it is evident that there is a tendency to degrade authorship into a form of menial patronage. A reversal of present trends will require the stringent elimination of the practice of carelessly offering co-authorship to one's col-eagues as a token for small services rendered in the conduct of research.
The CIRCULATION OF PERIODICALS I AN INQUIRY INTO JOURNAL CIRCULATION The broad conclusion which can be drawn from the survey is this : that in terms of cost, work or time, the differences between one method of circulation and another are not great; and even as between 'controlled' circulation and no circulation at all the difference, except for operations on the largest scale, is only of one full-time junior's work at the most, and usually much less.
Publication trends in American psychology—a five year extrapolation. While the per capita publication rates of new associates are lower than rates of present-day fellows, and both are lower than the publication rates of earlier decades, the new associates have so increased in numbers since World War II as to suggest that their contributions to the scientific literature will make for serious publication difficulties in the near future. It is probable that, in the absence of any radical change in policies, psychology by 1958 will need 7400 more pages per year than we now have. An inherent aspect of this problem is the need to determine the quality of manuscripts received and of articles published.
Survey of Operations and Finances of Scientific Journals In summary, then, it would appear that the scien-tific journals covered by the survey are managing to publish most of the material submitted within a reason-able period.
Survey of Scientific Journals in the United States Most editors disliked the idea of a direct subsidy from any sources, including the Federal Government, and many believed that additional income should be obtained from society membership or advertising. Attention was directed to difficulties, expense and delay caused by bad writing and presentation.
Some Aspects of State Academy of Science Publications While there are some academies with excellent sci- entific journals, it might be suggested that in other cases (...) the committee in charge of publications should reevaluate its journal in terms of what it could be doing to satisfy the objectives of a modern state academy of science.
Priority for Reporting of Scientific Discoveries In summary, we propose that journals show both the actual date of mailing of the journal and the date of acceptance of the paper as the basis for priority.
Research Dollars from Cooperative Organizations The true significance of research by the societies-which represents only 0.1% of total R&D funds in the U. S.- appears to be in the permeation of those research results throughout the American economy.
Here's How To Evaluate R&amp;D Ways to guide the program are made by determining whether any specific segment of the R&D effort should be started, stopped, expanded, or cur-tailed. The sum of these decisions fixes the course the over-all program takes. The value of the over-all economic contributions of research can be judged when the actual and potential returns-after research results are ex-ploited-are compared against the money it takes to get and exploit the results.
NSF Gets Bigger Information Job But the committee rejected the idea of a central scientific in formation agency. Reason: This kind of operation does not fit the pattern of American scientific development. Whatever its faults may be, the committee says, the present U. S. system has developed along the lines of individual initiative and private enterprise.
Research Expansion at the Chemical Abstracts Service The writer can only indicate the general direction of research and the main objectives which it is hoped to gain; later factual progress reports will be published in future issues of C&EN.
Scientific Co-operation in the Commonwealth The Duke affirmed his conviction that the whole Commonwealth would benefit greatly from a larger movement of scientists, whether as students, research workers, teachers, or members of scientific expedi- tions, and he was concerned about how this could be encouraged in practice. Probably the most important point is to encourage initiative and make it relatively easy for those who wish to do so to move from one country to another, widening their professional experience and exchanging ideas and techniques. Any attempt to improve the formal or informal framework of co-operation must be accompanied by a determined effort to enlighten public opinion, both as to what is required and as to the numerous ancillary measures which will make all the difference between the success of such aims and waste of public resources, frustration and even defeat of a calculated policy by sheer ignorance or neglect.
Foundations, Agencies Lay Out $95 Million for R&amp;D But this money-less than 1% of the U. S.'s total R&D outlay-was the lifeblood of many programs vital to the economy. Basic research funds were double 1953's $29.3 million. They made up about 8% of the national basic research total of $700 to $800 million in 1957.
Physics information at bargain prices These data clearly suggest that society publications generally (both AIP and non-AIP) offer journals to their subscribers at lower rates than do commercial publishers. The itemizing of this list of disadvantages makes it evident that cost per word is, at best, a rough measure, but no better measure has yet been proposed for this economic comparison.
DEGREE CLASS AND ATTAINMENT IN SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH If our result is accepted as approximately accurate, it would appear that class in the Tripos bears no direct relation to subsequent eminence in scientific research as assessed by either of our two criteria.
$1 Billion to Go to Basic Research in '60 The NSF figures show that industry is becoming more and more aware of the importance of basic research. Between 1953-54 and 1957-58, industry upped its expenditure on basic research by $102 million-from $147 million to $249 million.
Industrial R&amp;D Outlays Hit $10 Billion Funds for industrial basic research were $344 million in 1959, only 4% of the total outlays for industrial R&D. The chemical industry continues to pace all other industries in outlays for industrial basic research. In 1959, it spent $98 million of the total $344 million spent by all U.S. industry for that purpose.
Survey of graduate students in physics If it be true that scientific work con- tributes as much or more to the national security than does conventional military activity, this number repre- sents a considerable waste that is still going on.
REASONS FOR THE VARIATIONS IN THE INFORMATION NEEDS OF SCIENTISTS It is suggested that this same grouping is applicable to whole research organizations. It then appeared to the author that perhaps not only individuals but also organizations, of a technical or research type, might be subject to the same groupings, and that this might explain, in part, the differences between different technical libraries and information services. The results might throw more light on the reasons for the variations in the information needs of scientists.
Measuring the Growth of Science The number of data about its own science that a country produces is in itself a measure of its government's awareness of two things: of the importance of scientific research and of the necessity for a re-search policy based on measurement of all the appropriate aspects of science.
Industry's R&amp;D Spending Climbs 3% This year, total industry spending for R&D should increase by 4%, reaching $11.3 billion, NSF estimates.
The Local-Cosmopolitan Scientist This finding suggests that those scientists who are highly motivated to advance knowledge will be assets to the organization in two ways: (1) achieving the organizational goal, which is the same as the institutional goal of science, and (2) meeting non-scientific organizational requirements that take time from research.
The distribution of scientific effort To sum up: I have proposed, as a starting point, an assessment of the economic requirements for science and technology in relation to the most serious limiting factor of the economy concerned. This is an act of long-term planning, and will yield an approximate idea of an appropriate distri- bution of scientific effort, first for applied research and development, thence for pure research and for the uses of scientists in production, sales, manage- ment, administration and education.
The Dissemination and Use of Recorded Scientific Information This suggests that an effective means of searching and selecting relevant articles would be helpful. There is strong evidence, however, that abstracts do not serve this function: they appear to be used as a substitute for articles rather than as a guide to them. The estimated "cost/unit reading time" is a significant basis for comparing publica-tions.
Citations in Popular and Interpretive Science Writing This useful 'redundancy' not only could do away with the need for many interlibrary loans but also would sim-plify the writing of papers, since one frequently must incorporate the title of the cited article in an unnecessarily long sentence. In view of the recent President's Science Advisory Commit-tee recommendation (3) on the use of fuller, more exact titles, it is borrowing from Peter to pay Paul when you dis-card them.
Citation Indexing Although any new addition to the literature can be considered only with some reluctance the potential value of this variety of crossreferencing is apparent. Because indexing is a formidable task it might be practical to turn each author into his own indexer. This information might reduce the labor of the authors of the Current List, and make their index more useful.
U. S. Schools Will Double Number of Doctoral So the actual granting of doctorates will catch up with the over-all 7% growth curve by 1969, depending on social conditions and principally the support of graduate education during the next few years, Dr. Harmon and Mr. Soldz say.
Citation Indexing: A Natural Science Literature Retrieval System for the Social Sciences This article has attempted to ex-plain the approach of the Institute for Scientific Information to the diverse problems of retrieving and dissem-inating information. I have empha-sized the multidisciplinary, linguistic, and quantitative factors common to all research fields today, and sug-gested the ways in which citation in-dexing resolves the problems inherent in these factors. The expectation, in spite of special obstacles presented by social science materials, is that they can be at least as effective as in the natural sciences.
George Homans in Footnotes: The Fate of Ideas in Scholarly Communication Certainly, the conclusion is justified that over the years Homans' ideas have progressively penetrated more deeply into a wide variety of substantive areas.
Multiple Authorship Trends in Scientific Papers Since 1946 there has been no continuation of a marked trend toward multiple authorship among biomedical writers, and thus generalizing from a study of chemical literature to that of all science is not justified.
INFORMATION RETRIEVAL: A REVOLT AGAINST CONVENTIONAL SYSTEMS? All these explorations as to what might constitute useful groupings seem to be a reflection of Hulme's theory of literary warrant, formulated some fifty years ago.
BIBLIOGRAPHIC COUPLING It becomes evident that the bibliographic coupling is not a constant unit, and a unit which is not constant is not a unit. In fact, bibliographic coupling is not a unit but merely an indication of the existence of the probability, value unknown, of relationship between two documents. This, it will be realized, is no criticism of the work of M. M. Kessler, but merely a caution against a possible misunderstanding of it.
CITATION INDEXES While such information is of value its potentiality as a retrieval tool will be of primary interest to users, and until some test of this is carried out its performance in this respect will not be known.
The Changing Horizon of Information Storage and Retrieval To facilitate this change, new dis-cipline of "information science" is be-ginning to emerge. It is a true inter-disciplinary science, involving the ef-forts and skills of librarians, logicians, linguists, engineers, mathematicians, and behavioral scientists. Finally, by de-scribing the Information Retrieval Project at the System Development Corporation we have tried to point to a current trend in systems research in this field-one that we hope will con-tribute to the growing body of knowl-edge in information science.
Psychology of the Scientist: XI. Lotka's Law and Research Visibility The data presented here and in the paper by Dennis (1954) suggest three conclusions: (1) 10% of the scientists account for nearly half of the published research; (2) 10% of the articles published account for approximately 40% of the citations to the research literature; and tentatively, (3) there appears to be no relation between the number of papers published by a given author (research quantity) and the average importance or utility of these papers as measured by citation rates (research quality).
A USER'S ASSESSMENT OF CURRENT AWARENESS SERVICES The results presented above from this exploratory investigation suggest that this technique could be extended to study user efficiency in real situations.
The MIT technical information project The system described above is to be considered as a research tool. It is now being used to in- vestigate a group of problems that range from engineering and cost analysis to the role of hu- man factors in literature search. These and other experiments currently in operation or de- sign will subsequently be reported elsewhere.
Networks of Scientific Papers I believe it is the existence of a research front, in this sense, that distinguishes the sciences from the rest of scholarship, and, because of it, I propose that one of the major tasks of statistical analysis is to determine the mechanism that enables science to cumulate so much faster than nonscience that it produces a literature crisis.
The Impact of Rapid Discovery upon the Scientist's Career The rate of scientific discovery will, no doubt, increase even further as new fields of research continue to spring up and, after a brief time in the lime- light of current fashion, in turn be- come well-explored, "classical," and replaced by more exciting fields.
Scientists at Major and Minor Universities: A Study of Productivity and Recognition 1. Graduates of major universities were more likely to be highly productive than graduates of minor universities.
"Differential Association" and the Institutional Motivation of Scientists Based on the foregoing analysis, I suggest the following set of propositions that account partially for the degree and firmness of institutional motivation which a scientist develops during his induction into the institution of science. The theory offered here suggests recruiting scientists with particular background experiences in science in order to maximize the probability of selecting those who are highly institutionally motivated. It remains for future research to ascertain which of these two intervening theoretical links is more important and how they interact with each other to result in productivity.
PHYSICS ABSTRACTING—USE AND USERS There is some evidence to suggest that physicists need a current title publication and improved indexes.
Research Funds Constitute One Third of Total R&amp;D Expenditures NSF points out that these proportions have remained fairly stable in recent years, reflecting a consistent adherence to priorities in those national programs which largely determine the level and composition of the nation's R&D activities. Basic research expenditures are continuing to grow—annual rate of 16%—while the growth rate for total R&D dropped to about 10% in 1963.
Studies of social innovations in scientific communication in psychology. All in all, the listing of manuscripts accepted does seem to be serving the functions for which it was planned.
Freedom, Visibility of Consequences, and Scientific Innovation In sum, it is not possible to make a blanket statement relating maximal freedom to innovation, but rather maximal freedom is conducive to innovation only when there is an impetus to innovate.
Quantitative Growth of the Mathematical Literature This analysis supports the conjecture that the overall total scientific litera-ture has been accumulating at a rate of about 2.5 percent per year, doubling about four times a century.
Collaboration in an invisible college. The implications of this study are considerable for analyzing the social life of science and the nature of collaboration and communication at the research front. Not only have we indicated that the research front is dominated by a small core of active workers and a large and weak transient population of their collaborators, but we point the way, in conclusion, to the possibility that it is by working together in collaboration that the greater part of research front communication occurs. If this is so, then the con- ventional explanation of collaboration, as the uti lization of many different skills and pairs of hands to do a single job otherwise impossible to perform, is woefully inadequate and misleading.
DOCUMENTATION OF DOCUMENTATION It appears from the first part of the survey that none of the abstracts services is doing a very good job. As an identification of key journals in documentation the review produces no surprises. The titles listed from the abstracts’ count and the citations’ count are roughly what any worker in documentation would have selected. These figures show either that there is a serious language barrier or that the great majority of documentation literature is coming from the West.
Some Correlates of a Citation Measure of Productivity in Science The results of this pilot study are quite similar to others that have shown a low relationship between educational and ability measures and subsequent career achievement. While the use of the Science Citation Index does not "solve" the criterion problem in any theoretical sense, it does provide a source of information that greatly reduces the labor and costs of obtaining citation counts where these are likely to be valuable criterion variables. In subsequent research we plan to introduce information about type of employer in 1964 (industry, education, government), information for other science fields covered by the Science Citation Index, and other information about the background of the doctoral recipients.
Growth in Australian Research In an attempt to encourage the mobility of skilled labour within Australia the CSIRO is seeking—so far without success—ways of removing impediments to easy movement such as are created by the existence of superannuation schemes.
RESEARCH NEWSLETTERS IN THE BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES—A NEGLECTED LITERATURE SERVICE Much useful research information is circulated through the research news-letters which also help to define a social group. In addition their specialized and peculiar bibliographies can be a very important source of information and complement other more widely known abstracts and services. The usefulness of the news-letter as a bibliographic tool would be greatly increased if all members sent in details of their publications promptly and on standard file cards, which would lessen editorial work.
Geographical Distribution of NSF Grants In the long run, however, there can be no substitute for good indexing, abstracting and analysis, based on knowledge of the subject matter.
Citation Indexing and Evaluation of Scientific Papers Evaluation by means of citation pat- terns can be successful only insofar as published papers and their bibliogra- phies reflect scientific activity and nothing else.
The Determination of Total Research Effort The Hart analysis shows that, in economic terms only, it is worth while to spend far more on R. & D. than we do at present. The studies discussed in this paper suggest that an individual company should be spending about one-fifth of its future capital commitments on R. & D. if it is not to risk having to rely heavily on outside sources for its innovation or, even worse, to spend its money on equipment which will soon be outdated. Since the U.K. spends about 20 per cent of the gross national product on capital goods its R. & D. expenditure should be at least 4 per cent of the gross national product, not 2.6 per cent as at present.
Nobel Laureates in Science: Patterns of Productivity, Collaboration, and Authorship In summary, the Nobel prize with its psychological and social consequences for the men who receive it is associated with a variety of changes in work patterns.
Sponsored and Contest Mobility of American Academic Scientists In the foregoing analysis, we have determined that the identification of a scientist with his doctoral institution does have an effect upon his placement within the academic stratification system; however, the size of this effect varies between different stages in a scientist's career and between different levels of the stratification system. We can expect change in academic mobility patterns, and soon it may become possible to test hypoth-eses about the determinants of change.
Notes and Brief Articles Although the actual figures for both the taxonomic and geographical distribution of the literature must be accepted with caution, the sample is probably large enough to give a reasonably accurate picture of the relative differences in the attention paid to different taxonomic groups and in what parts of the world there is most interest in census taking.
Semantic Clustering of Index Terms Further examination for terms drawn from the fields of humanities and social sciences indicate that the methods described in this paper do have the strong ability to group conceptually related terms. It is possible, using the procedures, even to reorganize an indexing system which has developed in bits and pieces through years of manual effort. It is, however, believed that such an implementation is feasible, and there is enough promise in the results to justify a pilot project for constructing and using a dynamic dictionary.
Publication Trends in Biological Control Future changes in the pattern of activity in biological control will depend on several factors. A change in the distribution of research funds within the field could alter the picture; higher allocation would increase activity, and this would presumably be reflected in an increase in publications; lower allocations would reduce activity. The appearance of new techniques could also change the existing balance. Already autocidal control (sterile male techniques, and so on), the newest method of control included in our data, seems to be producing literature at a greater rate than most other trends.
Patterns of Name Ordering Among Authors of Scientific Papers: A Study of Social Symbolism and Its Ambiguity This noblesse oblige, however, has its limits; laureates' contributions to prize-winning research are more visible than contributions to their other research.
The Formal Communication System of Science: A Study of the Organisation of British Social Science Journals Considerable variations were found and an attempt was made to account for them on the basis of journal attributes and editors' professional characteristics and activities.
Evaluating research But with our resources in the UK so fully stretched it would seem vital to make decisions on research expenditure-in relation to the other alternatives-on a more quantitative and less intuitive basis.
CHICAGO FIRM PROFILES R&amp;D CHIEFS The typical chief R&D executive, Mr. Wilson says, joined his present employer at age 35, moved into his present position at 46, and is now 51. He achieved the top R&D spot through research management.
SUBJECT RELATIONS IN SCIENCE/TECHNOLOGY LITERATURE We conclude that, although citation as an indicator of use is biased (as shown¹ ²), it may throw useful light on the degrees of relatedness among subject literatures.
Communication in Geology To improve the situation refereeing must be firmer and papers shorter and clearer.
SOCIAL SCIENCE LITERATURE USE IN THE UK AS INDICATED BY CITATIONS Comparison of the present survey results with those obtained by the NLL has confirmed the conclusion drawn in ref. 1, that neither citation nor loan demand is an adequate measure of literature use by a large community. Each is only an indicator, illuminating some aspects of use but with its own inherent bias. The joint study of several indicators gives a more balanced picture.
The problems of a small scientific community: The Norwegian case Traditionally, Norway has had very few research institutions but this is changing now to some degree.
Characteristics of Social Science Journals in Japan Recognizing certain characteristics of the Japanese social science journals will aid non-Japanese-speaking social scientists in their search for social science literature in Japan. There is a definite need to have a comprehensive index of all behavioral and social sciences which will stimulate more interdisciplinary research in Japan.
Growth and Decay Curves in Scientific Citations In summary, we have stated more pre- cisely the model used by Price; questioned the implication of Price (1963: 79-81; 1965: 513) that the decay constant found from the tp distribution of citations given at time t should be the same as the growth constant of articles generally; and proposed the computation of m as a valuable param- eter for characterizing the communications systems of various disciplines.
DOCUMENTATION NOTES The above would seem to indicate that a selection of journals made on the basis of a frequency count of articles per title would fully satisfy a lower percentage of users than that implied in the citation percentages.
Chemists' economic status Overall, it appears that chemists are holding their own on the economic front. Although not yet attaining the economic level of physicians, they have maintained a reasonably comparable economic level vis-a-vis the average U.S. worker for the past 10 years. Barring any drastic changes in the nation's economy, this pattern likely will continue in the foreseeable future.
Chemical profession is changing The character of the chemical profession appears to be un-dergoing marked changes.
Fifty Year Growth Curve of the Journal This is because, in general, the Journal's policy has almost always been to print only pages for which it had funds to pay. Mere numbers of pages do not reflect the more qualitative aspects of the publication and thus another more complex analysis to include manuscripts and so forth, will be available elsewhere, later.
Citation Indexing for Studying Science Because it performs these two fundamental functions so well, important applications for the SCI have been found in three major areas: library and information science, history of science, and the sociology of science.
Stratification in American Science* This review of stratification in American science should indicate that we have come some distance in learning about the allocation of certain kinds of rewards, the bases for allocation, and some of their consequences for different parts of the scientific community. From all that I can reconstruct, it appears that most scientists accept as legitimate authori-tative evaluations of work and the criteria on which they are made. Mobility in science, especially over the whole life course, relations between the different strata of scien-tists, and, particularly the extension of detailed knowledge to include the middle and lower levels of scientists, are problems needing more attention.
Patterns of Intellectual Influence in Scientific Research "Although they deal only with physics, which is perhaps the most highly institutionalized scientific discipline, and therefore must be seen as only suggestive, the data allow us to question the view stated by Ortega and others that large numbers of "pedestrian" scientists contribute substantially to the advance of science through their research." "It seems, rather, that a relatively small number of physicists produce work which becomes the base for future discoveries in physics." "We suggest that the egalitarian ideology of science serves an expressive pattern maintenance function."
Journal citations and scientific eminence in contemporary psychology. The evidence re- ported above shows that psychologists who are judged to be scientifically eminent on the basis of a variety of other independent criteria are also those most frequently cited in the current journal literature. What seems to emerge from the present study is that such errors may not really be as frequent or important as has been supposed. If gross errors of this kind actually occurred very frequently, it is difficult to see how relationships such as those reported above between journal citation count and scientific eminence judged by other criteria could have been found.
Communication in the Physical and the Social Sciences The results of our studies suggest that scientific communication in the social sciences is in an early stage of develop- ment relative to that in the physical sciences: the elements of the social sci- ences' communication structure are relatively noncohesive; the flow of sci- entific information through the com- munication system follows less predict- able sequences; and the processing of information for the archives appears less efficient (more time-consuming, more haphazard, and more diffuse).
The royal society catalogue as an index to nineteenth century American science The basic conclusion is, however, that within its definition of a scientific periodical, the Royal Society did an admirable job of covering American science. In this respect, despite the deficiencies in the total coverage by the Royal Society Catalogue, the writing of journal articles has proven to be an effective means of compiling a list of scientists. Nevertheless, this study has suggested that it is very unlikely that a significant number of recognized scientists could have completed their careers without publishing at least one scientific article, although in some cases these might not be in scientific periodicals as understood by the Royal Society.
Distribution Pattern of the Duplication of Discoveries There thus seems to be predictable regularity in duplica-tions, and Price's conjecture about the pattern of distribu-tion of multiple discoveries is confirmed for antibiotics, even in cases where there are no duplications.
Scientists as an inferior class: The early years of the DSIR The policy established by Heath and Lloyd has persisted to the present. Scientists turned administrators have shown no particular desire to improve the lot of their scientific employees. It is clear that any move to improve the status of scientists in government employment would have to be radical indeed in order to alter the patterns which have been consecrated by tradition and supported by prejudice.
Professional Standing and the Reception of Scientific Discoveries All the data indicate that the assessed quality of papers at time 2 is a far more important determinant of the paper's initial reception at time 1 than is the author's rank in the stratification system at time 1; significant work tends to be utilized regardless of who has produced it.
Cardiovascular serial literature: Characteristics, productive journals, and abstracting/indexing coverage Four characteristics of c-v specialty journals—'birth date,' country of publication, language, and sponsoring body—reveal information about communication in this field. A study of the dispersion, however, shows that a relatively small number of journals contain a high percentage of papers. This can be a guide to users of this information—both the medical librarian who must decide what journals to subscribe to in order to best serve the public and the scientist who wishes to monitor on a regular basis those journals that potentially contain the most papers of interest to him.
The Operation of Science Journals: Two Case Studies in British Social Science This study has applied a particular view of journal operation and the formal communication system of science, to a year's processing of papers through two British social science journals. The suggestions implied by the model appear to be fairly well substantiated.
Physics journal in retrospect and comparisons The volume of scientific publications nevertheless proves to be one of the most accurate and convenient sources of information on basic research efforts.
On publication characteristics of research establishments More confirmation can thus be drawn from the present rather fragmentary observations on the applicability of quantitative means to study publication and communication patterns. Further preliminary work indicates [13] that present approaches may have wider implications if expanding the already assessed methods to cover new statistical information on scientific activity. The advanced invetsigations might include, for instance, a typical time sequence in publication history of an individual, or disclose the conditions when systems independent variables cannot be constrained to the few parameters closely related to the papers themselves.
R&amp;D FUNDING: Hurting the Nonprofits The gain from nonfederal sources, however, "was not large enough to have an appreciable effect on the level of R&D performance," NSF says.
Citations, references and the growth of scientific literature: A model of dynamic interaction The model explores and the relationship between the growth of the scientific literature, the decay rate of old articles and the growth rate of the average number of references per paper.
The Scientific Advisory System: Some Observations The scientific advisory system is ef-fective on limited technical questions, and such questions provide much of its work.
Vulnerability to Knowledge Obsolescence Among Professionals Our findings indicate that the least vulnerable engineers are those who: a) have pursued a broad technical career, worked in R and D, and functioned in primarily technical as opposed to administrative tasks; b) have high achievement needs, engage in a wide variety of professional activities, and have a more cosmopolitan orientation; and c) work in organizations that are technically dynamic, and where management is cognizant of professional value systems. Although this study has focused upon graduate engineers, it has implications for all professions built upon a scientific knowledge base. Therefore, it is likely that obsolescence stands as a crucial explanatory variable in unraveling the dynamics of the professional role.
THE EXPANSION OF SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE We must recognize that science is a world task, growing on a world scale and less and less amenable to organization by the superpowers.
A Mathematical Method for Analyzing the Growth of a Scientific Discipline Consequently, once an individual left the area of his immediate interest in this field he would be expected never to return. A Markov chain model of individual movement between research areas indicates that once an individual left an area he is not expected to return.
Curricula in information science: Analysis and development Not all the objectives have been attained. The committee feels that some conven-tions for evaluating the levels of professionalism reached at the completion of such programs could result as a byproduct of ths study. It is conceivable that when the practice of the profes-sion in Information Science is defined and identified in terms of skills required, then more standardization of programs will result.
Informal Contacts in Science: A Probabilistic Model for Communication Processes The probabilistic model presented here affords a quantitive basis for identifying such persons and for conceptualizing the communication process. For the mass of researchers, there is a low, but constant, average number of contacts resulting in substantial effects upon in-vestigators' work and distributed ran-domly within a general area of research activity (13). Within an active research area, there is, in contrast, an intensifi-cation of scientific communication focused upon a small elite, whose ac-tivities as individuals attract other re-searchers and students and create a highly structured pattern of exchanges imposed upon the basic pattern of es-sentially random contacts.
Secretiveness and competition for priority of discovery in Physics The foregoing observations have been confined to the field of high energy physics in Great Britain. It is entirely conceivable that what has been reported here does not apply equally to other fields of scientific research or to high energy physics in other countries. The question is full of dilemmas. The ethos of science has always demanded the acknowledgement of accomplishment. It has also prized the publicity of scientific knowledge. The dilemma will remain.
Scientific communication: Its role in the conduct of research and creation of knowledge. This picture of the long, slow, cautious process of creating, evaluating, reevaluating, integrating, synthesizing, and trans-forming scientific information into scientific knowl-edge, creates considerable sympathy for the dedi-cated professional scientist and scholar who has devoted his career to an area of psychology.
Sociology of refereeing The referee system here apparently does what it is supposed to do: Sift out the good papers from the bad.
The Information Explosion; or, Redundancy Reduces the Charge! There is sufficient evidence, even with limited sampling, to show that redun-dancy contributes heavily to the litera-ture explosion. It also provides addition-al evidence that the explosion is not one of information, but rather one of paper. Rather than finding ways of coping with the explosion, more effort should be devoted to investigating its real causes and its ex-tent in other than gross figures.
Current Physics Information If we achieve a successful, self-supporting program, it is our intent to extend the experience gained in han-dling physics research results to pro-viding other types of data increasingly needed by physicists. It is also our intent to cooperate with other disciplines by making our experience in handling full texts available should they care to un-dertake similar programs. In doing so, we feel confident that communication among physicists and other scientists will have been vastly improved while utilizing investments of money and people in scientific research and devel-opment more effectively.
A model for research problem allocation among members of a scientific community Our idealized model tells us that under the pressure of population growth, a community can make a transition between two different states, labeled as 'stable' or 'unstable' according to whether or not the number of people working on a given problem is bounded or increases without limit as the problem grows old.
Interrelationships of scientific journals A series of graphic models of the cross citing between journals have revealed a rather orderly and consistent pattern of journal interrelationships within and between scientific disciplines.
Coherent Social Groups in Scientific Change However, even successful groups seem to have a comparatively limited life span; 10 to 15 years is typical, and many last for shorter periods.
The dissemination of task and socioemotional information in an international community of scientists When viewed from one perspective, the flow of task and socioemotional related information among scientists in a relatively new and rapidly growing area in theo-retical science is relatively unimpeded by physical dis-tance and cultural barriers. This group might well be one of the most international scien-tific communities.
The Structure of Scientific Fields and the Functioning of University Graduate Departments Taken as a whole, the results must be seen as supporting our hypotheses.
Improving manuscript evaluation procedures. Data have been reported in this article which largely reaffirm the concern of those who feel that the professional publication system in psychology has already encountered serious problems, and that current deficiencies may undermine present proce-dures unless corrective action is taken.
Graduate school origins of authors in the Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology. While no one degree-granting institution dominates the clinical research as reflected in this Journal, the leading institutions in this study are training and producing a large percentage of the authors publishing in this Journal, and a rough hierarchy of the research training in the programs and departments represented can be constructed with some confidence in its accuracy.
Citation Analysis as a Tool in Journal Evaluation The results of this type of citation analysis would appear to be of great potential value in the management of library journal collections.
Citation patterns of the cardiovascular serial literature The statistics gathered in this examination provide some indication of patterns followed by scientists in publication of their research; some insights into the scientific literature are also given.
Toward a cost/utility model for social science periodicals The model thus provides a useful supplement to conventional indexing and serial selection procedures. The dynamics of research and scholarly activities, plus the shifts in journal subscription costs on the one hand, and the composition of faculty and student body on the other, can be taken into account by the CASPER model by annual updating of the data base.
A bibliometric analysis of certain information science literature "The results of the study indicate that the techniques described here can indeed be useful in contributing to our understanding of structural and dynamic properties of literature."
On the Impact of Management Science It should be emphasized that citation indexes are useful for examining only one dimension of a professional journal's impact.
Subject distribution in the Czechoslovak Journal of Physics The information obtained may be a fractional contribution to the numerous discipline-oriented surveys now existing especially in the framework of physics (e.g. [4]), and to the currently undertaken initial empirically based studies on interdisciplinary patterns in research [5–8].
Overlap in the lists of journals monitored by Biosis, CAS, and EI The first part of this five-part BIOSIS-CAS-Ei overlap study has identified the amount of overlap in the lists of primary source journals that each of the three accessing services monitors.
Interspecialty relationships in a physics journal And finally, tentatively constructed values indicating mean fractionisation of individual papers to multiple subjects are plotted against the frequency of papers and subjects exerted (Fig. 6), indicating once again that all the questions raised should be pursued to greater depth when providing a framework to derive a better estimate of how the multi- and interdisciplinary patterns operate.
The Growth of Science and Economic Development This article takes a first step toward a more precise study of comparative scien-tific productivity.
R&amp;D FUNDS ARE BOTTOMING OUT However, this year and next may at least mark an end to the recent erosion of the total U.S. R&D commitment.
What scientific journals can tell us about scientific journals In conclusion, we should like to stress the dual nature of journal evaluation. It attempts first to characterize a journal, and second to judge its importance in relation to others, to say that it is more or less important than others.
The increase in efficiency with size of research teams The results presented in this paper allow some new con- clusions with a bearing on research strategy.
On interrelationships of the sciences and technology as expressed by a categorized list of journals and modified by a classification system It is concluded that both intuitively, and in com- parison with a previous paper, the interrelationships shown in this study of the branches of science and technology (as indicated by the linkages between subject categories by means of journals listed under these sub- ject categories), and of the larger fields (classes) of sci- ence and technology (as shown by the linkages of the subject categories grouped together by means of a classification system), are of sufficient validity and in- terest to warrant further investigation using a more precisely constructed subject category listing than the one employed here.
Maintenance of individual visibility in publication of collaborative research by psychologists. Psychologists therefore exhibit noblesse oblige in the same manner as Nobel laureates after re-ceiving major recognition.
Decision-making in big science—the development of the high-voltage electron microscope ...and concludes that the scale of such "Big Science" developments in this country, as the HVEM may well prove unjustifiable in relation to achieved or anticipated research and other benefits, and that in the future closer public scrutiny needs to be made of alternative funding policies in relation to antici- pated benefits.
An analysis of decision processes It is argued that the range and quality of the reference standards used are likely to be significant factors in the success of research management.
The scientist's mission and professional involvement: A quantitative revisitation to the sociology of science Ideal types may be useful for organizing one's thoughts regarding particular social phenomena such as basic or applied science, but they are awkward and imprecise for empirical analyses.
Career contingencies and the fate of sociological research The data in Tables 4 and 5 support the suggestion that the journal in which an article is published and the academic affiliation of the author of the article are the two most important contingencies in the post-publication career of sociological articles.
Differences between physical and social sciences in university graduate departments It is clear from the findings already presented, however, that differences in paradigm development are associated with differences in the ways in which influence is exercised in university departments.
Journal citations in Master's Theses: One measurement of a journal collection On a less certain basis, it appears that the library makes little attempt to evaluate its journal acquisitions in terms of cost/use, and the ability to acquire the in-formation from another source.
Storage and retrieval of information on psychological measures. "Information overproduction and the lack of an adequate system for its storage and retrieval have frustrated integrative efforts and hindered orderly progress."
Co‐citation in the scientific literature: A new measure of the relationship between two documents It apepars that an interpretation of the significance of strong co-citation links must rely both on the notion of subject similarity and on the association or co-occurrence of ideas.
Clustering of scientific journals A cluster analysis procedure has been described in which 288 large and highly cited journals in physics, chemistry and molecular biology have been grouped into clusters of related journals.
Citation of the literature by information scientists in their own publications Much of the information science literature is not very scholarly.
MIS spinoff of a conventional STINFO retrieval system Since it quantifies that function by which the organization is most closely identified by its consumers (its weekly product), and is devoid of the petty internal idiosyncrasies of many MIS's, it reflects a totally objective analysis of resource usage.
An Examination of Recent Hypotheses About Institutional Inbreeding Our evidence suggests that not only are inbred scholars at the most eminent universities less productive than their noninbred colleagues, but also they are no more productive than noninbred scholars in the next lower prestige stratum of universities.
Scientific elitism and the information system of science "There were several significant differences between the elites and non-elites: (a) the ten variables of elitism provide a scale that successfully discriminates between elites and non-elites, (b) elites process more informa-tion than non-elites, (c) elites had more narrowly de-fined, less diffuse interest spaces than non-elites, and finally, (d) elites prefer literature-oriented methods of procuring scientific information as opposed to person-oriented methods."
Classification of scientific documents by means of self‐generated groups employing free language In this experiment we have demonstrated the feasi- bility of constructing the natural clusters of a set of highly overlapping physics papers using a clustering algorithm on the title and abstract words.
Productivity in toxicity papers Nevertheless, the resultant mean of 0.8 document per member per year com-pares favorably with the general publication rate of "one-half a paper per scientist per year" (3).
Modeling PhD production 1960–2000 The implication of this result for graduate education in physics is pro-found: We must plan to exist on a graduate enrollment of about one-half that of the peak years of the last dec-ade.
SCIENTISTS, INFORMATION TRANSFER AND LITERATURE CHARACTERISTICS Theses therefore can occupy a distinctive but peripheral position in the information transfer chain.
Shifts in Doctorate Output: History and Outlook Accordingly, the most probable development would seem to me to be continuing shifts of doctorate output in the directions characteristic of the 1960's, but at a moderated rate (along the lines suggested by assumption B), with doctorate output between 35,000 and 40,000. This shift will generate institutional difficul- ties that were not encountered in the 1960's, even though the proportionate shifts in that decade were more drastic than those I foresee for the 1970's. The goals with highest priority now are to halt the steady decline in federal fellowships and traineeships, to con- solidate the gains of the 1960's by ensuring that the quality of the system is sustained and increased, to protect the capability of the best departments to continue to produce outstanding students and research, to remove race and sex barriers to graduate education, to shift the production of doctorates appropriately in response to long-range needs, and to modify the content and goals of graduate education.
Communication modes of qeophysics: The case of ionospheric physics This article has shown the rapid growth of the literature of iono-spheric physics since its beginnings about 1925.
The Individual and the Information Problem These behavioural patterns imply that some of the classical ideals of science no longer apply and that the universality, communality and disinterestedness of science have been tem-pered by practical expediency.
Early Career Determinants of Research Productivity Two major conclusions can be derived from the results of the present research. First, early publication activity is strongly associated with subse-quent productivity.
"National Universities" and the ACE Ratings While we share a concern with others about the future of higher education in a period of projected economic difficulty, we doubt that the selection of 50 or 60 "national universities" for exclusive support would be wise.
Rise in R&amp;D funding signals halt to slump However, an analysis of the data in the latest annual National Sci-ence Foundation report on R&D in this country indicates that the worst of such declines is over and that modest growth is in the cards at least through this year.
Quality of Department of Doctoral Training and Research Productivity "We believe these factors justify the conclusion that, for sociologists at least, quality of department of doctoral training exerts little independent impact upon publication productivity."
Citation Patterns of Papers Published in the Journal of Sedimentary Petrology These characteristics appear to be typical of a young, expanding scientific discipline.
The Structure of Scientific Fields and the Allocation of Editorships on Scientific Journals: Some Observations on the Politics of Knowledge "The findings suggest that since consensus on basic paradigms does not exist in the social sciences, positions of influence are awarded and achieved on much more 'particularistic' criteria than those for the physical and natural sciences."
Is there a pecking order in physics journals? By now you may be wondering if there is a true pecking order in physics journals. We have presented three measures of this order, but we have neglected to specify which is the true measure of significance.
Trends in manpower needs in information science from 1967 to 1982 "diminish or grow slowly, it appears that the need for highly-trained information professionals will continue well into the forseeable future."
BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF A NEW RESEARCH SUB‐FIELD To summarize we have done a bibliometric analysis of a small and new research field. We have found that results from larger areas cannot be automatically transferred and that the growth, author's fertility and cita-tions show some regular behaviour which would be interesting to compare with other sub-fields.
Search strategy, construction and use of citation networks, with a socio‐scientific example: “Amorphous semi‐conductors and S.R. ovshinsky” Following the construction and assessment of a network describing the development of amorphous semi-conductors, it is concluded that citation diagrams are a valuable aid for socio-scientific studies.
Densities of use, and absence of obsolescence, in physics journals at M I T It seems that, for basic searches of literature in libraries, the concept of obsolescence may perhaps be no more than a myth.
Selection of scientific periodicals in an industrial research library It is concluded that there exists a Bradford set of periodicals for a multidisciplinary library and that the size and contents of the set have at least short-term stability.
Experimental test of a Q-sort procedure for prioritizing R&amp;D projects Thus, it is concluded that the Q-sorting procedure used here may be a useful methodology for promoting self-understand-ing, group communication, and idea exchange for project selection/evaluation.
Distribution by sex of authors and editors of psychological journals, 1970-1972: Are there enough women editors? The analyses presented here suggest that selec-tion procedures for editors of two samples of psy-chological journals for 1970-1972 were not sex blind, and that, as a consequence, similar publica-tion records for men and women had different out-comes. There are not enough women editors, not only from the standpoint of women psychologists themselves, who must find the lack of recognition for professional achievement discouraging, but also from the standpoint of the profession, which ought to be concerned to maxi-mize the productivity of all psychologists, not just the three quarters who are men.
Objective Versus Subjective Indicators of Quality in Graduate Education Our final and most important conclusion from these findings is that the structure of knowledge within a scientific field or discipline has implications for attempted measurements of quality. In low-paradigm fields like sociology, there is little relationship between objective indicators, like the number of faculty or the levels of funding with the subjective Cartter ratings of quality. Attempts to objectify the assessment of quality in more than one field need to guard against overly simplistic models.
Race and Research Productivity The major implication to be derived from the present research is that race appears to have no predictive utility in regard to the publication productivity of sociologists.
Lotka and information science The advantage of using the chi square goodness of fit method is that it permits a theoretical distribution to be fit to a probable universe.
Review literature: characteristics, sources and output in 1972 This indicates that there are certain features in reviews which can be used to identify them without consulting the original.
Referees and research administrators: barriers to scientific research? The closed system is a real bar to rapid progress. Scientists behave no better than businessmen or politicians and the only safeguard against Machiavellian distortion of research effort is com- plete openness of decision making. At present I am collecting information about the behaviour of referees and grant-giving bodies and would be delighted to receive evidence from any scientist.
A comparative analysis of obsolescence patterns of the U.S. Geoscience literature The subject literatures that comprise the U.S. geo-science literature differ in obsolescence characteristics.
Scientists and Policy Makers: An Ethnography of Communication The suggestion of this study is that maximizing the casual relationships between scientists and policy makers is an effective means for maximizing both the input and the impact of scientific information on the decision-making process.
A Comparison of Operations Research and Management Science Based on Bibliographic Citations "The analysis suggests that OR and MS are very similar in the functions they perform."
Productivity Differences Among Scientists: Evidence for Accumulative Advantage The hypothesis of accumulative advantage in science implies that the distribution of publications and citations will exhibit increas- ing inequality as a cohort passes through its career.
Big business and big science R and D thus turn out to be activities which by their very nature have to be integrated with the production and marketing activities of manufacturing firms. The unsuitability of market transfer means that small firms will often be at a disadvantage in fields of high technology. Large firms mean industrial concentration, but this turns out to be no obstacle to technological advance.
An analysis of decision processes It is argued that the range and quality of the reference standards used are likely to be significant factors in the success of research management.
The Citation Practices of Doctorates in Economics Our foregoing analysis takes the citation as an acceptable statistical measure of influence or attitude, and we believe that this measure deserves deeper and more critical examination than it has so far received. But given its at least approximate validity in this role, citation analysis leads to the conclusion that there are genuine differences among the universities in the attention and respect paid to various scholars. We know of no other studies with which such comparisons can be made, but suggest that this is a method of establishing the uniqueness and strength of a paradigm in a science.
Patterns of citation densities by date of publication in physical review These data provide strong evidence that inaccessibility in basements halved the rate of citation by M.I.T. physics staff and that references to items over ten years old were independent of age. There was no evidence that the citation pattern reflected the use of the library, or that exponential age relations apply in models of literature use or citation. Linear trends are just as probable and are easier to handle.
National publication and citation comparisons Taken as a whole, the publication counts clearly indicate a first rank position for the U.S. in scientific publication, followed at a significant distance by the Soviet Union; next ranked, but far below the U.S. and U.S.S.R., are the U.K. and Germany, followed by Japan and France.
Time Lapse between Hypothesis and Publication in the Medical Sciences Probably the most important aspect of this paper is the documentation of the long duration of the idea-to-re-search-to-paper-to-publication process.
Speakers at the 1972 gordon research conference: Their backgrounds and literature records as selection aids for “out‐of‐specialty” scientists and others Based on the biographical and bibliographical records found on the several hundred speakers at 75 GRC's in 1972, these speakers may be considered a responsible group of leaders in their respective subject fields.
The Exchange of Annual Meeting Reports As a Link Between Formal and Informal Scientific Communication Overall, the degree of cooperation in informal communication among the AERA participants was quite good. The role that manuscripts prepared for annual meetings play in filling a gap between on-going research and archival reporting makes it clear that we are dealing here with more than just a question of professional courtesy. Because of this role, it seems appropriate to encourage the maintenance of this communication network at both a personal and associational level.
A Criticism of the Use of Citation Analysis in Studying the Science-Technology Relationship The fact that we have been able to obtain such widely differing results in our small citation study raises serious doubts as to the value of citation analysis in providing data upon which science policy decisions can be made.
Bradford's law and the periodical literature of information science It is inferred that the bibliography is 72 percent complete in terms of journals and 83 percent complete in terms of articles.
Phenomenology and models of the growth of science This paper shows that the former statement is a consequence of the latter. Thus, the historical quasi-exponential behavior of the growth of science emerges as a necessary consequence of the behavior of a multidimensional system with a uniform surface deposition of new material. Thus, the claim can be made that our model gives a (even if not the) explanation of the hitherto purely empirical exponential law of the growth of science.
Collaboration and impact : The career of multi-authored publications The data in this paper indicate that while the impact, in terms of citations, of multi-authored and single-authored research is quite similar, differences do exist. Thus while the visibility of sociologists who collaborate may suffer because they are only one among a number of authors, the impact of those who publish singly may suffer because their work may not be cited as frequently as those who collaborate.
Complementarity between a use study and a citation study in considering publication practices in the physical and social sciences This analysis makes evident that the universe of articles available for citation in the 5-year period preceding publication is not the same in the physical and social sciences because more time is required in the social sciences for completing research and getting it into print. Thus, the underlying causes for the two phenomena measured by Price, utilization of recent work and interdisciplinary differences in utiliza- tion, may extend further than the hypothesized internal difference in the growth of knowledge in the physical and social sciences.
The crisis of the scholarly enterprise Superimposing this bleak picture on the increasingly atavistic institutional structure of the university and on the progressive aging of faculty members, prospects are grim for the research university sector.
Ratings of psychology journals by members of the Canadian Psychological Association. Whether this reflects a difference in judgment between the two populations or merely a lack of familiarity with the Canadian journals by members of the latter group is difficult to ascertain.
The journal as a primary data source in the sociology of science : With some observations from sociology The issues raised in this paper were done so heuristically — predicated on the notion that information accompanying the journal article is itself valuable, particularly for reconstructing patterns of change in a discipline.
Canadian scientific journals: Part 1, coverage In terms of quantity of journals per unit of population, Canada compares favorably to other nations.
Uncitedness of articles in nature, a multidisciplinary scientific journal In the present study, an average of 48.6% of the test papers from Nature was found to remain uncited in any year. This nullifies Kessler and Heart's prediction [4] that articles not cited during the first 5 yr of publication are unlikely to be cited at a later date. This observation approaches Price's conjecture that about 10% of scientific literature published are never cited.
Invention and discovery among the sciences: a P-technique factor analysis Of course, while certain contingencies among various kinds of scientific creativity have been explored, we still have no basis for an unequivocal explanation.
Canadian scientific journals: Part II, interaction The extent to which interdisciplinarity exists, as measured by the number and proportions of citations from one specialized journal to another, has been examined for the case of Canada. It appears that there is very little quantifi-able evidence for its existence in terms of citation practices. Our efforts to encourage ID seem to be relatively ineffective; we may need to push harder in the future.
Some Results on the Function and Quality of Citations This first in-depth study of the quality of citations, however preliminary and rough, appears to indicate some large effects in citation counts which cast doubt on the validity of policy conclusions drawn from a simple-minded approach to such data.
Problem Areas and Research Networks in Science At each stage we have tried, not only to describe some of the main features of the research network, but also to indicate some of the dynamic processes at work and to show how social and intellectual development are interwoven. We hope that it will provide a useful guide for those engaged in empirical research and that it casts new light on some of the processes underlying the growth of modern science. Our statement is by no means complete. We have not dealt, for example, with the way in which the emergence of research networks can be affected by the university system72 and we have touched only briefly on the way in which pressures from the wider society influence the direction and rate of scientific development.
Productivity Among Scientists: A Replication and Elaboration At best, it can be said that neither the Allison-Stewart study nor the present study has succeeded in eliminating the accumulative advantage hypothesis.
The threat to peer review Dr Robert DuPont, the head of NIDA, noted in a telephone interview last week that 'Congress has the per-fect right to assert itself in terms of how federal money is spent', but he added that 'if Congress is going to reverse the considered judgment of the peer review process, I think it should be extremely cautious about setting a precedent'. As for Rubin, he said that he is 'very disappointed' by the House vote, and he argued in a letter sent to several of his colleagues that if the Senate follows suit, 'the Congress will be overruling the peer review process and politicians rather than scientists will be determining what specific research pro-jects will be conducted . . . the danger to scientific and academic freedom in this precedent is enormous'.
The Epidemiology of Research on “Anomalous Water” Let it be observed, how- ever, that many scientific literatures do not peak and then decline sharply in the manner of polywater. This requirement indicates the need for a more refined model, one which can explain not only the spread of extended epidemics, such as mast cell or symbolic logic research, but also of short, virulent epidemics of spurious ideas.
Citation Index misleading One could well put forward a number of possible explanations of these differences, but what is indicated to us is the need for much more thorough-going studies of the parameters of professions, considering not just citations and not just these scientific professions.
OBSOLESCENCE OF THE PATENT LITERATURE We have corrected for growth by obtaining the function G, which has a fairly simple probability interpretation (26) and may be conveniently calculated from F₁ and F₂ and displayed along with them on semi-logarithmic paper.
Research in information science: An assessment We must conclude that most of the answers to the above questions are "no". Perhaps this report on the "state-of-the-published art" will stimulate some researchers to evaluate their research methodology and their report writing before publication so that another replication of this study in 1984 will note some remarkable differences. The most promising methodologies and techniques for future productivity in our field should be those which contribute most to the development of information science as a science.
The Dutch output of publications in physics "The Dutch share of publications in physics is 1-1.5%, CERN publications with strong Dutch roots excluded."
The Production of Culture in Science More radical transformations in scientific culture are not so readily interpreted with the production-of-culture metaphor. Many others have recognized that not only the production of culture, but the production of other goods, requires consideration of concepts and theories about political behavior and collective behavior.
CITATIONS TO REVIEW SERIALS These observations, although measuring very gross indicators, do show that at least some reviews are very heavily used.
Interdisciplinary and military determinants of scientific productivity: A cross-lagged correlation analysis The findings were discussed in terms of both stimulating interdisciplinary information exchanges and inhibitory competitive recruitment.
Differences in Impact of Scientific Publications: Some Indices Derived from a Citation Analysis The CIA index can be used to gather quantitative information about the relative impact of various contributions in a given field of research; it provides a more or less objective means of evaluation.
Policy and maturity in science In short, once we have recognised that areas of science are "finalized", are determined by external influences, the case for self-government collapses, for scientists are not necessarily the best judges of the social and political factors which are the most important directives of mature science.
Citation influence for journal aggregates of scientific publications: Theory, with application to the literature of physics An influence weighting methodology has been developed and applied to 103 journals in physics.
Publication and Prestige Mobility of University Departments in Three Scientific Disciplines The data are consistent with Yoels' (1974) argument that paradigm development is posi-tively related to the use of universalistic stan-dards of judgment.
COULD BIBLIOMETRIC DATA BE USED TO PREDICT THE CLINICAL SUCCESS OF DRUGS? The switches in polarity of the chase-slopes are indicative of significant changes in the status of the drug itself and can be used, it is hypothe-sized, as premonitory events to predict success or failure of the drug. It is realized that the premonitory system just described is still a hypothesis, having been obtained from data presented on only one drug. Nevertheless, this subject is important enough to warrant exposing it to further testing.
CITATIONS, OBSOLESCENCE, ENDURING ARTICLES, AND MULTIPLE AUTHORSHIPS If consistent citation indicates usage then the idea that old journals could be replaced by reprints of 'very important papers' is reinforced by this data.
Umbrella and Polytheistic Scientific Disciplines and Their Elites This paper has discussed a way of characterizing disciplines which enables two main types to be distinguished.
State Production of Social Knowledge: Patterns in Government Financing of Academic Social Research The observed patterns in federal funding of academic social research indicate that two major principles structure the allocation of such funds.
Subsidizing science through graduate education Doctoral education should be subsidized only to the extent that it produces public benefits.
The Occupational Structure of Science: a Log-Linear Analysis of the Inter-sectoral Mobility of American Sociologists Adopting an occupational perspective on science, we have analyzed the mobility of two cohorts of doctorate sociologists within a differentiated structure of work sectors. Our analysis has indeed shown that certain factors condition certain kinds of mobility.
Sex Differences in Status Attainment in Science: The Case of the Postdoctoral Fellowship The major finding of this analysis the existence of sex interactions in the predoctoral determinants and occu- pational consequences of the postdoctoral experience-seriously questions whether achievement norms govern status attain- ment for female scientists.
Distinction, achievement, and editorial board membership. The data reviewed here consistently suggest that the individuals selected for editorial board membership in psychology have achieved scientific distinction.
Structure of the Biomedical Literature The combination of a subject, a level and an influence measure provides a unified framework for planned re- search activity analysis.
Australian journals of scientific research The scientific journal in its present form will not disappear overnight.
The applicability of Editorial Processing Centres to UK publishing Nevertheless it does appear that under certain conditions the introduction of computerized processing would offer significant saving in costs and additional benefits would accrue in the long term by increasing the speed of publication by making available data-processing technology, which may be required for future developments, directly to publishers.
A fuzzy set characterization of interaction in scientific research We have shown how fuzzy set theory can be used to develop a formal model of the citation relation. Since references and footnotes can be considered as a static approximation to the socio-intellectual debts re- sulting from interaction, the fuzzy set characterization presented can be said to formalize the results of selectivity-recognizing this interaction on the part of authors in specifying the set of references and footnotes. Indeed, such aggregations need not be restricted to journals, but may be applied to authors, institutions and other elements of the attribute set A.
The Mediating Role of the Scientific Elite The main line of argument developed in preceding sections can be briefly summarized as follows. In Britain and America, the academic research community contains a small, influential and socially visible scientific élite.
Government Influence on the Social Science Paradigm The evidence indicates that government support for academic social research is not allocated in conformity with the priorities of the social science disciplines.
The Causal Relation between War and Scientific Discovery Of the four possible cross-lagged associations, only one was not illustrated by one of the seven nations: in no case did science have a positive lagged effect on war.
ACADEMIC JOURNALS: POLICIES, TRENDS AND ISSUES. In general they have found that acceptance rates have declined significantly during the 1970 to 1974 period, while review and publication lags have grown substantially.
Ratings of psychology journals compared to objective measures of journal impact. The present study does not reveal such a close corre-spondence between ratings and cita-tion counts for journals, and one is led to conclude that at least for de-partmental chairpersons, professional reputation of a journal is evaluated by criteria in addition to its visi-bility in the literature.
Journal clustering using a bibliographic coupling method The generally good agreement indicates that this method of journal clustering will have significant practical utility for journal classification.
Citation Analysis and the Quality of Scientific Productivity Although I have noted reservations in the use of citations, the evidence point- ing to the validity of citations as a measure of quality is impressive. This is, in general, inferred from the high cor- relations between scientific eminence and number of citations and between papers of known high quality and the number of citations to them. Therefore, all scientists should become familiar with the method of citation analysis and the various applications to which it is being put, whether or not they consider the basis for such applications well- founded.
Prices of Physics and Chemistry Journals We have presented price data for the decade 1967-1976 for physics and chemistry journals, which two earlier price surveys show are the most expensive scientific journals. Scientific journals are so much more expensive than journals for other subjects that purchasing them is costing many academic libraries a disproportionately large share of their acquisition funds. What is needed is recognition by the scientific community of the fact that scientific publications, especially journals, are abnormally expensive, and that academic libraries need supplementary budgetary assistance in the form of federal grant support to purchase scientific journals and books just as such assistance is given to purchase expensive scientific equipment.
Citation Analysis: Queries and Caveats Results suggest that senior citations should usually be an adequate substitute for total citations.
A Co-Citation Model of a Scientific Specialty: A Longitudinal Study of Collagen Research The questionnaire survey demonstrated that the highly cited documents which clustered together were significant documents in the eyes of the specialists, and that the authors of these papers were, by and large, the leading researchers identified as such by their peers.
French science policy and the changing role of the university In conclusion, our analysis demonstrates that university research in France, in which everyone takes interest and no one has predominant responsi-bility, is situated at the intersection of a variety of shifting policy initiatives, institutional changes and contending forces.
The Career of Sociological Literature The main finding here is that there does not appear to be a precipitous decline in the number of articles cited per year, and no decline in the number of citations received by sociological articles each year during the first ten years after publication.
Co-Citation Analyses of Science: An Evaluation Overall, then, our data do not support Small's second and third claims. The technique should be used flexibly and with judgment, in conjunction with historical and other data. We recommend the exploitation of the technique of co-citation analysis, but with care, for the situation in the specialty that we have studied, at least, is complex.
The Distribution of World Science In this paper scientific publications have been used as indicators of the quantity and variety of science produced by the different nations of the world. It has been shown that the distribution of mainstream science throughout the world is very uneven and that a handful of countries with predominantly European roots produce the great bulk of this science. Five basic patterns of national research production have emerged. These results tend to provide quantitative confirmation of views which many science policy specialists hold on the basis of non-quantitative observation.
Scientific Productivity and the Reward Structure of Science Regression analyses of longitudinal data have provided estimates of the causal links between chemists' predoctoral train- ing, early productivity, collegial recogni- tion, organizational context, and produc- tivity at the end of the first postdoctoral decade.
A correlation study of the journal article productivity of environmental scientists First, the environmental scientist is attacking a well-defined (for the environmental scientist) portion of the discipline's subject area with consistency. Second, the causal factor(s) for the environmental scientist remaining within closely delineated subject bounds are not clear and deserve further study. Finally, the difference between this and the study by Garvey, Lin and Tomita should be explored to determine if they are only method-related or suggest a deeper problem.
Scientific journal budgeting: where does the money go? This note, then, shows where the money goes for three physics-related libraries.
Influence and Interrelationship of Chemical Journals From these figures, it is evident that journals are fairly uniformly distributed on the vertical logarithmic influence per publication scale.
Lotkas law in the humanities Hence it appears that the observed distribution fails to obey Lotka's law, at least for this level of significance. In order to truly test the functional form of the frequency of publishing n papers per year, from a breakdown of lifetime publication totals, a random sample much larger than the one I investigated must be used.
Journal Prices, Why So Different? The effects which some important factors have on the journal's subscription price are indicated. These include publication by a commercial publishing house or learned society, circulation numbers, journal format, and page charges.
Unconventional uses of on‐line information retrieval systems: On‐line bibliometric studies With the advent of on-line searching systems, and with further exploitation of their potential, such studies will become less difficult, less time-consuming, and therefore less costly to per-form.
Lotka's frequency distribution of scientific productivity Corrected calculations indicate that Lotka's law does not apply.
Trends in the applied mechanics literature The growth of the applied mechanics literature and, by implication, the growth of the field itself over the years of JAM and AMR has been surveyed, and it has been found that not only is the classic growth curve apparently being followed by the accumulating literature, but also that the trends of collaboration that have been recognized in other fields of science are present too in applied mechanics research.
The State of a Science: Indicators in the Specialty of Weak Interactions In this paper we have focussed on patterns of article production, demography, and referencing in the specialty of weak interactions while paying special attention to differences between theorists and experimentalists and to the impact of parity, V-A, and CP. It is clear that scientific specialties are dynamic systems having both social and intellectual properties which, in their interrelationship, determine the state of the system through time. Our analyses so far, however, make us wonder how the sociology of science has managed to exist for so long without concerning itself with the content of science.
The past decade for women scientists — win, lose or draw? In the decade 1966-1976 there has been a continuous rise in the numbers of women studying science and completing PhDs and undoubtedly the lot of women scien- tists has improved.
GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT OF HOLOGEISTIC CROSS‐CULTURAL RESEARCH I conclude that a wealth of theoretically rich material has yet to be used by comparative behavioral scientists (i.e., histories, colonial administrators, and travelers' notes, archaeological site reports).
Competition, differentiation and careers in science "Thus the evidence from this research centre confirms that following a policy of avoiding competition from one's immediate colleagues and from others working in the same specialty can lead to the receipt of substantial scientific rewards."
Czechoslovak journal of physics in world physics literature The deterioting proportion of the Czech. J. Phys. in world physics litera- ture should be regarded with respect to the overall tendency towards specialized journals at the expense of national and general physics journals /30,19/ and to the shift of many papers from major Czechoslovak physics laboratories into foreign periodicals (15,47,49/). An investigation of changes in national physics activities would require a different biblio- metric approach. The correlation analysis (for obvious reasons ex- cluding the review journals for which only the locations are given) indi- cates the general relationship without immediate implications but a com- parison with the already available 1975 figures would reveal a dynamic picture.
Journal growth by division What then lies in the future for our journals?
Impact of technology on scientific publishing In summary, there are two points to emphasize.
Publication charge plan: Wider circulation at lower subscription rates The overall result is a healthy publishing program with journals having a much larger circulation, at lower subscription rates, than journals published without a publication charge plan.
Framework for estimating the quality of scientific journals Determination of the quality of a scientific journal by means of the measures outlined inevitably leads to possibilities for controlling and improving the quality level.
Patterns of Scientific Productivity and Social Change: A Discussion of Lotka's Law and Bibliometric Symmetry We thus find that Lotka's original formulation of his law specifies one function, h(x) = x-2, of a family of functions that follows naturally from the assumption that some law of this type exists and that it is subject to various plausible conditions.
Research-Grant Getting and Productivity among Scholars: Recent National Patterns of Competition and Favor These findings seem to be much more reassuring that the grant dis- tribution systems work as the professional doctrines say they should than trained skeptics would willingly accept. The present general findings tend to sustain the nobler claims of professionals in the grants system, although some important reservations were noted. There should now be some at- tention given to how well those findings and claims hold up under analysis of more specific sectors of academe or specific aspects of the grant-getting and grant-using process.
A comparison of journal citation patterns of British and North American authors publishing in British journals. These results also suggest that na- tional differences interact with area of interest. The influence of the British journals upon North American jour- nals (which in the present study is probably inflated, based as it is upon an atypical sample of North Ameri- can psychologists-those who pub- lish in British journals) is, however, indeed limited in all areas.
Publication output in the sciences: a 20-country survey In spite of these difficulties, the sketched method provides a simple tool to roughly estimate a country's contribution to science.
DISTRIBUTION OF DOCTORAL DEGREES IN FRENCH UNIVERSITIES It has been concluded that scientific research workers largely continue to receive their training in a few Parisian universities.
Lifetime-citation rates to compare scientists' work Under reasonable assumptions we project the number of citations a scientific publication will receive in 40 years, its lifetime-citation rate (LCR), based on the number of citations the publication already has received. We also make statistical comparisons between the LCRs of different authors. In applying our methods to several faculty members of a preclinical department of a medical school of an eastern university, we conclude that the LCR of a woman who was not promoted nor given tenure is significantly higher than the LCRs of two men who were promoted and granted tenure.
Highly cited old papers and the reasons why they continue to be cited Our main conclusion is, of course, that on about 40% of the citations of the old papers, the reasons for the citation were purely historical.
Productivity and Academic Position in the Scientific Career Thus, our longitudinal analysis provides consistent support for the hypothesis that productivity is facilitated by departmental location. Contrary to earlier findings, pro- ductivity, as indicated by measures of publication and citation, plays an insig- nificant role in the selection process.
Why Natural Scientists are a Problem for the CPSU Dissatisfaction amongst natural scientists presents the party with a two-fold problem.
<i>Ad hoc</i> and selective translations of scientific and technical journal articles: Their characteristics and possible predictability This investigation has shown that foreign language articles that have listed ad hoc or selective translations differ significantly from those without such translations on the basis of subject, original language, number of references, and, to a lesser extent, on the basis of previous citations to their authors and the number of authors per article. If these differences remain relatively constant from one year to the next, they might be valuable predictors of those future articles which will eventually receive selective or ad hoc translations. The ability to predict those foreign language articles which will need translations would be a great help in over-coming the foreign language barrier in science and technology.
An empirical examination of Bradford's law and the scattering of scientific literature The authors con-clude that there is instead a basic probabilistic mechanism underlying the law.
The reliability of reviews for the American Psychologist. Although this simple tabulation does not address the validity of the reviewers' ratings, the interrater reliability is quite high and gives us new faith in ourselves as casual observers.
Cumulative advantage urn games explained: A reply to kantor This 1/n(n+1) distribution refers, of course, to author productivities and citation counts for their entire and virtually infinite life histories. As I have shown they all agree rather well with the empirical data.
Objectivity versus relevance in studies of scientific advance As the field of scientometrics develops there should be further progress in enhancing both the relevance and the objectivity of its analytic techniques.
Cross‐national information flows in basic research: Examples taken from physics Both direct measurements of information flows and measurements based on expected information flows demon-strate that U.S. research is very heavily referenced by foreign scientists. In direct contrast to this, we find that Soviet research-while heavily referenced in an absolute sense (see Table 1)-is generally under-referenced by foreign scientists. A number of explanations exist which might shed light on the heavy referencing of U.S. research findings: (a) U.S. research is highly significant; (b) U.S. research is written in English, which is the lingua franca of today's international scientific community; (c) non-U.S. scientific research in the fields covered in this study is not very significant; (d) for ethnocentric and linguistic reasons, U.S. scientists do not make much use of foreign work.
Estimating effect size: Bias resulting from the significance criterion in editorial decisions Hence, it was concluded that effect size estimation is impractical unless scientific journals drop the consideration of statistical significance as one of the criteria of publication.
Evaluation of abstract journals and other sources consulted for 75 literature searches on food science and food technology "Although the results are influenced to some extent by the field of interest of our laboratory, it was concluded that reliance on just one or two key sources in the food area is unjustified, irrespective of the search topic. The results may help in the development of future search strategies and in the choice of abstract journals for special libraries."
Discipline impact factors: A method for determining core journal lists Despite minor limitations, the speed and the ease of the DIF method make it a useful tool in core-list construction, whether the field of interest be large or small and the calculations manual or computerized.
Ups and Downs in the Pulse of Science and Technology Thus, the modulation of steady exponential growth seems to correspond reasonably well with both historical and modern intuitive estimates of general scientific and technological activity. I suggest therefore that the (Lavoisier) revolution in chemistry is not a "postponed" event but a marker of a period when the modern movement would have had its "natural" and expected beginning. The most recent period is best understood, in terms of this general indicator, as a somewhat typical postwar recovery from a trough, leading to an overshooting and a contemporary recovery to oscillation in the neighborhood of the long-term average growth rate.
Journal Use in Sociology: Citation Analysis versus Readership Patterns Citation patterns reflect, however, a cross-disciplinary focus that is not found in the list of journals sociologist most often read.
Problem Retention and Problem Change in Science This study of social structural conditions making for prob-lem retention and problem change is only another step in the still barely explored subject of problem choice in science. The typology of changes and continuities in problem choices may offer a useful context to explore these and related questions.
Predictors of funding in academic fields This study examines some functioning criteria of the various fields.
An analysis of the information usage patterns of academics and practitioners in the computer field: A citation analysis of a national conference proceedings Based on these similarities in the patterns of information usage, we may conclude that the interests of academics and practitioners who present papers at the FJCC are well matched. This conference, therefore, represents one instance where information may be freely exchanged between academics and practitioners.
Research Note: Correlates of Faculty Publications In general, then, most of the studies on faculty productivity in single disciplines do hold over the wider range of arts and sciences fields for university based faculty.
Publication ratings versus peer ratings of universities First, both the Roose-Andersen ranks and scores are highly positively correlated with a mea-sure of university size (number of papers) and the citation quality of the university's publications (influence per paper).
The Corrected Quality Ratio: A Composite Index of Scientific Contribution to Knowledge The simplicity and broad applicability of the index makes it an attractive candidate for uniform measurement of scientific contribution to knowledge.
A comparison of the various ratings of psychology journals. I suggest that the ratings be used, but with caution.
World science as an input-output system The input-output model can be used to show which countries interact with others, and which do not. Both types of information are useful in discussing trans-national interactions in science.
1. Citation of Sociological Entries in the International Encyclopedia of Social Sciences: Prospects for Comparative Analysis Interperting the extent of international (and prominent American) journal citation to the IESS requires caution.
The effects of group size and cooperation on the success of interdisciplinary groups in R &amp; D In general, cooperation is very important for the success of inter- disciplinary research.
A note on cumulative advantage distributions Although I do not have a proof, that they distribute themselves down from the maximum possible value (N) approximately according to a Poisson distribution with a rate constant ~ In N. This provides a partial corroboration of his conclusions. To close on an optimistic note, the problem (solved here) of a single urn may go a long way towards the solution of problem P.
STUDIES ON PATENT CITATION NETWORKS We believe these results demonstrate that patent citation networks may be of use for establishing the history of a technological subject.
The Weight of Medical Knowledge These observations are presented in the hope that the overburdened reader may derive some comfort from having an objective measure of the size of his problem. A workable compromise must be reached well before the end of the century; it will be fascinating to discover what form this accomodation takes. Meanwhile, I must catch up on my reading....
Editorial Policies and Practices Among Leading Journals in Four Scientific Fields While the data reported here do not lend overwhelming support, they provide further modest support to earlier findings of particularism in the operation of journals in fields with less developed paradigms. Compared to the physical sciences, the social sciences seem to suffer from cumulative disadvantage as a result of their relatively undeveloped paradigms. Because the structure of science cannot be expected to change rapidly, perhaps some change in the financial policies of social science journals is needed.
Relation of title length to number of authors in journal articles For at least some journals, therefore, title length is positively correlated with numbers of article co-authors.
Journal Citation as a Predictor of Journal Usage in Libraries The findings from this study would seem to indicate that the frequency with which journals are cited is at least as reliable in predicting the potential use of journals in libraries as the judgment of experienced librarians familiar with the journals and with their users.
The leading edge of science in Canada The results clearly indicate that there are fewer leading scientists in Canada than would be expected on the basis of other evidence. While part of this effect may be an artifact of how "leading scientist" was defined, there can be little question that Canada is not participating as fully as it might on the forward part of science. This method of identification offers a new tool to the science policy-maker.
Scientific Productivity, Sex, and Location in the Institution of Science In conclusion, male chemists at least those who finished graduate school 15-20 years ago-probably outpublished female members of their cohorts, although to a smaller degree than is commonly supposed, and the determinants of productivity differ for the sexes. Kanter's (1977) work illustrates the value of structural analysis for understanding sex differences in organizational performance. Such analyses may also help to account for differences in scientific productivity.
Evaluating scientific journals with <i>Journal Citation Reports</i> — a case study in acoustics From this particular study it is clear that had a librarian used JCR in the manner described (without, of course, taking the time to compile maps and tables required for explanatory purposes) as an aid for selecting Acoustics journals, then he would have done rather well. Used in isolation, the list will not be helpful for a choice between journals contained within a group near its lower end, an expected finding which will produce little dismay among discerning users. The rank ordered list per se did not play a particularly significant part in the foregoing example of journal selection in Acoustics.
Evaluating psychological research reports: Dimensions, reliability, and correlates of quality judgments. Despite some limitations, the present study has demon-strated greater reliability for peer judgments of quality in science than has been previously found (Bowen et al., 1972; McReynolds, 1971; Scott, 1974).
On the relation between productivity and impact The relation between productivity and impact is not simple.
Publication output of Czechoslovak physics
Cited Documents as Concept Symbols A theory of citation practice, if such a theory is possible, must take account of the symbolic act of authors associating particular ideas with particular documents.
A literature citation study of science-technology coupling in electronics It has been shown that citation analysis provides a useful tool for documenting the science-technology relationship in electronics.
Variation of the nature of citation measures with journals and scientific specialties The actual results obtained from a comparison of cita- tion patterns of articles in different journals and different specialties of theoretical physics, which were listed in the last two sections, are the contributions of this paper.
Reasons for Journal Rejection: An Analysis of 600 Manuscripts An examination of 600 SSQ manuscripts re-jected for 1,146 specific criticisms mentioned by reviewers as well as a perusal of reviewers’ criticisms described by Smigel and Ross’ 1958-61 analysis of Social Problems editorial decisions suggests five general reasons for manu-script rejections.
The Organization of Scientific Work in “Configurational” and “Restricted” Sciences: A Study of Three Research Laboratories The analysis of such patterns is therefore not irrelevant to an understanding of scientific development.
Studies in scientific collaboration We have thus established, as predicted by the theory, that when France was the only country with a professional scientific community, its scientists produced the bulk of co-authored research. Furthermore, while that was a normal research pattern in France, it was not in other countries.
Getting published Generally, the results suggested that self-citation may be a determinant of a reviewer's evaluation of a manuscript. From the standpoint of the "publish or perish" doctrine, the present results suggest that individuals who cite themselves and already have articles to their credit are more likely to have subsequent papers recommended for publication.
Federal patent laws may stifle innovation Unless this is done, Bremer looks forward to a gradual stifling of any desire to invent and transfer the benefits to the public. Some legislation now pending in Congress eventually may produce a uni-form patent policy in the government, but other legislation seems to be aimed at in-creasing the chaos. The publish and per-ish problem is magnified largely because of a lack of understanding on how some laws affect the transfer of technology, and this lack is further aggravated by litiga-tion sponsored by public interest groups.
On the Role of Interests in Scientific Change In this example then, statistical judgement should be understood as it was situated in particular contexts of goal-oriented research activity. We would remain convinced, nonetheless, that some constitutively goal-linked notion of evaluation was essential in understanding scientific change, and particularly in throwing light upon those episodes where alternative paradigms stand in opposition. Rather the growth of science should be seen as an historical development, wherein, over a period, systems of know- ledge may be evaluated and re-evaluated, and consequently refined and modified, in many ways-if not with respect to all possible kinds of prediction and control as Habermas says, at least with regard to many particular kinds.
Studies in scientific collaboration As predicted by the theory, scientific collaboration occurs most frequently amongst the most professional members of a scientific community.
Comparison of patterns of research effectiveness and output and their stability across six countries* In conclusion the theoretical and practical implications of the findings are discussed.
ACADEMIC PUBLICATION, MARKET SIGNALING, AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH DECISIONS This paper has raised an important but neglected issue, the effect of academic signaling on the nature of scientific research.
Chance and eminence in science: Ecclesiastes II "The decisive question which is raised by the existence of 'chance' is this: if the lion's share of achievements are made by a few persons, and these persons get the lion's share of resources, does this mean that the stratification system is 'valid' or 'just'?"
Utilizing citation analysis to examine primary dissemination potential of research findings — developing future strategies Given such information, the Research and Development administrative core have some guidelines so as to maximize the primary as well as secondary dissemination efforts of its staff researchers.
Citation patterns in little science and big science The interpretation of this difference remains unclear. What now follows in this section is, in contrast, speculative interpretation, subject to ambiguities, errors in judgement, and vagaries. They are, however, verifiable by continued research, and hence they are presented as stimuli for such research.
Improving success probabilities of faculty requests for extramural research support This outcome is evidence that action taken by university administrators could improve the competitiveness of faculty in the sponsored funds market.
Studies in scientific collaboration Part III. Professionalization and the natural history of modern scientific co-authorship During the twentieth century, the increasing propensity of scientists to collaborate has been a significant trend within the overall pattern of a mushrooming scientific establishment.
Finalization in perspective: Toward a revolution in the social paradigm of science Only the normative orientation of sciences open to finalization will ensure that scientific and technological progress does not injure both natural life conditions and human goals of social develop-ment.
A matrix analysis of scientific special ties and careers in science The next steps in our research will include further theoretical development as well as empirical analyses.
The Bearers of Science and Technology Have Changed A quarter century has elapsed since New China was estab-lished. During this period, the bearers of science and technology have shifted gradually from an elite found in the ranks of party bureaucrats and old intellectuals to working people in general.
Libraries and the Growth of Knowledge Selection mechanisms, and so correctability, are the most important factors that should guide choices and decisions related to the planning of future library systems.
Science on the periphery: a citation study of three less developed countries The concept of peripherality manifests itself in terms of citations and references. The similarity of citation and reference patterns of the three nations among themselves, and their difference from the big scientific nations constituting most of the result of the world, indicates these peripheral nations do exist as a group distinguishable by the pattern of its interaction with published science elsewhere. Further study, particularly of the language of the publication involved, can shed more light both on the properties of the scientifically peripheral nations and the meaning of various barriers in scientific communication.
<i>Current Contents:</i>Its Impact on Scientific Communication The two simple models of scientific communication described here have evolved, one from the other, in just two decades. But no matter what form develops for journals there will continue to be a need for the functions now performed by Current Contents. So it may not be too outlandish to suggest that a daily, electronic version may be what scientists will need to keep abreast in the future.
PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY JOURNAL PRICES IN 1977-1978 The budgetary distortion in academic libraries which is a result of the high cost of scientific journals increasingly threatens the ability of many academic libraries to purchase not only scientific books and journals, but books and journals for other subjects as well.
Specialties and disciplines in science and social science: An examination of their structure using citation indexes Co-citation analysis may help to clarify a perennial debate concerning the development of knowledge in the social sciences because it provides information about the interrelationships between hundreds of research areas in the social science disciplines.
The diffusion of scientific information in the communication discipline: Conceptualization and propositions It seems clear that the framework presented in the foregoing discussion has important generic implications for the conception and study of the dynamics by which disciplines, their paradigms, and their literatures grow and evolve.
Citation statistics for psychologists in australian universities: 1975-1977 The citation analysis that we have undertaken suggests that psychology departments in Australian universities overall have low research impact, particularly in comparison with many North American universities.
Academic Sponsorship and Scientists' Careers Sponsorship appears to play a vital role in the chemists' careers.
THE AGING OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE: A CITATION ANALYSIS We can now see that the Brookes model for the obsolescence of journals may accurately represent citation data which reflect the aging of successive volumes of scientific journals. Diffuse use by a diversified audience shows little aging; intensive use by a specialized audience shows much aging. When a = 0.88, about average, half of the total cited-ness is exhausted within five years of publication. This last finding, used judiciously, should control almost any explosion of periodical collections.
RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY OF TENURED AND NONTENURED FACULTY IN U.S. UNIVERSITIES: A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF FOUR FIELDS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS Surprisingly, tenure in those scientific institutions does not appear to be necessarily related to research performance, assuming the latter can be assessed through enumerating publications.
The Interdependence of Theory and Experiment in Revolutionary Science: The Case of Parity Violation In our case, Lakatos's analysis encouraged us to examine in detail the interdependence of theory and experiment in weak interactions, and our understanding of the dynamics of intellectual change in that specialty is much the richer for it.
Peer Review at the NSF: A Dialectical Policy Analysis "The principal conclusion of this review is that the current data are inconclusive to resolve the debate represented in Table 1; nevertheless, some data do exist to support contentions on each side of the debate."
Actuality and Obsolescence of Scientific Literature The results do con-firm once more the reliability of the scientific information diffusion model.
What is the American Journal of Physics? In summary, it seems apparent that, in 1977, the American Journal of Physics was primarily a scholarly journal rather than one dealing with education research.
Is science an adaptive system? While the results reported are far from being decisive in favor of the hypothesis, they are encouraging and suggest this hypothesis.
Trends in biochemical literature I find that, in terms of articles published, the biochemical literature is still growing faster than the scientific literature as a whole. What's more, the number of references in a typical biochemical article is increasing as is the proportion of references to material more than five years older than the citing article.
Deficiencies of scientific information access and output in less developed countries It is thus indicated that the problems LDC researchers experience in accessing scientific information are a major factor in inhibiting the quality and quantity of their own scientific information output. If, therefore, LDCs are to improve their scientific productivity, solutions to their scientists' problems of main- taining current awareness have to be found.
Knowledge and structures of scientific growth measurement of a cancer problem domain This analysis reveals the visibility of large National Cancer Institute laboratories in the research literature, but demonstrates the need to augment disaggregated network data with intellectual and social (policy) history to explain the growth and structure of the domain.
Liquid crystal literature: A novel growth pattern We have not been able to discover any other reported cases of a subject showing an early peak followed by a relatively dormant period before entering a new period of exponential growth, though there are a number of areas such as optical rotatory dispersion, mass spectrometry, etc. where the literature would be expected to show similar characteristics.
Age and Scientific Performance The studies reported in this paper suggest that the relationship between age and scientific performance is influenced by the operation of the reward system.
Agricultural research and biological productivity: Some Australian results In this note we have reported some further evidence on the relationship between scientific agricultural research and increases in the biological productivity of agri-cultural commodities. Insofar as scientific publication data are used to construct the research variable the findings represent a study on a different body of data which confirm the general conclusions reached by Evenson and Kislev (1973). As such, the results reported become part of a cumulative process which might lead to the more widespread use of what we consider to be a most promising data source.
THE USE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE AT THE SCIENCE REFERENCE LIBRARY FOR UPDATING SEARCHES The general results support the existence of current awareness as a distinct phase within updating use of recent issues of periodicals.
An Evaluation of the Leading Patent Equivalents Services From the above, the authors came to the following con-clusions for pharmaceutical patents. First, for disclosure of the maximum number of equivalents, the service of choice is INPADOC. For reliability in covering the patents which they admit responsibility for, Derwent and INPADOC are the most efficient. To ensure that all known equivalents are found, all three equivalents services (Derwent, INPADOC, and CAS) must be consulted.
Trend toward multiple authors in research publications: Mutual funding of scientists Most important, it seems to suggest that the federal granting agencies are tending to fund work by groups instead of by individuals. If I am correct in this interpretation of the recent trend away from single authors, there must be some loss of originality and ver- satility in research. The words of Carey [1975] then become particularly apt: 'if the system shuts out the bright beginners and independents in order to ration scarce support only to scientists whose reputations are already made, we will come to regret it.'
Scientific Societies and their Journals: Biomedical Scientists Assess the Relationship It appears that most of this particular group of American biomedical scientists did not join scientific societies in order to receive society journals.
Publication output of Soviet physics There is a marked difference in the USSR/world proportions as computed from the Phys. Abstr. and Phys. Ber. records, while a direct comparison to the Ref.zh.-fiz. is difficult at this stage because of complicated authors-to-authorships-to-publications relationships and fairly different subject coverage.
Authorship Recognition of Subordinates in Collaborative Research Although we do not have quantitative data available for confirmation, it seems reasonable to assume that in collaborative research female non-PhDs, compared to male non-PhDs, are more frequently delegated the routine, menial 'bottle and test-tube washing' tasks by their male employers. On the other hand, women who have achieved a position in academic science in which their opportunities for contributing to the collaborative production of scientific knowledge may be greater (such as at the PhD level), encounter sex discrimination in the allocation of authorship credit. Thus, even if women PhDs were to receive the co-authorships which are rightfully theirs, they would probably continue to hold subor- dinate positions.
International Research Collaboration The institutional co-authorship data demonstrate that international scientific activity does not occur unfettered, oblivious to national borders.
Citation Visibility of Africa's Science The high rates of intra-national citations received by scientists at Ibadan and Nairobi seem to indicate that the existing system of scientific communication affords significant visibility for the scientific work of developing nations.
Czechoslovak Journal of Physics and Acta Physica Slovaca publications, authorships, references and citations in 1973–1979 Apparent differences in the values of some indicators for CJP and APS can be partly explained by secondary effects, such as the proportion of conference papers, the elinination of which goes beyond the scope of this survey.
Science Information and Governmental Decision-Making: The Case of the National Science Foundation The findings of this analysis of data obtained from semi-structured interviews with officials of the National Science Foundation indicate that the highly decentralized, "trickle up" decision-making process of the NSF is characterized by: (1) limited utilization of STI in policy-making and planning and (2) acquisition of STI predominantly from informal (chiefly interpersonal) sources. Thus, we may conclude that one of the best approaches to injecting STI into decision-making at the NSF, and probably elsewhere as well, is to build informal information systems around user preferences rather than attempt to build user support for formal systems that do not reflect preferences. Some approaches to designing and supporting informal STI systems have been discussed at some length in related studies and include such strategies as: (1) encouraging policy-makers to obtain membership in "invisible colleges," informal communications networks composed of researchers and research users with similar STI interests and needs).
The Role of Management in Science This paper pictures science as a unity of opposing forces.
Some changes in the characteristics of articles published in the Journal of Applied Psychology over the past 20 years. If it can be agreed that the variables selected for analysis in this study are benchmark characteristics of empirical research, then we have objective evidence regarding the growing sophistication and complexity of articles published in the Journal of Applied Psychology and the discipline it represents.
Psychology of the Scientist: XLII. Scientific Eminence and Reading Ease Subjectively, it is evident that the number of publications reprinted in books of readings for the introductory psychology student is an adequate measure of scientific eminence in that the majority of names selected using this measure are clearly visible in the psychological scene. Two factors, then, might account for the selection of authors listed in Table 2: (1) scientific eminence, to let the student read in their direct sources the most important work in the psychological literature, and (2) readability of the scientist's work, since the writings should be understood by college students.
Manuscript characteristics influencing reviewers' decisions. Strong author repu-tation promoted a favorable response in the selection process. The present study sup-ported the presentation-publication sequence but not that of presentation-proceedings-publication. Further research is required to investi-gate the relationship between the prescriptive versus the descriptive nature of reviewer behav-iour.
The half‐life of the chemical literature Therefore, it is hoped that the Poisson distribution gives a more accurate method of calculation of the half-life and, in fact, Kohut [13] states that "recent corrected obsolescence appears largely to be a function of the factor(s) that control research fronts."
Citation frequencies of New Zealand and Australian scientific journals Overall, the position of the three New Zealand DSIR journals in the ranking of world journals has improved from 1975 to 1977 both in terms of how much the material which was published in these journals is used and also how quickly the material is used. Thus the study reported here indicates how the citation and ranking figures presented in Science Citation Index can be used to assess the value of a journal and also the use made of that journal and its standing with respect to other journals.
On fundamental regularities of the distribution of scientific productivity Because of the presence of two different approaches (the frequency and the rank) to the analysis of scientific productivity and of the existence, at the same time, of a rigorous formal transition from one approach to the other (see, the Appendix 2), one can assume that these approaches represent different reflections of the same law and form, in a certain sense, the complementarity relation.
Comparison of peer and citation assessment of the influence of scientific journals Scientists' subjective assessment of the average influence per article for 56 different scientific journals were found to be in close agreement with citation influence ratings for the same journals.
Psychology of the Scientist: XLV. Collaboration and Productivity in Social Psychology Analysis of these data suggests that a few people who are productive define what is done in the field at a particular time and establish an atmosphere in which other people can make their small contribution.
The distribution of scientific productivity and social change Therefore, p(r,t), the probability that an author publishes r articles in time t, follows a negative binomial distribution.
“You have to be in it to win it”: A comment on over and moore's citation statistics Thus, the present results shows that irrespective of which of their two rules for dealing with staff mobility Over and Moore did in fact employ, Psychology staff at Murdoch University ranked in the uppermost portion of the range established by the sixteen universities which Over and Moore took to be a complete Australian sample. Clearly, Over and Moore's data are in error and consequently so are their summary tables.
Research Quarterly Contributors: An Academic Genealogy It is hoped that this analysis will motivate present and future university faculty members to take the responsibility of training and inspiring students to advance the frontiers of knowledge through a life of research. Only in this way will the future of physical education as a discipline be assured.
Citation based measures of research interactivity Size independent measures of interactivity for aggregates of publications have been introduced.
Evidence for the invalidity of the Bradford law for the single scientist The evidence for the invalidity of the Bradford law for the single scientist as well as the evidence for the loss of meaning of certain terms, such as key journal and information avalanche, in the transition from macroscopic communication, seem to be well-confirmed.
Organisational aspects of Nigeria's research system Only a small proportion of staff is actually involved in research itself. There appear to be considerable problems with regard to unfilled vacan- cies, especially amongst senior staff and particularly as far as research scientists are concerned. Integration with other social sectors is weak and certain aspects of internal structures are not such as to encour- age greater integration
DOCUMENTATION NOTES Libraries considering journal acquisition may therefore set their priorities accordingly and acquire them in the order given below: 1. Journals which are cited, abstracted, and used. 2. Journals which are abstracted, used, but not cited. 3. Journals which are cited, used, but not abstracted. 4. Journals which are used, but neither abstracted nor cited. 5. Journals which are abstracted, cited, but not used.
The Proliferation of Scientific Literature: A Natural Process Primary scientific literature seems not to be growing at a greater rate than the scientific community it serves.
Collaboration and the Quality of Research More generally, this research should be seen as exploratory in nature. Thus further investigations along the lines suggested here are needed to assess the nature of the connection between the organization of scientific work and its quality.
AN EXACT FORMULATION OF BRADFORD'S LAW The following analysis helps in this regard by showing how Bradford's law relates to the other areas of information science as well as helping to make the theory more amenable to practical applications. Finally, it is noted that the zone parameter estimate, a* = 120, implies that the zone ratio a, for the three zones would be equal to (120)/3 or about five, just as Bradford would have predicted.
A critical reassessment of inferred relations between multiple authorship, scientific collaboration, the production of papers and their acceptance for publication A significant relationship has been found between the levels of multiple authorship of papers submitted to an Astronomy journal, and their frequency of acceptance for publication. Unless it can be produced (and this authors expects it could not), studies attempting to draw inferences about scientific collaboration from multiple authorship data, should qualify their findings to make allowance for the possibility that the distribution of multiples of authorship of published papers, do not correspond to the distribution of multiples of authorship for papers actually produced.
Ideology and prediction Overall, the findings of this study demonstrate the extent to which these variables of ideology, so seldom taken into account, affect forecasting of all types-social, political, economic, and both short and long term.
A method for partitioning the journal literature This method of evaluating journal citation patterns by means of the Z factor provides an algorithmic means of identifying subject-linked journals.
Research Areas and Stratification Processes in Science In this paper we have examined two features of the interrelationships between research area structure and development, and broader stratification patterns in scientific disciplines. First, we contrasted the AA and RT scientists with a sample of the general population of biomedical researchers in terms of various biographical characteristics. Second, we examined the effect of differential participation in the development of the two research areas on subsequent research productivity and found results consistent with the argument that central sociometric location in a research area provides advantages which enhance a scientist's later publication record. However, regardless of the generalizability of our findings, it appears that the role of research areas in the stratification process of scientific disciplines may be a crucial research focus for the attainment of a greater understanding of the mutual relations between the social and cognitive aspects of scientific development.
An Analytical Look at Chemical Publications This then is the picture of publication activity in analytical chemistry as we see it: a dynamically growing field, with a doubling time of about 14 years, dominated by the U.S.S.R. and the U.S., with about 12 core journals, and having a publication time (receipt of manuscript to print) of about six months.
Some reflections on citation habits in psychology Common sense seems to suggest that Meadows must be right in predicting a gradual levelling off in the amount of literature cited by authors in their publications, but it may be that the figure will have to be pitched higher than originally thought, and the rate of attainment of the plateau will be differential, reflecting the particularized needs and characteristics of individual sub-fields and their journals. Whatever the nature of the set of informal norms which control an author's approach to citation, it seems likely that mundane factors such as lack of time or ignorance of sections of the relevant literature will influence the number of citations produced. What citation analysis needs more than anything else is a full-blooded attempt to explore the phenomenology of citation.
The subject composition of the world's scientific journals The counts presented here indicate that the number of scientific serials has doubled in the last 60 years, with a substantial change in national distribution but a relatively small change in subject distribution. The rise found for U.S. serials and decline in German and French serials parallels earlier findings in terms of scientific papers.
Academic Stratification In Graduate Management Programs: Departmental Prestige and Faculty Hiring Patterns The foregoing findings suggest the possibility that the identification of management faculty with their doctoral institution has a substantial relationship to their placement within the academic stratification system. This explanation, of course, would be the case to the extent that it could be shown that, independent of demonstrated qualifications, prestige of doctoral origin is influential in selection for a position in a leading department. Clearly, extensions and refinements of this study or other inquiries into the academic stratification system within the field of management might employ other dimensions of prestige, as well as alternative ratings of graduate programs in management. In closing, it should perhaps be noted that an even broader issue seems to be at the core of the present investigation. Using particularistic processes rather than universalistic criteria in the recruitment and selection of faculty would continue a misallocation of positions.
Production and Citation Measures in the Sociology of Science: The Problem of Multiple Authorship I have argued that counts of either production or citations which ig- nore multiple authorship introduce considerable measurement bias.
CO‐CITATION CONTEXT ANALYSIS AND THE STRUCTURE OF PARADIGMS The characterization of a co-citation link as a particular type, for example, an his- torical or procedural progression (first A then B), suggests the possibility that all links could be classified according to type. The significance of this procedure for information science is that for the first time we can arrive at a representation of consensual knowledge-a paradigm-without the aid of an expert. Bibliometrics could truly become a branch of epistemology.
Formal Communication, Journal Concentration and the Rise of a Discipline in Physics In sum then the three measures of journal concentration, the current citing articles, the source cited articles and the cognitively important highly cited articles, all support the institutionalization hypothesis.
Publication productivity and professional position: Cross-national evidence on the role of organizations According to the preceding analysis, individual productivity when analyzed in terms of organizational variables is mainly accounted for by the professional position the scientist holds in the scientific hierarchy of his organization.
Inequality and Scientific Productivity On all these criteria, I have suggested that a modified coefficient of variation is the best measure of the inequality of scientific productivity.
Political Science: An Import-Export Analysis of Journals and Footnotes In short, political science is a discipline clearly peripheral in terms of influence, but central in terms of trade routes. The dynamics of its growth has led it to establish an increasingly diversified system of imports. It should and is likely to continue to do so.
Citation analysis of Europhysics journals Caution is advisable in comparing journals by their citation decay rates and related indicators, as these are biased by the journals history, changes of title, sectionization and growth of JCR coverage.
Publication rate as a function of laboratory size in a biomedical research institution One major result of this study is that, at the Rockefeller University in 1977–1978, the number of all publications and the number of primary publications are directly proportional to the number of academic members of a laboratory. The proportionalities found here suggest that if the number of publications or the number of primary publications is accepted as a measure of productivity and the number of people is accepted as a measure of invested resources, there is no gain in productivity to be sought by favoring the investment of resources dif-ferentially according to laboratory size per se. The findings are that the number of publications of a laboratory in one year is proportional to the number of scien-tists in the laboratory during that year, and that the frequency distribution of labora-tory size is statistically indistinguishable from the O-truncated negative binomial dis-tribution predicted by stochastic models for systems of social groups.
The Relationship of Conceptual Development to Consensus: An Exploratory Analysis of Three Subfields The most important contribution of this study is to disentangle consensus on specific scientific issues from other aspects of conceptual development and to demonstrate empirically that the two are not equivalent.
Citation analysis of world physics journals The ratio C/S was once introduced as the RPR index /34/, is too crude as a criterion /35/, but can be complemented with the impact factor. Reference and citation decay rates have been widely discussed e.g.in /36-44/, time changes in R/S have been investigated from 1967/45/ (see /38/ p.304-305) till very recently /4,5/. Perhaps the here illustrated analysis should be pursued further to obtain a better picture of physics journals.
Measuring scientific activity in lesser developed countries It has been noted throughout the paper that S&T indicators are fraught with shortcomings. Yet we have seen that the shortcomings are not so pronounced as to make the indicators useless numbers which have no bearing on reality. Whatever it is that they are measuring, they all measure it in like ways. This gives us some cause for optimism.
The Problem of Junior-Authored Papers in Constructing Citation Counts Overall we find that while scientists increase their average number of publications as they age, the proportion of papers in which they are the first author decreases steadily with time. Thus, the problem of using straight counts is potentially greater for professionally older scientists. The substantive error introduced by substituting straight counts for complete counts is critical in making this decision. Even though the two measures of productivity are highly correlated, our study has shown that when productivity is the dependent variable there is a significant chance of making a substantive error when straight counts are substituted for complete counts. Accordingly, extreme care must be used in interpreting results based on straight citation counts.
Evidence for the predictive utility of aggregated citations in Canadian psychology. By knowing the total number of citations accruing to all the members of the psy-chology department, one may predict the overall productivity of the entire university, the number of books in the library, the number of periodicals currently subscribed to, the total number of graduate and undergraduate students, the faculty size, and the total university revenue (average r = .60). Knowing merely how many members of the psychology department had greater than 25 cita-tions also allowed prediction of these same vari-ables (average r = .56). The faculty size of the psychology department is also a valid predictor of the same variables (r = .54).
SUNSCREEN MISCONCEPTION Hence this table does not support the view that the United States legislation led to a significant change in the advertising emphasis on brand names. A definite conclusion on this matter is premature. We have written to Dr Siskind requesting the actual figures, and hope to be able to report further results to your readers in the near future.
Research productivity, university revenue, and scholarly impact (citations) of 169 British, Canadian and United States universities (1977) We have discovered that a pervasive general factor exists within universities in all three countries. Whatever the final explanation for the results found here, it is clear, as has often been pointed out in the literature, that scientific productivity is a highly stratified phenomenon. It will be interesting to see what changes occur over the next decades, and why. It will also be interesting to see how universities in countries other than those examined here might compare, both now, and in the future.
Author cocitation: A literature measure of intellectual structure In conclusion, we believe that we have presented an interesting trial of a technique that might contribute much to the understanding of intellectual structure and movement in the sciences and in other areas, to the extent that they rely on serial publication. This tool seems to establish authors, in addition to documents, as an interesting unit in the analysis of ideas.
The adequacy of the science citation index (SCI) as an indicator of international scientific activity The overall conclusion of this study is that the SCI is representative of scientific publishing activity for most countries and most fields.
The quality of scientific scholarship and the ?graying? of the academic profession: A skeptical view Finally, it must be remembered that this discussion has been limited to the role of academic scientists.
Citation impact, acceptance rate, and APA journals. In conclusion, although it is not without fault, citation impact is probably the best single measure of journal quality we have at present. Citation impact appears best used to rank journals within a particular subspecialty. It would be helpful for APA journals to provide these data in future surveys.
Output measures of cooperative research: The case of the Pulp and Paper Research Institute of Canada The greater integration of PAPRICAN associated Ph. D.'s into the nonuniversity sector suggests that the kind of relationship that exists between PAPRICAN and McGill might, to some extent, provide a model that could contribute to the amelioration of the problems of sectoral isolation and the low level of industrial employment of the products of Canadian graduate schools.
University research grants management: accountability viewed as an exchange – the U.S. case The
NSF reviewed—An analysis Given the chance of the review process, it would appear that the more proposals a scientist submits to NSF, the more likely it is he or she will be funded.
Some methodological problems in ranking scientists by citation analysis The first three parameters seem to be applicable in measuring the utility of the individual's scientific contribution with slightly different emphasis on different aspects.
A rank-frequency model for scientific productivity It has been shown that the productivity distributions of the mathematicians contributing to the two Canadian journals, Canadian Mathematical Bulletin (CMB) and the Canadian Journal of Mathematics (CJM) can be adequately characterized by a rank-frequency model. Moreover this approach shows that the two distributions are the same. The estimation problems are tractible and the three parametric methods yield consistent results. These tentative conclusions will of course have to be supplemented by further research; it is pos-sible that such characteristics may be a function of the editorial policy or the na-ture of the research of these sciences.
Lifetime‐citation rates: A mathematical model to compare scientists' work "With appropriate precautions comparisons may then be made of the work of scientists in similar fields who have been publishing for different lengths of time."
Ranking academic departments: Empirical findings and a theoretical perspective The results reported here would certainly seem to refute those critics who have charged that the ACE ratings, being strictly subjective, bear no relation to objective reality.
Counts of U.S. and Soviet science and technology journals When comparing the absolute size of the US and Soviet serial counts, it is seen that the US outpublishes the USSR in all major fields (i.e., clinical medicine, biomedical research, biology, chemistry, physics, earth/space science, engineering/technology, mathematics/statistics, psychology, and the social sciences).
Publishing in Library Science Journals: A Test of the Olsgaard Profile While this study revealed some small differences from the Olsgaard model, it is perhaps more remarkable in its similarities, including the disturbing under-representation of female authors in all jour-nals studied (see figure 2).
Citation analysis significance of scientific journals The methods of quantitative analysis, generally termed scientometrics, are applicable for studying interactions of scientific journals, measuring their impact, evaluating closeness of their ties, etc.
SOCIAL SCIENCE INFORMATION FINDING FOR SOCIAL POLICY ON AGING AND RELATED COURSES The overall benefits of information services content in aging policy and related courses might be expressed in the following way: The stu- dent has at his or her disposal a more comprehensive and inclusive view of the aging policy literature.
Measuring the impact of marketing scholars and institutions: an analysis of citation frequency This study attempted to produce rankings by a more objective method than the studies which used peer ratings. This research demonstrates that it is difficult to produce a definitive ranking of marketing faculties. The analysis of citation frequency can yield measures of the impact of scholars and institutions on an academic discipline.
Funded research, multiple authorship, and subauthorship collaboration in four disciplines In summary, financial support for research was found to be associated with an increase in the total number of persons involved in the production of knowledge per published article in each of the disciplines in our sample. In the data presented in this paper, funding would appear to have the greatest impact upon technical subauthorship collaboration, particularly for psychology and chemistry, then political science and biological science, in that order. Finally, there was no significant relationship found between financial support and theoretical subauthorship in any of the disciplines included here.
Citation and co-citation indicators of a phased impact of the BCS theory in the physics of superconductivity While the configuration of cognitive history, frequency of citation and factor analytic results in the fifth and sixth periods support the two-stage hypothesis, this support should be considered tentative. What the results demonstrate is that any of these measures, taken individually, gives a partial and incomplete picture. Compared together, these and other methodologies (including participant observation when possible and interviewing) generate more information than any single method taken alone.
Institutional affiliation of authors in selected criminal justice journals A partial review of refereed contributions in six respected journals of criminal justice revealed that the majority of published articles were written by persons affiliated with academic institutions.
The brillouin measure of an author's contribution to a literature in psychology The Brillouin measure, when used with a coauthor network, may well be a measure of an author's value as a communicator in a subject.
Some scientometric measures of publishing performance for 85 Hungarian research institutes Our main conclusion is that in addition to some significant differences in the average measure values, a particular distinguishing feature of the research fields is the correlation pattern between the measures.
A note on the utility of international publication data These results would appear to support the hypothesis that differences in the pressure and/or capacity to publish between countries account for differences in the number of publications between countries.
Information theory and scientific communication The results of the experiment reported here show that information theory can provide a highly selective measure of the contribution that authors and journals make to these processes. These independent assessments have direct implications for author and journal evaluation. In the case of journals, the ability to rank titles in terms of their contribution to the communication of information in a given field could improve the effectiveness of the selection process in libraries.
The Evaluation of Educational Journals Through the Study of Citations To summarize, it appears that the articles published in RER in 1972 and 1973 have had consider-ably greater impact on the educa-tional literature than articles pub-lished in AERJ. Based on the data presented here, AERJ, RER, and ER seem to be communicating within a fairly closed network of education-re-lated journals. In a few years, sufficient citations will have accumulated to do a citation analysis which includes the newer AERAjournals, Journal of Educa-tional Statistics and Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, thereby providing a more compre-hensive assessment of AERA'S contribution to the educational literature.
Becoming an Academic: Early vs. Later Professional Experiences First, theories of professional socialization which concentrate on the formal training period to explain later professional performances may be too limited.
Research publication credit assignment: Nurses' views This indicates that authorship credit assignment is an important issue for nurses functioning primarily in academic settings.
Significant Contributions to Finance Literature The most prominent advances in finance have occurred in capital theory and business finance. Full recognition of finance articles making significant contributions takes 5 to 6 years; decline in direct impact on the field begins 13 or 14 years after publication. The most prolific among distinguished finance authors tend to produce the most significant research.
Adjusted age distribution and its application to impact factor and immediacy index In order to eliminate the age bias generated by the irrational aspect of the age count based on the year of publication, probability theory may be used.
The impact of basic research in the social sciences: The case of education The empirical data collected on citation patterns in the education literature are found to be largely consistent with this proposition.
The relationship of information science to the social sciences: A co-citation analysis It appears from the present data that information science is relatively isolated from the intellectual framework of the social and behavioral sciences.
PUBLICATION LAGS IN THE <i>JOURNAL OF REGIONAL SCIENCE</i>: A NOTE FROM THE EDITOR I hope to reduce the current average lag of 14.3 months between receipt of an accepted paper and its appearance in print by increasing the proportion of space in each issue, over the next 18 months or so, that is devoted to articles and decreasing the proportion for “Comments,” “Replies” and Book Reviews.
The impact of the science research council's policy of selectivity and concentration on average levels of research support: 1965–1974 Both of these results clarify the manner in which the SRC had responded to a perceived escalation in the costs of research and also provided a basis for examining the rationale for the SRC's adoption of an expanded policy of selectivity and concentration in which such escalation has forced the SRC to be both more selective in the research they support and to concentrate those limited resources in fewer groups in order that quality in research be sustained. The analyses presented in this paper raise certain questions over the extent to which these changes have occured in the area of peer-adjudicated grants.
Structural Characteristics and Citation Rates of Education Journals The practical implications of these findings for those responsible for the administration of institutions of higher learning and their contribution to the study of the scientific communication process of the field of educational research are presented.
Relationship between R&amp;D expenditures and publication output for U.S. colleges and universities In general, we find a consistently linear relationship between expenditures and number of papers.
PRESTIGE OF JOURNALS IN CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE The study of the system of journal prestige in the area of criminology and criminal justice shows that professionals make distinctions about the relative quality of journals in the field. Despite the fact that criminology and criminal justice is a multidisciplinary field involving professionals from a wide variety of occupational settings, there seems to be a relatively high degree of agreement about the relative prestige of the journals in the field.
Research Productivity in Academia: A Comparative Study of the Sciences, Social Sciences and Humanities It is clear from our findings that a unitary model of scholarly or scientific productivity cannot be assumed to oper-ate in all academic disciplines. Of particular im-portance is our demonstration that it is the way in which the academic charac-teristics of natural scientists are transformed into scholarly output rather than their superior ranking on those char-acteristics that results in their greater arti-cle count. Further research on productivity in academic must address the issue of devising a measure of output that is comparable across disciplines.
On the Stability of Productivity and Recognition In summary, psychologists who were highly productive and often cited in 1965 remained most active and most recognized ten years later, while those who were unproductive and uncited in 1965 retained their invisibility. These data fit well with Merton's (1968) postulated "Matthew Effect," a phenomenon that refers to the accumulation of advantage in science. Both a history of publications and recognition of publications influence subsequent productivity.
The ‘gatekeeper’ hypothesis and the international transfer of scientific knowledge "We conclude that an Irish scientist's integration with foreign colleagues (and presumably his willingness to accept their influence) is a function of (1) the relevance of his/her work to the Irish economy i.e. the existence or non-existence of local rewards, and (2) the state of paradigm development in his/her field."
Citation networks in information science Thus we see that the co-citation network gives a more detailed picture of the structure of information science of the period. The proposed method of co-citation (or prospective coupling) reveals the thematic structure of the field, authors' communities and their leaders, the import- ance of single authors in this or neighboring fields. The limited scope of this investigation (analysis of a single journal) may be ex- tended to include the international field of information science.
Organizational Context and Scientific Productivity The chances of obtaining employment in a particular organizational context are not strongly affected by pro- ductivity as indicated by either published papers or the scientific community's utili- zation of those papers.
Science in the middle-level countries: a bibliometric analysis of scientific journals of Australia, Canada, India and Israel Though for convenience we have clubbed Australia, Canada, India and Israel, we cannot but conclude that Canada is ahead of the rest, followed by Australia by almost every one of the criteria we have adopted. Many Canadian journals have better citation balance (as well as better cited/citing ratio); are quoted to a considerably larger extent by journals published outside Canada including some non-English journals; quote more recent references; and have better immediacy index than most Indian and Israeli journals. Perhaps, in Israel also, scientists are sending their more citable work to overseas journals. We intend to study the Israeli scientific enterprise in a future paper.
Chance and Consensus in Peer Review We have shown that the reversals ob- served in the COSPUP experiment can be explained by the substantial disagree- ment among reviewers of the same pro- posal.
The distribution of citations from nation to nation on a field by field basis — A computer calculation of the parameters Thus, three parameters and a cluster map can parsimoniously describe the citation data within the limits of random error. It therefore seems that we have a parsimonious method for reducing large blocks of data to few parameters. The citation behavior of nations is governed by their size, quality, and internationality with very little fine tuning for clustering structure between nations and only weak fine tuning rather than strong differences from field to field for any nation.
Characterization of databases in the agricultural sciences When the possibility of acquiring the three bases exists, the risk of duplication of titles is only 10.01%, which is totally insignificant in the area of information. With regard to the acquisition or selection for use of agricultural databases, the sequence recommended is the following: CAB, AGRICOLA, AGRIS. The best combination of bases, two by two, is AGRI-COLA and CAB, having as a second alternative AGRIS and CAB, and as a third alternative AGRIS and AGRICOLA.
The success‐breeds‐success phenomenon and bibliometric processes A number of probability distributions have been derived from urn models. The negative binomial distribution for the number of successes has been empirically verified by Rao [10]. This result was also obtained with a number of bibliometric data sets which had been previously presented by other investigators.
Publication and citation ranking of physics journals The concentration of physics journals in both publication and citation aspects is high, with variable values of the slope parameter (comp.also/32/). Future studies of rank-frequency distributions should involve major physics subfields, time changes, the position of selected journals and methodical considerations.
Faculty Research Activity and the Quality of Graduate Training First, the findings support the hypothesis that faculty research activity contributes positively to the quality of the graduate process.
Citation Data for Selected Journals in Reproductive Biology The data presented on journal citations for selected reproductive titles would seem to indicate that Fertility and Sterility is a major publication in the field. It ranks very high among peer journals in both impact factor and immediacy index. In view of an increasingly competitive field for the receipt of quality manuscripts, pub-lication, and eventual citation of these papers (as one criterion of quality), it remains to be seen whether Fertility and Sterility will continue its impressive standing as evidenced in citation stud-ies.
Career Patterns of Scientists: A Case for Complementary Data In terms of policy, one could surmise that informal networks of communication, though neutralized in principle by affirmative action, are still extensively utilized in the placing of new Ph.D.s (e.g., Reskin, 1978).
Mobility in physics A regular, comprehensive bibliographical service on behalf of the physics community would be desirable to be undertaken on a continuing basis and an appropriate institutional commitment.
<i>Response</i> : Alternative to Peer Review? If the peer reviewing of completed work is so unreliable and easily manipulated, how does one expect it to be accurate and honest as a predictor? These trends will continue; their effect on the formula I propose is trivial. Since they affect but one term, and since everybody would be working by the same rules, any such trends would be easily normalized out.
Early Science Career Patterns of Recent Graduates from Leading Research Universities The "trickle-down" effect of prestigious graduates being employed at less prestigious institutions as postulated by Niland seems to have taken place in the 1970's.
ALLTECH ASSOCIATES
The funding of university research The data presented here, and the theory on which it is based, provides, we believe, a useful approach to these needs.
Stationary scientometric distributions The conclusion is formulated that the use of non-Gaussian statistics is necessary in the science of science and other social sciences. Therefore, it is incorrect to apply Gaussian statistics of moments to non-Gaussian general population. Thus, to the extent to which our sample of 105 distributions is representative relative to the general population of stationary distributions of human activities, and our sample of 47 distributions is representative relative to the general population of stationary scientometric distributions, the indicated populations are non-Gaussian.
Some procedural obscurities in Peters and Ceci's peer-review study If anything seems clear after reading all of the commentaries, it is that scientists differ widely in their interpretation of our study and in their suggestions for improving the peer-review system. A number of commentators felt that our study was a valuable demonstration of several serious ills in modern peer-review practices (e.g., unreliability, author-institutional bias, referee inadequacy), while others believed that nothing could be learned until a more complete experimental design was employed. The diversity of opinion among our commentators on every important issue etches in bold relief the difficulties of peer review. The only real consensus among the commentators is the belief that the present peer-review process needs reform.
Consumption factor scores of psychology journals: Scientometric properties and qualitative implications The findings of this study demonstrate the statistical independence of the Consumption Factor and Impact Factor, and suggest that these two measures represent distinct journal attributes. But the weak relationship of the Consumption Factor with subjective judgments of journal quality and the lack of qualitative implications of journal characteristics associated with high Consumption Factor scores raise questions about the Consumption Factor as a measure of journal significance/quality. Either component, preferably the Popularity Factor, would be an equally adequate and more persimonious replacement for the Consumption Factor.
Further evidence for adjusting for multiple authorship The best advise would be to use measures which take multiple author-ship into account, compare them with others that do not, and examine any dif-ferences that might emerge.
Bibliographic compilation using reference and citation links It can be shown that this algorithm is a generalizable tecnhique which can be used as an alternative mode of satisfying any problem-oriented information query.
Optional published refereeing A number of possible interpretations of these data are reviewed and evaluated.
A physics editor comments on Peters and Ceci's peer-review study Viewed in this context, our finding of very high reviewer agreement with the resubmitted manu- scripts is not so surprising; and considering the fate of the original manuscripts compared to the resubmissions, the response bias hypothesis seems to be a fair explana- tion for two sets of reviews showing near perfect, but opposite agreement.
Predictors of outside funding for research among AASCU institutions What the data show, despite these limitations, is that the AASCU institutions successful at obtaining externally funded research money tend to have certain things in common: past success in obtaining grants; emphasis on graduate, par-ticularly doctoral work; larger student bodies and faculties; urban environments; internal grant programs; grants and administration offices; and emphasis on re-search and publication for promotion and tenure purposes. The results of this study suggest that those AASCU member institutions seri-ously considering an increased research effort can make decisions which increase the probability of success. This study used demographic and policy data gathered in 1979 from a sample of member institutions of the American Association of State Colleges and Uni-versities (AASCU) to determine if relationships exist between these variables and success at obtaining externally funded research grants.
Thematic analysis in information science: The example of “literature obsolescence” The JASIS examples do demonstrate, I believe, that thematic analysis contributes to an understanding of at least some scholarly papers: Approaches and attitudes that would otherwise appear to be individual quirks can now be placed in various thematic traditions, and there- fore the paper can be "understood" more completely."
AUTHORS AS MARKERS OF INTELLECTUAL SPACE: CO‐CITATION IN STUDIES OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETY Our experiment has combined a type of objective data, the frequency with which new papers co-cite the work of two authors, with a variety of tools for multivariate statistical analysis.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Marriage and Family Literature This bibliometric assessment suggests that greater impact in the field will accrue to a manuscript that is linked to theorists in the field; that is solidly literature-based, in-cluding drawing upon work still 'in pro-cess' and unpublished; and that is keyed to previous scholarship appearing in JMF or in (other) sociological journals.
Interreferee agreement and acceptance rates in physics If this type of bias is actually operating to produce differential reviews and publication deci-sions, then one might predict that the highest levels of reviewer consensus should be found in journals with nonblind review, since an author's identity and affiliation are much more visible. However, unless we subject the review pro-cess, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith.
On the failure to detect previously published research The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions.
Peer review and the structure of knowledge The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. Unless we subject the review pro-cess, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith. The dependence of science on secret peer review is to some extent a post-World War II phenomenon. Systematic use of secret peer review was not a common practice of many scientific journals until well into the twentieth century.
The impact of a computerized conferencing system on the productivity of scientific research communities
Theory and Applied Anthropology: An Empirical Approach In sum, while these data do not clearly address the degree to which applied anthropology in Human Organization is a producer of theory, they strongly suggest that that litera-ture has had little impact on mainstream anthropological theory. The pattern of eclecticism in source use by Human Organi-zation authors may possibly indicate a wider range of interests among applied anthropologists than among general anthropol-ogists, which would send the former further afield in the search for relevant materials. In sum, while these findings cast doubt on the claim that ap-plied anthropology has had a significant influence on theory development in mainstream anthropology, further research will be necessary to interpret these first results more adequate-ly.
Peer review in the physical sciences: An editor's view The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. Unless we subject the review pro-cess, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith.
Peer-review research: Objections and obligations The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The near perfect reviewer agreement regarding the unacceptability of the resubmitted manuscripts, coupled with the presumably near perfect agreement among the original reviewers in favor of publishing, provide additional convergent support for the response bias hypothesis. More important, peer review should be used in such fashion that it enhances rather than im-pedes the progress of science.
Reforming peer review: From recycling to reflexivity The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub- missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. Our total data (including reliability), along with what is known from correlational studies like Gordon's (1980), have persuaded us to include at least some degree of bias in our explanation.
Matched Case‐Control Studies in Citation Analysis Citation studies are often carried out on large numbers of papers. However, when the subject studied requires a more detailed ascertainment of the papers' characteristics, large samples are not longer feasible.
Improving research on and policies for peer-review practices The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. Viewed in this context, our finding of very high reviewer agreement with the resubmitted manu-scripts is not so surprising; and considering the fate of the original manuscripts compared to the resubmissions, the response bias hypothesis seems to be a fair explana-tion for two sets of reviews showing near perfect, but opposite agreement. However, unless we subject the review pro-cess, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith.
On the Heterogeneity and Classification of Author Self‐Citations Author self-citations are heterogeneous. Any self-citation belongs to either of two broad classes or genera-synchronous and diachronous. A classification of self-citations in the manner suggested in this article has sociological applications.
Scientific Consensus and Academic Status Attainment Patterns "We have presented evidence that large differences among disciplines in consensus and codification produce theoretically implied effects on career patterns and the recognition of scientific research. Our results suggest that the effects of this institutional characteristic on subsequent career achievements are inversely related to the level of consensus that characterizes an academic discipline. Even though large differences in consensus affect career patterns, the effects are small."
A quantitative study of biologists in the 18th and 19th centuries Thus, the study of the past can provide not only the key for better under- standing of the present, but promote foresight of the future of science as a social institution. This is believed to be one of the main tasks of applying quantitative methods in historic research of science.
Citation-Based Impact Measures and the Bradfordian Selection Criteria If citation-based measures of impact are used as selection tools, Lamb's data do not support any strong relation between quantity and quality.
Dollars-and-cents value of efficient presentation The acquisition of prior knowledge consists of two steps: (1) the placing of the relevant information before the scientist and (2) its absorption into the scientist's mind.
Designing peer review for the subjective as well as the objective side of science The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication.
Rejection, rebuttal, revision: Some flexible features of peer review The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. Our finding of very high reviewer agreement with the resubmitted manu-scripts is not so surprising; and considering the fate of the original manuscripts compared to the resubmissions, the response bias hypothesis seems to be a fair explana-tion for two sets of reviews showing near perfect, but opposite agreement.
The insufficiencies of methodological inadequacy The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication.
Identifying distinctive groups in a college applicant pool The findings illustrate that AID can make a useful contribution to market research and that the technique has broader applicability-to other student groups and to other educational policy questions.
Publication, politics, and scientific progress The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication.
Readings books and rankings of macromonetary articles, authors and journals The use of republished articles as a selected bibliography to rank articles, authors, and journals does pass the statistical test for significance of variance and the correspondence test to other rank-ings.
How to measure the degree of independence of a research system? The figures obtained from PASCAL are still too sketchy to answer all the questions we asked at the beginning.
<i>Science Citation Index's</i> Coverage of the Preclinical Science Literature Science Citation Index should be considered a prime source of journal references when searching the preclinical science literature. This would indicate that regardless of the specific area of research SCI indexes a significant portion of the journal literature used by preclinical scientists. It appears that SCI continues to expand its journal coverage to reflect highly cited journals, whether they are old or new.
Chemistry PhD production in the United States The data considered in this paper present a somewhat different picture of graduate education in chemistry from that which has been given in the past. Graduate education in the United States has decreased in quantity at nearly all universities and at previously unreported levels at the largest and best departments.
Manuscript evaluation by journal referees and editors: Randomness or bias? The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication.
Brookes, Popper, and objective knowledge The purpose of this commentary on Brookes' series of articles has been to increase our under-standing of Popper, to point to uses of his philoso-phy, and to squeeze open a few doors on some of the relevant literature.
ECONOMIC POSITION OF SOME BRITISH PRIMARY SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS Scientists value their primary literature highly, and in general are not enthusiastic about changes in it. However, the publication of a scientific journal can continue only as long as it can, from one source or another, cover its costs. However, the publishing societies have succeeded in maintaining their financial equilibrium, with the large societies, whose circulations have fallen the most, making the largest surpluses. The commercial publishers of learned journals therefore seem in general to be moderately optimistic about their journals, and indeed the statistics seem to show that journals published by commercial publishers (either on behalf of societies or on their own account) are holding their circulation better than those published by societies themselves.
Scientific communication: So where do we go from here? The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication.
Editorial gatekeeping patterns in international science journals. A new science indicator We have shown that country-by-country distribution of the editors of international science journals may characterize the scientific research activity of the countries, or perhaps assess their research efficiency in various science fields as well. On the basis of deviations from values expected from the regression lines the gatekeeping indicator provides also a possibility for drawing inferences about the "open" or "closed" nature of the scientific life of a given country.
When will the editors start to edit? "The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A – H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication."
Rejecting published work: It couldn't happen in physics! (or could it?) The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The predominantly negative evaluations of the resubmissions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. However, unless we subject the review process, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith.
Information flow in analytical journals The social communication system of analytical chemistry is measured by its journal references.
Does research productivity decline with age? The cross-sectional analysis showed that in 1978–1980 as well as in 1968-1970 British psychologists who were more than 45 years of age published less frequently than their colleagues under the age of 45 years. A person's previous research productivity was a far better predictor of subsequent research output than age was. If tenure or retirement policies are to be changed, the objective of maximizing the research output of universities would be more readily met by using a person's record of productivity rather than their age as a primary criterion for displacement or retention.
Split Citation Identity: A Case Study from Economics Split citation identity has important implications for both the interpretation of citation data on individual ar- ticles and their quantitative analysis.
Is age a good predictor of research productivity? Age was not a good predictor of a person's research output in 1978-1980. A far better predictor was the person's previous research productivity. If tenure or retirement practices are altered in future to increase turnover within the academic profession, the objective of maximizing the research output of universities would be more readily met by using a person's record of productivity rather than their age as a primary criterion for retention and displacement.
Predictors of outside funding for research among AASCU institutions: A reanalysis In conclusion, Muffo and Coccari (1982) applied a stepwise regression procedure in the presence of a serious problem of multicollinearity, and were led to conclusions unsupported by their data.
Scientific output in the third world The important conclusion from these figures is that a low literacy rate, per se, does not prevent a country from making good progress in building up its science.
Citation patterns of editorial gatekeepers in international chemistry journals Our investigations showed that at least in chemistry, the editorial bodies of international journals are true "gatekeepers" and their professional status is positively correlated with the scientific quality of the international journals in this discipline.
On adjusting productivity measures for multiple authorship We conclude that, contrary to Lindsey's findings, there appear to be no major differ- ences between adjusted and unadjusted measures.
Reform peer review: The Peters and Ceci study in the context of other current studies of scientific evaluation The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. Viewed in this context, our finding of very high reviewer agreement with the resubmitted manu-scripts is not so surprising; and considering the fate of the original manuscripts compared to the resubmissions, the response bias hypothesis seems to be a fair explana-tion for two sets of reviews showing near perfect, but opposite agreement. However, unless we subject the review pro-cess, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith.
The Theoretical Foundation of Zipf's Law and Its Application to the Bibliographic Database Environment The purpose of this series of derivations is to demon- strate the process by which the Zipfian approach to word distribution modeling can be represented, and also to es- tablish a mathematical basis for its use in bibliographic database retrieval systems. A discussion of the Zipfian phenomena in the biblio- graphic database environment and the effects of the in- herent stochastic elements in such an environment con- cludes the article.
Theoretical implications of failure to detect prepublished submissions The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. However, unless we subject the review pro-cess, and suggestions for improving it, to experimental analysis to learn more about the variables that do influence peer review, we are left with little to defend it other than faith.
Peer reviewing: Improve or be rejected The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication.
Strong ties and scientific literature The study re- ported here suggests that this structure is not very important to the transmission of salient new scientific information. This study, along with others that have attempted to test the "weak tie" hypothesis (cf. Killworth and Bernard 1974; Murray et al. 1981a) have found "weak ties" little used in empirical transmission of information. The problem for scientists is not to maximize information, but to screen out what is interesting and important to them from a welter of information. Trusted assessors provide this.
Citation ranking versus subjective evaluation in the determination of journal hierachies in the social sciences It can be concluded, therefore, that SSJCR presents indicators of journal ranking which have fairly high correlation with sociologists' aggregated judgments of the importance of each of 63 social science journals.
The fate of published articles, submitted again "If anything seems clear after reading all of the commentaries, it is that scientists differ widely in their interpretation of our study and in their suggestions for improving the peer-review system."
Human information seeking: Online searching of bibliographic citation networks The results of the two experiments discussed in this paper indicate that the type of search question and the structure of the data base can influence strategies chosen and results obtained when seeking information in computer-readable data bases.
Determinants of expert judgement of research performance In summary, the data demonstrates that expert judgement of research performance is very highly correlated with measures of publication activity, and that expert judgement appears to be an additive function of publication size (another name for which might be visibility) and publication quality, with the principal component being size/visibility. Despite the competition as it were, the bibliometric variables emerged as the overriding factors in predicting expert judgement of research performance. Additionally, there emerged a clear pattern of subject specificity.
Referee report on an earlier draft of Peters and Ceci's target article The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A – H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. The only real consensus among the commentators is the belief that the present peer-review process needs reform.
Reviewer “bias”: Do Peters and Ceci protest too much? The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. These individuals may have received a less critical, more benign evaluation than did our unknown authors from "no-name" institutions. The near perfect reviewer agreement regarding the unacceptability of the resubmitted manuscripts, coupled with the presumably near perfect agreement among the original reviewers in favor of publishing, provide additional convergent support for the response bias hypothesis.
Psychology of the Scientist: XLVIII. Recent Trends in Multiple Authorship in Psychology Multiple authorship of convention papers in psychology has continued to increase to the present.
Peer-review practices of psychological journals: The fate of published articles, submitted again The results extend previous findings of bias, unreliability, and a general lack of accountability in the peer-review process.
World publication output in particle Physics Two tendencies prevail in the results of these studies. One reflects the process of further taxonomic ramification of science in general and the morphology of physics in particular /47/, from which the information about individual subfields or specialties may be essential for local decision-making (cf./48/). The other attempts to fit significant correlations against socio-economic indicators to enable broader considerations /44,45,49,50/.
The measurement of performance among research and development professional employees: A longitudinal analysis The results generally reflect a complex and multifaceted notion of R&D professional performance. The findings of the present and prior research suggest the following implications for R&D managers to improve their performance measurement of professional employees. High self-esteem R&D professional employees may have a more accurate perception of their own performance com-pared to low self-esteem professionals.
A plea for peer review However, we believe that the role of the review panel is an invaluable and essential element in the operation of the Division of Earth Sciences and strong-ly urge that the panels not be eliminated in the search for modest cost savings.
Trends in Czechoslovak physics research — Manpower, publication output, citation response Future efficient work /50/ may largely depend on this fairly regular behavior within research groups and the whole national physics community, unless means are found how to change the virtually inverse-power relationship between performers and their product.
A Re-evaluation of Lotka's Law of Scientific Productivity Our conclusion is that total individual productivity is probably much less disparate than currently believed.
Putting Facts Together: A Study of Scientific Persuasion The construction of arrays is an attempt to suggest appropriate networks. Persuasion is a tentative matter, a constant attempt to propose a set of interrelationships and values.
Citation analysis in particle physics Time will show how the just announced detector events indicative of proton decay /46/ can influence the citation curve for 1982 and 1983.
Collaboration in computational musicology The relationship between productivity and coauthorship in this humanistic subject differs substantially from the intensely collaborative enterprise of science. Most musicologists do not coauthor. Although the preferred mode of humanistic publication is the solo work, the few heavy collaborators are stimulated into an extraordinary level of productivity.
Rejecting published work: Similar fate for fiction "In view of this context, our finding of very high reviewer agreement with the resubmitted manuscripts, coupled with the presumably near perfect agreement among the original reviewers in favor of publishing, provide additional convergent support for the response bias hypothesis."
On the relationship between quantity and quality of a country's research productivity This paper appears to be the first report of a positive correlation between quantity and quality of a country's research productivity. The relationship will need to be tested for other research areas, particularly non-biomedical disciplines, before it can be widely generalized. Apparently, cumula- tive advantage also operates in the research pro- ductivity of countries, ensuring that countries which do the most work, also wind up doing the best work and vice versa.
Characteristics of a Literature as Predictors of Relatedness Between Cited and Citing Works Results of this study show that there are several poten- tial indicators of relevance of cited works to citing works.
2004: A scenario of peer review in the future The results show that out of the nine journals in question (A - H) only one repeated its earlier positive evaluation of the submitted paper and accepted it for publication. The predominantly negative evaluations of the resub-missions may reflect some form of response bias in favor of the original authors as a function of their association with prestigious institutions. Viewed in this context, our finding of very high reviewer agreement with the resubmitted manu-scripts is not so surprising; and considering the fate of the original manuscripts compared to the resubmissions, the response bias hypothesis seems to be a fair explana-tion for two sets of reviews showing near perfect, but opposite agreement.
Academic-Corporate Research Relationships: Forms, Functions, and Fantasies However, I shall argue that the current level of interaction is likely to increase significantly and to stabilize at a substantially but not spectacularly higher level than at present. The increasing science and technology dependence of large sectors of industry strongly suggests that the average level of industrial R&D support of academic research will settle at a higher level than before. But because of the generic "free rider" problem, I would hazard a guess that the level will settle at around 10% of academic R&D receiving support from industry. Thus, unless Milton Friedman is elected President of the United States, there remains a large role for public funding of academic research.
Have paper, will travel: Participation at A.C.J.S. annual meetings It is suggested that further attention be devoted to professional con-cerns in order to understand the development of academic criminology. Hopefully, this work will stimulate other introspective analyses of the academic milieu so that criminologists become more aware of their own environment.
Research on scientific journals: Implications for editors and authors A summary of the policy recommendations is provided in Table 1.
Barriers to scientific contributions: The author's formula It is essential that we acquire a better understanding than we presently have of our journal review system.
Handle with Care The collection manager can find correlations between the use of his science journals and citation data if the following conditions are met:
Assessing basic research We would maintain that the evidence presented in this paper is sufficient to justify a positive answer to both these questions, and hence to show that the method of converging partial indicators can yield information useful to science policy-makers. Although further work is obviously needed, we believe that this paper goes some way in demonstrating how that information can be obtained.
Validity of citation criteria for assessing the influence of scientific publications: New evidence with peer assessment All analyses showed that the hyothesis is valid: Highly rated papers are more highly cited than average papers.
Peer review and national need From the analysis, the elements of such a model are as follows. The major vehicle by which the government supports scientific university research is through the research council.
Assessment of Doctoral Programs in Physical Education: Reports, Rankings, and Recommendations "First, the truly outstanding pro-grams are probably excellent in most areas; thus, almost any measure of academic quality will suffice to identify them."
Selection of patents for the Chemical Abstracts Service data base In conclusion, it may be said that CAS has been most pleased with its experience in using an automated system for document selection. This system has given CAS users a uniform and consistent selection policy that extends to all countries and in some cases has significantly improved the coverage of chemical documents. In addition, it has given CAS a tool by which patent documents can be routed to the appropriate document analyst, and the analyst is assisted in the placement of abstracts in the proper CA sections.
Bradford's Law and the Retrieval of Reading Research Journal Literature The conclusion is that for the immediate future, the print-on-paper summary will continue to provide a valuable tool for the retrieval of reading research.
An investigation of the validity of bibliographic citations Unfortunately, we still have some important but unknown factors in the way of making an estimate of how many writers, if any, lifted the reference from Wilson without consulting the original source. My own guess is that of the 23 discussed above, one writer may have done so, and that with another there is room for a measure of doubt. It should be noted, however, that where such studies are used to provide information on which to base decisions about collection development, the difficulty is a little less serious, because of the fact that research people so often look for a work in the library having lo- cated a bibliographic reference to it [11, p. 302-305, 328].
SOURCES OF ACCESS TO THESES In conclusion, it may be noted that while there is a marked lack of data, the use of theses in many countries would seem to be low and that the number being produced is increasing. The most favourable recent development would seem to be the move towards centralized handling through microfilms that combines bibliographic control and visibility with ready availability on loan or for sale by on-demand publishing. Thus, while this article has been divided into various aspects of control and access, in practice the trend is towards combining them in a total service to the improved satisfaction of users.
An investigation into the applicability of Science Citation Index as a tool to measure the usefulness of publications of the International Tin Research Institute This study has demonstrated the different citation policies which occur in different fields of science. Results are probably affected by the coverage and American bias of SCI and cannot be used to interpret the suitability of I.T.R.I. publications for the industrial sector they are, in the main, intended to serve. What this brief survey did show was the dangers of trying to compare citation rates of papers of different subject content and intended for different audiences.
A comparison of a bibliometric approach and an historical approach to the identification of important literature This investigation lead to three major conclusions:
Theoretical Uses of Applied Anthropology: Another Round with Rounds I simply said that one should not compare citations patterns of interdisciplinary with discipline-specific journals.
The author cocitation structure of macroeconomics In this study, cocited author retrieval and mapping techniques are used to in-vestigate the structure of macroeconomics as perceived by the citing social science journal literature over a 10 year period (1972–1981).
Citations Analysis and Applied Anthropology: A Reply to Stoffle My belief is that applied social science, of whatever ilk, is justified by its success in application, not in theory produc-tion.
For debate . . . Individual contributions to multiauthor papers. We would suggest that journals ought to require from authors a statement of their specific contribution to the paper, such as original idea, planning, participation in the experiment or in laboratory or clinical work, collecting data, technical advice, technical help, writing up the paper, and so on.
A bibliometric analysis of pharmaceutical research In summary there appears to be some war-ranted confidence in the use of star clinical articles as predictors of drug output.
Condensed matter physics journals With the citation/reference criterion we have selected 20 core journals devoted ex-clusively to CMP that differ in their subject matter, practical orientation, function or mission, longevity, amount of items published (or size), periodicity, national origin, publisher type, cost, etc.
Are the fruits of research available to all? The effects of sex and academic rank on reprint-sending behavior Overall, the likelihood of receiving a response to a request for reprint materials seems unaffected by academic rank. In addition, sex of requester seems to affect the speed with which requests will be honored: Men received responses significantly faster than women, suggesting preferred treatment for this type of status variable. These findings suggest other areas for research, such as the effect of the status of the institution with which the requester is affiliated and other indications of administrative or faculty status (e.g., J. Tyler, Department Chairperson).
Are methodological papers more cited than theoretical or empirical ones? The case of sociology The present survey indicates that methodological papers tend indeed to be more cited than theoretical or empirical papers.
Information use and transfer by British and French scientists: A study of two groups It is concluded that access to facilities, national tradition, size of a country's scientific community and political events influence information use and transfer.
Stability of education journal characteristics: 1977?1980 The findings of the current study and those of Elton and Smart (1982) indicate that journal characteristics in the fields of education and psychology tend to be highly stable over time. The one possible exception to this general conclusion is the Immediacy Index measure developed by Garfield (1979). Further research is needed on journals in these dissimilar areas to test the validity of such generalizations.
Career patterns of scientists in peripheral communities The shared work experience (in the same organization) is the single most productive source of foreign colleagues, provided that it takes place in a foreign organization.
A BIBLIOMETRIC EVALUATION OF CORE JOURNALS IN COMMUNICATION RESEARCH Compared to the data from the Parker et al., study of citations from 1950 to 1965, these data indicate that communication researchers are less dependent on other social science journals in the conduct of their research.
Journals for highly cited physics papers and their citation histories "Proportions of the journals differ by type of selection criteria for the highly cited papers and by the time-span to citation (tab.1)."
The Hierarchy of the Sciences? All the studies that I have completed have failed to confirm the hypothesis that we would find higher levels of cognitive consensus and a larger immediacy effect among the more highly developed sciences at the top of the hierarchy than we would among the less developed social sciences at the bottom of the hierarchy.
Changes in the communication of chemical information I: Some effects of growth The bibliometric studies summarised in Fig. 7 show some areas where obvious constraints are operating to produce a levelling off or to indicate a natural limit. Doubtless, electronic journals and also data depositories will become increasingly im- portant nodes in the indirect communication path- ways between chemist and they are discussed in Part II.
Peer review: Should it be blind? However, others may have some concern similar to my own, and your editorial committee might consider looking at this problem, hopefully as objectively as each reviewer considers the manuscript that is sent to him.
Statistical reliability of comparisons based on the citation impact of scientific publications Reliable comparisons based on citation rate per publication can be performed only with an appropriate test of statistical significance of the observed differences. The simple test suggested in this paper proved to be suitable for comparisons of journal impact factors or citation rates for similar source and citation periods. In other situations (e.g. lifetime-citation rates or citations to all previously published papers) the distribution of citations may fundamentally differ in character and even the applicability of classical Gaussian statistics can rightfully be questioned.
Gatekeeping patterns in the publication of analytical chemistry research Our results show that 75% of the positions of power influencing the publication of new results in almost all areas of analytical chemistry are concentrated into the hands of scientists from no more than ten countries of the world.
A note on “scholarliness” and “impact” Several possible explanations of the correlation be- tween number of citations and number of times cited (apart from chance variation) come to one's mind: Further investigations will, no doubt, help us under- stand the causal mechanism of the correlation between "scholarliness" and "impact." The data presented here are one further indication of the complexities determin- ing the number of times a paper is cited.
Professional standing and the reception of contributions to economics Professional age, rank of department, and scientific repute have an impact on the early and total reception of articles published in core economics journals.
Publication indicators of relative research efforts in physics subfields The general conclusion of our calculations is that the self-organizing mechanism of scientific research tends to keep an even distribution of efforts in each of the physics subfields on a worldwide scale.
DELAYS IN THE LITERATURE OF MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY: BEFORE AND AFTER PUBLICATION Some of the delays documented by this study must be considered excessive. Scientists, editors and librarians should press for the quicker arrival of journals and secondary services to countries outside North America and Western Europe. It will be of little help if pre-publication times are reduced, as for the rapid publica-tions like FEMS Microbiology Letters, if the journal takes the same time to reach dis-tant shores.
Programmatic evaluation and comparison based on standardized citation scores The bibliometrics should always serve in a complementary fashion to an in-depth peer or reviewer evaluation.
Causes of low and high citation potentials in science: Citation analysis of biochemistry and plant physiology journals To summarize, the rapid "aging" of the citations re- ceived by a journal does not mean the ephemeral value of its material but, on the contrary, its intensive use and high impact.
The “rank distortion” effect and non-Gaussian nature of scientific activities In conclusion, we note that the program outlined in the introduction is fulfilled.
Scientometric analysis of attendance at International Scientific Meetings According to the correlation study, the strongest positive correlation was found among the number of lecturers travelling to conferences and the number of first authors of journal papers (Fig. 1). The scientific life of countries above the regression line seems to be more open than the average; a similar conclusion can be drawn from other scientometric studies too⁹. Summarizing the results, we can conclude that the distribution of the participants of international scientific meetings depends of the geographical location of the host country, and in addition, the similarity of efforts for scientific development (e.g. in the developing countries), the organizational structure ("open" or "closed" nature) of the scientific communities, the economic situation (traveling expenses can influence the participation rate) and in some cases, political consideration may also have an important role.
The production of Ph.D.'s in chemistry The most significant conclusions that can be drawn from the analyses about the social organization of chemistry concern the role of faculty emi-nence in the training of new Ph.D.'s.
Scientific credentials: Record of publications in the assessment of qualifications for election to the French Acad�mie des sciences The great progress of scientific knowledge in the nineteenth century owes a great deal to the decision, as scientific work became institutionalised, to give pre-eminence to the criteria of scientific achievement and publication as the basis for appointment and promotion. The procedure established in the early nineteenth-century Académie des sciences was later quietly adopted in the university system, first in France and later in other countries and is still predominant today. It has become an indispensable part of the modern scientific community.
Perceived quality and citation rates of education journals The results of this study indicate a much weaker overall relationship between the Perceived Quality and Citation Rate of education journals than has been reported in similar studies in psychology (White and White, 1977), sociology (Roche and Smith, 1978), and economics (McDonough, 1975). The findings of this study clearly question the advisability of generalizing the results obtained in research on one academic discipline to another field of study. Subsequent research on the relationship between such measures of journal quality should also be sensitive to the two sources of variation discovered in this study. research in this area is vitally important in efforts to develop systematic understanding of knowledge diffusion and utilization in science.
The Determinants of Co-Authorship: An Analysis of the Economics Literature In recent decades, there has been a noticeable trend toward co-authorship in the economics literature. In general, the model of co-authorship has worked well in terms of an ability to explain the co-authorship phenomenon. Considering the continuing expansion of knowledge in economics, it is reasonable to expect the co-authorship trend to extend into the future.
Hierarchical clustering of mathematical journals based upon citation matrices Dispartities between the two Figures reflect differences among the journals in their propensity for self-citation.
A technique of two‐stage clustering applied to environmental and civil engineering and related methods of citation analysis In this article a two-stage procedure for clustering was developed and applied to environmental and civil engi-neering, together with other methods of citation analysis.
Approximating total citation counts from first author counts and from total papers We conclude from the above that the answers to the questions posed in the introductory section are: (a) Yes. A reasonably good and reliable approximation may be made to the total citation counts from first author citation counts.
Document clustering, using macro retrieval techniques Utilizing a single relevant document, a broad search request can be instigated which results in an initial compi-lation of a bibliography of documents pertaining to an emerging interdisciplinary subject literature.
Mappings of fields based on nominations Cocitation and conomination analysis are not two competing methods, but two mutually supportive techniques to study the structure of fields. Together, they lead to a deeper understanding of the structure of scientific specialties. The comparison of cocitation and conomination analysis in this study leads us to believe that the citatory behavior of researchers does in fact reflect, to a certain degree, the social structures of science.
The <i>australian journal of psychology</i>: The first 30 years Analysis of the characteristics of the AJP and the publishing patterns of its contributors over the last 30 years reveals a number of general trends in the function of the journal as a repository of the discipline's knowledge.
Citation image of the Czechoslovak Journal of Physics Further studies (cf./12,13/) illustrate the manifold citation devices for evaluating physics journals, often going beyond descriptive approaches.
Citation analysis of physics journals: Comparison of subfields of physics It is reaffirmed that the most significant written communication medium for physicists in the subfields of particles and fields physies and magnetic properties and materials is the "journal". From the above discussion it seems that in physics the traditional written communication media (especially journals) function well, but in the subfields in which large ex- perimental or observational devices are used, traditional long-article journals are no longer able to report promptly the results of research, so the use of reports and letter journals is going to increase.
A cocitation map of the social indicators movement It is suggested that such mappings may become a stimulus and com-plement to literature reviews in the future.
Bibliometric indicators versus expert opinion in assessing research performance The data do appear to imply a dimensionality for biblio-graphic data that is lacking for expert judgment data.
Highly Cited Soviet Papers: An Exploratory Investigation The consensus was that these lists were indicative of areas of strong Soviet research and that lists of institutions producing these papers included the important Soviet labs.
Commitment and Co-Citation: An Indicator of Incommensurability in Patterns of Formal Communication In both cases we have low incommensurability (high co-citation) during the phase where seriously considered contenders are first introduced. In a second phase, where one or more contenders lose much, but not all, their support, a higher degree of incommensurability appears (low co-citation). In neither case is the degree of incommensurability between competing theories a fixed or static relationship.
Educational Research Productivity of Institutions of Higher Education These 25 institutions, from this analysis, represent a major national research resource in education.
Variable histories of physics papers by successive citation Furthermore, it is impossible to arbitrarily separate physics from chemistry, the physical chemist from the chemical physicist: citation histories of the chemical physics papers (within atomic and molecular physics) introduce a chemical element into the overall picture. And finally, there is an obvious impact of the journal where the work was printed. These aspects emerge from detailed citation histories of individual physics papers and their authors /11/.
Successive citation of physics papers — Sources of evidence Elaborate models of successive citation would enrich the typology of research (cf./70/), the historiographical picture of physics, and, last but not least, the evaluation procedures in science.
World publication output in cross-disciplinary physics — Materials science, physical chemistry, energy research, biophysics The recorded publication output is geographically highly differentiated. Distinct changes in e.g. the proportion of biophysics are apparent (18,10/ and fig.3) and should be checked together with the alleged lack of purely theoretical papers in this subfield /7/.
Rating of scholarly journals by chairpersons in the social sciences Even though great caution needs to be exercised in using perceptions of the quality and prestige of journals to arrive at academic judgments since journal rating data is clearly not a sufficient standard by itself, we believe journal rating data can serve as a valuable benchmark. However, the authors hope that the exceptions will not be so frequent or serious as to invalidate the usefulness of the data in situations where individuals are to be compared across the boundaries of departments. On the other hand, it is hoped that these data will not be expected to bear the burden of major personnel decisions alone.
Tracing innovative papers in physics by successive citation — Concepts and exemplars Content discussions of the respective initial papers to substantiate the successive citation /21,56/ are of course essential for physics users.
Citation rankings of physics journals For bibliometric description and as a selection tool alone, however, the slope and ranking interval of the linear power-law sections on log-log scale suggest the presence of a distinct type of collection. Both the SCI services (cf./50-52/) and the subscribers may profit by journal selection, preferably after further checks against peer /53/, use /54-56/ and cost assessments.
Successive citation of 1000 physics papers The acquired evidence reflects well the variable impacts and the underlying typology of physics papers.
Multi-Method Strategies for Defining “Core” Higher Education Journals While each procedure is subject to methodological critique, it is nevertheless remarkable how little correspondence there is between the results of these various strategies.
Multiple Discoveries in Science: A Test of the Communication Theory Lastly, it is argued that the communication framework refutes the chance model but is consistent in part with the maturational approach.
Information systems in research and development: the technological gatekeeper reconsidered First, using multivariate modelling techniques, relationships existing between gatekeepers, their personal attrib- utes, and their environmental attributes were identified.
Scholarly Significance of the Carnegie Commission Sponsored Research Reports: A Citation Analysis The mean article citation frequency of the Carnegie publications indicates a more consistent quality, while that of the Jossey-Bass publications suggests a more variable quality.
Educational Research Productivity of Institutions of Higher Education Taken as indicators, they accurately reflect where the greatest amount of educational research activity is under way.
Chemical firms rank high in information services Instead of such extrapolations, he urges adoption of a mechanism for sys-tematically and confidentially compiling data from chemical firms.
The Economics of Academic Publishing In conclusion, the publishing trends of academicians in the JF tend to support the notion that academic researchers perceive that they are faced with diminishing marginal returns to publishing, and that academic writers act in a rational manner in relation to their perceptions.
Achievement and Ascriptive Processes in the Recognition of Scientific Articles The results indicate that achievement processes are more important than ascriptive processes in the distribution of scientific influence.
The relationships among the citation measures and the factors influence on them Assuming it is strongly influenced by number of citing items, however, its accuracy as an impact measure becomes suspect, since the number of cited items can be deduced from the number of citing items and the latter does not necessarily indicate the 'impact' of a given journal. It is therefore more appropriate to use the cited-citing ratio to measure the 'impact' of a journal than it would be to use either impact factor or number of cited items. The necessity remains, however, to study further factors which may influence citation measures.
Applications of technology to CAS data-base production* CAS and users of its services have benefited from the application of technology to data-base production through increased staff productivity, reduced rate of increase of cost of services, improved timeliness, and improved quality of the services.
Morse's Markov model of book use revisited The results of this study show that the addition of the variables time and total number of transactions per year to the combined data, do not alter the outcome significantly to warrant their inclusion. Yet the Markov model proposed by Morse, has been shown to have two basic problems. With the advent of the computer technology and library automation, it is possible to collect reliable data on various factors which may affect Morse's Markov model.
Co‐citation analysis and the invisible college "Therefore, before a co-citation matrix is constructed, one must isolate those individuals making up an invisible college."
Life in a multidimensional world At the present, the science of science, inspite of the many intriguing intimations it has produced, is, on the whole, unable to make any predictions and can supply, at best, only a posteriori "explanations" of observed phenomena.
Marginalia: Reply to Simonton and Handberg We suspect that neither 'improved' operationalizations of an inherently ambiguous concept, nor statistical manipula-tion of an R², will improve the prediction of those scientists most likely to contribute innovations.
The Utilization of Request-A-Print In summary, there is simplicity in the use of reprint requests in arriving at conclusions usually obtained from complex computerized data. Therefore, it is to be hoped that, rather than being cast into the wastepaper basket, reprint requests should be cast in the role of tracers of some social functions of science.
Independence and Cooperation in Research Existing theoretical and empirical literature, as well as the interview study cited here, suggest both advantages and disadvantages of col- laboration in scholarship. The potential negative effects of collaboration for the scientific and scholarly enterprise require further, systematic investigation. Through such an assessment process, professional norms and codes of ethics can be revised to facilitate the types of collaborative associations that are in the best interests of both individual scholars and the scientific and scholarly enterprise.
Scientific eminence historical and contemporary: A measurement assessment No matter how the historical eminence of scientists is assessed, there emerges an overall consensus on who are the most notable contributors. Thus we can say that even for relatively elitist samples, it is possible to derive a measure of scientific eminence that is highly reliable and that correlates well with citation indicators. Research that exploits such eminence measures, therefore, has secure scientific utility.
Electronic publishing: potential benefits and problems for authors, publishers, and libraries Clearly, it is the library that will probably undergo the greatest change as the electronic journal and other forms of electronic publication become accepted. The principal beneficiaries of electronic publishing are likely to be scientists, the end users who need information. Both publishers and libraries must not forget that it is the transmission of information at an affordable cost to the end user that is the single most important consideration.
Structure of specialization among American population scientists These results partially confirm the distinction sometimes made by population scientists between social demography and formal demography, but suggest this typology is incomplete.
Rates of pharmacokinetic literature obsolescence The results of both the synchronous and diachronous studies strongly suggest pharmacokinetics is characterized by an unusually high degree of rigor in methodology and data analysis, i.e. pharmacokinetics is a relatively 'hard' discipline.
Citation decay of scientific papers: variation according to citations received This little analysis supports the evidence given some years ago in a paper I wrote on the citations received over a period of years by the articles in a single issue of Physical Review [2]. It seems odd that this phenomenon has been so little studied.
Innovation in Ph.D. programs and scores in reputational rankings More questions have been raised here than answered.
The place of phenomenological studies in scientometrics The case made out for adopting a multi-dimensional methodology in order to ensure progress in the science of sciences has undisputable merit as an attempt to extend the scope of studies in this area. At the same time problems exist in regard to the exact manner in which the methodology may be applied and the type of situations in which it is applicable. our discussion of Moravcsik's illustrative cases points to the conclusion that we have failed to realize the predictive capability of the conventional one-dimensional approach for the simple reason that we have not framed our questions in a manner calculated to facilitate meaningful analysis.
Co-word maps of biotechnology: An example of cognitive scientometrics To assess the value of co-word analysis as an instrument to measure the developments of scientific fields, clearly more fields will have to be covered and validations of the interpretations of the maps have to be produced. A centre – periphery model seems to be implicit in co-word analysis, and in our case of biotechnology strikingly so. Rather, we hope to stimulate further exploration of the potential of "cognitive scientometrics".
An economic model of the life-cycle research productivity of scientists The simple economic model of citations presented here has provided plausible and test- able implications about the life-cycle profile of citations to a scientist's work.
Quantitative analysis of a visible tip of the peer review iceberg: Book reviews in chemistry In concordance with the results, the measure of consensus among authors of book reviews did not differ significantly from its random value in our study either. The predominant positive attitude of the book reviewers seems to be due to the "visibility" (i.e. non-anonymity) of their opinion. We found this most pertinently with regard to the "usefulness" of the books.
Less than full‐text indexing using a non‐boolean searching model It is clear that no matter how the data are examined, less-than-full-text indexing can achieve optimum re-trieval results when the Indirect Method is used as a file structuring and searching method.
Life in a multidimensional world So, I believe it is not quite justifiable to speak of one-dimensional thinking as a prevailing form of thinking. The methods of multidimensional analysis do not only belong to the future: they have their present and a great past.
Scientific articles: A controllable aspect of the information explosion? The main trends — universal post-war WIMPI creep most heavily concentrated in letter publications, correlations with world economic and political events, responses to editorial policy, and differences among disciplines and nations in (perhaps) expected directions — are all strongly suggestive of an effect largely driven by forces external to the kind of scientific research being reported. This, in turn, provides some hope of moderating the current exponential literature growth. Perhaps the time has come for some sort of Social Contract among authors, editors, referees, readers and sponsoring agencies.
An intelligence constant of scientific work The scientific revolution is at the same time a transformation in the internal structure of science and a sudden change in the intelligence constant of scientific work.
Life in a multidimensional world In summary, the implicit question raised by Moravcsik is, at what stage is scientometrics?
Styles of research and research self-images of academics in four socio-behavioral fields Inferring from the pattern of significant findings, psychology researchers seem to be more competitively oriented than researchers in the other three fields. Thus, whether or not competition centered on styles of research seems to be the main factor explaining differences across the fields in the relationship between self-images and styles of research. The findings tend to support the general assumption of the third proposition that differentiation among researchers based on the advantage of competition in their styles of research has led to a differentiation of researchers' self-images.
An examination of the literature distributions of three scientific specialties The major conclusion reached was that there were major differences in the three distributions but some similarities in particular parameters were evident.
Longitudinal author cocitation mapping: The changing structure of macroeconomics These results show that author cocitation analysis con- ducted over successive time periods is a useful tool for study- ing the changing structure of scholarly disciplines, as White and Griffith suggested earlier.
Alternatives to review by peers: A contribution to the theory of scientific choice The principal system which I have proposed here combines the best elements of peer review with the simplicity and efficiency of the use of a formula.
Aging of geophysicists With the data at hand, however, these are only semi-quantitative findings, and causal linkages are uncertain.
A Citation Analysis of the Field of Medical Decision Making, 1959-1982 We conclude that citation analysis is a valid means of studying the history of a scientific field, especially a young and growing one such as medical decision making. The core list generated by the present analysis captures essentially all of the highly influential early papers in computer-aided diagnosis and clinical decision analysis, and creates a suitable reference set for educational purposes. We suggest that citation analysis can be utilized with profit to study other areas of biomedical science, and that active scholars in science can gain perspective on their fields through the results of these analyses.
MULTIVARIATE REGRESSION MODELS FOR ESTIMATING JOURNAL USEFULNESS IN PHYSICS These models demonstrate the estimation of value by means of easily obtainable bibliometric data.
Statistical theory aids inference in scientometrics I conclude that there is no convincing evidence in these data for peaks of produc- tivity in laboratories of different size.
Prompt nuclear analysis literature: A cumulative advantage approach It is impressive that the intrinsic parameters remain practically constant all the time, thus, changes in the productivity distribution can be attributed solely to the decrease in population growth rate. Publication in prompt nuclear analysis seems thus to have higher reward than in the mathematical or scientometric research fields mentioned. Comparison of several thematically more related research areas may offer a deeper insight into the motivation and reward system of scientific publication activity.
The Haitun dichotomy and the relevance of Bradford's law Haitun's clarification of the relation of the Z- type statistical oddities to modern statistical the- ory will give an impetus to research on Z-type distributions and their application to the social sciences.
EPISTEMIC CONSIDERATIONS ON THE VALUE OF FOLK‐WISDOM IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY The thesis of this paper is that folk wisdom forms a complementary or antagonistic relationship to technical expertise in a variety of learning environments.
On the delay in publication of papers in scientific journals The results indicate that delay in publication has been constant over the years and further, that there is no significant variation in delay between countries.
Publication &amp; citation patterns in the literature of a high metabolism area: The case of superconductivity in 1970 The overall poor citability of Soviet work in superconductivity is rather difficult to appreciate in view of the tremendous Soviet interest in this area and the lead that they enjoy, or enjoyed till recently, in at least some problem areas.
Age and productivity of university faculties: a case study This study was developed in terms of the finance faculties of business schools, but it is likely to be applicable to other identifiable disciplines within these institu-tions.
Rationales for Bradford's law In summary, it is concluded that Simon's model and the lognormal models agree well with the data; in comparison, the main advantages are the generality of the former and the simplicity of the latter models.
Internationality of the social sciences: Implications for information transfer The information seeking and information using habits of social scientists suggests they are very much system controlled. Many of their communication activities would seem to indicate that a great deal of social science activity and social science information and knowledge is of local importance only. If this is so, local information will increase in importance, and information on a worldwide basis will decrease in importance.
A dynamic look at a class of skew distributions. A model with scientometric applications Population growth and distribution of authors by publication productivity are correlated features of a scientific community.
Citation classics in physics interviewed 1977-mid 1984 In spite of all the limitations of the available classics list, there can be little doubt about the significance of the publications that have been selected from citation records.
Successive citation of 400 recent physics papers selected by immediate recognition Invidious comparisons should be avoided as numerous seminal works missing here will eventually make up for citation success in a longer perspective.
Successive citation of 600 physics books The ranks by subfield in table 1 should be taken within fair confidence margins and with respect to the SCI coverage.
The Negational Reference: or the Art of Dissembling The end result is that there are few negational references in the scientific literature. What criticism remains is disguised, redirected away from important people, or referenced perfunctorily. Our present point is not dissimilar: not only is the form of the scientific paper highly ritualized and artificial, but so is published 'criticism', for if criticism were aired in the journals as it actually occurs in the lab, its frequency and nature, and hence that of negational citations, would be quite different from what ultimately appears in print.
REINTERPRETING THE DEBATE ON AUTONOMY IN PUBLIC SERVICE SCIENCE* I must conclude that the evidence overwhelmingly indicates that autonomy, as it is popularly conceived, is a myth both for individual researchers and research organizations - albeit, as Vickers pointed out, a potentially self-fulfilling one, as long as scientists themselves believe in it.
Bradford's law and the Nigerian entomological literature That this bibliography of entomology in Nigeria shows a 93% completeness in journal coverage and 84% in article coverage is highly commendable.
How Authors Select Journals: A Test of the Reward Maximization Model of Submission Behaviour On the basis of these findings it therefore appears that biochemists' selection of journals for the submission and resubmission of their papers cannot be described by any simple model of reward maximization.
Citation aging of physics journals Other well-established measures, e.g. Price's index /5/ and immediacy factor /12,36/, had to stay in reserve.
Negotiating Journal Demands With Young Scientists Using Lists Derived From Thesis Advisor Records But even while waiting for uncontestable validity, the librarian who works through lists similar to those described in this paper, but derived from local circumstances, will go into negotia-tions more confident through better preparation.
“Citation classics” analysis: An approach to characterizing interdisciplinary research By discerning no definitive patterns in the data analyzed here, we have demonstrated the gap between the conceptualization of IDR and its measurement.
The Trend toward Research Collaboration in Social Psychological Research The results indicate a strong trend toward an increase in collaborative efforts among social psychological researchers from 1961 through 1981, supporting the hypothesis that the pervasive trend toward collaboration in the sciences extends to the field of social psychology as well.
Research productivity and breadth of interest of computer scientists Subject to the limitations mentioned above, this inves-tigation has shown that there is a positive, but only mod-erately strong, relationship between research productivity and breadth of research interests of computer scientists.
Scientific Specialties and Technical Systems In the final section, the theoretical relevance of technical systems and their implications for the sociology of science are outlined.
Bibliometrics in Information Science: A Citation Analysis of Two Academic Library Journals (Research Note) This citation analysis indicates that research in academic librarianship (1) to a large extent reflects the current trends, as the years of publication for references tend to predate the actual research by only three to four years; (2) there is considerably inbreeding within C&RL and JAL, the results of which may be positive or negative; (3) C&RL is an important journal title in which academic librarians can communicate their ideas; and (4) the time lag between periodical literature and mono-graphic literature in library science does not seem to be large.
Structural Determinants of Stratification in Science Our analytic model reveals that both the growth rate of a field and its citation profile affect the distribution of citations among its members through their impacts on seniority-specific citation levels.
Determination of influence weights for scientific journals Using a set of highly cited and citing journals, determined by iteration, we formed an appropriate matrix for the computation of journal influence weights applying Geller's methodology. ¹⁰
Using Citation Analysis to Assess Scholarly Productivity The SSCI citation rate is a measure with a number of useful properties. Many of the problems associated with citation analysis can be eliminated, or at least improved, by aggregating data at the school level. Nonetheless, citation analysis may well be the best means available for assessing scholarly productivity.
TACIT AGREEMENTS BETWEEN AUTHORS AND EDITORS Taken as a whole, the ratings of these eight categories portray JABA reviewers as fair and responsible. Although this finding has not yet been extended to other journals and samples, it suggests that we might do well to temper some of the growing pessimism about editorial processes.
A SURVEY OF AUSTRALIAN RESEARCH IN SPACE PHYSICS, ASTRONOMY AND ASTROPHYSICS This small, and decreasing, fraction of Australian research published locally gives real cause for concern if one takes the view that a useful measure of the strength of a national scientific community is its capactity to support viable journals of its own.
AN ASSESSMENT OF RESEARCH DONE AT THE NATIONAL-OPTICAL-OBSERVATORIES We conclude that the national observatory telescopes produce as useful research, on the average, as the two university telescopes.
THE SCIENTIFIC PAPER AS AN ARCHAEOLOGICAL ARTIFACT Scientific papers are as carefully constructed as any archaeological artefact: they reflect the requirements of the contemporary scientific community, changing as it changes.
BOOK AUTHORSHIP AND THE PHYSICS PROFESSORATE Book authors tend to be somewhat older than the rest of the physics professoriate, and tend to hold a more holistic view of physics pedagogy and society. They have more interest in teaching than in research, and around half of them are affiliated with departments that do not grant the Ph.D. degree. Thus, if physics textbooks are found to have a monotonous sameness about them, this may simply be a reflection of the relative homogeneity of the physics professoriate.
THE ORTEGA HYPOTHESIS AND INFLUENTIAL ARTICLES IN AMERICAN SOCIOLOGY The results of this analysis provide little support for the Ortega hypothesis. The articles examined reveal little dependence on the work of average scholars.
EDITORS OF MEDICAL JOURNALS - WHO AND FROM WHERE We provided evidence that editors of influential medical journals are productive and eminent scientists. We found significant correlations between publication and citation rates of scientists on the one hand, and the number of editorships held by the same persons on the other. One needs a set of indicators, and our data suggests that the 'number of editorships' might well find a place in such a set.
EVALUATING RESEARCH OUTPUT THROUGH LIFE WORK CITATION COUNTS The figures of Table 1 show that simple counting of citations may easily lead to highly unreliable results.
COOPERATION STRUCTURE, GROUP-SIZE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN RESEARCH GROUPS 1. The productivity of a group may increase with the approximation to its optimum structure, as shown here.
ECONOMETRIC-ANALYSIS OF BIOMEDICAL-RESEARCH PUBLISHING PATTERNS This research illustrates how publication and citation data can be used to model one of the key relationships in current policy decisions, the growth of science as a function of federal research dollars.
REVIEWER STATUS AND REVIEW QUALITY - EXPERIENCE OF THE JOURNAL-OF-CLINICAL-INVESTIGATION These findings support the impression that high-status investigators are more likely to refuse to review or to render poor reviews than are low-status research-ers.
PERSON-TO-PERSON COMMUNICATION IN AN APPLIED-RESEARCH SERVICE DELIVERY SETTING This analysis of communication networks, and previous analyses of information-seeking behavior [1] in the field of rural mental health, can be used to develop strategies for improving the flow of information in that field, or in similar fields that include researchers, practitioners, and policymakers.
SOME NOTES ON PATTERNS IN CITATIONS OF PAPERS BY AMERICAN ASTRONOMERS In addition to any intrinsic interest these may have, they can serve as a normalization for institutions that include citation rates as one of the bases for evaluating research astronomers. No deductions of any kind about causality are attempted.
COMPARING THE SCIENCES - CITATION CONTEXT ANALYSIS OF PAPERS FROM NEUROPHARMACOLOGY AND THE SOCIOLOGY OF SCIENCE The results of this exercise suggest the kinds of insight into the knowledge production process which the method is likely to produce.
SCHOLARSHIP IN THE ECOLOGICAL SCIENCES - EMPIRICAL-EVIDENCE I conclude that Dillon's Hypothesis is generally supported by these data.
SOCIOECONOMIC CONDITIONS RELATED TO INFORMATION ACTIVITY IN LESS DEVELOPED-COUNTRIES The value of such a study lies in our heightened ability to grasp and understand patterns of development as they relate to science, technology, and information handling.
OBSOLESCENCE OR IMMEDIACY - EVIDENCE SUPPORTING PRICE HYPOTHESIS Our results reinforce those of Price² and Parker⁶ in that the decline of the reference time distribution curves can be divided into an earlier, faster declining and a later, slower declining part. These findings can be interpreted as evidence that the sharp decline in the time distribution curve of literature references does not mean a rapid loss of scientific value of the publications cited, but rather reflects the vivid and intensive research work being continued in the discipline. A correct epistemological interpretation of this phenomenon necessitates further investigations.
SCIENTOMETRIC INDICATORS FOR EVALUATING MEDICAL-RESEARCH OUTPUT OF MID-SIZE COUNTRIES Thus, it appears that, while scientometric indicators, in general, reflects the intellectual health of nations, those of clinical research, in addition, give a hint on the countries' physical health.
APPLIED SCIENTOMETRICS - AN ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY FOR DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES Making an assessment of the effects of science and technology in some particular context is a very sophisticated task the details of which will depend very much on the specific circumstances of the particular assessment which, therefore, will have to be specified carefully and clearly.
PERIODICAL LITERATURE OF INFORMATION-SCIENCE AS REFLECTED IN REFERATIVNYJ-ZHURNAL, SECTION-59, INFORMATIKA This paper shows how complex the problem of investigation of scientific literature is.
DISTRIBUTION OF PHYSICS LITERATURE Percentage distributions of physics literature in 36 countries over ten subfields are studied.
PRICE DISTRIBUTION - AN EXACT FORMULATION OF PRICE SQUARE ROOT LAW In our opinion, no one-parameter distribution (Lotka, Yule, Price, or other) can cope simultaneously with the head and the tail of empirical publication productivity distributions.
THE EFFECTS OF THE MENTOR ON THE ACADEMIC CAREER Within the confines of our data, collaboration in publication appears to be the most influential act that mentors can perform on behalf of the careers of their graduate students. While it is clear to us that the performance of mentors has more to do than their eminence with their students acquiring prestigious academic placements, ascription nonetheless appears to play an important role. The ascriptive advantages of one's mentor are then drawn upon and enhanced through the joint effects of reinforcement and context. This, in part at least, is how cumulative advantage operates.
EVALUATING BIG SCIENCE - CERNS PAST PERFORMANCE AND FUTURE-PROSPECTS First, the method yields information on research performance in a form accessible not just to researchers in the specialty concerned but also to other scientists, science policy-makers, politicians, and the public.
DISPLAYING STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES IN NATIONAL R-AND-D PERFORMANCE THROUGH DOCUMENT COCITATION Co-citation techniques may easily be adapted to obtain overviews if the involvement of a small nation in the many different scientific specialties that get worldwide attention.
INVISIBLE-COLLEGES AS SCIENCE ELITES The scientific advisory system does not encourage long tenures or give much cumulative advantage to the few with long tenures. The structure is precisely what keeps the advisory system from being elitist. The general distrust of the system and the appearance of a buddy system creates a view of the "old boys" network controlling the system. I have no doubt that potential conspiracies exist and that many scientists are sure that they controlled certain appointments. Nevertheless, when the entire system is examined, the appearance of tight conspiracy can be firmly dismissed by the simple fact of widespread participation.
IS TECHNOLOGY BECOMING SCIENCE We conclude from this that science and technology are far more closely linked today than is normally perceived, and that, in fact, the division between leading edge biotechnology and modern bioscience has almost completely disappeared.
CITATION PATTERNS OF HIGHLY CITED PAPERS AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO LITERATURE AGING - A STUDY OF THE WORKING LITERATURE It is clear that among very highly cited papers in science, a delayed rise in citedness is associated with less rapid aging and a higher number of total citations and that an early rise in citedness is associated with fewer total citations and a very rapid aging rate. Extensions of this work, both to extend the time period beyond nine years and to lower the level of total citedness to less highly cited papers, will determine the extent to which obsolescence is a long-term phenomenon and the level of citedness for which the present findings fit data.
CLUSTERING THE SCIENCE CITATION INDEX USING CO-CITATIONS .1. A COMPARISON OF METHODS It is concluded that the two new methods used in combination will improve our ability to generate comprehensive maps of science as envisioned by Derek Price.
THE AGING OF THE LITERATURE OF BIOMEDICAL SCIENCES IN DEVELOPED AND DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES First, underdeveloped nations should put emphasis on research analysing their own national scientific communication systems.
LITTLE SCIENCE, BIG SCIENCE REVISITED This suggests that contrary to the assumption of Derek Price and the conclusion of the Ortega hypothesis paper that the number of scientists who will make significant contributions to science is a linear function of the total number of people entering science. The data presented in this paper offer empirical support for the implicit assumption in the work of both Merton and Ben-David that scientific advance is a function of the number of people entering science.
STABLE NON-GAUSSIAN DISTRIBUTIONS IN SCIENTOMETRICS The mathematical theory of stable non Gaussian distributions, as applied to the analysis of the Zipf-Pareto law, leads to several conclusions on the mechanism of their genesis, the specific methods of processing empirical data, etc.
JOURNAL RANKING BY SELECTIVE IMPACT - NEW METHOD BASED ON SDI RESULTS AND JOURNAL IMPACT FACTORS Journal ranking by Selective Impact imposes on the ranking process the new possibilities for characterizing journals following from the invention of the impact factor.
IN TRIBUTE TO PRICE,DEREK,JOHN,DESOLLA - A CITATION ANALYSIS OF LITTLE SCIENCE, BIG SCIENCE There will never be another Derek Price. His mind and talent were unique. After all is said and done about his career, there will remain one simple, stark fact: as long as we live and work in this growing field, we will not only miss Derek, but be reminded of his impact on a daily basis. In that sense, he has become immortal.
COAL-LIQUEFACTION CASE-STUDY - IMPACT, POTENTIAL, FORECAST The analysis of the coal liquefaction field shows that, with databases and microcomputers, it is possible to obtain a good view of the activity of the field, techniques, potential, finances and people involved. The small amount of money and time involved in this scientometric study compared with the results obtained, suggests that this approach would make a valuable contribution towards determining research policy on which to base a significant programme in any considered field.
WORLD PUBLICATION OUTPUT, RESEARCH FRONTS AND CITATION CLASSICS IN THE SPECIALTY OF MECHANICAL-PROPERTIES OF SOLIDS AND TREATMENT OF MATERIALS
THE 80-20 RULE - LIBRARY LORE OR STATISTICAL LAW The same sort of argument works of course for any required level of borrowing so that if, for instance, we attempt to identify a 'core' which will achieve a given level of borrowing it must be made clear that the stated level of borrowing achieved relates only to that length of time period. Without such further qualification, the notion of a core collection as usually presented is not well defined.
HAS JOURNAL OF ASTROPHYSICS AND ASTRONOMY A FUTURE Using publication and citation counts, and data obtained from the editorial office of Journal of Astrophysics and Astronomy, we conclude that this journal is truly international and stands a good chance of becoming one of the core journals of astronomy, provided it is marketed vigorously. The journal thus appears to have a bright future, definitely brighter than that of most other Indian scientific journals which do not send manuscripts to overseas referees and which do not attract many papers from abroad. Commencing 1984 the journal will be covered by Current Contents and Science Citation Index10 and hence become more visible to librarians and astronomers who use these tools regularly for retrieval of information.
DECANDOLLE,ALPHONSE EARLY SCIENTOMETRICS (1883, 1885) WITH REFERENCES TO RECENT TRENDS IN THE FIELD (1978-1983) Conversely, de Candolle's early scientometric achievements recall the fate of Mendel's discoveries. They arrived at a time when receptivity was low and they were inadequately published. Furthermore no general rules or semantic symbolics were developed. The time has come just now for a "new alliance between the various disciplines that study scientific knowledge..., between natural and social sciences which will reveal the intricate complementarity between knowledge of... world models".
QUALITY JUDGMENTS OF TECHNICAL FIELDS - BIAS, MARGINALITY, AND THE ROLE OF THE ELITE These findings are quite suggestive for the study of quality in science and technology. In barest outline, they point to the importance of both social psychological and structural conditions in the evaluation of technical fields. Marginality of fields, or collective definitions implying low importance for the wider intellectual context, comes to play a significant role in quality evaluations as well.
SHIFTING OF WORLDS SCIENTIFIC CENTER AND SCIENTISTS SOCIAL AGES For conclusion it analyzes the scientific value of experiential formula and the reliability of its scope of prediction.
AGRICULTURAL-RESEARCH IN NEW-ZEALAND Overall the results of the 3 different classification systems indicate that over the 21 years of this study there have been no major trends in the subject areas of the papers published in NZJAR.
ENGLISH-LANGUAGE PAPERS AND AUTHORS 1ST LANGUAGE - PRELIMINARY EXPLORATIONS In both there were few papers of Third World provenance, thus supporting Baldauf and Jernudd.
ON THE DEGREE OF INTERDISCIPLINARITY OF RESEARCH PROGRAMS - A QUANTITATIVE ASSESSMENT Analysing statistically some indicators of interdisciplinarity for the IEPS research program indicates, to a large extent, that the sampled program is merely a multi- disciplinary one. The picture in its entirety shows that scientists do cooperate, but their cooperation is narrowed down to reap some additional benefits of deeper and deeper specialization. Scientists do not work alone, but they prefer to share more with their likes than with those who pretty much differ in training and in profession.
A NOTE ON AGING IN A LIBRARY CIRCULATION MODEL We have tried to model, as simply as possible, an exponential (or geometric) decay in mean borrowings, taken as an accepted empirical fact.
BASIC RESEARCH IN THE EAST AND WEST - A COMPARISON OF THE SCIENTIFIC PERFORMANCE OF HIGH-ENERGY PHYSICS ACCELERATORS Even after making appropriate allowances for the likely bias in the various partial indicators employed, it was impossible to avoid the conclusion that the scientific outputs from each Eastern-bloc accelerator have been small in comparison with the nearest equivalent Western facilities. In each case, the contributions have been generally rather small when compared with equivalent Western facilities. Of the main reasons for this discrepancy, some are technical in nature (inferior research facilities, scientific instruments and computers), but even these seem to be merely symptoms of a wider systemic and organizational malaise - both at the level of the research laboratory (in the limited resources available and the way these are managed), and of Eastern-bloc science in general.
PRIVATE ACTS AND PUBLIC OBJECTS - AN INVESTIGATION OF CITER MOTIVATIONS This exploratory study has shown that not all authors are motivated by the same galaxy of motivations. It appears that a useful distinction can be found between science and nonscience authors. Citer motivations are complex.
THE DILLION HYPOTHESIS OF TITULAR COLONICITY - AN EMPIRICAL-TEST FROM THE ECOLOGICAL SCIENCES In general, the results of this study support the Dillon Hypothesis of Titular Colonicity.
INSTITUTIONAL AFFILIATION OF CONTRIBUTORS TO THE AMERICAN-JOURNAL-OF-AGRICULTURAL-ECONOMICS, 1973-83 Nevertheless, this review of contributions to the Journal does provide one piece of useful information to better understand our profession.
IDENTIFICATION OF IMPORTANT AUTHORS IN SCIENCE - A COMPARISON OF 2-METHODS OF IDENTIFICATION There is a strong association between ranks of authors determined by examining historical sources for author frequency and ranks of authors determined by examining the scientific literature for author frequency when the set of authors is restricted to those common to both methods.
QUANTITATIVE-EVALUATION OF PEER-REVIEW OF PROGRAM PROJECT AND CENTER APPLICATIONS IN ALLERGY AND IMMUNOLOGY It is apparent from the data presented in this report that the pattern of review provided by the AITRC to multidisciplinary P01/P50 applications in allergy and immunology is consistent with that of the three DRG study sections which carry the main responsibility for the review of R01 applications in immunology.
ARE THERE ENDURING PATENTS This paper demonstrates how bibliometric theories for scientific publications also apply to the patent literature.
A BIBLIOMETRIC DISTRIBUTION WHICH REALLY WORKS The Generalized Inverse Gaussian-Poisson distribu- tion appears to be a satisfactory mathematical model for all kinds of observed bibliometric frequency distribu- tions.
REQUIREMENTS FOR QUERY EVALUATION IN WEIGHTED INFORMATION-RETRIEVAL The aim of the present study was the development of a model for the use of term dependencies in information retrieval, especially in query evaluation.
LOTKA LAW - A TESTING PROCEDURE Namely, the inverse square law does not apply, but the inverse power law does. It follows that the proper determination of the values of the exponent and the constant is critical in testing Lotka's law.
DIABETOLOGIA 1965-1985 - PORTRAIT OF A JOURNAL In the future, Diabetologia expects to confront prob-lems akin to the leading international journals in other areas of science.
THE PROBLEM OF RELEVANT COLLECTIVITIES - SOLAR-ENERGY RESEARCH IN AUSTRALIA The significance of the latter in all probability has been exaggerated, yet they remain important determinants of the framework of meanings within which researchers function. A more sensitive approach to identifying significant collectivities is necessary. The study also has implications for a sociology of science which concerns itself with the notion of 'boundary' as applied to collectivities.
PRACTICING WESTERN SCIENCE OUTSIDE THE WEST - PERSONAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE INDIAN SCENE My aim has been to show that societies which are at advanced stages of scientific development but have not yet become truly creative centres of science, are prone to give rise to partial science communities.
THE IMPACT OF SOME RESEARCH PUBLISHED IN THE JOURNAL-OF-RADIOANALITICAL-CHEMISTRY, 1968-1981 The paper tries to answer these questions and comes to the conclusion that citation analysis might be refined to prove an objective index of importance. We believe, however, that it may be possible for the field of analytical chemistry and analytical radiochemistry to further refine these categories so as to delineate several types of meritous papers. In the near future we hope to be able to describe results of our efforts to define such new categories.
STYLE MATTERS - HOW ACCURATE ARE QUOTATIONS AND REFERENCES IN MEDICAL JOURNALS Inaccurate quotations and citations are displeasing for the original author, misleading for the reader, and mean that untruths become "accepted fact."
METHODOLOGICAL QUALITY AND CITATION FREQUENCY OF THE CONTINUING MEDICAL-EDUCATION LITERATURE The overall methodological quality of the CME literature follows the same pattern as other literatures that have been examined.
CONSEQUENCES OF LOTKA LAW FOR THE LAW OF BRADFORD The theory above can be applied to a result occurring in the paper of Maia and Maia.12
CONTEMPORARY THEMES - INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC MEETINGS - RELATION BETWEEN STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION These data clearly show that small, carefully organised multi-disciplinary meetings can make a positive contribution to scientific research and that they are of value to the participants and the scientific community at large. It is essential that the scientific community should be prepared to take on the responsibility of measuring research performance to justify the continuing commitment of public and private funds to research.
EVALUATION OF RECENT RESEARCH GRANT APPLICATIONS TO THE NATIONAL-INSTITUTES-OF-HEALTH IN THE AREA OF PEDIATRIC NEPHROLOGY In conclusion, an analysis of research grant submissions in the area of Pediatric Nephrology indicates that an increase in the number of approved applications has occurred since 1980.
A COMPARATIVE-STUDY OF BIBLIOMETRIC PAST PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS AND PEER JUDGMENT The comparison reveals a serious lack of agreement between the two types of past performance analysis. If one interprets our findings with an eye on validation of our impact-level indicator as an indicator of scientific quality in the perception of peers under the assumption that the ACC gave a well-founded quality-judgement - these results suggest that groups with a low impact, below a certain treshold, have a low quality as perceived by peers. If one interprets the results in order to analyse the WGB-judgment, assuming the validity of our impact-level indicator as an indicator of quality as perceived by peers, one may ask whether quality of the 1974–1978 research performance received much weight in the WGB-judgment.
AN INDICATOR OF CROSS-DISCIPLINARY RESEARCH Results suggest that Citations Outside Category can be a quite informative bibliometric measure.
THE APPLICATION OF BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS - IMPORTANT FIELD-DEPENDENT AND TIME-DEPENDENT FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED Our conclusion is that, on a high aggreagation level (university, Faculty), the short-term impact increased more or less proportionally to the number of publications.
EFFECTS OF DISCIPLINES AND COUNTRIES ON CITATION HABITS - AN ANALYSIS OF EMPIRICAL PAPERS IN BEHAVIORAL-SCIENCES Citation habist have proved to be affected by the national background of publica-tions.
ONE APPROACH TO STUDY COMMUNICATION IN SCIENCE In our opinion, the facts presented in this paper provide a convincing evidence that document files corresponding to highly integrated fields of science and technology show a high degree of their own organization.
THE CITING PRACTICES OF THE AUTHORS TO THE NATIONAL JOURNALS IN MATHEMATICS, PHYSICS, AND CHEMISTRY 1. The national journals regularly show longer citing half-lives than the world leading journals in the same subject area. 2. The half-life values of primary journals of equal quality in a given subject field are very close. Changes in T1/2 are due to different type of contributions. 3. A correlation is found between the authors citing practices and the citing half-life values.
THE USE OF BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS IN THE STUDY OF INSECTICIDE RESEARCH We concluded that; our quantitative approach produces a picture of the development of insecticides that fits the accepted view derived by qualitative historiography, is very sensitive to trends in pesticide research, and might be a useful adjunct to technology forecasting as well as to historical studies.
A SMALL COUNTRY IN A WORLD OF BIG SCIENCE - A PRELIMINARY BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY OF SCIENCE IN SINGAPORE From the data that we have, it is evident that the strong point of Singapore's R&D efforts is its medical research.
THE MONEY VALUE OF CITATIONS TO SINGLE-AUTHORED AND MULTIPLE-AUTHORED ARTICLES Before much effort is spent trying to explain this finding, we would do well to encourage the creation of data sets that would permit tests of the robustness of the finding for other disciplines (as well as for different samples of mathematicians).
CLUSTERING THE SCIENCE CITATION INDEX USING CO-CITATIONS .2. MAPPING SCIENCE When the methodology of iterative clustering of clusters is combined with fractional citation counting and variable level clustering (described in Part I of this paper) our ability to generate comprehensive maps of science is significantly improved.
A MEASURE OF STANDING OF JOURNALS IN STRATIFIED NETWORKS A meaningful definition of a journal network can be formulated where citation is the social relation defined over the journals. The standing of journals in the stratified network of journals can be measured by use of tools based on input-output analyses. Changes in the standing of journals can thereby be monitored.
THE GROWTH OF BIOPHYSICAL LITERATURE It is expected that the present ranking list will enable the working biophysicists to select journals from the viewpoint of their significance to the active areas of present-day biophysical research.
BIBLIOMETRIC TECHNIQUES APPLIED TO ISSUES MANAGEMENT - A CASE-STUDY The techniques discussed show great promise as means for systematizing and optimizing the tracking of issues.
THE USE OF STATISTICAL-METHODS IN LIBRARY AND INFORMATION-SCIENCE Although the percentage of articles using inferential techniques in the library and information science journals examined for this study is somewhat greater than the 2.9% found by Wyllys [14, p. 7], it appears to be the case that the literature of library and information science is indeed deficient in comparison to the literatures of social work, business, and education.
STRUCTURAL EQUIVALENCE IN A PSYCHOLOGY JOURNAL NETWORK Journal networks operate as status-role systems. While a core can be detected both for 1950 and 1960, the center-periphery proposition is not supported. In either case, the structure of the jour-nal network becomes an important predictor of the in-tellectual state of a field and the structure of journal-to-journal networks, a topic worthy of further study in a way that is not simply descriptive.
STUDYING A BIOTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH-CENTER, A NOTE ON LOCAL SOCIOPOLITICAL ISSUES It is argued that data generated by such studies must be interpreted in the light of the political context of the institution within which the study is conducted.
SOPHISTICATED SCIENCE IN A SMALL COUNTRY - A SCIENTOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF SUPERCONDUCTIVITY RESEARCH IN ISRAEL Although Israel does not contribute many papers in the area of superconductivity, the few papers that are published by Israeli researchers seem to belong to the world’s mainstream activity in this area.
SOURCES OF INFORMATION ON SPECIFIC SUBJECTS (REPRINTED FROM ENGINEERING AN ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY JOURNAL, VOL 137, PG 85-86, 1934) It follows that the only way to glean all the articles on these subjects would be to scrutinise continually several thou-sands of journals, the bulk of which would yield only occasional references or none at all. And because this work is altogether impracticable, a large portion of the total number of references on a given subject is regularly missed by the ab-stracting journals. In methods of abstracting and indexing, a radi-cal change is needed. Periodical literature must be abstracted by source, and not by subject, as hitherto. A standard classification must be adopted, so that references to the same subject would be brought together by the classification, irrespective of source or abstracting bureau, when, without increase of labour, a complete index to scientific literature would be achieved.
SYNOPSIS PUBLISHING FOR IMPROVING THE ACCESSIBILITY OF GRAY SCHOLARLY INFORMATION "(3) There should be three separate packages for scholarly information, one for 'access', one for dissemination, and one for storage (archive)."
THE GEOGRAPHY OF SCIENCE - DISCIPLINARY AND NATIONAL MAPPINGS "Some general findings of our mapping work are that research effort is not uniformly distributed across fields or countries, but rather obey well known hyperbolic laws."
USE OF EPIDEMIOLOGY IN MEDICAL SPECIALTIES - AN EXAMINATION BY CITATION ANALYSIS The results of this study do suggest that relatively little epidemiologic work has been done in a number of medical specialties, including allergy, anesthesiology, dermatology, geriatrics, hematology, nephrology, orthopedics, otorhinolaryngology, radiology, rheumatology, and urology.
STRUCTURAL EQUIVALENCE IN A JOURNAL NETWORK We see that these positions, or "statuses" in the positional sense have a very close correspondence to the roles. As such, this provides support for the idea that like people, journals occupy status-roles in relational systems. We argue that the fundamental structure of the network is found in the block structure and images. A network of citation patterns between journals can be reduced to an image structure that reveals the im-portant structure of the network.
CRITICAL THRESHOLDS IN CO-CITATION GRAPHS The results show that for a fixed value of the citation threshold the statistical validity of the partition can vary as a function of co-citation strength, and that for both high and low values of the co-citation thresh-old the partition can be statistically invalid.
On Watersheds and Peers, Publication, Pimps and Panache (An Editorial Abstract) "To sum up, our peer/referee system, the piers of our academic sand castle, can sometimes amount to nothing more than an adversarial confrontation where the defendant is presumed guilty, has no counsel or friend in court by arrangement, cannot face his accusers, and there are no qualifications for judges."
GEOGRAPHERS' RANKINGS OF FOREIGN GEOGRAPHY AND NON-GEOGRAPHY JOURNALS Finally, we suggest the same caveat here as we did with the original study.
Presenting One Probability Distribution as a Function of Another — Some Applications It has been demonstrated that graphs presenting two probabilities as a function of each other, generated as shown in Figure 1, have been found useful in many different areas of scientific enquiry. In several of the applications, the necessity of presenting data in the form of Figure 2 arises because the quantity s in Figure 1 is not observable - it may be internal to a human subject's mental process, for instance. Hence the absolute shape of the probability functions f and g is undefined ((iv) of Section 2), and interest centers of the function y(x) in Figure 2.
A Bibliometric Study of Advertising Citations This study identified certain patterns in scholarly publishing in advertising.
The distribution of reference citations in two agricultural journals These results indicate that JEA papers tend to cite more investigations which have already been done on the topic by other workers; JAR papers tend to cite other investigations more to support their own findings or to point out contrasts between their own results and those of other workers.
THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF JOURNALS USED IN FINANCE RESEARCH The central focus of this study is on the finance discipline. A final list of finance journals important to financial research are ranked in Table 3 according to impact efficiency.
The research method used in subfields and the growth of published literature in those subfields: Vertebrate paleontology and geochemistry While this was achieved and the major hypothesis was supported, the exploratory nature of the study requires that considerable further investigation be undertaken before firm conclusions can be reached concerning the validity of the relationship itself as well as the methodology proposed.
Keeping up with Japanese chemical technology at Chemical Abstracts Service Growth of the scientific and technical literature based on research performed in Japan has been significant in the last 15 years.
Charting the decline in British science However, rather than heralding the beginning of a revival, the evidence suggests that this is merely a temporary halt to the long-term slide.
Speed If rapid publication has been unnecessary for the ultimate success of many researchers, wide apprecia- tion of the fact could lead to some self-examination and behavior modification.
Ratings of Journals by ARL Library Directors and Deans of Library and Information Science Schools The data show that there is a perceived hierarchy of journal prestige.
Access to primary and secondary literature from peripheral or less developed countries MYTHINET and MICRO-MYTHINET could easily serve as foundation approaches for countries, subre- gions, regions, etc., in seeking possible solutions for the problems of accessing both primary and secondary litera- ture internally and externally. The coordinat- ing mechanisms proposed should go far toward ensuring that those information systems which exist and those that will be effected in the near future, will all be capable of "communicating" both manually and in an automated system. Often the most sensible path is to start with internal needs and to develop what amounts to referral databases, tied subsequently to bib- liographic databases, and to extract information from those external sources that are most useful.
Objective measures as predictors of reputational ratings Therefore, it does seem that part of what the ratings are rating is quantity. But quantity as measured by the number of faculty, the number of program graduates, and the number of full-time and part-time graduate students, does not appear to be the only aspect of what is being rated.
Developments in bibliometrics Sichel has made bibliometrics academically respec- table at last! Haitun's dichotomy which distinguished Gaus- sian from Zipfian distributions remains valid, however, except that the two families would now be better named the Gaussian and the Inverse Gaussian to express their new-found relationship. The confident applications of the IGPD and other distributions of this family to the social sciences will probably have to await the program- ming of an appropriate statistical package to sim- lify applications.
Revealed preference for economics journals: Citations as dollar votes There are several measures which can be used to evaluate professional regard for economics journals.
Price Discrimination in Academic Journals With respect to the "best" journals analyzed in this study, the complaint is certainly valid. Not only does the subsidy exist, but between the years 1974 and 1984 the degree to which institutional prices ex-ceeded individual prices rose on average from just barely more than double to almost triple. There is a difference between disciplines and kinds of publishers, with chemistry and physics journals having the biggest markups (both years) as did commercial presses (both years).
The use of bibliometric data for the measurement of university research performance Our main conclusion is that the use of bibliometric data for evaluation purposes carries a number of problems, both with respect to data collection and handling, and with respect to the interpretation of bibliometric results.
Critical Remarks on Irvine and Martin's Methodology for Evaluating Scientific Performance Nevertheless, our critique is evident. IM 'promise' too much.
Graduate Training and Initial Job Placement* Our findings suggest that, among the women and men studied here, the marketable value of professional credentials accumulated during graduate school was sometimes differentiated along gender lines. Gender differences in graduate training, in conjunction with differential initial employment re-turns to accrued professional credentials, probably contribute to the gender gap in professional status among Ph.D. recipients.
Journal Collection Management as a Cumulative Advantage Process From this, a number of practical conclusions can be drawn.
Growth of scientific literature and the Barnaby Rich effect As a conclusion we can state that all of them confirmed the popular saw "he doesn't practice what he preaches".
Funding Science: The Real Defects of Peer Review and An Alternative To It The gross inefficiency of the PRP system is being more widely acknowledged. It would appear safe to predict that a "paradigm shift" is launched and mail peer review of proposals as now commonly practiced will disappear in a decade. This change will, I believe, be part of many likely similar changes in United States science policy and practice, as detailed in the book Lost at the Frontier.27
Physics journals typology, citation impact and immediacy The modified impact factor describes better the journals external visibility. Self-citation reflects the originality, size and isolation of the universe in which the journal operates /7/. To avoid some of the pitfalls of excessive aggregations, the peculiarities of review and letters journals would deserve more attention.
Publication output and citation of developing countries in physics Working in far subcritical density, DC physicists are mainly expected to transmit knowledge for home benefits /52/. Publication and citation images may then describe the DC physics as vaguely as leaks of refereeing practices in DC journals /53/. Unexpectedly prestigious research or simply low statistics may account for apparent excesses in some values.
Research fronts on physics most-reviewed 1982–1984 Subfield groups of the research front specialties move in time as well as in the rank strata.
World physics publication output — Country distribution and trends Further elaboration on such scattergrams for science /25-27/, physics /1,6-8/, subfields/14,16/, e.g. biomedicine /28/ and developed or less developed countries /27/ is needed.
Trends in the citation impact op physics journals 1974–1983 The omitted peripheral, short-lived and new journals might somewhat alter the tendency, the rates are SCI-dependent, nevertheless an instructive stratification appears within the selected core group.
World physics publication output — Subfield distributions and trends Only top producing countries and several examples of relative strength in subfields could be illustrated here, leaving open how far the Physics Abstracts coverage might bias the outcome, mainly in fringe areas.
One dimension of the scientific type of rationality (a reflection upon the theory of group rationality) As for theories with 'unusual' conceptual apparatus like quantum mechanics, taking into account ontological interplay may supply additional considerations in support of the theory in question, or on the contrary, detract from its plausibility.
Physics journals typology, group rankings by citation and immediacy hence the distribution of both the impact and the immediacy indices seem to be strongly subject and type dependent.
Do training models really influence scholarly productivity? One is left to conclude that although people with interests different from the typical academic researcher are attracted to professional programs, research interest can be stimulated.
COLLABORATION AND TEAMWORK IN PHYSICS In sum, collaboration and teamwork play much the same roles in physics as in other sciences, but it is physics, in particular high energy physics, which has developed team organization most fully.
ESTIMATING SIZE AND SCATTER OF WORLD PHYSICS JOURNAL LITERATURE The world journal literature of physics appears to follow a Bradford distribution well enough for estimating its volume and dispersion from a small sample.
QUANTIFICATION OF CERN ECONOMIC SPIN-OFF As the firms interviewed have tended to provide low estimates of the probable actual utility, it may be stated that, by 1987, CERN purchases (high technology goods only) made in 1973-82 will have generated utility amounting to at least 59% of the total cost of CERN during the years 1973-82.
FREQUENCY-RANK VS FREQUENCY-DISTRIBUTIONS - AN INFORMATION LOSS It is therefore argued that the theoretical develop- ment of scientometrics is hampered by its present dependence on statistical techniques derived for the analysis of purely physical phenomena and that in scientometrics, as in the study of other phenomena in which humans interact with artefacts, the need arises to extend the range of sta- tistical theory to the domain of f/r distributions which retain empirical information ignored by 'Gaussian' statistics.
MONTE-CARLO SIMULATIONS IN LATTICE FIELD-THEORIES - PUBLICATION OUTPUT AND CITATION IMPACT Therefore, it is not surprising that, in comparison with an average particle physics paper, the influence of papers on Monte Carlo computations in lattice gauge theories upon the particle physics community is much higher, i.e. the relative citation rate is >1. One can suppose that within the next years the relative citation rate gradually converges to 1, i.e. the research front specialty turns into "normal" particle physics. The particle physicists favour in this case only few journals for publication.
HISTORIC PAPERS IN PHYSICS - THE CASE OF TETRODE, HUGO, MARTIN 1895-1931 It appears from the foregoing discussion that the results of citation analysis can be interpreted, in the investigated case, as indicators for either the direct use which is made of a paper in research, or for the “visibility” of its author as a pioneer in a (sub)-discipline.
SELF-ORGANIZATION MODELS FOR FIELD MOBILITY OF PHYSICISTS Describing the intellectual movements of scientists between subfields with methods of the theory of molecular evolution [7], we expect to contribute to a fruitful application of these methods to evolutionary problems in science. This paper intends to be a guide-line rather than a fully developed approach. A possible direction of further investigations could be the search for optimum conditions with respect to the rate coefficients.
INTERNATIONAL INTEGRATION OF SPANISH AUTHORS IN PHYSICS The relatively fair integration (0-68 average value) obtained in major subfields by Spanish physicists when publishing in foreign journals denotes that their research was in accordance with the main publication trends in these worldwide known journals.
DOMINANTS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF PHYSICAL KNOWLEDGE To further elaborate the notion of scientific dominant one has to address some methodological problems, such as determining what counts as a sufficient set of parameters for a classification of dominants; outlining a theory of how dominants interact; translating the scientometric parameters of dominants into the language of fuzzy sets theory.
SCIENTOMETRICS AND PHYSICS The transition to non-Gaussian mathematical statistics, basing itself on some other distribution characteristics rather than moments is a prerequisite of attaining higher reproducibility of scientometric measurements.
MOBILITY AND PRODUCTIVITY OF ACADEMIC RESEARCH SCIENTISTS Whatever the causality may be, our observations contradict the common opinion that a relatively short 'stay' of tenured team members within a team affects the team-output positively. Moreover a high proportion of temporary team members does also not affect productivity in a positive way. So our study, of which the empirical data regard very cohesive teams, underlines that general statements about the relation between mobility and productivity cannot be made and that, at least, differentiation between sorts of teams is necessary.
CONCEPTUAL CITATION FREQUENCY - QUANTUM-MECHANICS AND ELEMENTARY PARTICLE PHYSICS It must be stressed this is exploratory research and additional work is needed to confirm the findings of this study. The results of this study are tentative. The findings here certainly warrant further study and such examinations are planned.
PRIORITY SETTING FOR APPLIED PHYSICS EDUCATION IN PORTUGAL - A CASE-STUDY With the preceding discussion in mind the manpower bottlenecks, as per the (stated or per- ceived) development objectives, can finally be identified.
GNOSTICAL ANALYSIS OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN PHYSICS Evidence from several case studies have illustrated interesting possibilities of improving the assessment of scientometric data by non-statistical methods derived from the gnostical theory.
STRATIFICATION OF JOURNAL AUTHORS REVEALED FROM CITATION NETWORKS Publication and citation records from a philosophy, medicine and physics journals suggest, that notwithstanding important differences in the subject fields, the author populations are highly stratified.
RESEARCH PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS IN PHYSICS - THE LEIDEN EXAMPLE We feel that bibliometric performance indicators are very useful in past-performance analysis of fields like physics and astronomy. Our general conclusion is that bibliometric performance indicators provide for a field like physics (and astronomy as well) a useful instrument for research management and science policy.
CROSS-FIELD IMPACT AND IMPACT DELAY OF PHYSICS DEPARTMENTS Therefore, published research findings in a specific field tend to be 'picked up' somewhat faster in the journal literature by researchers in that field, than by researchers from other fields.
NATIONAL TRENDS IN PHYSICS AND TECHNOLOGY This paper presents evidence that scientific and technological activity are decidedly linked.
A METHOD FOR PLANNING SCIENTIFIC-CONFERENCES A scientometric analysis of the series of multi-sectional scientific conferences enables one to more justifiably approach the planning and organization of conferences.
MARKOV-CHAINS THEORY IN THE DETECTION OF RESEARCH ACTIVITIES IN PHYSICS It is reasonable to conclude that the Markov Chains model appears to predict the shifts of research trends in a specialty journal. Thus acientists who were able to move among subfields tended to be the more productive members in the field.
FOREFRONT RESEARCH AND GROUP INVOLVEMENT IN CONDENSED MATTER PHYSICS ASSESSED FROM SCIENTIFIC REVIEWS 1. It is possible to discern the most active research topics (in CMP) by selecting the scientific reviews having high SW-values. 2. On the basis of SW-values of scientific reviews one may estimate the degree of involvement of the research groups to which their authors belong in the development of scientific topics of their own.
MEAN RESPONSE-TIME - A NEW INDICATOR OF JOURNAL CITATION SPEED WITH APPLICATION TO PHYSICS JOURNALS In figure 1, the response-time distributions and the MRT values of 109 physics journals are presented.
RELATIVE INDICATORS OF PUBLICATION OUTPUT AND CITATION IMPACT OF EUROPEAN PHYSICS RESEARCH, 1978-1980 In spite of the fact that both its relative effort and impact are below the world average, Hungarian physics deserves distinguished attention and support.
IMPACT, SUBFIELDS AND AGING OF RECENTLY CITED PHYSICS MONOGRAPHS We conclude therefore that the exponential distribution is a composite effect and the similarity of this combination of all subjects to the citation analysis pattern is probably fortuitous.
THE GIGP DISTRIBUTION MODEL WITH APPLICATIONS TO PHYSICS LITERATURE All these systematic deviations from a line are faithfully represented by the GIGP in (7). A new theory for scientometric sampling has been developed by this investigator which is based on zero-occupancy and the multinomial distribution.
RECAPTURING PHYSICS IN THE 1920S THROUGH CITATION ANALYSIS However we account for this, we can conclude that the mythology of the golden age is not a fabrication.
WHAT IS BEING PUBLISHED BY POLISH PHYSICISTS On the grounds of the present study and the earlier results, it can be concluded that the distribution of Polish literature among different physics subfields has its own features, which can be also observed while examining the arrangement of papers among physics journals. It is to be stressed that majority of papers by the Polish physicists are published in highly prestigious physics journals.
NATIONAL PATTERNS IN PHYSICS OUTPUT BY SUBFIELDS A cluster analysis enabled to determine groups of countries with similar distribution of physics publications by subfield.
PUBLICATION ACTIVITY IN PHYSICS IN THE EUROPEAN SOCIALIST-COUNTRIES It can be seen that the subject distribution of these publishing efforts is close to those on the world scale, but there exist some deviations.
DEATH COMES AS THE END - EFFECTS OF CESSATION OF PERSONAL INFLUENCE UPON RATES OF CITATION OF ASTRONOMICAL PAPERS One's impression is of a brief outburst of sympathy, followed by gradual forgetting of the deceased's contributions, at least in comparison with those of similar but still active astronomers.
FORMATION AND DECAY OF AUTHOR GROUPS IN PHYSICS Thus, the proposed method permits to find in principle the following values which are import- ant for the scientometrics analysis of authors activity: average productivity p0, productivity of long-term working authors p(2), fraction of such authors in a group μ/γ, annual changes in the number of short-term and long-term working authors (correspondingly s and r) and authors renovation f.
RESEARCH ACTIVITY AND THE STATE OF ASTROSCIENCES IN TURKEY In summary, the astronomers, forming a small community are trying to keep pace with the European colleagues in the existing and rather limited facilities in Turkey. The above analysis on the macro characteristics of research activity indicates that, in spite of the observed low level of national research output, research in astrosciences has shown quite a rapid progress in the last two decades. The productivity of astronomers — now about 0·3 publications/researcher per year — can be improved by making the scientific environment more conducive to research.
PUBLICATION OUTPUT IN FIBER OPTICS The research in fiber optics is concentrated in a few industrialized countries: USA, Japan, UK, France, and FRG.
COGNITIVE MAPS OF PHYSICS Although the multi-dimensional co-citation scaling is a powerfull tool for historiography, sociology, and mainly practical management of physics, scientometric textbooks [25] should be complemented by further reading [7–9, 26–28, etc.].
REVISITING CRITERIA FOR SCIENTIFIC CHOICE Even the structuring of the debate I believe justifies our philosophic speculations on criteria for scientific choice, since a well-structured debate surely improves the outlook for a wise political decision.
LIBRARY CIRCULATION DISTRIBUTIONS - SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE PLR SAMPLE The main aim of the paper has been to present certain aspects of public library circulation data and to illustrate the extent to which modifications of established models may be used.
THE EFFECTS OF FUNDING CHANGES UPON THE RATE OF KNOWLEDGE GROWTH IN ALGEBRAIC AND DIFFERENTIAL TOPOLOGY, 1955-75 In summary, the results of this study, while not conclusive, are consistent with the proposed model. The model led us to believe that, except under certain conditions, funding variations would have little or no effect upon the rate of knowledge growth. For even these tentative results to run counter to the common wisdom in science policy, however, is in itself enough evidence that further studies of the effect of funding on knowledge growth are needed.
FEDERAL-FUNDING AND PLANETARY ASTRONOMY, 1950-75 - A CASE-STUDY Planetary astronomy thus shows enough gain relative to other specialties to indicate some increasing interest, but hardly enough to constitute a 'resurrec- tion'. However, as the data indicate and the historical narrative suggests, study of the moon and planets increasingly moved to include the earth and geological sciences, becoming an interdisciplinary hybrid during the period in question. Even if further study shows the planetary science community to be rather small in numbers, intellectual developments associated with that community may well deserve such terms as 'resurrection'.
QUANTITATIVE MEASURES OF COMMUNICATION IN SCIENCE - A STUDY OF THE FORMAL LEVEL "Because our study does not confirm one of the major assumptions underlying citation analysis, it affects all types of citation studies as currently conducted which rely exclusively on references for data (for example, stratification studies, co-citation analysis, 'historiographs')."
A STATISTICAL ASSESSMENT OF 2 MEASURES OF CITATION - THE IMPACT FACTOR AND THE IMMEDIACY INDEX Although it must be admitted that the two measures are useful in that each facilitates the identification of what is most probably the relatively small number of scientific journals which receive disproportionately high number of citations, the findings of the inves-tigation reported herein indicate that the measures are otherwise uninformative deri-vations, which produce an order not dissimilar to that which is produced by uncorrected rates of citation and which fail in most instances to furnish genuinely useful insight or guidance in regard to the relative quality of scientific journals.
A REEXAMINATION OF THE ORTEGA HYPOTHESIS - THE DUTCH CASE In conclusion, while there is some evidence to indicate that eminent Dutch physicists cite other eminent scientists, this relationship is not as strong in The Netherlands as has been suggested by the Coles' study of American physicists.
SOME BIBLIOMETRIC CORRELATES OF QUALITY IN SCIENTIFIC-RESEARCH In summary, I have presented empirical evidence suggesting that, in general, the greater the collaborative index of a set of papers, the higher is the proportion of quality papers in the set.
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITIES IN SCIENTIFIC DISCIPLINES IN BELGIUM The present investigation presents a background profile of the communication activities, enabling evaluation of extreme activity in the disciplines discussed.
QUALITATIVE ASPECTS OF THE BRADFORD DISTRIBUTION The results suggest that no qualitative differences may exist among articles drawn from the various zones of a Bradford distribution but that differences among the zones may exist in terms of level of citation.
THE MEANING OF CITATION IN THE CONTEXT OF A SCIENTIFICALLY PERIPHERAL COUNTRY A number of factors mediate the decision of individual scientists about which research papers they will refer to in their publications.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES OF FACULTY IN ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS OF MEDICINE It can be argued that the data presented, taken as a whole, are not applicable to many individual depart- ments. provision must be made to preserve as a resource those who can legitimately claim to be involved in teach- ing, research, and patient care.
AN EMPIRICAL-EXAMINATION OF LOTTKA LAW Overwhelming conformity to the law was found.
EVIDENCE OF COMPLEX CITER MOTIVATIONS This article has reported empirical evidence of complex citer motivations.
THE SYNTHESIS OF SPECIALTY NARRATIVES FROM CO-CITATION-CLUSTERS We have explored the hypothesis that the thought processes involved in reviewing a field can be modeled by a walk through a co-citation network.
COCITED AUTHOR MAPPING AS A VALID REPRESENTATION OF INTELLECTUAL STRUCTURE Cocited author mapping is a valid representation of the intellectual structure in both macroeconomics and Drosophila genetics.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN JOURNAL PRODUCTIVITY AND OBSOLESCENCE The findings of this study indicate that for the litera-ture of water desalination there is a systematic relationship between journal productivity and journal obsolescence, and that this relationship is a negative one in which those journals that contribute the most articles tend to contrib-ute articles that, on the average, have short active lives, while those that produce articles that have the longest ac-tive lives are among the least productive.
THE PROFILE QUERY RELATIONSHIP The profile-query relationship where profiles are based on documents by an author and queries are represented by documents is now known quite accurately.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF FRAMES OF REFERENCES In the case of aquatic ecology and the related problem of water pollution, the analysis demonstrated that the existing structure of journals has grown, but that it has not changed fundamentally. The idea of a qualitatively different, integrated approach has not led to a noticeable emergence of interdisciplinary research areas.³⁷
MIGRATION PATTERNS OF UNITED-STATES PHDS AMONG DISCIPLINES AND SPECIALTIES These analyses of scholars' patterns migration yield information both about methods of analyzing the structural relations among scholarly fields and about the nature of those relations in the U.S. in recent times. Finally, the migration patterns do not show a clear hierarchy among the disciplines I studied. In contrast, hierarchical patterns are more common when one examines migration among specialties within disciplines; three of the four fields examined above show some degree of hierarchy among their specialties.
ANALYSIS AND PLANNING OF A SERIES OF MULTISECTIONAL SCIENTIFIC-CONFERENCES (HEAT AND MASS-TRANSFER CASE) A scientometric analysis of the series of multisectional scientific conferences enables a more justifiable approach to the planning and organization of conferences.
FORMAL COMMUNICATION IN SCIENCE - A MODEL BASED ON GENERALIZED NETS A model based on generalized nets is proposed for the detailed description of formal communication in science (more precisely through journal articles). By means of the GN specific actions and interactions could be determined (quantitatively, qualitatively, and in time). The practical importance of the model based on GN is growing with the increased use of computers by all concerned with formal communication in science.
ON THE BEHAVIOR OF INFORMATION FLOWS IN MULTICOMPONENT POLYMER SYSTEMS RESEARCH So the conclusion can be drawn that this field of science obeys general relationships valid for other established sciences.
SCIENTIFIC-RESEARCH AREAS IN MEXICO - GROWTH-PATTERNS IN THE LATE SEVENTIES Since the national science and technology system does not facilitate the movement of institutions from secondary to primary positions, it is recommended that whenever a new institution is created, it should be provided with appropriate resources, both human and material, to make sure it will be considered as first rank from its inception.
MULTIVARIATE STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS OF THE BIBLIOGRAPHIC OUTPUT FROM A RESEARCH INSTITUTION, IN RELATION TO THE MEASURES OF SCIENTIFIC POLICY One of likely causes was probably a change in the Institute’s by-laws implemented in 1976 whereby new, quantitative minimal criteria for job promotions were introduced.
PUBLICATION POTENTIAL - AN INDICATOR OF SCIENTIFIC STRENGTH FOR CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISONS We may conclude that the estimated publication potential seems to bear real significance and may be considered a valid indicator of scientific strength of different countries.
BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS FOR SCIENCE POLICY - AN EVALUATION OF THE UNITED-KINGDOM RESEARCH PERFORMANCE IN OCEAN CURRENTS AND PROTEIN CRYSTALLOGRAPHY In conclusion, it should be stressed that this work for the ABRC Science Policy Study was very much of an exploratory nature, and our bibliometric approach for assessing research output at the fields level obviously needs to be refined and made more rigorous.
RELATIVE INDICATORS AND RELATIONAL CHARTS FOR COMPARATIVE-ASSESSMENT OF PUBLICATION OUTPUT AND CITATION IMPACT Our present aim was not to give a comparative evaluation of countries but to introduce the methodology. Under proper conditions, RCR makes possible direct comparison and even linear ranking of citation impact of publications in different fields. Although both AI and AAI may be used by themselves their real appeal can be revealed by displaying them on a two-dimensional relational chart, explained later on.
MULTIPLE CITATIONS OF MULTIPLE-AUTHOR PUBLICATIONS We have tried to show in this paper that a linear relation between the citations of a paper and the number of authors contributing to it is a consequence of the dynamics of the way the scientific world operates today; dependent more on the preprint/reprint circulation and the weight given to the name of the authors. This paper is not to criticize this dynamics but to further point out that due to the sheer multiplicity of journals and the intense need to publish, scientists tend to depend on copies of papers sent directly to them to keep themselves up to date and that journals have been reduced to keeping these papers for reference at later dates.
SCIENTOMETRICS WITH SOME EMPHASIS ON COMMUNICATION AT SCIENTIFIC MEETINGS AND THROUGH THE INVISIBLE COLLEGE Such investigations aid in understanding the communication process in science.
DRIFTING CONTINENTS AND COLLIDING INTERESTS - A QUANTITATIVE APPLICATION OF THE INTERESTS PERSPECTIVE It appears that quantitative applications of the interests perspective can assess the relative importance of different interests, but labelling these interests as 'social' or 'scientific' requires additional assumptions.
COCITED AUTHOR RETRIEVAL An additional result is that papers citing at least three of the input authors tend to be overviews of the Sl movement.
FREQUENCY OF CITATION AND REPUTATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF CONTRIBUTORS IN PHYSICAL THERAPY We conclude that, with the increased emphasis on research in physical therapy, a stronger relation- ship will develop between subjective and objective measures of the professional impact of contributors on the profession. Citation analysis has proven to be a useful tool in many academic fields and professions and is likely to be used increasingly in physical therapy as the profession moves to- ward greater reporting of the scientific analysis of its tech- niques. We believe that more objective research and scholarly activity in the profession will result in more accurate assessments of authors' contributions.
ON BLINDING THE JOURNAL ASSESSOR It can be concluded that awareness of the author of Journal submissions is not associated with any obvious bias in judging and rating the paper.
A COMPREHENSIVE BIBLIOGRAPHY DATABASE USING A MICROCOMPUTER Such a system is beneficial for personal study, for writing books, articles, and theses, and for use by institutions, depart-ments, and small libraries. I recommend it as a useful tool for the easy storage and retrieval of references and abstracts for individuals and for clinical units and research establishments.
A 2ND NOTE ON AGING IN A LIBRARY CIRCULATION MODEL - THE CORRELATION STRUCTURE Morse's Markov model and the mixed Poisson model must be regarded as theoretical idealisations of the library circulation process. Each has had success in modelling empirical data and indeed the models have many similar features.
MAPPING THE WORLD OF BIOMEDICAL-ENGINEERING - ALZA LECTURE (1985) This is an excellent illustration of the emergence and maturation of a scientific discipline as revealed by mapping.
THE DUAL OF BRADFORD LAW "We may say that the maximal productivity of a journal in each Bradford group follows an approximate Bradford law, with the same multiplicator as in the original Bradford law, but with universal constant e-E ≈ 0.56."
TESTS OF METHODS FOR EVALUATING BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATABASES - AN ANALYSIS OF THE NATIONAL-LIBRARY-OF-MEDICINES HANDLING OF LITERATURES IN THE MEDICAL BEHAVIORAL-SCIENCES The five studies yielded both broad research outcomes and specific recommendations to NLM.
THE LIFE-CYCLE RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY OF MATHEMATICIANS AND SCIENTISTS Research productivity, however, should decline continuously with age if we are right in interpreting such productivity as investment in human capital.
PAST AND FUTURE PROPORTIONS OF PHYSICS SUBFIELDS FROM TREND, MATRIX, ENTROPY AND DISPERSION ANALYSES OF PUBLICATION OUTPUT The results are intended for immediate decision-making and to provoke more study, rather than to offer firm conclusions.
PROBLEMS OF QUANTITATIVE-ANALYSIS OF SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES - THE NONADDITIVITY OF DATA .1. STATEMENT AND SOLUTION We maintain that non-additivity of variables is not a fact but an artefact and the non-additivity problem is attainable to constructive solution. The proposed solution to the non-additivity problem consists in restricting indicator scales to "natural" ones. It is precisely in this sense that we have used non-Gaussianity as a criterion of additivity in discussing concrete questions in Part II of this paper.
OBSERVATIONS AND HYPOTHESES ON THE PHENOMENON OF MULTIPLE CITATION TO A RESEARCH GROUPS OEUVRE We do not have any grounds to decide which of the factors discussed above are primairly responsible for the observed patterns in MC frequency. We conclude that one should be very carefull in drawing conclusions on the relative impact of individual research groups in comparative evaluations based on 'citations per article' indicators: particularly attempts to identify the 'top' or 'sub-top' research groups should be performed with 'care'. Differences of a factor 2 or less among the citations per article ratios for groups, possibly do not reflect any substantial difference between the impact thouse groups have generated.
PROLIFIC INVENTORS - A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS The results indicate that there is no statistically significant threshold of yearly patent output above which the impact of inventions by particular inventors declines.
BIBLIOMETRICS OF ENGLISH-LANGUAGE ALCOHOL FUEL LITERATURE - A NEW EMPIRICAL-EQUATION OF SCATTER This is important in the sense, that this once again proves that Bradford scattering is universal and very general in essence.
ON THE 80/20 RULE "In conclusion we can say that we have examined exhaustively the case α = 2 in Lotka's law and established a formula for x(θ, μ) and θ(x, μ), which we can trust in practice."
ONLINE BIBLIOMETRICS - A RESEARCH TOOL FOR EVERY MAN Online information retrieval searches, particularly when made by micro computers, constitute a research tool of great potentialities for the field of scientometrics.
EMERGENCE OF BASIC RESEARCH ON THE PERIPHERY - ORGANIC-CHEMISTRY IN INDIA, 1907-1926 The outline obtained here concerning the evolution of research in organic chemistry in India at the beginning of this century, indicates that a spread in basic research in this specialty would likely not have occurred in this country in the absence of Indians having been involved in it.
COLLAGEN RESEARCH IN THE 1970S Compared with the original co-citation study of the collagen specialty, the present analysis has provided a more detailed picture of development over a longer time span, by making use of some of the advances in the technique such as co-citation normalization and cluster strings.
WHICH MEDICAL JOURNALS HAVE THE GREATEST IMPACT The editorial policies of The Lancet and The New En-gland Journal of Medicine have been highly successful and have made them the most influential journals in clini-cal research. This measure of influence must be carefully distinguished from that obtained by measuring reader-ship or circulation.
THE INTELLECTUAL-DEVELOPMENT OF MANAGEMENT-INFORMATION-SYSTEMS, 1972-1982 - A COCITATION ANALYSIS Despite the historical nature of the study, four of the factors appear to represent early research themes which remain popular in the early 1980's. The results suggest that MIS research is not well-grounded in organizational theory, nor have MIS research results been widely diffused in the organizational literature, even though the organization is a concept central to the definition of MIS. Suggestions for developing a better link between MIS and organizational theory were presented based on the concept of organizational effectiveness.
BIAS IN AWARDING RESEARCH GRANTS Grant giving bodies are important parts of the social system of science, but their operations are largely carried out in secret by elite members of the scientific community. The very limited available evidence suggests that various types of bias occur in the allocation of grants. One corrective to the most blatant abuses in the grant system is to open the assessment process to full professional and public scrutiny, removing the protection of anonymity.
ASSESSING THE METHODOLOGY FOR FINDING A METHODOLOGY FOR ASSESSMENT My purpose has been to suggest that had the procedure given in the UNCSTD study been followed by Martin and Irvine, much if not all of the debate could have been either avoided or at least reoriented in a different direction: it would have been aimed at alternative methodologies to be used for such an assessment, rather than trying to disentangle what was actually done. The UNCSTD study, as I said earlier, does not give a methodology for assessment. Instead, it gives a methodology for finding a methodology for assessment. Thus my intention in this Response is to facilitate using our efforts toward formulating, developing, and testing better methodologies in a more efficient and direct way.
FINANCIAL PRESS COMMENT AND COMPANY SIZE - A COMPARISON OF UK AND GERMAN COMPANIES Although company structure differs somewhat between the UK and West Germany, the publicity requirements for quoted public companies are, in practice, similar. The almost identical values of the exponent b for the UK and German samples indicates that information generation by companies is virtually the same in both countries. Table 3 shows that the differences in numbers of news items generated are least for the smaller companies.
SICHEL UNIFICATION OF BIBLIOMETRIC FREQUENCY-DISTRIBUTIONS This unification of the frequency distributions of bibliometrics (and of scientometrics also) into one single family is an important statistical advance.
RESEARCH IN MANAGEMENT-INFORMATION-SYSTEMS, 1980-1984 - POINTS OF WORK AND REFERENCE Results of the analysis support the proposition that MIS is emerging as a distinct field of study, with its own cumulative tradition.
PROBLEMS OF QUANTITATIVE-ANALYSIS OF SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES - THE NONADDITIVITY OF DATA .2. Thus, the proposed program of operations connected with the solution of the non-additivity problem demands a considerable rearrangement of the present methods in the quantitative analysis of science.
EVALUATION OF SOME METHODS FOR THE RELATIVE ASSESSMENT OF SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS Comparative indicators (P1, Pw) introduced here can be used as a decision basis for distributing financial support or bonus among research departments.
THE CLASSIFICATION OF SCIENCE AND THE SCIENCE OF CLASSIFICATION Ideally, the best would be to start anew and to create a different manual that would in fact reflect the necessary features.
SCIENCE IN LATIN-AMERICA - HOW MUCH AND ALONG WHAT LINES However, the small scientific output observed in all fields appears insufficient to assure a positive role of science for the best overall development of each individual society.
THE SPANISH SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH 8 INTERNATIONAL DATABASES The scientific indicators studied show a positive and interesting development of Spanish science from 1978 to 1983.
WHY DO RESEARCH ON RESEARCH "That is that basic research is, in a very real sense, a long-term investment and needs to be thought about in such terms."
WORLD PUBLICATION OUTPUT, RESEARCH FRONTS AND HIGHLY CITED PAPERS IN THE SPECIALTY OF MESONS AND LIGHT-NUCLEI The first evidence for stable hypernuclear formation, for instance, was discovered more than thirty years ago /51/, but although the rate of progress on the subject has been rather slow, hypernuclei are still considered a frontier area /52/.
RECENT TRENDS IN WORLD PUBLICATION OUTPUT OF 600 PHYSICS SPECIALTIES The here attempted search into distinct latest growth trends must, for most purposes, be checked against the starting-points of the specialty size, more long-term shifts (saturation effect), data on related sections, and evidence from independent sources.
THE SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE IN DIAGNOSTIC-RADIOLOGY FOR AMERICAN READERS - A SURVEY AND ANALYSIS OF JOURNALS, PAPERS, AND AUTHORS The proliferation of new journals should moderate; the growth in the size of the diagnostic radiology research community has slowed, and existing journals can accommodate more papers than they now publish.
SCIENCE ON THE PERIPHERY - A SCIENTOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF SCIENCE IN THE ASEAN COUNTRIES The five ASEAN countries considered here are not only small but their contribution to world-wide enterprise of generating new knowledge in the sciences is also meagre. Obviously, each one of them faces fundamental questions as to what it wants the S&T enterprise to deliver. Judicious allocation of funds and personnel to different areas of research is called for – some directed to solving problems of immediate rele-vance and others aiming at keeping options open so as to be able to contribute some time in the future to advancing knowledge in the frontier areas.
A DISCIPLINE-SPECIFIC JOURNAL SELECTION ALGORITHM The objective of this study was to demonstrate that for a discipline-specific journal collection, an effective journal selection algorithm could identify two types of journals.
EMPIRICAL VALIDATION OF LOTKA LAW The modifications proposed here are refinements which have shown promise in a limited trial; and the procedure remains simple to apply using a statistical package or dedicated program (a FORTRAN program is available from the author on request). The maximum likelihood estimator of b is preferred because of its optimal qualities and close relation to Pao's estimator for k.
A CHARACTERIZATION OF DISTRIBUTIONS WHICH SATISFY PRICE LAW AND CONSEQUENCES FOR THE LAWS OF ZIPF AND MANDELBROT We see that for large N we have α ≈ θ. Hence, in practice we have the exact law of Price.
THE GRAYING OF AMERICAN-ASTRONOMY If the preceding estimations are correct, by the year 2000 the average professor of astronomy will be around 50 years old.
RANKING OF AGRICULTURAL-ECONOMICS DEPARTMENTS BY CITATIONS In this paper a ranking of agricultural economics departments using citations has been presented.
RESEARCH BY REGIONAL PSYCHIATRISTS, 1978-84 If the methods used in this study are judged to be generally acceptable, the opportunity exists to examine the influence of modifying factors on research productivity in the region.
DIFFERING CULTURAL PERCEPTIONS OF RESEARCH It would be tempting to interpret these findings in the context of the conventional opinion that social and welfare values are more appreciated in Europe, whereas values associated with high technology and knowledge are more keenly felt in North America.
PERCEIVED VALUES OF RESEARCH AMONG NON-RESEARCHERS AND VARIOUS TYPES OF RESEARCHERS The fund of good will toward research, revealed by the lay respondents in these findings, as well as the concurrent scepticism of some researchers vis-a-vis research, has been suspected or hinted at in the past, but it is interesting to see it documented.
PUBLICATION TRENDS FOR ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, AND NARCOTICS IN MEDLARS I don't think I'm off base to suggest that our scientific literature reflects the concerns of our society. Alcohol has been around for a very, very long time, but it is only recently that it has been getting the attention it presently is receiving. I don't know of any compound that is coming on board that is even going to come close to receiving the attention that alcohol or tobacco or narcotics have received in the past, and I think that the attention alcohol has received is going to remain strong for many, many years to come.
INFORMATION-FLOW TO GENETICS JOURNALS The results presented here indicate that when the sources of information for 5 genetics journals were traced to their origin, the information is found to come from biochemical journals via the multidisciplinary journals to the genetics journals. There are two levels of genetics journals among the 5 genetics journals studied: the first level (level 1) contains journals that are not cited by other genetics journals considered in this study (note that this is not to say that these journals are never cited by other genetics journals); the second level (level 2) of genetics journals consists of those genetics journals that serve as a source of information for the level 1 journals. The use of the level 2 journals by the level 1 journals declines from 1975 to 1982, this decline being due to the decline in use by Hereditas and Journal of Heredity; the citations by Heredity remain reasonably constant over the same period.
QUALITY OF RESEARCH MEASURED BY CITATION METHOD AND BY PEER-REVIEW - A COMPARISON The citation method measures only one parameter of the quality of research, "international visibility," and has a rank correlation coefficient about 0.6 compared to peer review.
The Publishing Performance of U.S. Ph.D. Programs in Economics during the 1970s Thus, additional analysis based upon more recent evidence provides additional support to the hypothesis that faculty research activity contributes to the quality of the graduate education process.
A causal model of productivity in a research facility We believe our results have merit in their own right, both showing plausible relationships between productivity and a number of its determinants, and also demonstrating a fruitful approach to analyzing productivity.
Research Universities Face Major Structural Changes As to funding mechanisms, GAO found that they play different roles at different stages.
A Case for an Alternative Format for the Thesis/Dissertation An unpublished thesis/dissertation remains information that is the exclusive domain of a few individuals.
Bibliometric Techniques for Monitoring Performance in Technologically Oriented Research: The Case of Integrated Optics To conclude, we shall briefly consider the benefits and the weaknesses of the method outlined above for mapping research activity.
Factors influencing sources cited by scientists: A case study for Cuba It would appear, then, that Cuban scientists cite Eastern sources more than expected only in those cases in which they collaborate with Eastern authors or publish in Eastern journals. Comparison of our data with those of Nalimov and Mul'chenko suggest that the rate at which Eastern sources are cited by Cuban scientists publishing in Cuba or the West is similar to the rate at which Soviet scientists are cited in journals of other countries in general.
Author collaboration and impact: A note on citation rates of single and multiple authored articles However, the present research further sustains the conclusion that collaboration genreally has little effect on aggregate quality, regardless of field, as measured by citation indices.
An experiment in science mapping for research planning That said, co-citation analysis sufficiently passed the requirements of internal validation in the study to merit its cautious use, by experts and/or independently informed scientific admin-istrators for policy purposes.
Clinical utility rankings of neuropsychologically related journals. The emergence of the Journal of Clinical Neuropsychology as the most relevant to patient assessment and care suggests that it has successfully fulfilled its stated purpose of providing readers "with materials that will improve the quality of service delivery to patients with disease or disorders related to central nervous system dysfunction" (Costa & Rourke, 1979, p. 1).
Quality, Quantity, and Age: The Careers of Ten Distinguished Psychologists First, the probability of producing an often-cited, "major" contribu-tion is a more or less constant function of the total number of works produced.
Comparison of manual and online searches of Chemical Abstracts Each method of searching has its own merits and demerits, and a practice of using a single method of searching sometimes gives an incomplete search result. The calculation by the model equation of cost-effectiveness factors showed that the online search is a little more cost effective than the manual search, although the result may vary depending upon the values of weight factors, the salary basis of the searchers, the types of search topics, and so on. The truth is that it is a very expensive operation, especially when it is done by the person whose hourly pay rate is high.
Management system for a scientific research institute based on the assessment of scientific publications The above described Management System of the Institute cannot be regarded as final.
Bibliometric indicators of scientific activity in Thailand The correlation between these indicators, although not perfect, shows that they reflect the productivity of Thai scientific institutions to a certain extent. It is therefore important to study further the linkage, or the lack thereof, between bibliometric indicators and contributions of the institutions to development both in the local and international context.
Between dirigism and laissez-faire: Effects of implementing the science policy priority for biotechnology in the Netherlands A consciously orchestrating strategy, with some accommodation to the interests of the field, appears to be productive. This may be a generally useful middle course between dirigism and laissez-faire, because it exploits the leverage that resides in the strategies of scientists to mobilize resources for their work. Although the observed effects in biotechnol- ogy-related research in the Netherlands cannot always be attributed unambiguously to the activi- ties of the Program Committee, these certainly have had an impact, and the goals of the original priority would not, or not as rapidly, have been reached without them.
Primary journals today and tomorrow Such investigations aid in understanding the communication process in science.
Multiples, poisson distributions, and chance: An analysis of the Brannigan-Wanner model Apparently, Brannigan and Wanner overlooked the tremendous theoretical similarity between the simple and the contagious Poissons. Therefore, closer examination of the Brannigan-Wanner model lends only further support to the chance interpretation. Contagion due to scientific communication is no more than frosting on the cake. If anything, Brannigan and Wanner can be said to have moved us toward such a more sophisticated chance model.
Does the rate of growth of our knowledge depend on the quality-level considered? The result is: the differences in the rate of growth between the various tables do not depend on the size of these tables. Therefore, we must conclude that a level-dependence is not recognizable, at least not within the range of annual averages covered by these chronological tables (if there is a level-dependence, it would therefore have much less influence than the subjectivity inherent in the chronological tables). A point of rupture in the sense that important knowledge (0.2 to about 2000 annual discoveries) is doubling every century, while the whole of scientific information (20 000 annual "discoveries") is increasing much more quickly, with a doubling period of 20 years [3] (p. 186, note 20).
The Paper Trails of Scholarship: Mapping the Literature of Genetics The overall stability derives from (1) the greater citation visibility and inertia of the author's oeuvre as the unit of analysis (in contrast to individual documents) and (2) temporal characteristics of the journal article as a formal archival record of research activity.
Postgraduate Education in Norway An adequate postgraduate training system is undoubtedly of vital importance for a country's future research capacity.
Research, publication productivity, and applied social science Discussion of the factors affecting publication productivity should not obscure a basic finding of the study: a large proportion of the social work faculty members in this sample published very little, or nothing at all, in a two year period. Given the growth of applied research, our study emphasizes the importance, for both professional schools and the academic disciplines, of encouraging the links between graduate training, interest in applied research, and publication productivity.
Dual approach to multiple authorship in the study of collaboration/scientific output relationship The empirical evidence described in this paper suggests that, in general, "the collaboration measure" might serve as an indicator in comparative analyses of scientific productivity in a given field of science.
Review journals in physics Thus, in REV MOD PHYS there are relatively more topical and interpretative reviews than in the other four review journals. This may be one explanation for the high impact factor of REV MOD PHYS. Review articles could also not be linked to the research fronts determined by co-citation analysis. These articles "may identify unique new areas of research" [14] or simply be in low referencing subfields where new methods of research fronts generation could be employed [22].
Institutional Research Productivity in Quantitative Psychology Nevertheless, despite these limitations, productivity ratings pro- vide a viable alternative to reputational ratings for determining institutional quality in specific areas of psychology. Composite measures obtained by averaging over journals are likely to provide more nearly accurate information concerning productivity.
Strengths (and Weaknesses) of Peer Review Yet the principles of peer review re-main sound, and we shall apply them throughout OERI, even to the point of requiring outside participation in the review of proposals (such as contracts let by our Center for Statistics) that heretofore were appraised only by De-partment staff members. But we apply them in the full awareness that peer re-view is a help for decisionmakers, not a substitute for them, and that the ways a peer review process is constituted and managed matter greatly, especially in this field of education where a linear ex-tension of past thinking and familiar practices into the future is simply not good enough.
The American Journal of Public Health, 1911-85. "In the course of 75 years, AJPH has changed in character and content; the nature of its contributors has likewise changed."
Cocited author mapping as a valid representation of intellectual structure The research reported in this article represents the first attempt to provide quantitative external validation of the general assumption that cocited author maps represent the intellectual structure of a field.
THE DECLINE OF SCIENTIFIC COMMUNICATION WITHIN AND ACROSS ACADEMIC DISCIPLINES To counteract this trend, it is necessary that our universities adopt a set of structures that will facilitate meaningful communication within and across academic disciplines. Hence, the modern university should have interdisciplinary institutes which are concerned with basic research as well as with applied research. To maximize communication, creativity, and productivity, all university scholars should have membership in at least one department and one interdisciplinary institute.
Improving the industrial anticipation of current scientific activity My conclusion is that science can be studied by industry and government for the seeds of its own impetus and flowering. We can then shorten the anticipatory period.
Patent groups and their relationship with journal literature This work encourages us to believe that patentable research work is better and more widely reported than has been feared. These preliminary results indicate that patent literature will be found to be better integrated than expected. Therefore, more needs to be done with improved methodology in a wide range of subject areas.
Multiple discovery: Some Monte Carlo simulations and Gedanken experiments Monte Carlo models can simulate the chief empirical aspects of multiples.
Institutional productivity ratings based on publications in reading journals: 1978–1983 The results of this study provide an update on productivity as measured by number of articles published in the field of reading. Although it is easier to assign credits to institutions without regard to the size of the faculty, the results of this analysis lead to the conclusion that faculty size is an important variable to be considered when assessing institutional productivity in journal publications. It does not take into account the quality, type, or length of the articles.
Quantized hall effect publication and citation follow-ups of a nobel prize discovery For entry No.47 (see fig.4) it holds that indeed, Nobel laureates produce a highly recognized work /46/, entries No.24,28,49 were among the rapidly cited papers, and an old article on Hall effect /477 belongs to the citation classics /48,49/. Further aspects may be looked for /50/. Meanwhile, the QHE research (a whole session in /51/) is going on.
Citation indicators of international activities in physics Admittedly, some of the evidence is still circumstantial and there remains a lot of sorting out, e.g. journals role /46/.
Social science journal characteristics and journal citation measures Journal characteristics identified as having independent impacts on citation measures are suggestive of the directions journal editors might choose to move in as their journals mature.
The adequacy of the science citation index as an indicator of international publication output in physics Further evidence about the adequacy of the SCI for assessing international activity indices /9,44,45/ in physics should be added later on, taking in consideration up-to-date features of quality and subject area, with realization of still more underlying biases.
Correlates of Scholarly Recognition in the Field of Higher Education The results in this study support the prior analysis of Lindsey (1977), McCarter and Barnes (1978), Hagstrom (1965), Zuck- erman (1967), and Babchuck and Bates (1962). Still, despite these limitations, this study adds to the literature on the scholarly research on recognition and provides some practical guide- lines for faculty and administrators in the field of higher education. Thus, this study provides a foundation on which future studies can build.
Citation Analysis of Physical Therapy Citation analysis has been used to identify journals that are relevant to var- ious professions.
Antimicrobial Agents and the Medical Journal: Trends in Publishing, 1936-1983 The "weight of medical knowledge" is increasing, albeit at a decelerating pace.
Dependency and Compliance in Academic Research Infrastructures The results of this article indicate that academic research is conducted in changing organizational frameworks and suggest that assumptions about homogeneity of academic research infrastructures are not always safe. The increasing demands for prepublication review processes associated with external control cut down the public aspect of science (what Merton, 1973, defined as "certified knowledge") by decreasing the rates of published papers and increasing the rates of unpublished papers. Knowledge that is produced for specific clients by means of technical reports without peer approval processes increases segmentation in knowledge proprietorship and expands the "invisible knowledge" in science.
Journal Weeding in Relation to Declining Faculty Member Publishing A study of the research careers of 53 liberal arts college chemists who eventually stopped publishing suggests that after a four-year interval without a paper, the librarian can reasonably infer no further papers are ever again likely to appear from that author, and can negotiate at least some specialty journal cancellations.
THE STRUCTURE AND FUNDING OF UK RESEARCH - A STATISTICAL OVERVIEW Overall, our conclusion is both simple and stark. To maintain a competitive na- tional research capacity, British firms must be persuaded to invest a greater proportion of their turnover in R&D, and the UK government must start to devote much more of its expenditure to civil research and much less to defence R&D (see Reference 9). In the absence of both these, Britain's ability to generate and exploit effectively the technologies of tomorrow will continue to be steadily eroded, and the country will almost cer- tainly be doomed to slip ever futher behind its major economic rivals.
PARADIGMS AND PRODUCTIVITY - THE CASE OF PHYSIOLOGICAL OPTICS, 1840-94 This reconnaissance of physiological optics in the nineteenth century offers two conclusions and poses one unanswered question.
CHARM REVISITED - A QUANTITATIVE-ANALYSIS OF THE HEP LITERATURE We have seen that citation and cocitation data bear out the interpretative analysis given in Paper I of the triumph of charm.
INFORMATION FLOOD - FICTION AND REALITY The information flood appears to be only a peripheral phenomenon, a "paper tiger" that can be mastered by a competent evaluation of scientific information: 90% of all useful (cited) human knowledge is concentrated in 50000 articles, which can be bound into 2000 volumes of 25 articles each; to this library, 200 volumes of new information must be added each year and 200 volumes of information that became obsolete must be set aside annually.
A ONE-YEAR JOURNAL USE STUDY IN A VETERINARY MEDICAL-LIBRARY This journal use study has identified the top 50 journal titles by use in a major veterinary med-ical library. Local collection development plans and use studies should consider the high use of nonveterinary titles by veterinarians. A review of the literature shows that library managers should not expect all of their journal titles to be used.
UK PERFORMANCE IN BASIC SOLID-STATE PHYSICS The study succeeded in documenting trends in the performance of several major scientific countries in solid state physics research.
ANALYSIS OF CITATIONS IN 4 MIE PROCEEDINGS To answer the three questions given at the beginning on completeness, correctness and structure it could be stated that none of these three factors can be rated as 'sufficient' on the whole. All items evaluated show a large variation relating to countries or other items. Some of the results seem to point to a lack of co-operation between hospitals and institutes of Medical Informatics.
THE EVALUATION OF SCIENTIFIC-RESEARCH - A BRIEF STUDY OF CITATIONS TO RESEARCH PAPERS FROM THE DOMINION ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY As citations are a measure of the utility of published work in subsequent research, we conclude that the value of the research by the D.A.O. is well-recognized within the astronomical community.
STRUCTURE OF ENERGY-RELATED LITERATURE - AN APPLICATION OF CITATION ANALYSIS It is suggested that the results of the analysis be used for the management of energy libraries, for the appropriate choice of journals for scanning and publication of energy papers, and for the structure of curricula in academic institutes interested in the field of energy. Such an approach can guide university departments teaching energy to formulate appropriate curricula.
CITATION-CLASSICS - MOST-CITED ARTICLES FROM FERTILITY-AND-STERILITY In conclusion, of the 58 articles in Table 1 designated as Fertility and Sterility citation classics, 7 were published in the first decade (1950 to 1959) of the journal's existence; 22 were published in the second decade (1960 to 1969); 27 were published in the third decade (1970 to 1979); and 2 in 1980 of the present decade.
THE CORRELATES OF RESEARCH SUCCESS These data show very clearly that research training or experi-ence, or both, as an undergraduate has a substantial influence on career development and correlates positively with subsequent research performance many years later.
STATISTICAL EVALUATION OF RECORDED KNOWLEDGE IN NUCLEAR AND OTHER INSTRUMENTAL ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES From the above treatment one might conclude that papers containing significant advances in knowledge on general analytical chemistry and/or nuclear and other instrumental analytical techniques make up a tiny fraction of the total literature with a rather slower growth rate than that of the bulk of the literature. This poses a serious ques-tion: Does the bulk of publications on analytical chemistry, i.e., on nuclear and other instrumental analytical techniques serve a scientifically useful purpose? Admittedly these papers represent activity, but much of it may be misdirected in that confusion and communication channels get clogged.
RESEARCH IN ANIMAL REPRODUCTION - AN ANALYSIS OF THE CONTRIBUTION MADE BY LATIN-AMERICA The overall picture obtained from our analysis indicates that the Latin American countries are significantly contributing to knowledge on animal reproduction, in spite of severe financial and technological limitations. Research is directed mainly toward identifying and solving locally important problems. This research activity should continue to be supported by programs of international cooperation, and exchange of information between developing countries on topics of mutual interest should be encouraged.
ECONOMIES OF SIZE OF USDA AGRICULTURAL-RESEARCH STATIONS ARS research managers can use our findings of increasing economies of size for small locations and decreasing economies of size for large stations as a guide to their long-range planning of station size.
FORESTRY LITERATURE - WHOS PUBLISHING WHAT WHERE It appears, from the findings presented here, that natural-resource professionals can depend on the Journal of Forestry and Forest Science to provide an overview of Forest Service research accomplishments. This suggests that for forestry research results to be widely accepted and adopted, the findings must be "institutionalized" so that managers know that the new technology has the approval of their organizations. For the pushing process to operate most effectively, researchers must know which outlets are the most effective for reaching their intended audience.
RESEARCH POLICY - COMROE AND DRIPPS REVISITED The real lesson from Comroe and Dripps-and I am sure that they understood this themselves is that we need to research research so that we can allot funds in a more intelligent and less empirical and (to use their favourite word) anecdotal way. We believe that a $2 billion industry ... might well put more of its annual budget into research on improving its main product, which in this case is discovery and its application. We believe that much more research needs to be done on the nature of research and its application so that data from objective studies can be applied to all aspects of biomedical research.
ARE PAPERS BY WELL-KNOWN ASTRONOMERS ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION MORE READILY THAN OTHER PAPERS Thus, the papers by well-known astronomers do not receive significantly fewer or more-rapid reviews, but a larger fraction of them is eventually accepted. We conclude that we see no evidence for preferentially rapid reviewing by referees of papers that are written by obviously well-known astronomers, although a larger fraction of their papers are eventually accepted. Contemporary American astronomy seems to be more democratic than many of us might have thought.
A STUDY OF THE PUBLISHING ACTIVITY OF ASTRONOMERS SINCE 1969 The inflation is mainly due to the increasing number of authors. The production of individual astronomers is steadily increasing with time. Finally, this study raises obvious questions about astronomical literature, which it does not answer.
REFERENCE FREQUENCIES IN ASTRONOMY AND RELATED SCIENCES Thus we see no significant differences in numbers of references per paper in different sciences for papers of the same lengths; it is only because astronomers and geophysicists publish longer papers that their papers have more references.
SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS OF MANAGEMENT INFORMATION-SYSTEMS The results of our study point to certain discernible de-velopments in MIS. More specifically, our findings suggest that there has been a steady movement away from non-empirical work to empirical studies. Not surprisingly, the rather insignificant scientific progress of MIS can be attributed, to a large degree, to the fact that MIS lacks articulated theories of its own.
THE DISTRIBUTION OF ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH AMONG THE UNITED-STATES OVER THE PAST HALF CENTURY I have used the geographical distribution of research publications from The Astrophysical Journal as a measure of the relative strengths of the states in astronomical research.
Measures and mismeasures of the applied mechanics literature This brief study of indicators of growth in the field of applied mechanics shows clearly how unreliable such indicators can be when used in forecasting. There seems little doubt that growth in a field such as applied mechanics is following a logistic curve, but what data determine that curve and how to extrapolate the curve from historic data are crucial and by no means trivial questions. But such natural renewed growth cannot occur if the basic field is not nurtured at a level sufficient to support new trends.
Subject field characteristic citation scores and scales for assessing research performance These facts emphasize the superiority of a 'hard core' of really outstanding results over (not so golden) mediocrity in science. Obviously, similar assessments can be made not only for journals but for any other sets of papers, such as the publication lists of research institutes, university departments or even individual scientists, provided that the two criteria mentioned above are fulfilled: the number of papers is ample enough to allow for statistically reliable analysis (100 papers per five years seems to be reasonable lower limit) and the distribution of the papers over the five years is approximately even.
Comparing the scatter of citing and cited literature The data for desalination suggest that it is only at the very tail of the Bradford distribution that literature cited is more scattered than the literature citing it.
Geographical Limit on Research Funds in Bill Seen as Swipe at Peer Review The principle of geographical distribution has general appeal to Congress, particularly for those legislators whose constituencies have not done well in the competition for research funds. Staff sources say that Sabo is likely to continue to scrutinize the distribution of funds by research agencies "to keep them honest."
Institutional versus intellectual migrations in the nucleation of new scientific specialties No doubt institutional migration and mobility provides another such process, one supplementary (and not necessarily contradictory) to the process described by Mulkay, though I would argue that it is socially more concrete and capable of generating the new syntheses and insights without which Mulkay's migration to the new 'line' would be much less likely to lead in itself to an important new specialty. Mulkay's model of 'intellectual migration' is, of course, excellent for focusing attention on how the movement of practitioners (for the most part within a single specialty) toward new research problems can sometimes proliferate into important new branches. However, it often does this by detracting attention from the so-called 'external' social/institutional processes underlying the initiation in embryo (and eventual institutionalisation) of new specialty syntheses.
The utility of citation-based quality assessments Notwithstanding Professor Travis's criticism, the fact of the matter is that a large and growing literature has demonstrated that citation-based methods are far more reliable, valid, and useful than he believes them to be. If something is to be done, then that something must involve a self-conscious attempt to improve on the quality of the independent degree programs. I hope others will profit from the model they are trying very hard to provide.
The invisible made visible research newsletters are a cheap and ef-ficient way of promulgating information, even though they may be the untraceable publishing the uncitable.
Studies of citations and of 'obsolescence' So much for inadequacies in their logical ap-proach. I would commend to their attention, and to others interested, a short note [7] which discusses some of the complexities in the synchronous study of citations and demonstrates that citation density does not necessarily fall with increasing age.
The author and the beholder: How paradigm commitments can influence the interpretation of research results From it I am myself totally convinced that the picture described by my quantitative data and interpreted in the light of the qualita- tive information reflects the reality of Brazilian agricultural science.
A bibliometric study on the ageing and content typology relationship of the biochemical literature Based on the results, one may regard the discipline as an ephemeral and competitive subject area.
A quasi-quantitative citation model The data and conclusions discussed above allow us to attempt to construct a quasi-quantitative model of citing.
Article-by-article citation analysis of medical journals The item-by-item citation data, presented in this paper, have allowed a detailed examination of the citation patterns of different types of scientific communication both in terms of length and originality.
The social construction of national scientific profiles: a case study of the Irish Republic It has been shown that the profile of Irish science is a social construct arising from a colonial record and the cultural values of the new republic. This profile is characterized by a tradition of achievement in isolated pure sciences and a gap between this profile and national economic needs. This approach to the study of national, cultural and colonial facets of scientific profiles needs to be extended through further historical case studies of science in peripheral areas and through detailed comparisons of metropolitan and colonial science histories and science policies.
The ortega hypothesis, individual differences, and cumulative advantage But despite their complex functions, purposes, and incompleteness, citations have been shown repeatedly to be valuable and valid tools for studying a wide range of social processes in science and other scholarly endeavours.
One more version of the facts and figures on publication output and relative citation impact of 107 countries 1978–1980 Reliability of indicators and rankings: most of the figures reported here can be credited by acceptable statistical 'reliabilities' or 'confidence limits'. Instead it is stated as a simple rule of thumb, that no indicator or rank position which is based on less than 100 publications be taken as statistically reliable. However, they must be handled with care, and have to be regarded as 'informatory indicators', as indicators, which inform or hint to something rather than assert or prove.
The ?Biglan model? and the smart messenger: A case study of eponym diffusion In general, an eponym is coined by a champion, or "messenger." Such is the case with the "Biglan model," coined by John Smart (and associates), and now widely used in higher education research and writings. But this case study demonstrates that the messengers are not acknowledged for their role in bringing the eponym to the fore of a field. If key contributors to a line of inquiry in a field are "obliterated," bibliometric anaylses of referencing and citing patterns will fail to correctly document the influence structure of a scholarly work.
Psychology of the Scientist: LV. Social Psychologists' Perceptions of Journals' Readability: How Consistent are They? Our study indicates that social psychologists are remarkably consistent both in the prose they write and in their perceptions of that prose.
Term co-occurrence in cited/citing journal articles as a measure of document similarity The main conclusion of this research was that cited/citing articles within the core liter- ature of information science share a predictable amount of terminology.
The comparative impact of scientific publications and journals: Methods of measurement and graphical display By taking a sufficiently large 'environment' of a scientific publication, the described method allows in an illustrative way the determination of the impact of a scientific publication relative to its environment.
Chemical information science coverage in Chemical Abstracts chemical information scientists must use other sources to achieve truly comprehensive coverage of the relevant literature.
How We Know What We Know: A Study of Higher Education Journal Articles This examination of unobtrusively collected data regarding the publishing foci of the core higher education journals has pointed out a variety of associations, both those addressed in this article and those having special value for individual readers.
Limitations of Co-Citation Analysis as a Tool for Science Policy Any attempt to base science policy decisions on a co-citation analysis of national participation in specialty research would seem premature at this point. Recognition of these difficulties may help bring co-citation analysis closer to the 'best practice' in the policy analyst's craft which 'requires analysis to be clear and explicit about critical assumptions and sensitivities'.
Publication Rates of Pharmaceutical Scientists: Application of the Waring Distribution The publication frequency characteristics of 1984 Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences reviewers were investigated to provide a perspective on the state of the pharmaceutical literature, its dynamics and some of its features.
Gossip and Peer Review at NSF He prefers by far the version used at the National Institutes of Health, which includes what he calls a "full, 100% bona fide appeals process." He thinks applicants are entitled to know when "extra-scientific" information is quoted against them and that they should be given a chance to respond. He intends to petition the agency to change its peer review system. Deputy NSF counsel Andersen does not think the misstep in Kalb’s case is representative of an underlying problem. No broad adjustment of procedures is required. This was the "sole instance" in which scholars’ gossip has disrupted the peer review system in the agency’s 37 years of operation, he says.
[Comments on “A response from the establishment” by Thomas J. Birmingham and “More on AGU Authorship Policy” by C.T. Russell] Tu Quoque? I concluded that five would be a good upper limit for authors.
PEER REVIEW IN PSYCHOLOGY: INSTITUTIONAL RANKING AS A FACTOR Based on our review of a single journal, for a 2-yr. period, we conclude that authors from highly ranked institutions may not necessarily publish more than their peers at other institutions. We argue that authors from "middle" institutions may well be those publishing a great deal. With this limitation, however, the prestige of the institutional source of the contributor may not be of major importance.
A revised measure of standing of journals in stratified networks The new measure of journal standing is preferable to the old measure even though there are great similarities between them. The fundamental difference stems from the role of e. These measures can be used to monitor change through time within a discipline and they can be used to compare distinct disciplines.
Conceptual citation differences in science, technology, and social sciences literature The results of the tests above point to the following conclusions: Physics differs from engineering in all areas tested.
Peer review and bibliometric indicators of scientific performance: A comparison of cum laude doctorates with ordinary doctorates in physics The results offer little evidence for the Matthew effect and the Ortega hypothesis, but support the validity of both peer review outcomes and bibliometric impact assessments of scientific performance. In general, however, it can be concluded that both indicators of research quality point in the same direction, thus offering support to the concurrent validity of both approaches. However, more data would be necessary in order to test these perhaps rather cynical assumptions. It would be interesting to see if patterns as have been observed with physics graduates can be generalized to other fields of research. We hope to examine these points in the near future.
Toward a definition of “bibliometrics” In summary, there does seem to be a clearly delineated body of research involving physical units of publications, bibliographic citations, and surrogates for them. The measurement of these items is called, logically, "bibliometrics." A crucial question is whether Zipf's law of word occurrence should be considered a part of this particular sub-discipline.
The Gozinto theorem: Using citations to determine influences on a scientific publication We may conclude that although weights were assigned in a rather ad hoc way, our method clearly singles out those publications that have an important underlying influence on the paper we have analyzed.
An exact calculation of Price's law for the law of Lotka In any case, formula (13) establishes all forms of Price's law, for all cases in which Lotka's law is valid.
Charting Academic Careers: Does Data Source Make a Difference? These practical considerations, plus our findings of very few differences across sources, favour continued use of published information in the study of scientists' careers.
The adaptation of the cooperation structure to the research process and scientific performances in research groups The empirical results obtained are a first proof of the validity of the theoretical statements.
Application of overlapping technique in selection of scientific journals for a particular discipline — methodological approach In conclusion, it should be emphasized that the list of nucleus journals compiled by this procedure for any of the scientific disciplines in any of the regions or countries has to be considered to contain only the necessary minimum of the relevant journals that could meet the needs of the specific scientific community at least at its minimal level.
Using faculty publication rates for comparing ?peer? institutions The primary advantage of using both the Citation Indexes and the data sources for faculty (the National Science Foundation reports and Oklahoma State University salary studies) in order to make institutional comparisons is that these sources are readily available and relatively objective.
Giants, pygmies, and the social costs of fundamental research or price revisited In light of these findings and of the "free-good" aspect of the products of fundamental science, it is concluded that the level and mode of support for fundamental science must, ultimately, be determined with reference to the non- or quasiscientific contributions of fundamental scientists.
Quantitative estimation of “big” and “little” science interrelation "Big" science not only doesn't absorb but vice versa gives birth to "little" one.
Patterns of literature citation by undergraduate students and researchers in the veterinary field Notable differences were found in the literature use patterns between a student group and a comparable group of researchers which can be taken as an indication of distinct levels of competence regarding bibliographic research techniques and knowledge of foreign languages.
Citation analysis and adaptive radiation the only valid conclusion seems to be that true and exact predictability regarding the citational lifespan of an individual article is nil, while prediction regarding the citational lifespan of groups or series of articles demands further research. Despite the fact that extrapolation of the curves would indicate that citations of Nature 250 will reach zero by 1987, while those of Science 183 should not fall to zero until several years later, there is no sure method to predict that one (or both) curves might in the future prove to be atypical: foretelling of the future remains a futile exercise.
Applied versus basic science in the literature of plant biology: A bibliometric perspective The results of this study indicate that certain bibliometric measures can be used to differentiate between applied and basic science in the published research literature of plant biology. Authors in basic plant biology tend to be associated with academic institutions, while those in applied plant biology are frequently affiliated with govern- ment research laboratories. Authors in basic plant biology often cite more journals and monographs, and less technical report literature in their research articles than do those in applied plant biology. Thus, the questions posed in this study merit further re- search, particularly within an historical context and over a much broader range of scientific disciplines.
Life in Print: Citation of Articles Published in Volumes 1–10 of the <i>Canadian Journal of Political Science/Revue canadienne de science politique</i> Our findings on this last point should hearten those who value traditional printed quarterly journals as a means of communicating scholarship to the world at large—to individuals and institutions alike who lack access to the on-line retrieval networks that are periodically championed by granting councils in the cause of "rationalizing" research communication. Our data should strengthen the case made by learned journal editors as they press for continued support from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada for high-quality professional journals which can successfully demonstrate, as can the CJPS/Rcsp, their ability to communicate the results of scholarship to the widest possible audience. But as "parochial" as the JOURNAL seemingly was by measure of authorship and content, the items it published in its early volumes were cited more frequently in periodicals published outside Canada than within, suggesting that the JOURNAL succeeded very quickly in establishing a presence in the international scholarly community.
Creating a Faculty Publications Database Using Sci-Mate<sup>tm</sup> In summary, the advantages of creating a faculty bibliography using Sci-Mate as opposed to a generic database manager are threefold: 1. It eliminates the need to key in every record. 2. It is easier to determine work done while an author was affiliated with a particular school of medicine since a search can be performed on the institutional affiliation field. Medical librarians can further prepare for their expanded role by gaining knowledge and expertise in selecting and using information management software of Sci-Mate's genre.
World trends, publication output, research fronts and highly cited papers in optics. lasers and quantum electronics Analyses of laser patent citations show that technologies are indeed dependent upon basic research /209/ and that this evidence can have other policy implications /210/.
Triangulation as a research strategy for identifying invisible colleges among biomedical scientists Our findings indicate that there is indeed a distinction between the communication structure, or social network, among scientists, and the actual content of the work in which they engage.
Measuring the Cost-Efficiency of Basic Research Investment: Input-Output Approaches The input-output approach does not even represent state-of-the-art bibliometrics and econometrics.
Various methods for the mapping of science With respect to our initial question of whether various methods for the mapping of science can be compared and eventually related, the above results lead to the conclusion that although they are less stable than inter-journal citation structures, citation and co-citation structures are both stable at the same level for this set of documents-which was chosen precisely for its co-citation characteristics!
Modelling the communication, distribution, transmission or transfer of scientific information Thus dawns the reality of the sociological con- cept of communication which presupposes, among other things as we have pointed out above, the dropping of the physical concepts and in particu- lar the highly deceptive technical concept of trans- mission.
Measuring the relative impacts of criminology and criminal justice journals: A research note The present study provides some objective indexes of journal impact and quality based on citations of their articles.
EJOR history and geography in figures We have seen that EJOR publishes papers from 'within or beyond Europe' and that its circulation is world-wide. Its centre of gravity is the EURO Association area, but it may truly be called an international journal. In a future study, we intend to compare the degree of 'internationality' of EJOR and other 'international' journals.
The relationships between age, mobility and scientific productivity. Part I Our study indicates that, though job mobility is mostly observed among scientists with a high productivity, job mobility without changing research field cannot be considered a means to stimulate productivity. On the contrary, at ages over 35 an adverse effect is usually observed.
Peer Review in Psychology: Institutional Ranking as a Factor Based on our review of a single journal, for a 2-yr. period, we conclude that authors from highly ranked institutions may not necessarily publish more than their peers at other institutions. We argue that authors from "middle" institutions may well be those publishing a great deal. With this limitation, however, the prestige of the institutional source of the contributor may not be of major importance.
GROWTH-RATES IN VARIOUS FIELDS OF ASTRONOMY But the exact balance between fields cannot be determined from numbers such as those above because those numbers may simply reflect previous and current funding levels rather than inherent characteristics of those fields.
EXPONENTIAL RECURRENCE DISTRIBUTION IN THE SIMON YULE MODEL OF TEXT As a result, the Simon-Yule model of text generation stands out as a significant approach for explaining the phenomenon. The findings provide further support for the use of the Simon-Yule model as a promising model of Zipf's law. Among the four leading models of text generation, we confess a preference for the Simon-Yule model.
CITATION PATTERNS OF PAPERS PUBLISHED IN ORNIS-FENNICA Such citation patterns show that the recognition of many good papers in OF has been inordinately delayed. Table 1 definitely suggests that there is plenty of work to do in improving the international circulation of OF. Why should papers in OF, like good Irish whiskey, take 12 years to mature?
HOW RESEARCH BECOMES KNOWLEDGE IN RADIOLOGY - AN ANALYSIS OF CITATIONS TO PUBLISHED PAPERS This information suggests that citations to the radiology literature are concentrated among a handful of papers in a few journals.
DETECTING PLAGIARISM IN STUDENT PASCAL PROGRAMS Although the principal aim of the above model is to detect plagiarism in programming assignments, the model has a wider application since it offers a means of characterising programming style and attaching a 'fingerprint' to a program.
PURCHASE, USE AND MAINTENANCE OF SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT IN DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES The principal obstacles to the functioning of laboratories at the levels of purchasing, utilization and maintenance of scientific equipment in developing countries are dealt with here-in.
SURGICAL ONCOLOGY RESEARCH - A DISAPPOINTING STATUS-REPORT
GLIMPSES OF THE NATIONAL-INSTITUTES-OF-HEALTH .2. REVIEW SYSTEMS AND EVALUATION Much of what goes on at NIH I did not have time to consider, but my explorations allowed me to bring back some messages that I think are relevant to Britain in general and to the MRC in particular.
CITATION ANALYSIS OF ASTRONOMICAL LITERATURE - COMMENTS ON CITATION HALF-LIVES Our study of only a small part of the information that is now available in the data base provided by 30 years of the Science Citation Index suggests the following: 1. The major main-stream astronomical and astrophysical journals and a major journal in one subdiscipline (planetary science) all show a characteristic pattern in the normalized probability of citation as a function of the age of the cited papers.
ACADEMIC PROMOTION AT A MEDICAL-SCHOOL - EXPERIENCE AT JOHNS-HOPKINS-UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE The principal findings of this study are that the promotional-review committees promote the vast ma-jority of faculty members coming before them, that there does not appear to be any bias favoring research-ers over clinician-teachers for promotion, and that fac-ulty members who were promoted had a rate of publi-cation that was approximately twice that of faculty members who were not promoted. On the basis of our findings, we suggest that medi-cal schools with reappointment and promotion prac-tices similar to those at Hopkins need to emphasize to their faculty members that they have a reason-able chance of promotion either as clinician-teachers or as researchers. We recommend improved counseling of medical school faculty members and more extensive discussion of the criteria for promotion and the chances of academic success.
AGE-DIFFERENCES IN THE RECEPTION OF NEW SCIENTIFIC THEORIES - THE CASE OF PLATE-TECTONICS THEORY Our empirical understanding of the influence of age on the reception of innovations in scientific knowledge has advanced little from the state of research fifteen years ago, when Zuckerman and Merton, in their comprehensive review of age, ageing and age structure in science, cautioned that 'the evidence on age differentials in receptivity to new ideas in science remains thin and uncertain'.
NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC STRATEGIES IN TROPICAL SOIL SCIENCES We have argued that bibliometric studies greatly underestimate the research production of Third World countries, for many reasons. Our results show, both for Central and Southern countries (France and Brazil), that this orientation also corresponds to a type of research, more oriented towards local scientific topics. The main question appears to concern, not the integration in the mainstream, but the use of knowledge.
RESEARCH POLICY - HOW FAST FLOWS THE BRAIN-DRAIN The brain drain abroad is widely perceived among scientific researchers to be serious, but attempts to measure its scale have been disappointing. Possibly it is not as serious as it is perceived. Somebody should surely attempt to measure these problems among medical researchers.
STOCHASTIC-MODELS OF INFORMATION OBSOLESCENCE These results provide strong support for the Burrell model in the 44 obsolescent cases.
WHAT HAPPENS TO REJECTED ASTRONOMICAL PAPERS This rejection rate of 10% for three astronomical journals is the lowest for any known field. All three reasons combine to make astronomical papers among the most frequently revised and eventually accepted for publication among all fields.
WORLD PUBLICATION TRENDS AND RESEARCH FRONTS IN THE SPECIALTIES OF MECHANICAL-PROPERTIES OF SOLIDS AND TREATMENT OF MATERIALS On the whole, there is a continuing and statistically highly significant shift within the world publication output in condensed matter physics towards structure, thermal and mechanical properties at the expense of electronic structure, electrical, magnetic and optical properties, and also in comparison to materials science (cf./5.13/).
COMPARISON AND EXTENSION OF THEORIES OF ZIPF AND HALSTEAD Certainly the Zipf law is of the ultimate simplicity. And its use in predicting program length (through the estimates of Theorem 1) has an undeniable appeal. In conclusion, we would propose that the set of inequalities (A) and (B) might be used to guide future research in the development of more realistic software metrication theories. Finally, we include a necessary word of advice that no new distribution theory be advanced as a serious candidate for study unless or until a substantial empirical backing compels its consideration.
RANKING OF AGRICULTURAL-ECONOMICS DEPARTMENTS - INFLUENCE OF REGIONAL JOURNALS, JOINT AUTHORSHIP, AND SELF-CITATIONS Clearly, the decision between using a broadly based literature, such as in the SSCI, or relying only upon mainstream agricultural economics journals is crucial.
ON THE GRADUATE SCHOOLS OF UNIVERSITY ASTRONOMERS We conclude that there are effects in addition to age or size of a program that create the ordering demonstrated in Table II.
SOME CHARACTERISTICS OF YOUNG VERSUS ESTABLISHED AMERICAN ASTRONOMERS Both groups are about 25% foreign born with the U.K. contributing one-fifth of the immigrants, or 5% of both samples. Times elapsed between B.A./B.S. and Ph.D., on the other hand, are not constant. Though we may think of 4 years in graduate school as a desirable standard, it has not been average for more than 30 years, and 7- and 8-year degrees are by no means uncommon today.
THE MD AND MS DEGREES IN BRITAIN Higher medical degrees are important and unusual qualifications as graduates in other university subjects are not usually able to submit research theses without supervision, without residence, and without paying supervision fees.
CRYSTALLOGRAPHIC PUBLISHING IN RETROSPECT AND PROSPECT The state of the IUCr journals is expected to remain robust as the total number of high-quality papers published continues to increase and the extent of crystallo-graphic coverage broadens further.
THE BURDEN OF ILLNESS THAT IS IMPOSED BY DRUG-ABUSE AND THE ALLOCATION OF RESEARCH MONIES IN THE FIELD - 3 VIEWS This study indicates that perceptions about the burden of illness that is associated with various drugs differ among experts, politicians, and community respondents. It is suggested that unless a close correspondence among the views of the three groups is present, conflict in regards to allocation of resources is likely. In order for the three groups to reach consensus, the differences in priorities and the assumptions upon which they are based need to be acknowledged and resolved.
MEASUREMENT OF OUTPUT FROM UNIVERSITY-RESEARCH - A CASE-STUDY The significance of the evaluation method presented here is that it can be used for several different purposes. By studying correlations and other statistical measures in the data base, relationships between activities and outputs can be brought into focus. Finally, we have shown this method of measurement of output from university research does not require excessive expenditures.
MULTIPLE AUTHORSHIP, BASIC RESEARCH, AND OTHER TRENDS IN THE EMERGENCY MEDICINE LITERATURE (1975 TO 1986) As reflected in its literature, emergency medicine is coming of age as an academic discipline.
COMPARISON OF MANUAL AND AUTOMATED MARKING OF STUDENT PROGRAMS The conclusion is suggested that human markers place undue emphasis on the cosmetic aspects of programs; the role of Automark and similar systems may therefore best be viewed as the provision of a quantitative basis for the evaluation of the substantive aspects of computer programs.
EVALUATION OF THE CAREERS OF GRADUATES OF THE UNIVERSITY-OF-MANITOBA BSC (MEDICINE) PROGRAM Although part of the difference between the two groups may be explained by the tendency of students who were more inclined toward an academic career to enter the BScMed program, it was evident that the program has a substantial effect on promoting the development of clinical investigators.
SOME ACADEMIC REFLECTIONS ON CASTING ALLOY PATENTS The stated purpose of patents to protect new and innovative ideas evidently does not appear to work in the field of casting alloys.
A PLACE IN THE SUN One reason why titles have become longer may be the increasing complexity of medicine. Our evidence questions whether active contribution by some participants is reserved for the title, which alone bears the thumbprint of all.
UNDER THE SURFACE OF THE CHEMICAL ARTICLE I would argue for a general humanization of the publication process.
Derek Price's Puzzles: Numerical Metaphors for the Operation of Science The problematic aspect of 'immediacy' is that it may have been invented by science in the 1920s.
Academics and entrepreneurs: Factors affecting the quality and utility of government-sponsored research The data examined here undermine the reliability of prevailing as- sumptions about the determinants of research quality and utility. First, it can be said that the choice of a research organization involves a tradeoff between research quality and utility, athough the risk is greater in the case of utility than it is for research methods. Perhaps among the most important findings was the lack of associa- tion between the amount of funding a project received and the level of research quality, timeliness, or relevance.
Research performance and migration: Two SEPSU studies Our study therefore ended up challenging the received picture in a number of ways and provided, for the first time in recent years, a sound factual basis for a discussion that had hitherto sustained itself, with considerable vigour, on a diet mainly of anecdote.
Price's square root law: Empirical validity and relation to Lotka's law Although the validity of the Price law need not depend on that of Lotka's law, the Price law is seen to be inconsistent with the generalized Lotka model. The Price law does not agree with empirical date very well; empirical results do not support the Price hypoth-esis. It is unlikely, therefore, that any convenient rule of thumb similar to the Price law could accurately and reliably summarize the size and relative contribution of the subset of highly prolific authors.
Author-field interaction following publication in ?higher education? journals The real value of published knowledge is not measured by citation analysis; the real value is evident in the commerce resulting in many camps from a published work and the scholarship's impacts and extensions as anticipated, chosen, or acted upon by the author.
Meeting the Journal Needs of Small College Chemistry Departments we feel that a good, strongly prescriptive "Top Priority" list must be better balanced from the start, and that the allowance for flexibility should not in-clude room for avoidance of essentials. Nothing less is a workable minimum collection that a national pro-fessional society should be proud to endorse.
Towards the “cognitive management” of a research institute This classification can be compared with the current administrative structure, and can be used as a basis for the negotiation of change.
Scholarly Consensus and Journal Rejection Rates The above analyses suggest that the three variables examined in this paper provide a useful conceptual model for understanding how scholarly journals evaluate manuscripts.
Mathematical relations between impact factors and average number of citations Based on this, a simple classification of impact-factor curves versus mean citation curves is established and examples are given. We finally end up with a classification of a and IF curves: we will show that we have only two different interrelationships between a and IF, one of them even being very unlikely to be encountered in practice. Of course, as said in Remark 5, only Fig. 1 is likely to happen in practical examples.
The popularization of science: Some basic measurements The inference that emerges from the data is that expressing scientific content below about the eleventh grade level while maintaining accuracy and providing satisfactory detail must be very difficult or costly or both.
How do journals on the periphery compare with mainstream scientific journals? Thus, ease of access to information and traditions (of long history, international exchange, emergence of sound leadership, etc.) do play a role in strengthening the scientific enterprise in a developing country.
Problem‐solvers and problem‐identifiers: The making of research styles Scientists' education is both formal and latent. The latent education, however, is indirect and is oriented toward developing a set of certain mental habits. If the need imposed by one's cognitive predisposition determines a certain kind of educational experience, problem-solvers are bound to succeed while the problem-identifiers are likely to encounter difficulties and be labelled problematic students.
Measuring the relative standing of disciplinary journals The measure of standing proposed and illustrated here provides a clear, objective, and interpretable measure. Its consistency with the analyses and interpretations of Gatrell and Smith [19] is noteworthy.
Further Evidence on Field Differences in Consensus from the NSF Peer Review Studies In sum, I believe the evidence CSC cite does not support rejecting my analysis of the relationship between consensus and P.
Scientometric versus socio-economic indicators. Scatter plots for 51 countries. 1978–1980 This underlines the impact of the infrastructural environment on the quality and quantity of scientific research.
The Rising Incidence of Co-authorship in Economics: Further Evidence In this paper, we have extended the earlier work of McDowell and Melvin (1983) by examining additional hypotheses concerning the causal forces behind the in-creasing incidence of co-authorship in economics over time.
Citation Context Classification of a Citation Classic Concerning Citation Context Classification The original cited paper has been used primarily as a concept to assess the citation approach as a whole, and the communication practices of the scientific community in general. In that sense, one can say that the original paper has not been an operational success. From that point of view the citation context study of other citation classics appears to promise an interesting insight into the structure of science.
Limitations and More Limitations of Co-Citation Analysis/Bibliometric Modelling: A Reply to Franklin "Although Franklin's criticisms of the original paper are inflated and based on a misreading of the paper, the article is a valuable addition to the literature on co-citation analysis, often offering a fresh and welcome perspective." "It is this more open and sophisticated discussion which the original paper sought to encourage." "Although science is complex, policy-makers need to understand the information presented to them in order to make informed decisions."
Testing structural-equivalence hypotheses in a network of geographical journals Given the three sociological-journal networks ana-lyzed by Doreian and Fararo [17], the two psychological-journal networks analyzed by Doreian [8], and the two geographical-journal networks considered here, there are seven networks within which the status-role hypothesis has been tested. In all but the 1980 geographical-journal net-work it has been confirmed. The 1980 geographical-journal network forces us to make the hypothesis conditional on the rate of change in a discipline. Such a theory needs to accommodate both dramatic change and stability. This implies the need for a serious consideration of time and the time scale of the social processes of science.
Weighted impact of publications and relative contribution score. Two new indicators characterizing publication activity of countries This way, the productivity of countries in producing scientific information may be assessed.
Reflections on a deflection: A note on different causes of the Groos droop In conclusion we may say that the Groos droop can be explained through Bradford's law and hence that they do not contradict each other.
The various faces of scientific productivity: a contingency analysis These results are of critical importance for the evaluation of scientific work, especially since they imply the existence of contexts in which several productivity indicators are invalid. We do not regard this study as a definitive tract. Rather, we advocate the adoption of a more skeptical approach and a continuation of the research for appropriate, valid and reliable measures of scientific productivity, especially in non-academic research contexts.
The structure and sources of energy science The policy implications are that energy courses at Universities should emphasize che-mical disciplines in their curricula; energy research institutes should em-ploy proportionally more chemical orientated scientists (or at least those with a chemical background) and money allocated for energy research should take into consideration the fact that chemistry related disciplines cur-rently make the most contributions to energy science. Obvious implications stem from the analysis. Those interested in solar cells should include in their set of scanned countries India and France, those working on hydrogen should keep an eye on developments in Canada and West Germany.
End-user searching of CAS ONLINE. Results of a cooperative experiment between Imperial Chemical Industries and Chemical Abstracts Service CAS ONLINE has become one of the most vital computer systems accessible by ICI's scientists (some would say the most vital one).
A comparison between the journals nature and science Both Nature and Science are multi-disciplinary scientific journals. They are similar to each other in terms of the mean number of authors, field dealt with, time-lag, etc., but there is a significant difference in internationality between Nature and Science.
MODELLING THE BRADFORD PHENOMENON The Lotka-Bradford process constructed here is both a dynamic process and a long-tailed one. Predictive aspects of the process have not been discussed and we content ourselves here with mention of just one. A more immediate problem of interest is to estimate the number of journals becoming new contributors in the near future.
A quick and easy method to estimate the random effect on citation measures The use of the Poisson model gives a useful, quick and easy method to obtain a lower bound on the fluctuations of citation measures.
Collaborative coefficient: A single measure of the degree of collaboration in research We have discussed the inadequacies of CI, the mean number of authors per paper, and DC, the proportion of the multiple-authored papers, as measures of the strength of collaboration in a discipline. We have also derived an alternative measure, the Collaborative Coefficient (CC), which incorporates some of the merits of both CI and DC (CC lies between 0 and 1, tends to zero as single-authored papers dominate, and differentiates among levels of multiple authorships). It is hoped that researchers would start using CC in comparative studies of research collaboration.
The Matthew Effect in Science, II: Cumulative Advantage and the Symbolism of Intellectual Property The structure and dynamics of this system are reasonably clear. Since positive recognition by peers is the basic form of extrinsic reward in science, all other extrinsic rewards, such as monetary income from science-connected activities, advancement in the hierarchy of scientists, and enlarged access to human and material scientific capital, derive from it.
Citations and scientific progress: Comparing bibliometric measures with scientist judgments Results suggest the utility of studying citation patterns among the Institute for Scientific Information Subject Categories, but also caution against equating publication and citation counts with scientific progress. Small sample bibliometrics is ideally suited to such "experimental" inquiry, the augmentation of citation data with self- and peer appraisals of research contribu- tions is one prerequisite for narrowing the measurement gap between objective and subjective concepts of scientific progress.
Australian scholarly journals: a situation report The Forum proposed a number of actions to follow up the discussion, but reached no real conclusions. It did however identify issues on which further debate is needed. And finally, is it enough to produce a scholarly publication, at a loss, and then stop short of effective management and marketing?
An application of bibliometrics to the history of electricity Agreement between the bibliometric data and scientists' views is ascertained. Thus, in-depth bibliometric analysis provides an unbiased estimate of the role played by individual discoveries and inventions in the history of science and technology.
The use of co-nomination analysis in real-time evaluation of an R&amp;D programme It is concluded that the networks represented were realistic and a useful input to the evaluation. Industrial and government researchers with low citation scores were in some cases central to the networks, suggesting that co-nomination is useful in areas where publication is restricted or considered less important. The extension of the co-nomination exercise in the MMI community continued to yield useful results in the context of the evaluation of the Alvey programme.
A bibliometric analysis of higher education literature While the higher education literature presented here does not conform precisely to the laws proposed by Bradford and Lotka, the conformity is close enough to be provocative.
Modelling the determination of research output in British universities As we have seen, little is known about the underlying research production functions which determine the productivity of research in British universities. Yet the efficient allocation of re- sources to research is apparently quite sensitive to the form assumed by those functions, though some of the available empirical evidence (see section 2) suggest that some resources are surprisingly unim- portant for research output. In our view, in order to improve the allocation of research resources, much more information is needed about the research production process in various disciplines.
In search of a “Non-citation index” indicator for scientific activity assessment in less developed countries. Case study of Croatia/Yugoslavia With (B) and (d) reached by such a procedure, the status of science under investiga- tion is easily deduced. In conclusion, it is important to point out the authors' one-way attitude towards the entire system of the national scientific performance assessment. Our arguments to take into consideration just bibliometric data are: (1) when analyzing science of a given country with the aim to evaluate if it makes a part of the world science, the output data could be considered self-contained, and (2) the intention was to remain completely in the domain of scientometrics.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific productivity: A case study of an Indian physics laboratory The study points out that the scientists of the laboratory give more wieghtage to foreign journals for publishing their papers, rather than Indian journals. Maximum number of the papers from the laboratory are in the area of Solid State Physics followed by Radio and Space Physics. Manpower and expenditure both have a positive relationship with all the output variables except patents.
The role of trade literature in the communication system Our study establishes that it is possible to reveal the 'hidden' extent of the trade literature and to map a part of this literature in connection with the scientific literature.
The Organizational Imperative in Science This study of the organizational attachment of research scientists supports a viewpoint of the scientific community as constructed around research institutes with stable cores of employees.
Dissemination and impact of U.S. department of education's library research and demonstration projects: A citation analysis Approximately half of the projects funded by the Library Research and Demonstration Branch, from 1965 through 1980, made no impact in the literature.
CITATIONS AND NETWORKING An optimistic interpretation of the findings in this study therefore seems justified. Such growing recognition from both men and women will provide an atmosphere more conducive to greater productivity, leading to further accumulation of advantages. Meanwhile, however, women scholars in predominantly male fields continue to face substantial hurdles in achieving high status in their profession.
Producing sociology: Time trends in authorship of journal articles, 1975–1986 Participation is widely dispersed among individuals, with most authors appearing only once or twice over 12 years.
Bibliometric features of some scientific subfields and the scientometric consequences therefrom By the methods discussed here, it is possible to select journal bases for different research subfields. A knowledge of these bases renders it possible to calculate the mean impact factors of journals of the subfields.
The growth of scholarship: An online bibliometric comparison of dissertations in the sciences and humanities Online databases can provide an inexpensive, direct, and rapid means for generat-ing both retrospective and up-to-date information on the growth (and decline) of scholarship.
The newest version of the facts and figures on publication output and relative citation impact in the life sciences and chemistry 1981–1985 The rankings and indicators in this flash can give useful approaches to the comparative evaluation of national scientific productivity and impact.
The national self-preoccupation of American scientists: An empirical view Do American scientists focus most of their attention on the works of other American scientists? Citation data suggest that they do. The degree of American self-absorption reflected in the citation data is roughly commensurate with what one would expect of a very large scientific enterprise. While Americans may have been excessively insular in the past, it appears that they have shed much of their insularity in recent times. Coauthorship counts show that American collaboration with foreign researchers grew dramatically from the early 1970s up to the mid-1980s.
Characteristic scores and scales in assessing citation impact In conclusion we give the characteristic citation scales for the five chemistry sub-fields The mean citation rates of journals assigned to the upper two categories (remarkably and outstandingly cited) are situated on the scales, while in the case of categories 0-2 only the number of journals is indicated at the corresponding category.
Internationalization of industrial research: The pharmaceutical industry; 1965–1979 The results obtained should therefore be considered as no more than indications of trends in the research activities in this industry. A meaningful level of internationalization of research appeared in the data obtained in this study. However, the number of countries partaking in this evolution is low. Further work is needed to clarify this point.
The Natural Environment Research Council (NERC): Recent experiences with quantitative science policy studies NERC has recognised that quantitative science policy studies can provide useful in- formation, though not of course absolute figures of merit. Whilst caution must be taken in interpreting output measures and indicators, Council has agreed that such information (with the exception of influence profiles) should be provided in future to the Visiting Groups established to review the effectiveness of its research programmes. In addition, the possibilities are being explored for using such measures and indicators as part of normal management procedures.
Bibliometric analysis of U.S. pharmaceutical industry research performance This analysis confirms that the U.S. pharmaceutical industry produces quality research and plays an important role in scientific progress. The U.S. pharmaceutical industry makes an extensive contribution to public scientific research knowledge. Finally, the value of the papers published by the U.S. pharmaceutical industry is estimated to be at least $150,000,000 per year.
Changes in publication patterns of biotechnologists: An evaluation of the impact of government stimulation programs in six industrial nations Since the start of the Dutch stimulation programme on biotechnology, a number of positive changes in publication and citation patterns have occurred. Therefore, the stimulation of biotechnology does not seem to have paired an increase in volume of articles with a decrease in impact. While Canada, Japan, France, and, to some extent, the UK, improved their positions, but the Federal Republic of Germany lost some ground.
Oceanographers and the US Federal Patron: Perceptions of Agency-University Relations Commitment to the basic research ideal is not just an academic affectation. Indeed, it is a belief system which strongly conditions relationships between science and government. Science administrators need, we think, to understand better the tensions between the scientific culture and society. It is important that young scientists recognize that the basic research ideal is just that, an ideal, not a transcendent truth.
SYMPOSIUM ON MASS AND INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION. The absence of dominant journal(s) in communication may reflect that the literature in this field is still in an emerging stage.
Bibliometric profiles for British academic institutions: An experiment to develop research output indicators Although certain technical limitations were encountered with the approach, the study nonetheless yielded potentially useful information on the comparative research output of British universities and polytechnics.
Peer review in scientifically small countries The thrust of this article is the argument that the traditional peer-review system is inadequate and probably dangerous for scientifically small countries. As a result science policy can be misguided and societal loss can occur as valuable research effort is spent on ineffective peer-eval- uations. As bibliometric measures correlate well with non-bibliometric measures (Table 2) the use of such criteria can ameliorate personal biases, improve objective evaluations and reduce time spent on evaluation purposes consider- ably.
Historical note: Information retrieval and the future of an illusion To expect that machines can be instructed to solve such problems may be an illusion without a future.
<i>Social Science History</i>: Citation Record, 1976–1985 The journal has a reasonably good citation record given its relative youth.
Problems with the ‘measurement’ of national scientific performance I have shown in this article that it is possible to produce graphs indicating the rise, the decline, or the relative stability of British science by making different selections.
On-line approaches to measuring national scientific output: a cautionary tale we would conclude that on-line bibliometric statistics of national scientific output must be treated with extreme caution.
The newest version of the facts and figures on publication output and relative citation impact of 100 countries 1981–1985 The most striking feature this flash reveals is the outstanding position of a series of small West-European countries (Switzerland, Sweden, Denmark, The Netherlands, Belgium, Norway) in the "relative citation rate" rankings.
FEDERAL R&amp;D BUDGET: Among agencies, NSF fares poorly NSF will be left with 2 to 2.5% less money available for distributing grants than it had in fiscal 1987, according to NSF controller Sandra Toye.
THE MATTHEW EFFECT IN HEALTH DEVELOPMENT The forces that act to produce this setting of unequal care must be checked at both national and primary levels if we are to have "Health for All by the Year 2000."
ASSESSING RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY - EVALUATING JOURNAL PUBLICATION ACROSS ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS Thus, the use of journal impact factors in the weighting of publications clearly can have a pivotal influence on de-partment rankings.
AN INVESTIGATION OF AL AND EXPERT SYSTEMS LITERATURE - 1980-1984 The goal of this work was to develop a list of significant authors, institu-tions, and dates within the AI and ES field. A definite historical bias was seen in the results: The highly cited papers found using namedropping were five to seven years old. This study was therefore unable to find evidence for a coherent body of study called cognitive science based on the 19801984 SCI.
GRIFFITH,BELVER,C. ON THE PUZZLING POSSIBILITIES OF PRICE,DEREK SCIENTOMETRIC MODELS - INTRODUCTION TO PRICE,DEREK PUZZLES - NUMERICAL METAPHORS FOR THE OPERATION OF SCIENCE BY GRIFFITH,BELVER,C. (REPRINTED FROM SCIENCE-TECHNOLOGY AND HUMAN-VALUES, VOL 13, 3 AND 4, PG 351-360) The problematic aspect of Price's model is thus its unique use, here, in just this one paper. The graph makes powerful distinctions, and it could be the natural complement to cocitation analysis, which has no inherent time dimension and loses continuity in the low overlaps of related clusters in successive yearly files.
GROWTH OF DIGESTIVE DISEASES RESEARCH FUNDS AND INVESTIGATORS SUPPORTED BY THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH We conclude that the digestive diseases research community is growing very slowly. In summary, NIDDK has shown only a modest increase in the number of grantees it supports in digestive diseases during a 10-yr period. It is especially notable that about one-fourth of these investigators are holding multiple grants and that the actual pool of investigators supported by the NIDDK has grown only modestly between 1977 and 1986.
THE GROWTH OF JAPANESE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY The various patent and scientific literature indicators examined here are quantitatively consistent with what observers of Japan have sensed for several years: Japan's technological accomplishments are extraordinary, while its scientific achievements, at least up until 1984, are more modest. The patent data show that Japanese technology appears to be less science-based than technology produced by inventors from other countries. Considering the Japanese track record for identifying national goals and achieving them, it seems distinctly possible that within one or two decades Japanese science will catch up with Japanese technology.
CITATION AND SOCIAL-BEHAVIOR - MCINNIS,RAYMOND,G. AND SYMES,DAL EXPLORE RIESMAN,DAVID THE LONELY CROWD - AN INTRODUCTION TO RIESMAN,DAVID AND THE CONCEPT OF BIBLIOGRAPHIC CITATION BY MCINNIS,RAYMOND, AND SYMES,DAL (REPRINTED FROM COLLEGE-AND-RESEARCH-LIBRARIES, SEPTEMBER 1988) Ultimately the citation becomes a symbol for both substantive content and for intellectual property.
THE LEARNING-PROCESS IN SCIENCE - A STUDY AMONG BRAZILIAN BIOCHEMISTS The results presented in this study suggest that the scientific attitude of a productive group of biochemists in a developing country (Brazil) is essentially the same as that of their colleagues from countries where scientific output is high. Alternatively, it may be that the sense of hierarchy and the evolution of logic, evaluation, intuition and cosmic factors, reflect in reality the natural path followed in the learning of science and are therefore not affected by local cultural influences. What is still unclear is whether intuition and preoccupation with cosmic factors, whose perception exists in beginners and is quite strong in highly rated biochemists, are vocational factors inherent to the more talented, or are characteristics that develop through long experience of productive work.
BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY OF THE APPLICATION OF COMPUTERS IN SYNTHETIC ORGANIC, PHYSICAL, INORGANIC, AND ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY LITERATURE ABSTRACTED BY CHEMICAL ABSTRACTS IN 1986 The following conclusions may be drawn from this study: (1) The journal literature of computers in the analysis of chemistry can match Bradford's law in both graphical and mathematical formulation. (2) Thirty core journals contributing significantly to the subject can be identified. (3) Most authors published only one paper on this subject in the period 1984-1986.
ZIPF LAWS IN TEXT MODELING Based on Herbert Simon's two principles for judging the plausibility of theories, we identify the Simon-Yule model of text generation as a promising approach for text modeling.
CHARTING NATIONAL RESEARCH PERFORMANCES IN ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY, 1981-1985 The above-mentioned rankings are based on mean impact rates. However, in most of the countries mentioned in categories B-D the distribution of impact, although very skewed, indicates the presence of a group of papers (of various sizes in the different countries) that form a 'hard' high impact core belonging to category (A).
CREATIVITY AND CONFORMITY IN SCIENCE - TITLES, KEYWORDS AND CO-WORD ANALYSIS The study reported in this paper supports the proposition that the Paris/ Keele type of co-word analysis may be satisfactorily performed on a set of documents by using either title words or keywords and that (at least for the case in point) the main difference between the results obtained is that keywords provide a much more detailed account of the field of science studied.
NATIONAL RESEARCH EFFORTS IN ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY, 1981-1985 Except for those in group V, all countries have an above average research activity in the field of analytical chemistry. Whether this can be considered a positive achievement in the overall scientific development of these countries is a moot question.
FACTORS INFLUENCING THE SUCCESS OF ACADEMIC RADIOLOGISTS IN PUBLISHING RESEARCH The results of this study indicate that department chairmen who wish to enhance the research productivity of current and future radiologists must make important decisions concerning how they select and train radiology trainees and the environments they provide for their faculties.
AGE AND SCHOLARLY IMPACT The data offer no support to claims that publications by young scientists have greater impact.
THE IMPACT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PHYTOPATHOLOGY AT THE WAGENINGEN AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY, AS EVALUATED BY CITATION ANALYSIS Together with the results of an analysis of self-citations by the eight most cited authors they suggest, that phytopathology as a science is poorly covered by the Science Citation Index.
THE CORE JOURNALS OF ECONOMICS Thus, if one's only interest is the relative impact of different journals, the choice of base period may not matter much.
TRENDS OF THE OPHTHALMIC LITERATURE FROM 1955 TO 1985 Despite these limitations, this study identifies important trends in the ophthalmic literature. Thus, the journals have not only been publishing more articles, but more articles of an investigative type rather than a descriptive type. The NIH in the United States remains the largest provider of financial support for research despite the small relative recent decline in the percentage citation for clinical science and clinically descriptive articles.
THE SCHOLARLY PRODUCTIVITY OF MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY FACULTY COMPARED WITH OTHER ACADEMIC HEALTH-CENTER FACULTY In the analysis of the survey data and the implications of the study, the following are a few perti-nent conclusions drawn about the schol-arly activities of medical technology fac-ulty in 23 southern academic health science centers. The foregoing results confirm the null hypothesis of no significant difference in scholarly productivity levels between medical technology faculty and other allied health faculty must be rejected. The study suggests medical technology faculty produce approximately one-half the number of scholarly works (journal articles) as faculty in other allied health disciplines in academic health centers.
CAN BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS ASSESS SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY - THE WESTERN WORLD, ITALIAN INSTITUTIONS, AND BIOPHYSICS AS TEST CASES It might be surprising that technology with industrial impact (technological balance of payments) go hand in hand with basic and applied long term research (publications and citations), but not with short range research (patents and innovations). The correlation coefficients with T.B.P. are, respectively, 0.998 for publications and 0.26 for patents. This goal could be accomplished by adopting ad hoc expert systems (10), which rely on objective and properly normalized indicators such as publications, citations, and patents with international standards, despite their well known inherent limitations.
A SURVEY OF REFERENCE ACCURACY IN 5 NATIONAL DENTAL JOURNALS The results of this survey showed that nearly half of the references reviewed were inaccurate.
ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY - THE MOST FREQUENTLY CITED PAPERS DURING THE PAST 25 YEARS Finally, we would like to emphasize that in order to gain an understanding of a subject field it is necessary to study quantitatively its subject literature, including its significant writings. Although this is a significant difference we can only reiterate our previous statement¹¹: 'there seems to be... a mutually influencing synergism between biochemistry and analytical chemistry'.
THE JOURNAL OF FAMILY-PRACTICE 1974-1988 - WINDOW TO AN EVOLVING ACADEMIC DISCIPLINE It appears that the manuscript supply represented by original work in the field is still limited and that there is at present adequate or even surplus journal capacity for publication of work carried out in family practice settings.
LANGUAGE OF PUBLICATION OF JOURNAL ARTICLES ON SUICIDE AND MENTAL-DISORDERS We have examined the medical literature and thus cannot say whether English is the preferred language for the nonmedical literature on suicide. Today the reader can cover 80% of the litera- ture on suicide and psychiatry by reading titles published in English. Whether much of value is lost by such restriction appears to be unknown.
PREDICTING THE PRODUCTIVE RESEARCH PSYCHIATRIST the results suggest an important finding for assessing the potential research productivity of a psychiatrist - that productivity is capable of being predicted on the basis of a number of track record variables, and that after these variables are taken into account, any predictive capacity provided by research experience and institutional support appears non-existent.
THE SCIENTIFIC CITATION INDEX AND THE-JOURNAL-OF-INVESTIGATIVE-DERMATOLOGY These comparisons confirm the widely held impression of The Journal of Investigative Dermatology as a major subspeci-alty journal with a strong impact factor.
COAUTHORSHIP, SOCIAL-STRUCTURE AND INFLUENCE WITHIN SPECIALTIES The two preliminary studies which we have presented confirm the finding of Edge and Mulkay that, socially, specialties are not indivisible like the atom of Leucippus and Democritus. Instead, they are better viewed as social molecules, each of whose structure requires, and is susceptible to, elucidation.
A CO-WORD STUDY OF ARTIFICIAL-INTELLIGENCE Nevertheless, this brief discussion and illustration of co-word analysis indicates why the approach is of interest to policy-makers. It offers the potential of a non-partisan overview of research in a field, identifies what appear to be themes of research, and depicts the relationships between the themes. In particular, it points to themes of research that may be of particular strategic importance in an area, but which are relatively underdeveloped — possible points of growth (or stumbling blocks) for the future development of research in the area as a whole.
TRAINING PEDIATRIC SCIENTISTS We are confident that we can change behaviors and greatly alter the heavy clinical orientation of current fellowship programs, and in so doing, not only improve the future of pediatric research but also the future of the practice of general pediatrics. Second, the SPR should develop new ways to encourage and recognize research performed by "young or future investigators," and by that we mean medical students, residents, and fellows. Third and finally, we must join with our colleagues in other disciplines and continue to exert effective pressure to ensure that society allocates adequate resources not only for biomedical research but also for research training.
Rating intervals: an experiment in peer review Careful experimentation with peer review procedures is feasible and, in proper circumstances, the rating behavior of reviewers can be modified.
Profiling the professors Our tentative study supports the supposition that library and information studies is neither a coherent nor unified discipline: plurivocality is a feature of the professoriate. In terms of the re-search interests of our six professors and of the constituencies who draw on their work, the field appears in some respects to be little more than a random aggregation of both specialist and gener-alist interests. There undoubtedly is some middle or common ground (which can be defined in terms of a cluster of core journals) but less than the rubric would have us believe.
A comparison of citation classics in three fields of science The most striking result of this study is, in our opinion, the close similarities found in the scientific fields studied.
Age and research productivity of academic scientists Although in our work we find that age is a fairly weak predictor of performance, the data suggest the presence of some aging effects. Given the time frame of the analysis, these results suggest that the graying of America's scientific community was accompanied with slowed rates of research in higher education. The larger question then is how an older scientific community affects the prospect that these leaps or revolutions occur.
Bibliometric measurement of research performance and Price's theory of differences among the sciences "Our results suggest that the average citation score of a research group reflects at least partly the extent at which the group participates in the particular kind of process of knowledge growth as indicated by Price and those after him."
National publication patterns and citation impact in the multidisciplinary journals Nature and Science The outstanding position of these two nations in the publication of high-impact science has been revealed also in our previous studies. This is valid in spite of both nations being disadvantaged by the well known "language barrier" in time of English dominance as the "lingua franca" of science. Our results re the performance of these nations seem to support the views Garfield formulated in two recent studies.
The science citation index and the measurement of national performance in terms of numbers of scientific publications I have shown in this article that the major technical objections against the use of the on-line Science Citation Index (SciSearch) for national publication performance measurement can be overcome for the period after 1978. For this purpose, one should use the Corporate Country datafield, which has only recently been made available both on DIMDI and on DIALOG. The remaining problem of how to attribute journals dynamically to specialties and disciplines, in order to disaggregate national performance measurement along these lines, has not yet been studied at the scale of the full journal set.
Some data on the distribution of journal publication types in the science citation index database Our main personal conclusion is that the data presented here show convincingly that the publication type categorized as letters (L) in the SCI database is an item which cannot be excluded from evaluative counts without seriously affecting the reliability of the evaluation. The authors of the present "flash" do hope that the collection of data presented in Tables 1-5 will enable scientists using the SCI database or one of the databases derived from it (CHI, ISSRU etc.) for own evaluative purposes to find out the version which best fits their own aims and intentions.
Mapping Authors in Intellectual Space Co-cited author mapping, with the author as the unit of analysis, is likely to complement studies of informal communication networks. Co-cited author studies provide one view of the organization of scholarly specialties—a view representing the consensus of a very large number of scholars concerning the relationships among important writers in the field. Finally, as noted at the beginning of the article, using the author as the unit of analysis allows the researcher to study several complementary aspects of scholarly activity—the intellectual structure based on links among bodies of published work, the cognitive structure, deriving from citing authors’ perceptions of their field, and the interpersonal networks among the currently publishing mapped authors, including patterns of collaboration and coauthorship, social structure, and informal communication networks.
THE MANAGEMENT OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH I have put forward, as a preliminary framework for the analysis of research management, three models, called the linear, classical and mixed models.
Are citation-based quantitative techniques adequate for measuring science on the periphery? We believe, as does Frame45, that if we know the limitations of SCI and if we un-derstand the special features of peripheral science, we can use citation-based quanti-tative techniques, which function rather well in the context of large scientific enter-prises of the advanced countries, to answer questions concerning Third World science as well. In particular, there is no better way of finding the international impact of the work done in these countries. Another reason for the importance assumed by such quantitative techniques in peripheral science — despite their limitations — is that peer evaluation in peripheral societies leaves much to be desired.
Scientometrics, theory of experiment and optimization of research Any considerable advance can hardly be expected in solving the problem under discussion without concrete studies. Even at the level of general conceptions there appear "bottlenecks" which demand further examination.
Journal-to-journal citation data: Issues of validity and reliability Here, using nine years' worth of citation data involving nearly 76 journals in Com-munication, Information Science and Library Science, we have shown that the reliability of journal-to-journal citation data taken from the Institute for Scientific Information's Social Science Citation Index Journal Citation Report may suffer from at least 25% measurement error. ISI may be able to resolve some of these threats to the reliability of their journal-to-journal citation data, while researchers must also take steps to improve the data they use from such sources. We have suggested ways to correct many of the causes of this error. Some positions on the validity of citation data may be obscured by problems with its reliability.
Cluster analysis of bibliographic references as a scientometric method Cluster analysis of bibliographic references enables to create an "atlas of science" of particular scientific specialities, to carry out historico-scientific and multivariant scientometric studies. It may be concluded that immunologic concepts and techniques are more slowly difused into practice in science bields adjacent to immunology, than in immunology itself. The wide use of cluster analysis in science management requires further perfection of the methodology of these techniques, defining the degree of reliability and operative ability of the results of cluster analysis and in broader sense the theory of cluster analysis of bibliographic references.
Authorship patterns in life sciences, preclinical basic and clinical research papers It is quite obvious from data presented that the average number of authors per paper varies between three and five in biomedical sciences depending upon the nature of the subject. There seems to be a distinct trend towards more number of collaborators for research papers in medical/clinically oriented subjects as compared to the basic biomedical and life sciences papers. Further studies are needed on this aspect.
Research Performance Indicators Based on Peer Review: A Critical Analysis Indices based on journal peer review have inherent advantages over those based on grant-giver peer review and impressionistic peer review. It would be advisable, therefore, if number of publications per capita (or its alter ego, cost per publication) were given pre-eminent weighting in the UGC's scheme of assessment. Unless explanations can be found for the variations in performance observed between departments, nothing can be learned about the optimal environment for research, and it is surely this that should be the objective of any study of this kind.
Using citation counts as a measure of quality in science measuring what's measurable rather than what's valid But an approach that relies on citation counts as a measure of quality may too often be measuring what is measurable rather than what is valid.
“Power law” version of Bradford's law: Statistical tests and methods of estimation In summary, using standard statistical tests it is shown that the distribution of papers in journals is well represented by a power law function.
Productivity of women scholars and gender researchers: Is funding a factor? Our results suggest that internal or external funding support cannot account for relatively high productivity by female scholars and relatively high proportions of gender articles in the recent sociological literature. These forms of scholarship were equally likely as traditional articles to acknowledge internal funding, but less likely to acknowledge external funding. We urge further study of these influences as they relate to gender equity in the evaluation and award of research funds.
Political Science Publishers The documented increase in the use of what might be called "nontraditional" pub- lishing sources is an important factor in collection development un- dertakings. Some of the answers to these ques- tions have been found. Other questions are fertile ground for continued study.
ON THE GROWTH OF BIBLIOGRAPHIES WITH TIME: AN EXERCISE IN BIBLIOMETRIC PREDICTION The remarkable similarity between the sets of predictions as shown in Table 2 can be viewed on the one hand as supporting the assumed beta form of the mixing distribution in the parametric model, and on the other as demonstrating the efficacy of the empirical Bayes method which makes no assumptions at all about the form of the mixing distribution. The models described here are testable and it would be of interest to see how well they perform in the face of current data, a task which should certainly be possible given the ready availability of information retrieval systems nowadays. It is hoped that the results of such an exercise will be reported in due course.
Academic research productivity, department size and organization: Further results Our basic findings — that department size appears to contribute positively to research productivity, that this effect diminishes as size increases, and that public organiz-ation diminishes productivity — are in accord with other literature and with our earlier article; much work remains to be done, however.
An impact assessment perspective in research planning: the case of a research institute in China The well organized 'planning process' for a research institute requires not only the effective management of R & D but also imaginative management of the linkages between planning and commercial innovation.
Productivity differences fields of learning, and Lotka's law I have documented that there are no essential differences in publishing inequality among individual researchers across such different fields of learning as the natural sciences, the medical sciences, the social sciences, and the humanities.
Assessing the usefulness of bibliometric indicators for the humanities and the social and beha vioural sciences: A comparative study For all fields, bibliometric indicators were potentially useful for monitoring international impact, as expert interviews confirmed.
Between centers and peripheries Finally we suggest that this typology can be used for analytical purposes in order to study the growth and publication patterns of Third World science.
Scientometric datafiles. A comprehensive set of indicators on 2649 journals and 96 countries in all major science fields and subfields 1981–1985 Scientometric indicators are on the way to become a standard tool of evaluation and analysis in research management and science policy.
Redirecting Faculty Research and Publication Efforts through the Use of a Faculty Development Program: A Case Study of "Publish and Prosper" Using an Incentive System The effect of this new program is essen-tially unknown at present.
Words and co-words as indicators of intellectual organization Since word-word associations seem to be specific to research lines, they are useful as an indicator of the internal structure of already coherent, i.e. selected, document sets.
The Criterial Crisis of the Academic World* I have argued that a standards crisis exists because of a chain of events of which the final one is a flawed social invention that takes the place of individual judgment and established values, the criterial system.
Publish in a visible journal of perish? assessing citation performance of nordic cancer research The analysis showed that in order to give a comprehensive picture of the international impact of research work carried out in a given field by a given country, it is important to use several citation measures which describe different sides of the matter. The comparison of data obtained through a definition of the study field by the contents of the articles and through a definition of the field by journals (the CHI database) produced in essence very close results. Nevertheless, it seems that the channel of publication gives articles differential chances for recognition, to some degree independently of their intrinsic value.
Evaluating academic science institutions in South Africa It is argued that the high correlation provides evidence for the value of "publication counts" as a proxy for research quality and that research output is an efficient and eas-ily obtained predictor of university rankings according to peer reviews.
Statistical reliability of citation frequency as an indicator of scientific impact By applying these results to citation data published in the literature, it is shown that sometimes statistically unjustified conclusions have been drawn in the past. These three illustrations of the application of the statistical model presented above reveal the general temptation to draw conclusions which are not justified on the basis of the limited number of data. It cannot be stressed too much that the approach presented in this paper is an exclusively statistical approach: if a significant difference is found, it does not say anything about its origin.
Citation context analysis and aging patterns of journal articles in molecular genetics The results from this diachronous study reinforce previous research which has shown an association between a scientific paper's "importance" (measured by citation counts at some point in time) and its identity as a "methods" paper.
Bibliographic scattering: A generalised source approach The simplistic way of our treatment has no concern for growth or evolution or implied time parameter. This is an advantage.
Journal Costs: Journal Publishing as Part of a Society’s Operations The publication of Journals is but one segment of a society's services to its membership and the scientific community it represents.
Visibility of peripheral journals through the science citation index "These results show convincingly that the inclusion of Croatica Chemica Acta (CCA) and Roczniki Chemii (RC) into the Science Citation Index did not improve (i.e. did not increase) the visibility of these two journals within the world's scientific literature."
Dynamic thesaural systems: A bibliometric study of terminological and conceptual change in sociology and economics with application to the design of dynamic thesaural systems Generally, terminology used in citing paper contexts reflects concepts of a specialty area.
Estimation of the publication potential in 50 U.S. states and in the District of Columbia based on the frequency distribution of scientific productivity The frequency distribution of scientific production in the states of the U.S. in a two-year period can be modelled by a Waring distribution.
Similarity measures in scientometric research: The Jaccard index versus Salton's cosine formula We have shown why Salton's cosine formula often yields a similarity measure in citation studies that is twice the number of that obtained by the Jaccard index.
Mainstream and non mainstream scientific literature in four peripheral Asian scientific communities The paper argues that it is misleading to characterize these peripheral scientific communities as principally stratified in function of local scientists' participation in mainstream science. A second conclusion of our study is that local, non mainstream scientific and international, mainstream scientific communication are interdependent and complementary. Parochialism and cosmopolitanism seem to be intertwined rather than orientations that stratify the scientific communities of the four countries.
First Comprehensive Survey of NSF Applicants Focuses on Their Concerns About Proposal Review In my view, the survey findings do not argue for a radical structural change in the way proposals are submitted, reviewed, or decided upon.
What do citations count? the rhetoric-first model Some implications of this view for quantitative modeling of the citation process are drawn.
Publication Trends in American Meteorological Society Technical Journals In summary, there is clearly evident today a growing challenge to effective communication in atmospheric and oceanic sciences. Satisfactory solutions to this problem probably do exist, but they will likely require important changes to the way we have traditionally presented our research results. In the least, we need to exercise restraint in the preparation of manuscripts if we want to keep the growth of published material in our sciences within normal and reasonable bounds.
A sampling artifact in the UGC evaluation of research performance It has been established that it would be unwise to compare the research performance of departments on the basis of the average quality of a sample of their k best publications.
On the ranking of psychological journals The regressions shown in Table 3 can be linked in the heuristic diagram shown in Fig. 3. The simple predictive model, together with its in- terpretation, is fruitful it provides hypotheses that could be tested for a much larger sample of journals. Understanding why journals have their standings and how they are evaluated is an important task that takes us well beyond the debate of which par- ticular methods of measuring journal standing are better according to some implicit cri- terion.
Citations: Indicators of significance? Differences among the four articles were reflected in the manner in which they fulfilled systematic but qualitatively distinct functions in other texts when they were used for specific purposes of argumentation. One important implication of our findings is that quite apart from whether citations are positive or negative, perfunctory or substantive, simple citation counts and even the analysis of isolated sentences in which articles are cited tell us relatively little about the different kinds of cognitive significance of different articles.
Use of Periodicals by Humanities Scholars Interpreted against the background of the tremendous number of periodicals that may, on occasion, be of use for research in the humanities, this study, while confirming the differences between numbers of citations and numbers of uses, suggests that there is enough of a harmony to justify taking into account citations (along with many other factors) in making decisions about collection de-velopment and management in this complex and very confusing area of knowledge.
Science studies and natural sciences: Which is primary, distribution or interdependence between variables? This article uncovers an essential difference between natural sciences and science studies: for the former, the primacy of interdependences between variables over their statistical distributions has been established, whereas for the latter, the situation is reversed with distributions having primacy over dependences.
The citation gap between printed and instrumental output of technological research: The case of the electron microscope Ignoring this kind of citation leads to a Citation Gap. When the performance of scientists is measured by citation counts, this Citation Gap is particularly prejudicial for the designers of instruments. We do, however, emphasize the necessity to use other methods when evaluating technology.
A validation study of bibliometric indicators: The comparative performance of cum laude doctorates in chemistry The results support the concurrent validity of bibliometric indicators with peer review indicators of quality of the research project.
Determining the best departments by their best publications: A strategy best avoided Using a department's k best publications to measure its research performance, therefore, can produce a substantial overestimation of the performance of large departments relative to small departments. It has been shown that an index of research quality based on a department's k best publications confounds merit with departmental size. The findings of this study are interesting from a psychological as well as a scientometric perspective, because they highlight a common failing in human judgment.
A scientometric assessment of agricultural research in South Africa This article is an effort to assess basic agricultural research in South Africa.
Assessing assessments of British science. Some facts and figures to accept or decline After a rather comprehensive analysis of several SCI based publication productivity indicators, it can be concluded that neither the view of a "continuing decline"⁵ nor that of a "remarkable increase"¹⁶ of British science in the first half of the eighties can be supported by valid bibliometric/scientometric arguments.
Possible treatment of the Bonitz-Gross effect The qualitive agreement of the theoretical model suggested is shown with Bonitz's experiments. The agreement of the theory and the experiment is discussed and it is shown that the model suggested describes the Groos effect, i. e. it introduces a correction to the Bradford law.
Automatic indexing in the Science and Social Science Citation Index CD‐ROM The effectiveness of Related Records or Automatches ob- viously cannot be judged from a single search, but they do have the potential of being useful, particularly during the cy- cling backwards and forwards in time type of search enabled by the design of citation indexes.
Micro-economic models of problem choice in basic science This work is a part of a larger project whose aim is to describe the more general and typical situation of research planning in which technological and other external values play a role.
Citation analysis and the science policy arena Here, we have emphasized a single point: citation analysis developed in the absence of empirical work on data problems or citer motivation. It alone should suffice to exclude evaluative citation analysis from the arena of science policy.
The Invisible College Reconsidered If the invisible college is considered to be an informal social phenomenon, then a preliminary definition can be proposed: An invisible college is a set of informal communication relations among scientists or other scholars who share a specific common interest or goal. Both the bibliographic map and its ethnographic interpretation are necessary to move through the territory of scholarly communication. The main advantage, then, of an ethnographic methodology in studies of scholarly communication is that it would allow researchers to make more powerful interpretations of the quantitative analysis of communication artifacts.
A Mathematical Model of Academic Citation Age We developed a mathematical model to describe the citation process.
Influences of local and organizational factors on output indicators The results of the citation analysis for the university groups and the institutes show different underlying social processes both internally and in relation to audiences.
Research Productivity in Social Psychology The results of the present investigation also showed that the APA journal in social psychology (JPSP) appears to provide a satisfactory estimate of research productivity in the domain of social psychology³. Although the listing of graduate student authorship in PSPB can only be taken as a single index of graduate student research involvement in this journal, we hope that the information on overall institutional research produc- tivity and this latter listing will provide prospective graduate students with useful information regarding the quality of graduate programs in social psychology.
Representing a scientific field: A bibliometric approach A new bibliometric macro-method is proposed as an alternative to co-citation analysis of fields and disciplines.
Novelty in Academic Writing We cannot claim that these or the many other possible 'micro-world settings' will lead novices to come up with something insightfully new to say as authors, but we do claim that it can better help them learn the challenge of trying to do so.
International comparisons of scientific performance revisited First, the approach yields comprehensive data spanning the whole of science and engineering (or at least the more basic research activities in engineering) across all the main countries.
Journal citation measures: taking into account their fluctuations from year to year It is hoped that this paper will contribute to a better understanding of the confidence intervals that can be associated with citation measures and with the rankings which are based on these cita- tion measures. It will then be possible to make better use of journal citation measures, including those presented in the ISI Journal Citation Re- ports.
The newest version of the facts and figures on publication output and relative citation impact. A collection of relational charts, 1981–1985 The picture becomes considerably more diversified when the two-dimensional approach of fig. 2 is taken into account.
Citation behavior: Classification, utility, and location Citations seem to be more heavily concentrated in the first 15% of the technical papers studied, corresponding roughly to their introductory sections. The empirically derived data suggest that a document may contain many items of information that may be cited for a number of reasons. Indeed, studies focusing on elements of information cited, as opposed to full citations, are needed; particularly to develop models that reflect more adequately the patterns of articulated information use of a scientific community.
Comparative evaluation of information flow from national and international journals: an empirical study in a small country By applying the proposed procedure the journal(s) which are the carriers of high-quality articles, would certainly be identified. Comparative evaluation based on empirical evidence of information flow from domestic and from foreign journals supplies data suitable for detection of the leading national journal in a specific field of science. Its compatibility with the "Philadelphia program", aiming to help the Third World countries to bring their scientific output to the notice of the wider world [20], should be emphasized.
Editors-in-Chief of Medical Journals The answer to the question in the title of this article is thus clear: The editors-in-chief are not necessarily experts (in the sense of higher-than-average citation rate) but, as a rule, authorities-at least in their own specialties.
Australian Scholarly Journals The separation in most societies of the editing function from the policy and financial functions is thought to contribute to this situation, which in many cases is simply not yet recognized by those closest to it. None of these issues was resolved in the forum, but there was agreement that individual journals need to be aware of the problems and take steps to avoid the crisis that seems to be impending. If the message has been worth all the trouble, time and expense of doing the research and reporting on it, surely a little more trouble with the medium is justified to ensure that the message is heard.
Who Discovers and Invents In short, innovators are very broadly educated autodidacts who believe that knowledge is coherent, unifiable, and general; who specialize in breadth rather than expertise; who acquire general principles of problem solving rather than specific facts; who are curious, self-motivated questioners; who are interested more in problems and processes than in solutions or products; and who display an unusual range of practical skills and theoretical knowledge.
Bureaucratization in the Laboratory Bureaucratization and red tape are highest among government laboratories dramatically so. In addition, increased government influence, in terms of resources, also results in increases in bureaucratization and red tape. This implies that government labs do not respond quickly to important R&D trends and that they may not be well equipped for cutting edge research.
Readability and prestige in scientific journals I believe it is more important to study situa-tions that will allow for further tests of the baf-flegab hypothesis.
THE RISING COST OF NIH-FUNDED BIOMEDICAL-RESEARCH The regularity with which current-services-requirements estimates for the NIH exceed inflation reflects real growth in the program, particularly in the category of research project grants; the artifact of basing calculations on the post- rather than pre-"negotiated" levels of awards in the "current" year; and the extent to which the project periods of awards have been extended. The effect of lengthening project periods is slow to appear, but unless accompanied by the award of fewer competing appli- cations, inexorably swells the pool of noncompeting awards; decisions in this area undertaken in 1985 and continued at least through FY 1988 will very significantly increase cur- rent services requirements in FYs 1991 and 1992.
WHO WILL WIN THE NOBEL-PRIZE IN ECONOMICS - HERES A FORECAST BASED ON CITATION INDICATORS Rather, the individuals listed in Table 1—if they have not died and have not already won the prize—are potential winners in future years. The probability of winning the Nobel Prize for these economists is, if the past is any indication, very good. It will then be interesting to discover how a list generated using that method would compare with Table 1.
DECLINING AMERICAN REPRESENTATION IN LEADING CLINICAL-RESEARCH JOURNALS The explanation for this phenomenon is unclear, but it coincides with the slowed growth of funding from the Na-tional Institutes of Health for U.S. clinical research.
EDUCATIONAL-PSYCHOLOGY - CORE JOURNALS, RESEARCH FRONTS, AND HIGHLY CITED PAPERS The research literature in educational psychology shares several statistical characteristics of other scientific fields, particularly the comparative rarity of very highly cited scientists, articles, and journals. Its most-cited articles, moreover, tend to review and theoretically integrate the empirical work of the field.
THE ACCURACY AND COMPLETENESS OF REFERENCE CITED IN SELECTED ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY JOURNALS there is a considerable need to edu-cate authors about the importance of consulting the original reference as well as taking care to ensure that the information appears correctly in the reference list.
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF QUANTITY AND QUALITY IN THE ANALYTICAL LITERATURE The implication of quantity in the analytical literature is therefore a minor problem and is easily explained by the increased importance of analytical chemistry, by the greater number of analysts and their improved working conditions.
TRENDS TOWARD INTERNATIONALIZATION IN ASTRONOMICAL LITERATURE We have found for several of the major astronomical journals of the world that, after several decades of constant international input, that input started to rise steeply in the early 1970s to reach current rates of about 30%.
COMMON DEFICIENCIES OF NIDRR RESEARCH APPLICATIONS In conclusion, many applications are submitted for the NIDRR field investigator-initiated research program competitions that are significantly defi-cient. Those identified areas of deficiency cover most of the conceptualization, research design and meth-odologic criteria essential for valid, creditable sci-entific investigation. Without careful attention to the tradition and basic principles of the scientific method, these efforts will not contribute to the acquisition of new and useful knowledge that is so badly needed in a young and rapidly developing field.
SOME RECENT TRENDS IN THE USE OF INSTRUMENTAL METHODS FOR TRACE-METAL ANALYSIS The overwhelming dominance of optical methods should alert people involved in analytical chemistry teaching, books and journals editing and laboratory planning. Instrument producers are also advised to consider these aspects when shaping their strategies. Finally, we would like to emphasize that the rankings in Tables I and II and in Fig. 1 should be treated with the caution due to such types of data.
CLUSTER-ANALYSIS, GRAPHS, AND BRANCHING-PROCESSES AS NEW METHODOLOGIES FOR INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS ON EXAMPLE OF BIBLIOMETRIC AND SOCIAL NETWORK DATA The value of this approach lies in the possibility of a meaningful and interesting interpretation of the findings.
WORK PROFILES OF RESEARCH STATISTICIANS The most important factor affecting publication success seems to be an efficient use of time. Enhancing research potential is more a matter of changing individual emphasis in time allocation than it is an institutional concern. The aspiring author might do well to subscribe to The Annals of Statistics, Biometrica, and Biometrika, in addition to JASA, to keep abreast of changes in the field.
JOURNAL SELECTION MODEL - AN INDIRECT EVALUATION OF SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS The proposed journal selection model proved to be effective in the indirect evaluation of scientific journals.
NATIONAL PUBLICATION PRODUCTIVITIES AND PERFORMANCE IN ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY CORE JOURNALS, 1981-1985 A cumulative ranking, on the other hand, once again reveals the larger countries (U.S.A., U.K., Japan) in the first three positions (Table III).
AN EVALUATION OF POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH TRAINING AND TRAINEES SUPPORTED BY THE NATIONAL-INSTITUTES-OF-HEALTH IN THE DIVISION OF KIDNEY, UROLOGIC AND HEMATOLOGIC DISEASES These data may be encouraging to trainees and trainers.
MEDICAL AUTHORSHIP - TRADITIONS, TRENDS, AND TRIBULATIONS I have sought to elaborate some of the issues that confront the authors, editors, and consumers of medical information.
UNITED-STATES INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATION ON EDITORIAL-BOARDS OF UNITED-STATES STATISTICS JOURNALS These findings present a clear signal that there is no select group of individuals, institutions, or geographical areas in the U.S. that dominates decisions about manuscripts submitted to these 14 statistics journals. The results of this survey give highly reassuring answers to both questions, in that there appears to be a widespread balance of individuals, institutions, and U.S. geographical areas on editorial boards. It will be interesting to see whether these rankings of statistics faculties are essentially the same in the year 2000.
UTILITY OF BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS FOR RESEARCH POLICY - A CASE-STUDY OF SPANISH RESEARCH IN NEUROSCIENCE The study concludes that any funding policy aimed at promoting the development of neuroscience has to choose between "centres of excellence" and multiple research points more homogeneously distributed around the country.
INTERNATIONAL CRYSTALLOGRAPHY RESEARCH - WHERE IT IS PUBLISHED, WHAT IT CITES, AND WHAT CITES IT In summary, the data examined here showed that 52 nations published articles in 13 crystallography journals indexed in the SCI in 1984. The 5 leading producers (the US, the FRG, the USSR, the UK, and Japan) accounted for 56.3 percent, and the top 10 accounted for 76.9 percent.
AN EMPIRICAL-EXAMINATION OF THE EXISTING MODELS FOR BRADFORD LAW When using rank-frequency cumulative models, Egghe's model F(X) = A * log [B + C*X + D *log(1 + C * X)] should be considered first since it fits better than others. Leimkuhler's model F(n) = (B/n)D – C is the only model tested among models with other forms and it passed goodness of fit tests more times than any other models. Based on the above analysis, it is obvious that a direction for further research in Bradford's law is to find a model which can describe the Groos droop part.
COMPUTER BIBLIOMETRICS FOR JOURNAL CLASSIFICATION The suitability of such an approach consists mainly in: • computerized extraction of the data and formation of the journal-by-heading table; • easy calculation and interpretation of the measures and statistics used; • the fact that a discipline-oriented file is used—in this way a great number of journals relevant to the selected (sub)field are taken into account, irrespective of publication language, inclusion in the Science Citation Index, or use in a particular library.
THE GEOGRAPHY OF WORLD RESEARCH IN ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY, 1981-1985 The 'highest im-pact' landscape continues with a joint height for Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, the U.K., Finland, Norway, Australia and New Zealand.
DIRECT COMPARISON OF BIBLIOMETRIC-MODELS This paper has shown three different examples of how direct comparisons of bibliometric models can be made, and of the kinds of interpretations that can be given to such comparisons. We find the idea of asking questions in terms of full models versus restricted models, thereby pitting parsimony against accuracy of prediction, to be an extremely useful framework within which to think about bibliometrics, and indeed statistics in general. In addition, we think that the likelihood ratio chi-square statistic, G2, has merit and we would like to see it gain greater acceptance in bibliometric modelling.
RESEARCH, PUBLIC-POLICY AND DRUG-ABUSE - CURRENT APPROACHES AND NEW DIRECTIONS What is recommended here is a new National Research Strategy on Drug Abuse to chart new directions in science policy, incorporating a targeted component for priority areas of research.
SOME RECENT TRENDS IN INSTRUMENTAL ORGANIC-ANALYSIS In relative growth tendencies, the upward trend of the use of hyphenated methods is even more striking here but the relative upward movement of chromatographic and electroanalytical techniques is also clear.
THE CONCEPT OF CREATIVITY AMONG BIOCHEMISTS All of the scientists, both high and low peak, emphasize interaction with other scientists and rapport among the working team as being essential for the expression of creativity. Thus, material conditions can be a determinant factor to the maintenance of the ambience needed for the expression of creativity. In this case, the role of supporting funds is felt not as the need of modern equipment, but as the tranquillity brought by a minimum wage that allows the scientist to dedicate himself to work.
THE TRAINING OF BRAZILIAN BIOCHEMISTS IN BRAZIL AND IN DEVELOPED-COUNTRIES - COSTS AND BENEFITS The data in Table 4 show that post-doctoral training overseas is effective in improving the scientific productivity of Brazilian biochemists, but that no advantage is gained from sending them abroad to obtain a PhD. Therefore, it is proposed that instead of sending young students overseas, qualified scientists should be brought into the country to train students. Thus, with the funds spent by the CNPq and CAPES to send 5 500 students overseas in 1989,5 it would be possible to import 2 250 talented scientists.
MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS IN A NEWLY INDUSTRIALIZED COUNTRY - TAIWAN Finally, the national programs challenge administrative systems, major R&D institutes and the grand national plan to upgrade themselves.
MIS RESEARCH DIRECTIONS - A SURVEY OF RESEARCHERS VIEWS The field is now numerically dominated by young Ph.D.s with degrees in MIS having few published articles as opposed to more experienced, well-published researchers. Thus, it appears that there is a growing pluralism of research interests which may be viewed either as evidence of healthy diversification or fragmentation and lack of focus. This study has provided evidence that there is shared concern for such issues, and the consensus cuts across all sectors of the research community.
JOURNAL PEER REVIEWING - ANONYMITY OR DISCLOSURE Our society prizes the free flow of ideas, and the current mania for "freedom of information" may mean that the days of anonymous reviewing are numbered. The very basis of journal publication is free-dom of information. Is that basis subverted by anon-ymous reviewing? The question deserves serious re-flection by editors, publishers, authors, scientists, and readers of scientific journals.
MECHANISMS FOR EVALUATING SCIENTIFIC-INFORMATION AND THE ROLE OF PEER-REVIEW It is maintained, however, that fraud, as distinguished from unintended error, is not common in science.
PEER-REVIEW AND THE CHANGING RESEARCH RECORD Science is a continuous process, and theories must sur-vive new facts and verification. Science is thus self-correcting by nature, and errors that are inadvertent or deliberate will be detected and corrected over time. There is a heightened awareness today of problems in maintaining integrity in science is evident from the number of meetings, papers, and reports, both in the pub-lic and the professional press.
RESEARCH CAREERS IN CHILD-PSYCHIATRY - AN UPDATE ON 5 NIMH WORKSHOPS Overall, it seems that the 1981-82 and the 1984 groups of trainees behaved in like manner with regard to involvement in research, research training, and academic productivity.
INDIRECT COST RATES WHAT THEY ARE AND HOW THEY REACHED THEIR CURRENT LEVELS The dramatic rise in indirect costs-both in dollars and as a percent of total research costs is due to a number of factors, not the least of which are actions taken by the federal government itself, including: (a) An historical underpayment of such costs and a period of "catch-up." (b) A period of intense inflation which particularly affected key components of indirect costs. (c) The imposition of a number of well-intentioned government rules and reporting requirements.
Recruitment and accomplishment in fundamental science Both models lead to the conclusion that contributions to fundamental scientific knowledge and the scientific value of these contributions rise at a very slow and rapidly declining rate with increases in the relative size of the scientific cadre and that the opportunity costs of expansions of fundamental scientific activity rise rapidly as competing sectors are drained of talent.
Japan still an island academically But Japan has a far lower rate of foreign co-authorship than any other western nation.
Reputation — A hard-currency medium of interchange In contrast to the predominant ideological tradition that universities are basically equal, there are pronounced discipline-specific hierarchies of reputation in the Federal Republic of Germany, very similar to the stratification typical of the US American system of higher education. The analyses show both the validity of performance-related institutional reputation and the competitive biases arising from structural characteristics of the scientific units.
Advanced interfaces to analyse automatically online database set of answers The constant increase in the amount of literature and the use of CD-ROM will generate the need for new commands that are able to analyse globally the answers obtained from online databases.
Structural constraints on communication: The diffusion of the homomorphic signal analysis technique through scientific fields From a cognitive standpoint, this research suggests a possible cognitive foundation for method diffusion—methods as maps which are tightly coupled to the area of application and are communicated on the basis of the level of shared knowledge and interaction. From a scientific communication point of view, generalist journals which are central nodes for a discipline serve an important function in intra- and inter-discipline communication. The second major structural factor in the rapid diffusion of innovative methods is that opinion leaders tend to work in a cross-sub-disciplinary fashion.
Some incentives and contraints of scientific performance in economics First of all, this article has attempted to show to what extent the finding regarding incentives and constraints of scientific performance in Dutch economics can be generalized to other countries. Comparison of the findings with studies conducted in the U.S.2 and the U.K shows that consistent finding have been reported concerning the economies of scale and input mix variables. Third, the robustness of the findings regarding overall performance has been investigated by additional analyses. Consistent with the discrimination functions presented in Part I, multiple regression analyses confirmed the importance of economies of scale and input mix variables.
Scientometric datafiles supplementary indicators on 96 countries 1981–1985 By these criteria we intended to minimize the potential effects of various undesirable biasses and thereby to enhance objective cross-national comparisons.
Environmental science research in India: An analysis of publications Indian work in environmental science is highly scattered among various organizations.
Ranks and sizes: some complementarities and contrasts Ranks and sizes, then, are contrasting and also complementary points of view and each has its place.
Ratings of women economists by citations This study ranked the top 50 women academic economists and the top 25 women nonacademic economists.
Problems Identified by Secondary Review of Accepted Manuscripts A basic affirmation of 80% of our previous decisions to accept a manuscript seems quite reasonable, given the inevitably human and subjective aspects of both peer review and editorial decision mak- ing.
A topographical approach to world publication output and performance in the sciences, 1981–1985
Bias, Controversy, and Abuse in the Study of the Scientific Publication System To conclude, I believe that studies of science - and studies of the exchange systems within science (especially journal publication) - are of the utmost priority in our continuing attempts to understand and refine human knowledge and its dissemination. I do not believe, however, that such a compelling priority justifies violations of human rights and the professional codes of ethical conduct developed to protect them. The questions of how, when, and why we "draw the lines" demarcating ethical and unethical conduct will remain with us, of course, and we can only hope that their challenges will teach us some important lessons about ourselves and our methods in the process.
Does place of publication influence citation behavior? Data derived from studies of Philippine scientists and Korean mathematicians do suggest that place of publication may exert some influence on citation behavior.
The Serials Crisis Revisited The net effect of this exercise, then, was the cancellation of Talanta, a now certifiably non-essential journal of analytical chemistry (at least at Caltech). The second lesson learned in 1981 was the necessity of isolating the serials and journals budget and emphasizing to the administration that additional funds are required. Caltech is weathering the current serials crisis because it began preparing for the crunch nearly five years ago.
The application of evolution models in scientometrics The model proposed in this paper is complex enough to reflect some general properties of an evolutionary process taking place in a science system.
Representing Biotechnology: An Ethnography of Quebec Science Policy "The analysis presented in this paper is not conceived of as an alternative to traditional approaches in the science policy field."
A quantitative analysis of Turkish publication output in physics between 1938–1987 The main inferences that may be drawn from the foregoing analysis are that historical development of physics research can be quite reliable followed through the statistics related to research papers from Turkish institutions and scientists. As a final note, I want to stress the following thumb of rule: Probably, it is still the best guide to follow the principle that overall economic means and levels in a country defines everything else related to that country.
Scientific and Technological Information Banks for the network management of research Strategic planning is an important part of a programme manager's activity. Our goal in presenting this example was to illustrate the idea that programme managers have to navigate freely in large amounts of information. This stability means that the links which have been automatically created between the academic and the industrial research files are informative and can be used by a programme manager as a means of navigating between two different research contexts.
Openness index and affinity index: Two new citation indicators This article represents an initial attempt to examine a few of the many existing citation indicators. By introducing the openness index and the affinity index, it designates specific meanings to and differentiates various aspects of JCR's self-citing rate and self-cited rate.
Departmental Effects on Scientific Productivity When academic scientists change institutions, those who move up in departmental prestige tend to show an increase in both the number of publications and the number of citations; those who move down suffer corresponding decreases in productivity.
An assessment of 'Progress' Building on the foundations laid by PIG, PIHG has quickly taken on a central role within human geography in the English-speaking world.
Journal ranking by different parameters. Part II. Individual or collective: Which parameters are best suited for journal ranking? No parameter can replace an other one, each carries essential information on the communication process.
Age and scientific productivity. Differences between fields of learning The utility maximizing theory, which says that productivity decreases with increasing age because the utility of doing research as a means of increasing status or income declines, finds little support in the data.
International Journal of Behavioral Development: Scope and Trends The analysis of the content of IJBD's articles showed that the scope of IJBD is distinctly developmental and very similar to the five most well-known developmental journals.
A contribution to the dispute on the Ortega hypothesis: Connection between publication rate and stratification of scientists, tested by various methods The majority of scientists help the general advance of science through solving these and other necessary tasks (Ortega hypothesis). The validity of the Ortega hypothesis should not be derived solely from the findings through formal indicators, but also from an analysis of the contents and of the economic processes. These different forms of analysis could complement each other.
But the reviewers are making different criticisms of my paper! Diversity and uniqueness in reviewer comments. Our evidence for the relative independence or uniqueness of reviewer reports will not surprise many editors.
The Chemical Abstract's Service generic chemical (Markush) structure storage and retrieval capability. 1. Basic concepts The concepts described in this paper were designed to support the searching of a file of Markush structures with queries that consist of either specific or generic structures.
Scientometric analysis of the research activities of chemists from the “Rugjer Bošković” Institute (Yugoslavia), 1976–1985 During the period of 1975-1985 the chemists from the RBI published, more than 30% of the Yugoslav chemical output. The citation distribution, in corresponding chemical subject fields, of RBI papers is slightly different from that of the world, i.e. uncited and outstandingly cited papers are less frequent in the case of the RBI. The relative citation rate per paper is considerably higher for RBI papers than for Yugoslav papers in general.
Retrieval performance in online search in thermal physiology Thus, although online search is unquestionably a helpful tool for the research scientist today, much improvement is still necessary. A first step would be to determine whether the low yield of a search is due mainly to poor coverage of the literature, to deficient search techniques, or to a combination of both.
Quantification of the performance of research units: A simple mathematical model First, the principal advantage of the methodology lies in its ability to unify the relative merits of both bibliometric measures and peer review in one quantitative model.
The prediction of science indicators using information theory In summary, the analysis conclusively establishes a straightforward relation between aggregated output in terms of percentage of world share of publications and aggregated input in normalized currency; but this relation itself varies with time.
Some incentives and constraints of scientific performance in departments of economics This paper has attempted to explain why publication records differ among departments of economics.
Patterns of Productivity in the Finance Literature: A Study of the Bibliometric Distributions Our empirical results strongly suggest that there exists one: the number of authors publishing n papers is about 1/nº of those publishing one paper.
If at first you don’t succeed: Review procedures for revised and resubmitted manuscripts This research demonstrates that variations in review procedures are even more important for resubmitted manuscripts. Based on what we've learned from this research, there are three things authors should consider when deciding what their resubmission strategy should be. The peer review process has increased collaboration among the practition-ers of the discipline via referee comments, hence increased scholarly commu-nication and the integrity of the knowledge produced.
Pinski's citation based measures of research interactivity and the application of a complex structure measure to journal systems To complete the picture, the four examples showed all measures which are possible for individual journals on the one hand, and for groups or the system on the other hand.
The citation impact of funded and unfunded research in economics It has been shown in the previous section - albeit in a preliminary and tentative manner - that funded research published in certain high-prestige economic journals tends to be cited more often than unfunded research published in the same journals.
Publication structures and accumulative advantages We may conclude that in cardiovascular research, to accumulate a large number of citations, one has preferably to publish in an American journal and thus attract the attention of other authors publishing in the corresponding journals. This may be a cumulative process. Both the stratification of journals and the uneven distribution of knowledge of this factor are unfavorable for scientists and journals from smaller or peripheral countries.
Publishing productivity in the Earth sciences Pure aging effects were found to exist, al-though they are still relatively small in magni-tude. Thus the previous findings appear not to be merely the result of a confounding of cohort effects with age. Furthermore, holding the effects of age constant, the results suggest that contrary to a latest educated are best educated philosophy, the more recent vin-tages tend to be less productive than earlier vintages in all fields except geology, although in most cases the differences are not statisti-cally significant.
Mapping intellectual structure of a scientific subfield through author cocitations But the empirically derived groupings based on author cocitation do provide the "best fit" to combina-tions of works as reflected by current writers drawing on the work of their predecessors.
Is There Value-Added from the Review Process in Economics?: Preliminary Evidence from Authors The evidence presented in this paper suggests that editors' concern with respect to quality of reviews may be well-founded.
Citation counts and social comparisons: Scientists' use and evaluation of citation index data Our study investigated several possible sources of variation in individual's use and evaluation of citation counts as measures of scholarly contributions. Thus, we believe that our results generally support the hypotheses we developed from social comparison theory. These and other sources of ambivalence toward citation counts are likely to continue to fuel controversy over their use as measures of scholarly contributions.
Fields or subfields of knowledge: Rejection rates and agreement in peer review Our classification of manuscripts into specialties is heuristic. Nevertheless, with this classification, the evidence shows enough variation in rejection rates among specialties to conclude that there are wide differences.
Higher Education Literature The present study illustrates behavior patterns with regard to the use of certain forms and ages of materials and indicates the interdisciplinary nature of the study of higher education, which is consistent with the social sciences generally.
SOVIET SCIENCE UNDER GORBACHEV "Despite these qualifications all Western sources agree that in general Soviet fundamental research has lagged behind that of the West." "My prognosis is that the Soviet Union will not become a Third World scientific nation." "Its leaders are sufficiently aware of the dangers and the problems to take urgent remedial action, while the nation has the resources to respond to that action."
Information flows among academic disciplines in Japan Both citation analysis of Japanese journals and the analysis of migration of scholars among disciplines produced somewhat similar results, although some methodological problems are left to be solved.
An Introduction to the Framework of Creatology* Finishing this brief and not entirely exhaustive survey, I consider two mutually related advantages of looking for the basic cultural paradigms in the depth of our scientific reasoning in general, and in creativity studies in particular.
Interlibrary loan demand as a science policy indicator The initial work carried out by BLDSC and CEST suggests that patterns of document demand and use measures of information services can provide useful data on the workings of the information infrastructure of industrial research. BLDSC now has a platform from which to plan further work in this area.
Implications of technological change for scientific communication in the third world a case study<sup>1</sup> The gloomy prediction made by Harrison Brown's committee in 1971 appears to be correct.
Scientometric indicators for a specialty in theoretical high-energy physics: Monte Carlo methods in lattice field theory The evolution of the research specialty "MC methods in lattice field theory" is a paradigm for the growth of a new science subfield from a core body of seminal literature.
Citation Rankings of Public Administration Journals Citation counting offers a worthy alternative to prestige sampling as a means of evaluating journal quality.
Publication productivity: from frequency distributions to scientometric indicators What we wanted to demonstrate in this paper was that publication productivity distributions form an almost inexhaustible source of sciento-metric analyses.
A Study of Correlation of Use, Citation and Publishing of Journal Papers by Indian Space Technologists The present study with the limitations inherent in incidental use of data from a larger study has shown a slight positive correlation between publishing in and citing from a journal.
The significance of the number of highly cited papers as an indicator of scientific prolificacy Conclusion 2A: Prolific researchers with a large number of HCPs usually manifest themselves already in their Ph.D. work, apparently almost independently of the scientific setting. Conclusion 2D: For researchers, just as for artists, sportsmen, etc., talent is the most decisive factor in being successful. The results have implications for decisions concerning the support of research and the selection of a Ph.D. for a research job.
The export of ideas from information science What does information science export? Some techniques in the areas of information retrieval and bibliometrics, though more than 90% of the ideas generated within the field is not formally acknowledged by, or incorporated into, the scholarly apparatus of other disciplines.
Literature core zones adjusted by impact factors The results illustrate that scientific literatures that are already clustered, are made even more extended, and therefore uneven by impact adjustment. These results seem to corroborate previous theorizing about the importance of journals in several literatures, as the present example of Nature illustrates. There are strong arguments for considering these journals to be the hearts of their literatures.
Who Are the Most Important Theorists of Communication? The consensus on theory reflected in the Encyclopedia also overturns venerable myths and hoary clichés of the communications field, for example, the claim by Bernard Berelson (1959) that communications had four "Founding Fathers”: Lewin, Lazarsfeld, Lasswell, and Hovland (widely known in the field as "Hovland and the Three Ls").
Journal ranking by different parameter. Part I. Collectivity and selective collectivity: Two ranking parameters reflecting the structure of a journal network Applying the ranking parameters Collectivity and Selective Collectivity to the same set of journals as before the ranking parameters Selective Journal Productivity and Selective Impact lead to the expected re-ranking of the journals and to unforeseeable types of distributions which are of principal interest from practical and theoretical points of view. Studying journal distributions governed by structure parameters seems to be an appropriate way to learn more about the collective properties of scientific journals.
Semi-automatic determination of citation relevancy: User evaluation In summary, the SORT-AID/SABRE system orders citations by relevance. The software produced distributions approach those of the end-user in 22% of the projects, are 23% better than the random distribution on average and are poorer than random in 4% of the cases. Current efforts are proceeding along this line with the objective of combining the two methods and conducting another in-depth user evaluation.
The Origins of Sex Differences in Science Part of the sex difference in predoctoral productivity can be explained by processes that are fundamentally different for males and females.
Motherhood and Scientific Productivity Thus, only women with small children and unmarried/childless women, who as a group make up about half the women researchers, publish on average substantially less than their male colleagues. However, while Fox and Faver's study on American social work academics reports that having children at younger ages is positively related to women's productivity, the present study comes to the opposite conclusion. More studies have to be done to settle this question.
The National Natural Science Foundation of China: Its background, present, and guiding principles We are confident we can improve our work, adjust policies in time and manage the NSFC so as to promote the prosperity of science in China and serve the nation's economic and social progress.
Recent trends in the output and impact of British science Our findings suggest that the long-term decline in the United Kingdom's share of world publications finally levelled off during the mid-1980s (Table 1), while the downward trend in citation share slowed appreciably with a barely significant 1-2% fall evident over the latest four years for which data are available (Tables 5 and 6).
Brazilian scientists' publications and mainstream science: Some policy implications The policy of encouraging scientists to publish their best contributions abroad is questioned. Instead of focusing in individual "international" papers, a more comprehensive approach to quality would be to help Brazilian journals to meet international standards: regular publications, international editorial boards, foreign referees, more distributions from foreign scientists, more use of English — the lingua franca of science — and so on. In this context, strengthening the quality of national journals is an issue that should receive more attention on the Brazilian science policy agenda.
Relations among science indicators or more generally among anything one might wish to count about texts The purpose of the above application of statistical decomposition analysis to five problems is mainly to sensitize the reader to the wide range of important questions in science studies, and in technology studies as well, which can be addressed by this method.
Who Leads the (Ivy) League in "Citation Impact"? As a whole, the Ivy League carries disproportionate clout: the mean citation rate for all papers in the database during the 15-year period was 11.01, about 60% of the Ivy League rate.
Who Are the Peer Reviewers and How Much Do They Review? Judging by their output and citation counts, this sample of reviewers appears to qualify as experts, to be members of a network that reviews for several journals, and to devote appreciable amounts of uncom-pensated time to reviewing papers sub-mitted to scientific journals.
Variation in Journal Peer Review Systems Such differences conform to claims that disciplinary differences in consensus on research priorities and procedures contribute to variation in typical journal peer review systems. Review systems, in turn, influence authors' experiences in the peer review process.
INCREASING THE NUMBER OF COMPETING AWARDS AT THE NATIONAL HEART, LUNG, AND BLOOD INSTITUTE - PROJECTIONS OF A MODEL In conclusion, within the conditions and assumptions of the model, it has been shown that the transitory effect of moving to longer award terms should largely have passed by 1993, when the annual number of competing awards for the NHLBI is expected to have settled at a long-term sustainable number of about 727.
THEIR MOST PRODUCTIVE YEARS - YOUNG PHYSICS FACULTY IN 1990 Nevertheless, we believe that the findings of the survey demonstrate a critical need for reassessing our national goals in the sciences. The comments reveal a strong sense of frustration and dismay. The dramatic difference in response reveals a major change for the worse in the research climate.
IMPLICATIONS OF NEW TECHNOLOGY FOR THE REVIEWING PROCESS There is promise for major benefit to the reviewing process down the road.
THE PRODUCTION OF ASTRONOMERS - A MODEL FOR FUTURE SURPLUSES I have derived and investigated a simple quantitative model to predict the future surplus of new Ph.D.s in astronomy and in other fields in which production is not at all regulated by demand.
PEER-REVIEW - AN UNFLATTERING PICTURE Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
DOES THE NEED FOR AGREEMENT AMONG REVIEWERS INHIBIT THE PUBLICATION OF CONTROVERSIAL FINDINGS Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
RELIABILITY, FAIRNESS, OBJECTIVITY, AND OTHER INAPPROPRIATE GOALS IN PEER-REVIEW Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
THE PREDICTIVE-VALIDITY OF PEER-REVIEW - A NEGLECTED ISSUE "The available data are clear. Quite low levels of chance-corrected interreviewer agreement are obtained in every area of scientific inquiry, from abstract, manu-script, and grant reviews. Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences."
DOES GROUP DISCUSSION CONTRIBUTE TO THE RELIABILITY OF COMPLEX JUDGMENTS The study concludes that reviewers consistently agree more on rejecting scientific documents than on accepting them. Given the decreasing availability of research funds, the paper stresses that the current situation often leads to meritorious proposals being denied. It offers several suggestions to improve the reliability and quality of peer review, including the use of multiple reviewers and an appeals system for grant submissions.
UNRELIABLE PEER-REVIEW - CAUSES AND CURES OF HUMAN MISERY "Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences."
EVALUATING SCHOLARLY WORKS - HOW MANY REVIEWERS - HOW MUCH ANONYMITY "Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review."
WHAT SHOULD BE DONE TO IMPROVE REVIEWING Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
DIFFERENT RATES OF AGREEMENT ON ACCEPTANCE AND REJECTION - A STATISTICAL ARTIFACT Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
WHEN NON-RELIABILITY OF REVIEWS INDICATES SOLID SCIENCE Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
JOURNAL AVAILABILITY AND THE QUALITY OF PUBLISHED RESEARCH Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
PEER-REVIEW IS NOT ENOUGH - EDITORS MUST WORK WITH LIBRARIANS TO ENSURE ACCESS TO RESEARCH "Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review."
ON FORECASTING VALIDITY AND FINESSING RELIABILITY “Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career (e.g., jeopardize or delay a potential promotion), what conclusions can be drawn from this report?”
IS THERE AN ALTERNATIVE TO PEER-REVIEW Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career (e.g., jeopardize or delay a potential promotion), what conclusions can be drawn from this report? Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
REFEREE AGREEMENT IN CONTEXT Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career (e.g., jeopardize or delay a potential promotion), what conclusions can be drawn from this report?
CONFUSION BETWEEN REVIEWER RELIABILITY AND WISE EDITORIAL AND FUNDING DECISIONS The focus of concern should be on the problems associated with the rather arbitrary rejection of grant submissions, in which the phenomenon cuts across various disciplines (e.g., physics, chemistry, economics) and may prevent or seriously delay the implementation of worthy research endeavors.
REFLECTIONS ON THE PEER-REVIEW PROCESS Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
THE PROCESS OF PEER-REVIEW - UNANSWERED QUESTIONS Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
IS UNRELIABILITY IN PEER-REVIEW HARMFUL "Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review." "Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences." "The focus of concern should be on the problems associated with the rather arbitrary rejection of grant submissions, in which the phenomenon cuts across various disciplines (e.g., phys- ics, chemistry, economics) and may prevent or seriously delay the implementation of worthy research en- deavors."
TOWARD OPENNESS AND FAIRNESS IN THE REVIEW PROCESS Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career... what conclusions can be drawn from this report?
NOW THAT WE KNOW HOW LOW THE RELIABILITY IS, WHAT SHALL WE DO "Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences."
IN PRAISE OF RANDOMNESS Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
DISAGREEMENT AMONG JOURNAL REVIEWERS - NO CAUSE FOR UNDUE ALARM "Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career (e.g., jeopardize or delay a potential promotion), what conclusions can be drawn from this report?" "Our own view tends toward proposition (a), especially with respect to the peer review of grants." "Given the decreasing availability of research funds, the current situation has become markedly more competi- tive, with NIH grants usually requiring priority scores of 125 or considerably less, in order to assure funding."
CHAIRMANS ACTION - THE IMPORTANCE OF EXECUTIVE DECISIONS IN PEER-REVIEW "In considering the implications of such findings for peer review in general, one should probably be less concerned with the high rejection rates of general jour-nals in social and behavioral science and medicine than with the overall increased rejection rates for grants sub-mitted in all three areas. the focus of concern should be on the problems associated with the rather arbitrary rejection of grant submissions, in which the phenomenon cuts across various disciplines (e.g., phys-ics, chemistry, economics) and may prevent or seriously delay the implementation of worthy research en-deavors."
REFLECTIONS FROM THE PEER-REVIEW MIRROR Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career (e.g., jeopardize or delay a potential promotion), what conclusions can be drawn from this report?
RECRUITING FACULTY - COMPLEMENTARY TALES FROM 2 CAMPUSES The intangible benefits of employment were the most important factors in the decision-making process, but they also tended to be nearly as equally attractive (at the aggregate level) for both the subject institutions and the competing alternatives.
THEORY OF COLLABORATION AND COLLABORATIVE MEASURES It is our hope that, in studies of collaboration (e.g., science policy studies, social studies, ...) one of the measures γ1, γ2 will be preferred above the other ones; their calculation is very simple and does not require human interpretation.
PRODUCTIVITY OF MANAGEMENT-INFORMATION-SYSTEMS RESEARCHERS - DOES LOTKA LAW APPLY Lotka's inverse-square law predicting the number of authors making a certain number of contributions to the MIS literature is not valid when we consider publications of the researchers in various journals.
GRADUATE-EDUCATION IN POLITICAL PSYCHOLOGY Still, while political psychology has generally "gotten onto the map" at the graduate level, in that it is regularly taught at many universities, it has for the most part not yet achieved the status of a major subfield of its parent disciplines. While political psychology is not a large or major specialty at the doctoral level, then, the trend is encouraging. It may be, then, that the next generation, with broader training across the full range of specialties, will develop creative theoretical and empirical advances not possible in the past.
CURRENT STATUS OF RESEARCH ACTIVITY IN AMERICAN CHILD AND ADOLESCENT-PSYCHIATRY .1. This survey indicates that child psychiatry has moved rather rapidly into the 1990s in taking its place as a research discipline in terms of research activity.
ANALYSIS OF TECHNICAL SPIN-OFF EFFECTS OF SPACE-RELATED RESEARCH-AND-DEVELOPMENT BY MEANS OF PATENT INDICATORS Overall, the method of analyzing patent citations makes it possible to trace the route taken by technology transfer from space research and to reveal more clearly the structures on which this is founded.
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF JOURNALS IN EXPLORATION GEOPHYSICS The conclusions of this and related studies lead naturally to the questions: what can be done to increase the proportion of significant papers published in our journals, and what steps can be taken to minimize the number of papers that are never read or cited? Authors, reviewers and editors should be motivated by an aspiration to limit their publications to important, influential papers that are widely read, will stand the test of time, and contribute to the continued evolution of geophysics as a scientific discipline.
A CITATION ANALYSIS OF AUSTRIAN MEDICAL-RESEARCH AND WIENER-KLINISCHE-WOCHENSCHRIFT I believe I've painted an objective picture of Austrian medical science, as reflected by the worldwide published literature. To improve impact you could seek to participate in more international (multi)-collaborative studies. This would fit into a growing trend especially in clinical studies with epidemiological content.
IN SEARCH OF EPISTEMIC NETWORKS I argue that words and their relations can be used as an operationalization of epistemic networks in scientific literature as conceptualized in the pragmatic tradition in the philosophy of science, but that one has to add the notion of 'nested structures' of networks at different levels of aggregations, as proposed by the French co-word analysts, in order to achieve a fuller understanding of the organization of texts.
THE PREDICTIVE ABILITY OF PEER-REVIEW OF GRANT PROPOSALS - THE CASE OF ECOLOGY AND THE UNITED-STATES-NATIONAL-SCIENCE-FOUNDATION The overall conclusion is that scientists who have done large amounts of good quality work in the recent past are likely to continue doing so in the near future. One can predict future performance from past performance. The current proposal-based system of such agencies as the United States National Science Foundation falls far short of this ideal.
STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS OF PUBLIC LENDING RIGHT LOANS The dominant conclusion from these studies is that some libraries in the sample behave very differently from the others, mostly for just one or two categories.
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COOPERATION AND AWARENESS WITHIN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY - PROBLEMS AND PERSPECTIVES The outcomes were that there has been an increase of intra-EC collaborations, but this growth is hardly faster than that of trans-national publications in general.
SCIENTIFIC COOPERATION IN EUROPE AND THE CITATION OF MULTINATIONALLY AUTHORED PAPERS The most highly cited European papers are the multinational papers, the least highly cited are the single institution papers within a single country, with an intermediate position of citation impact for papers from two or more institutions within a single country.
INDICATORS OF EUROPEAN SCIENTIFIC COHESION Membership of this club has unquestionably brought the European research community closer together. This is undoubtedly a major achievement. The club has advanced scientific cohesion in Europe. Perhaps, the single most important accomplishment of Community RTD policy, and the Framework Programme in particular, has been to create a European research 'partnership', in which the best researchers and the best research establishments in Europe, actually want to participate. Whatever the criticisms, however, it is undisputed that the 'club' has been a highly successful creation. It is undoubtedly unifying the Community response to the Japanese and American challenge in advanced technology. And it provides a huge resource of technical information to which all Member States have direct access.
THE SCIENTIFIC OUTPUT OF THE ECS LESS FAVORED REGIONS The analysis presented above has shown that the output of scientific papers from Europe's LFRs is by no means negligible, and indeed it is growing quite rapidly, but that it is not distributed evenly across scientific fields. There are areas of strength that could be used to focus any programmes designed to promote these regions' scientific and technological development. It would seem appropriate to determine the existing trends in these indicators, and then to project these trends into the future both with and without the proposed support programme.
EFFECTS OF EC RESEARCH-AND-DEVELOPMENT POLICY ON GREECE - SOME THOUGHTS IN VIEW OF THE STRIDE PROGRAM As a consequence it appears that a combination of excellence and cohesion indicators should be used for STRIDE.
PATENTS AS POTENTIAL INDICATORS OF THE UTILITY OF EC RESEARCH PROGRAMS From the viewpoint of its present state it is concluded that patent indicators may play a very useful role within a mixed set of evaluation procedures. The intersection with other methods is not very large, that is, patent indicators may provide supplementary information to a large extent.
INDICATORS FOR THE IDENTIFICATION OF STRATEGIC THEMES WITHIN A RESEARCH-PROGRAM In conclusion, our method supplies better indicators of the ability of a programme to support research as well as the relevance of its content in function of the maturity of national and international research.
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS AS AN INDICATOR FOR THE EVALUATION OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMS "To conclude these explanations it may be said that there exists a possibility of measuring the reaction of scientists to new themes(if one compares the 1st distribution with the 3rd one);"
RATING JOURNALS IN HEALTH-CARE ADMINISTRATION - THE PERCEPTIONS OF PROGRAM CHAIRPERSONS If the findings reported above are accepted at face value, the message to faculty members of health care administration programs is quite clear: strive to have your research published in one of the health policy, research, and planning journals or in The New England Journal of Medicine.
HOW BLIND IS BLIND REVIEW For the American Journal of Public Health blinding is usually, but not always, successful; and the majority of its reviewers fa- vor current policy. Until more defin- itive data are in, reviewer preference, which differs from journal to journal, seems the most legitimate guide to journal policy on blind review.
ANALYSIS OF SBIR PHASE-I AND PHASE-II REVIEW RESULTS AT THE NATIONAL-INSTITUTES-OF-HEALTH A clear result of the data presented here and that published previously (3) is that SBIR applicants need con-tinuing assistance to improve the chances of their success.
SOCIOLOGY OF SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE - A REFLEXIVE CITATION ANALYSIS OR SCIENCE DISCIPLINES AND DISCIPLINING SCIENCE Through a bibliometric case study of the sociology of scientific knowledge, we have sought to apply citation analysis to a social science, and to assess how much interest was shown in SSK by researchers in other fields. We found that although an analysis based on institutions was not possible, the technique did identify prolific authors and enabled comparison among them in terms of the numbers of papers and books published, citations earned, citations per publication, and highly-cited publications. In conclusion, it should be stressed that this work was of an exploratory nature, and that further development and refinement of the techniques is still desirable.
THE COSTS OF INSTITUTIONAL ISOMORPHISM - SCIENCE IN NONWESTERN COUNTRIES The findings of this paper raise doubts regarding straightforward neoclassical economic approaches to development, 52 and modern-ization explanations in LDCs. 53
THE UTILITY OF BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATABASES AS INDICATORS OF INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH - FACTORS INFLUENCING THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTERNATIONAL DATABASE "We have seen that a strict analysis of the database itself was not sufficient to explain the levels of international research in population and family planning."
ELEMENTS OF ACADEMIC PRODUCTIVITY - A COMPARISON OF PM-AND-R UNITS VERSUS OTHER CLINICAL SCIENCE UNITS This database may serve well as a baseline to reflect changes in the field with regard to academic development and productivity, as PM&R units develop more aggressive efforts to obtain extramural funding and to expand the numbers of research fellowships.
ZIPF LAW IN NATURAL LANGUAGES, PROGRAMMING-LANGUAGES, AND COMMAND LANGUAGES - THE SIMON-YULE APPROACH As a result, we identified the Simon-Yule model as a promising approach for explaining the theory.
GLOBALIZATION OF RESEARCH, SCHOLARLY INFORMATION, AND PATENTS - 10 YEAR TRENDS A final observation: the bibliometric data does not indicate any slackening in the rate of increase for linkage and cooperation.
FATE OF MANUSCRIPTS REJECTED FOR PUBLICATION IN THE AJR The results of this study indicate that rejection of a manuscript by a peer-reviewed journal such as AJR delays but by no means precludes publication. At least 82% of the major papers and 70% of the case reports that are submitted to AJR are eventually published, either in AJR or elsewhere. In the majority of cases, submission to other journals gains acceptance and publication.
TRAINING PHYSICIAN-SCIENTISTS FOR THE 1990S "The opportunities to contribute to discovery and to make advances that will help our patients have never been greater."
CONSENSUS AND THE RELIABILITY OF PEER-REVIEW EVALUATIONS "Our own view tends toward proposition (a), especially with respect to the peer review of grants."
PEER-REVIEW - EXPLICIT CRITERIA AND TRAINING CAN HELP Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
SHOULD THE BLINDED LEAD THE BLINDED Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences. Given that rejections of manuscripts and disapprovals of grant proposals can seriously affect one's research career (e.g., jeopardize or delay a potential promotion), what conclusions can be drawn from this report?
JUSTICE, EFFICIENCY, AND EPISTEMOLOGY IN THE PEER-REVIEW OF SCIENTIFIC MANUSCRIPTS Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review. Further research is needed, especially in the physical sciences.
PUBLIC FUNDING OF RESEARCH-AND-DEVELOPMENT - A BROAD PICTURE The continued strong US science funding situation will increase the movement of trained scientists to the USA from Europe and elsewhere in the world. This country seems set to take a lead role in Europe high technology, being involved in 156 out of 386 EC EUREKA projects (collaborative research programmes supporting near-market research).
STATISTICAL-MODELS OF TEXT IN CONTINUOUS SPEECH RECOGNITION Secondly, the four leading statistical models of text have been examined with respect to the three phenomena, with the Simon-Yule model of text providing a satisfactory fit to the laws.
The social return of academic research The answer... confirms what scientists have said all along: academic research more than pays for itself when its economic contri-butions to society are taken into account. The main message, Lederman says, should be that academic research is a good investment. Mansfield is cautious about how valuable his studies are for making funding decisions. 'It's nice to know that in the past these returns have been consider-able,' he says, 'but these findings alone do not prove anything about the future.'
The Peer Reviews Process: Clearly there is a large difference between expectation and perception. A four to six week period is ideal and reasonable; a seven-week period may be marginally acceptable. This time period should be closely monitored by all journals, and appropriate steps should be taken as the time periods become prolonged.
Conflicting perceptions of plans for an academic centre I have argued that research council documents are interpreted by academic researchers in contexts distinct from those in which they were written, with unpredictable results for the implementation of research council strategies. What might be most useful would be an understanding on both sides of the different uses of texts made in different contexts, and the impossibility of eliminating variable interpretations.
An overview of Mike Moravcsik's publication activity in physics Some aspects of Moravcsik's publication activity in physics are directly described by using online bibliometrics. The capacities of a co-occurrence method are demonstrated for representing his individual research profile or problem area: all Moravcsik's papers have been reduced to a set of linked headings (and separately controlled terms). Thus, his publication activity could be characterized as concentrated, continuous (minor changes in objects and phenomena of research), and progressive (variation in the proposed solutions).
Structuring scientific activities by co-author analysis In conclusion, co-author analysis can identify linkages on the intellectual and/or on the social level. Co-author analysis can also be used, for example, as an important tool in 'evaluative bibliometrics' in order to make a first identification of research groups in 'unknown' universities or organizations. An expert's opinion remains necessary.
Policy analysis and knowledge use The contrasting roles of "problem solving" and "enlightenment" for policy advising can coexist if we recognize that knowledge use for "problem solving" can be made easier by intermediaries, such as the short-term policy analyst. Efficient searching may not only aid analysts in the short term, but also provide feedback that motivates production and quality control of the research that is used. An efficient indexing system for policy-related research might serve as an incentive, if it could help producers of knowledge to be rewarded for its use.
The bibliometric assessment of UK scientific performance—Some comments on Martin's “reply” The annual changes of any of the indicators considered had no statistical significance, and no trend distinguishable from the effect of random fluctuations could be observed."
The emerging forum for business policy scholars Therefore, it is hoped that the data presented in this note will prove useful for the evaluation of promotion and tenure cases—a forum is emerging, and increased clarity seems to be appearing with regard to which publications would be considered reference outlets for those who seek promotion or tenure in the field of business policy.
Academic Science as a System of Markets But some current structural problems are deep-seated. For example, damaging conflict between institutional and individual interests is being generated by the introduction of commercial 'market forces' into the traditional academic marketplace, where competition was always by quality, not by price, and where individuals could enter and leave at minimal personal cost. If this disharmony is to be reduced, the system will need to be restructured in detail at a number of points, including project funding procedures, internal institutional budgeting and manage-ment, conditions of employment, career prospects in teaching and/or research, and the assignment of intellectual property rights. In basic science, quality of performance is so variable, and so decisive for successful achievement, that it must be the dominant criterion in every market transaction.
Citations and departmental research ratings The chemistry citation data suggest that such international recognition is concentrated on a few members of each department.
Delimitation of a medical research topic: interaction with experts in selecting a database and constructing a search strategy The findings show that it is possible to construct targeted search strategies which retrieve almost all relevant publications, even on a topic which is notoriously difficult to cover because of its heterogeneity and non-specific character.
Inequality in Scientific Performance: Adjustment for Attribution and Journal Impact Generally, we find that the adjustment for attribution only marginally affects inequality, producing a coefficient of variation that is not significantly different from the straight count measure.
Mapping economics through the journal literature: An experiment in journal cocitation analysis In this experiment, journal cocitation mapping produced clear, coherent, and reasonable results.
LET THE CREDITS ROLL: A PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION OF THE ROLE PLAYED BY MENTORS AND TRUSTED ASSESSORS IN DISCIPLINARY FORMATION On the basis of the preliminary evidence, there is a strong prima facie case for exploring further the ways in which classified and aggregated acknowledgements data could be used to bolster and corroborate conventional citation counts, whether for the purposes of quality assessment or for mapping communication linkages and networks within and between specialisms. Clearly, it is time to tap trusted assessorship' [7, pp.366, 367].
Citation indicators and peer review: their time-scales, criteria of evaluation, and biases In spite of the fact that conceptually the meaning of citations is not clear, citation indicators seem to produce a relatively consistent picture of the per-formance of groups. Self-citations did not affect the relative comparisons of the groups at all, and research orientation may have disfavored some groups, but overall, their citation performance was not affected by it to the extent expected. In an optimal situation peer review and citation analysis are used in parallel.
Scholarly Writing In many ways, the results of our study suggest that the women we investigated have careers that are anomalous to the bleak evidence published elsewhere. The women in our study did not appear to be more constrained by teaching or by family responsibilities than did male colleagues. The women in our study reported the same level of commitment and of scholarly production that men did. This study suggests that the organizational culture and structure of academia privileges men.
Faculty Publication Rates—An Analysis Table 2 suggests that much of the research and publication in physical education is occurring in institu- tions offering doctoral programs. It appears that the majority of doctoral students are being trained in institutions with high rates of publication within physical education journals.
The political economy of R&amp;D taxonomies R&D agencies need new taxonomies less than they need a rapid response capability to array budgets, obligations, and outlays in terms meaningful to different sponsors and audiences. It might be instructive to construct an ex post taxonomy from final research reports and journal articles rather than from ex ante requests for research funds.
A bibliometric study of the publications of the French National Institute for Health and Medical Research (INSERM) Our concern for policy relevance led us to explore a wide range of indicators that could help INSERM successfully fulfill its missions of research, knowledge transfert and innovation.
Trends in economic-journal literature: 1969–89 Summary results suggest that research interests have not been stagnant. In fact, the analysis reveals that econo-mists' research interests have tended to shift direction as society's economic problems change. Also, the increase in the incidence of co-authorship suggests that perhaps we are smart enough to exploit comparative ad-vantages.
Are sociologists’ publications uncited? Citation rates of journal articles, chapters, and books Our results show that the great majority of sociological publications, be they books, papers in edited books or journal articles, are subsequently cited.
Research output evaluation of two University Departments in Greece with the use of bibliometric indicators The higher number of scientists involved in research in Ioannina's group together with higher number of publications produced shows that scientific activity is greater in Ioannina. Publication productivity, namely number of publications produced per scientists is higher in Ioannina's group. Impact and visibility produced by all publication output of Patra's group are more international than Ioannina's.
State of British science Science and technology are now advancing so rapidly, and the learning curve is so steep, that once a nation has fallen behind in a par-ticular area, it is very difficult to catch up.
Reviewing United States History Monographs: A Bibliometric Survey This study has confirmed that a relatively small proportion of reviewing journals accounts for a substantial share of the reviews of books on United States history.
The relationship between performance indicators for academic research and funding: Developing a measure of return on investment in science The results indicate a clear relation between investment in higher education and quality. Finally, we developed a measure of return on investment in science and applied it to the universities in the Pac Ten. The limited production of the University of Oregon as evidence in this study is not the result of a low return on investment. Quite the opposite, the low performance appears a direct result of limited funding.
Pitfalls in assessing research performance by grant income The cumulative strength of the foregoing arguments constitutes a powerful case against the use of grant income to measure research performance.
Distribution of scientific productivity: Ambiguities in the assignment of author rank From this point of view, the conclusion that the impact of fractional and first authorship procedures on the author productivity distribution is roughly the same, is certainly of questionable validity. For these reasons it seems that multifaceted approach is necessary in studying the author productivity distribution, but even more in the appreciation of the actual contribution of a single author.
Precision in the manuscript review process: Hargens and Herting revisited To improve the quality of published work journals need to reduce the low reliability of the current manuscript review process.
The landscape of national performances in the sciences, 1981–1985 These 'landscapes' being an extension of relational charts by adding the dimension of publication size to the expected and observed citation rates, take us one step closer to the ideal of multidimensional assessments so passionately advocated by Moravcsik. This may serve as a visual basis of a kind of clustering of countries into groups or zones of citation behaviour.
Highly cited Soviet journals in the physical and life sciences: A study of the function of journals However in an important finding, the change for the Soviet journals is several times greater, suggesting that this literature, despite its smaller scale, is gaining relative to the West.
Publication productivity in doctoral research departments: Interdisciplinary and intradisciplinary factors There are large differences in the meaning of productivity across disciplines, a result consistent with much earlier research.
Motivations for citation: A comparison of self citation and citation to others With the exception of the three categories noted in the results section, there were essentially no differences between the reasons that authors cite their own work and the reasons they cite other work.
Clinical Research in Otolaryngology Journals These findings suggest that over the past two decades, clinical research in otolaryn- gology journals has increased in both quantity and quality. The basic conclusion that the quantity and quality of clinical re- search have steadily increased; rather, they should provide impetus for future multicenter studies and cooperative clinical trials to expand on an already solid foundation of clinical investiga- tion.
New Light on Old Boys: Cognitive and Institutional Particularism in the Peer Review System In the concluding discussion, we explore some of the possible implications for the peer review system.
Superstring theory: Information transfer in an emerging field The results reported above are comparisons to existing models and theories.
Years cited: An alternative measure of scientific accomplishment These results provide broad support for the use of years cited as an alternative measure of scientific accomplishment.
The Involvement of Chinese Scientists in International Scholarly Publishing A clear inequality is found between the centres and the peripheries in the control and opportunities of scientific publishing.
Some problematic aspects of using co-citation cluster time series to model the dynamics of research fields This finding has serious implications for the suggestion in the ABRC Science Policy Study that such indicators could be used as a pointer to the vitality of scientific fields for policy decisions.
Predicting citations to journal articles: The ideal number of references The "external" hypothesis that references influence editors and readers was supported while the "internal" hypothesis that the number of references is in- strumental to scholarship was not.
Magic triangle for three relative impact indicators The week international impact (Rw) of papers of these countries in the investigated discipline may be the consequence of an inappropriate publication strategy (Ps), namely preferred publication in home journals.
The citation impact of letters to the editor; The case of Lancet This survey confirms Garfield's earlier statement that letters to the editor account for about one third of all citations to Lancet.
Rankings of Economics Faculties and Representation on Editorial Boards of Top Journals The various empirical criteria used to rank U.S. economics departments all seem to produce about the same relative rankings.
On the “scientometric decline” of British science. One additional graph in reply to Ben Martin The hypothesis of a decline has therefore to be rejected.
A probabilistic model for the distribution of authorships The shifted Waring distribution was derived as an appropriate probability model for the distribution of authorships.
Managing Business Periodicals Collections Each evaluation method has strengths and weaknesses. Collection management is a continuous process; an effective collection management program must make use of a variety of different procedures. It is suggested that how such decisions are being reached at SJSU can serve to assist other libraries in the challenging task of periodicals collection management.
Evaluating input/output relationships in a regional research network using co-word analysis The problem of determining causal relationships between input and output data in order to explain the role of a funding body in the development of a research system is a difficult one. In this study, we presented a series of new co-word analysis tools designed to control for the impact of intervening variables on our evaluation of input/output relationships in a regional research system.
Bibliometric Analysis as a Tool in Journal Evaluation All these findings indicate that the suggested formula correlating the ranks (according to number of source items) of physics, chemistry and biology journals with the corresponding number of source items published are useful in estimating impact factors.
The shape of the distribution curve: an indication of changes in the journal productivity distribution pattern On the basis of the results obtained in this study, it can be concluded that a distinct causal relation exists between the shape of the distribu- tion curve and the internal structure of data.
The utility of scientific papers It is concluded that the references contained in a scientific paper are a major determinant of its future utility.
Possible causes of differences in information impact of journals from different subfields The main reason for the lower impact factor for journals of the macromolecular chemistry subfield may be the lower extent of the application of their results by other subfields. Summarizing results of the present paper it may be stated that the main reasons for lower impact factors for macromolecular chemistry journals are the following: – relatively low extent of interdisciplinary connections (Table 8), – higher percentage of older references (Table 3), – lower number of review journals (Table 2), – somewhat lower number of references (significantly lower in review papers) (Table 2).
Scientific journals of Sri Lanka Many of the problems faced by editors and publishers of scientific journals in Sri Lanka are common to other developing countries as well.
The quality of single and multiple authored papers; An unresolved problem The first conclusion is that no clear case exists for asserting that, in general, papers with more than one author are of higher quality. The final point is perhaps the most important. Different sciences and areas of study, it is clear, have different dynamics and different characteristics. Until the full picture or at least an outline thereof - is available, general statements about the relationship are inadvisable, and the complexities and qualifications which appear in this field should be fully appreciated.
Format Citation Patterns and Their Implications for Collection Development in Research Libraries Table 1, or others similar to it, can serve as guidelines for the review or creation of collection development policies and priorities within disciplines.
Ranking federal reserve system research departments by publications in professional journals I venture few conclusions.
Conference Papers Index and Information Retrieval in Psychology However, Conference Papers Index is a potential source of unpublished literature in psychology and should be considered in a multidatabase search strategy (3). Since databases that index paper presentations are quite incomplete, it is incumbent upon mental health associations to publish proceedings of their scientific meetings.
Evaluating the funding of strategic science: Some lessons from British experience The paper concludes that Directorate programmes have achieved a great measure of success in meeting these objectives, but in so doing has raised further questions, including how large a proportion of funds should be allocated to strategic as opposed to 'blue sky' research.
Core Journal Networks and Cocitation Maps: New Bibliometric Tools for Serials Research and Management "Core network analysis and journal cocitation have much to offer both the bibliometrician and the collection specialist."
A simple method for dynamic scientometrics using lexical analysis There are certain manifest limitations to the method of critical variations. Like other semi-quantitative approaches, it cannot pretend to be a substitute for historiographical studies but only their auxiliary. It would be interesting for comparative purposes to apply the analysis of trends to fields whose history has been established by other methods. Rendering co-word methods dynamic suggests ways of formalizing their analogies by resulting thematic inflections.
Number of references in biochemistry and other fields; A case study of the Journal of Biological Chemistry throughout 1910–1985 As far as the JBC is concerned, the findings presented in our tables seem to indicate that most of the factors mentioned above are still active and relevant continuing to push up the number of references per paper. In summation, the number of references in papers published in the JBC (and similar scientific journals) will probably continue to grow, making it likely that in 1990 about 70%-75% of all papers published will have more than thirty references each, mostly up to fifty references. Further research is needed concerning individual fields in order to get a fuller picture about referencing habits in each one.
Publication dynamics: Models and indicators The indicator triplet: transience, renewal, and dynamism represent but three of the possible several dimensions of the scientific author community of countries.
A bibliometric analysis of collaboration in a medical specialty Differences between expected and observed values of statistical disorder over a wide range of productivity and collaboration thresholds indicate that the relationships do have a clustering structure and, as such, lend themselves to further investigation. Hence it appears that in this investigation, components of the "preferred partitions" produced from the collaborative relationship do appear to be largely consistent with the empirical measures of subject and geographic focus.
Citation life cycles of ten citation classics The more a document is cited, the more it will get cited. This phenomenon, labelled "success-breeds-success", is characteristic of Citation Classic papers.
The probability distribution of the age of references in engineering papers I have shown that in a research community, without distinction of the field of work, the age of references may be modeled according to a simple lognormal probability density function (pdf). This pdf provides a time frame for gauging the period that is necessary to separate research with lasting value from research yielding more ephemeral results. It models the "shelf-life" of research. The aforementioned results also indicate that a more natural estimate of the age of a reference is not the number of years elapsed since it was published, but rather the logarithm of this number. Hence, the temporal distance between two references is better estimated by the ratio of their ages rather than by their difference.
Has the Study of Philosophy at Dutch Universities Changed under Economic and Political Pressures? The results show the relevance of publication-based data in research evaluation. First, it is clear from the data that despite, or maybe because of, the budget cuts, all groups of academic philosophers published more articles, more contributions to books, and more monographs in 1984-85 than in 1979-80. In general, the intention of the structural budget cuts, to effect a distribution of tasks among faculties, has failed.
Quality judgments of journals as indicators of research performance in the humanities and the social and behavioral sciences Despite limita- tions, the Journal Packet Quality indicator seems useful as a first, but crude approximation of the level of re- search performance when the number of articles is not too small. On an aggregate level, results showed con- vergence with those based on journal impact factors. It seems that the SSCI and A & HCI are potentially useful for citation analysis of publications in nonlocally oriented fields in the social sciences and the humanities.
Citedness and uncitedness of cancer articles It is believed that this study would be of help to the working oncologists, librarians and information scientists to assess the importance of articles published in a top ranking journal of cancer and also that of different journals publishing oncological research results.
The Impact of the <i>American Political Science Review</i> The APSR has evolved impressive-ly over the years. It always has been an excellent scholarly journal, in the contexts of changing scholarly and scientific times. It has become a highly professional journal, well-respected by scholars, effectively handling a relatively substantial workload of articles, comments, and book reviews, and showing a marked impact upon research and writing in political science. The American Polit-ical Science Review sets a high stan-dard for other journals in political science, and in the social sciences generally. This is good. In shepherding and capitalizing on these technetronic possibilities in journal publishing, high standards of excel-lence in political science research can, and should be, reinforced and sus-tained.
Mapping of science by combined co-citation and word analysis. I. Structural aspects Combining word-analysis and co-citation analysis offers a useful instrument to describe, evaluate, and compare results of co-citation analysis in a systematic and clear way, in particular concerning aspects related to the cognitive content of publications.
The scientific dynamics of a city: A study of chemistry in Marseille from 1981 to the present Our method has brought to light a progressive transformation of research carried out at Marseille.
The bibliometric assessment of UK scientific performance a reply to Braun, Glänzel and Schubert Yet, it is surely more than coincidence that all 18, when applied to Braun's own data, reveal a decrease in Britain's percentage world share over 1981-84.61. The above analysis suggests that an affirmative answer can be given with reasonable confidence to the first of these questions provided we confine ourselves to trends in national percentage shares of published output. All that we can conclude is that the bibliometric indicators derived from the Hungarian data-base, when treated with due attention to all the cautions mentioned above, appear to be completely consistent with those produced by CHI Research, with both sets pointing to an apparent relative decline.
Mapping of science by combined co-citation and word analysis. II: Dynamical aspects It is concluded that in several years different "schools" are present in the specialty, that a series of interesting new contributions are made in course of time that changed the base for further research, but that general topics of research did not change in the specialty. Further, by inspection of timeplots of individual keyarticles and content-words, it was found that dynamics changed from rapid progression of new empirical studies in earlier years to more reflective and retrospective theoretical work in later years. In general, the approach of combining co-citation and word analysis seems to provide a useful quantitative approach to study aspects of the dynamics of scientific research, as reflected in the formal literature at the level of research specialties.
A study of the publishing activity of astronomers since 1969 We have analyzed the output of publications in astronomy in the past 19 years. Our measure of this production is rather crude since all papers are given the same weight, regardless of length or quality. The inflation is mainly due to the increasing number of authors. The production of individual astronomers is steadily increasing with time.
The size and growth of serial literature 1950–1987, in terms of the number of articles per serial In summary, in the last ten or twenty years the serial literature has continued to grow, but apparently very much more slowly than between 1950 and 1970.
Ranking of Journals in Library and Information Science: A Comparison of Perceptual and Citation-Based Measures Discipline citation measures identified a core of top journals which overlapped well with the core listings of directors and deans.
Using bibliometrics in strategic analysis: “understanding chemical reactions” at the CNRS The aim of the bibliometric study presented here was to be "of use" in strategical analysis. The study served as a preliminary attempt at the use of a bibliometric study for the development of science policy through the analysis of a field that the CNRS had declared to be high priority. On the one hand, the co-word method proved to be well-adapted to the particular scientific field being studied: "Understanding chemical reactions".
Research Productivity and Publication Output: An Interdisciplinary Analysis The main conclusions of this paper, covering productivity factors and out-put patterns of scholarly research, stand in sharp contrast to two myths that have dominated discussions in the library field.
Linkages among Top-Ranked Graduate Programs in Three Physical Sciences and Mathematics These data suggest that in these sciences and mathematics a rather small group of institutions tend to maintain and enhance their reputations by hiring their own and each other's graduates.
Why is the reliability of peer review so low? Several suggestions are made for improving the reliability and quality of peer review.
Career Publication Patterns and Collaborative “Styles” in American Academic Science This analysis, based on longitudinal data representing the periodic publication output and historical authorship configurations of a sample of career university chemists, results in seven identifiable career authorship profiles or collaborative styles.
Importance of the Lay Press in the Transmission of Medical Knowledge to the Scientific Community "Coverage of medical research in the popular press amplifies the transmission of medical infor-mation from the scientific literature to the research com-munity."
A Large Community but Few Peers: A Study of the Scientific Community in India The present study is based on the experiences of scientists located in an institution which occupies a very high position in the stratification of scientific institutions in India.
Beyond the citation debate: towards a sociology of measurement technologies and their use in science policy I have suggested that citation analysis can be use-fully understood as an institutionalised measure-ment technology and, as such, as a powerful mechanism for ontology preservation. The main upshot of this effort at impartiality is that we should move beyond the simple technicist view that citations are mainly faulty indicators. More interesting, perhaps, is the possibility that an enhanced understanding of the institutionalised basis of citation analysis can provide the basis for training scientists and other bodies of users in the best way to generate and manipulate performance indicators to their own advantage.
Scientific Goods and their Markets This study has tried to show how the specificity of the cognitive process of science attached to production consists in the combination of 'disciplinary' and 'pragmatic' representations of desired end-results together. For the continuing growth of science within any of the major scientific-practical complexes for the generation of scientific goods, the transactional character of the shifts and changes must be converted into organized forces and organization, in which the role of a society's controlling groups, the social bases and alignments of these groups, the stability and instability of the structures of power and authority, and the ideological positions and intent of the participating agencies, would be prominent. The study of Asian diversity in recent science-related industrialization holds promise of reward for a deeper understanding of both the Indian experience and world processes.
Patterns of Research Output and Author Concentration in the Economics Literature Our empirical result suggests that there is one: the number of authors publishing n papers is about 1/nᶜ of those publishing one paper. We find that the value of the exponent (i.e., c) is 1.84 if data are taken from a large collection of journals. We also find that the specialized journals have high concentrations among their contributors. The compilation of doctoral origin of the most profile authors reveals that the top three programs account for more than 50% of the top 100 scholars, indicating a strong institutional dominance in the production of the most prolific authors.
Career Publication Patterns and Collaborative "Styles" in American Academic Science This analysis, based on longitudinal data representing the periodic publication output and historical authorship configurations of a sample of career university chemists, results in seven identifiable career author-ship profiles or collaborative styles. Thus, these seven resulting groups repre-sent a classification system which would likely provide an exhaustive prototype for application broadly across groups of scholars or scientists, inclusive of those in a variety of settings. In sum, the tremendous expansion in collaborative scholarship re-quires greater research attention to the effects and conditions under which it contributes to the growth and utility of knowledge; to new problems in scholarship, such as disputes in order of authorship and res-olutions of responsibility in the case of fraud; and to new models of as-sessment of career performance based on variations in collaborative styles.
Chauvinism In my view, university authorities and scientific academies should think of ways to minimize the harmful effects of national publication bias and low impact factor.
On the relationship of funding and research publications Both the quantity and quality of schistosomiasis research associated with the funded group of scientists appeared to score higher in every comparison made. Results from this study show that publication quality is strongly related to funding. However, the overwhelming trend as shown by several partial indicators studied points to the direction of such an effect.
ANATOMY OF THE GENERALIZED INVERSE GAUSSIAN-POISSON DISTRIBUTION WITH SPECIAL APPLICATIONS TO BIBLIOMETRIC STUDIES In contrast, the GIGP distribution easily models all five cases given as types (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) in Fig. 1. As long as θ < 1, all population moments do exist, even if θ = 0.99999. To sum up: The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test should never be used for bibliometric fre-quency distributions, whereas the x2 test of goodness-of-fit statistic is very useful to estab-lish whether a proposed theoretical model is feasible and credible.
THE GINI INDEX AND THE LEIMKUHLER CURVE FOR BIBLIOMETRIC PROCESSES The main aim of this paper has been to extend the use of some established bibliometric techniques and to view them from a probabilistic standpoint. A consequence is that certain deficiencies in current practice have been brought out. The particular theoretical examples considered in section 3.2 suggest that the Gini index for the "full" population process decreases with time, while that for the ob-served process increases (both approaching the same limit).
DUALITY ASPECTS OF THE GINI INDEX FOR GENERAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION PROCESSES We have studied the Gini index in the dual framework of IPPs and we proved that the values of the Gini index in the original IPP are the same as the ones in the dual IPP. Hence the present paper reveals a special property of the Gini index.
DUALITY ASPECTS OF THE GINI INDEX FOR GENERAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION PROCESSES - REMARKS The above construction yields curves that join the same points, namely (0,0) and (1,1), are continuous, increasing, convex, have the same area under the curve, and have the same length.
ON SOME STOPPING-TIMES OF CITATION PROCESSES - FROM THEORY TO INDICATORS The somewhat surprising linearity behaviour of the harmonic mean response times per-mits the conclusion that the citation succession of scientific publications on different sub-jects is determined by the time of the first response.
NONLINEAR DYNAMICS AND THE GROWTH OF LITERATURE An examination of articles published on superconductivity over the last 25 years has demonstrated that growth takes place by waves and spurts, and that it is futile to argue in favor of either linear or exponential growth.
SUBJECT CONTROL OF THE LITERATURE OF ACQUIRED-IMMUNODEFICIENCY-SYNDROME (AIDS) The indexing of the literature of AIDS reflects the explosive growth and astonishing development of the field. But in a rapidly developing literature in which subject headings come into temporary prominence and then fade, or in which many competitor subject headings crowd the list before the literature settles down, research indexed to those headings may be lost to searchers who are not careful and diligent. The subject access to the literature of AIDS mirrors the turbulence and uncertainty experienced by investigators in this new field of biomedical knowledge. It can also teach us, on a time-compressed scale, what happens to subject access as the knowledge base and environment of a discipline grow and change.
GLOBAL AND LOCAL COLLABORATORS - A STUDY OF SCIENTIFIC COLLABORATION This analysis offers empirical evidence to support Price's claim that collaboration is associated with research funding. The differential between the highly productive globals and the marginally productive locals points to the two types of collaborators referred to by Beaver and Rosen. This provides strong evidence that collaboration is a means to advance research and to multiply publication capacity for the productive members. Thus it directly contributes towards science stratification.
TRENDS IN RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY AMONG SENIOR FACULTY Little of this analysis reveals unexpected results.
3 SCIENTOMETRIC ETUDES ON DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES AS A TRIBUTE TO MORAVCSIK,MICHAEL In the following three small studies our modest tribute is paid to Moravcsik's memory by using scientometric assessment techniques to reveal some features of the scientific research in the developing countries. co-authorship patterns are analyzed to conclude that local interactions among developing countries are dominant, but the historical-political-geographical connections are also vivid...
BRAZILIAN PRODUCTION IN BIOCHEMISTRY - THE QUESTION OF INTERNATIONAL VERSUS DOMESTIC PUBLICATION The alternative to a major effort to publish domestically seems to be fruitless. If science is to be consumed internationally there seems to be no way other than trying to improve our conditions to compete for the best journals and to struggle to earn credit for the relevant findings of Brazilian science. This means becoming organized in order to lobby influential editors to enforce fairness in the processes of judgement and crediting.
EVALUATION OF RECENT SCIENTIFIC-RESEARCH OUTPUT BY A BIBLIOMETRIC METHOD The CSIR Research Output is being analysed since 1987 following the method described above.
PARTIAL ASSESSMENT OF MEXICAN HEALTH-SCIENCES RESEARCH 1982-1986 The use of bibliometric data, publication and citation counts as tools for the evaluation of Mexican health sciences research performance was the central issue of this paper.
USE OF PUBLICATION LISTS TO STUDY SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION AND STRATEGIES OF SCIENTISTS IN DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES Several conclusions can be drawn from this study concerning the specific nature of science produced by DC researchers, and the construction of science in their countries. Science produced in DCs is not adequately represented in international databases not exclusively for reasons of quality. Most of the DC scientists publish in both national and international journals. They often cite their colleagues from the developed countries but their own work being less "visible" is seldom cited.
IMPACT OF STUDIES PUBLISHED IN THE INTERNATIONAL LITERATURE BY SCIENTISTS AT THE NATIONAL-UNIVERSITY-OF-MEXICO UNAM scientists therefore as a group tend to publish in journals whose articles are not frequently cited in subsequent publications thus limiting their impact and visibility in the international scientific literature.
PUBLICATIONS OF SCIENTISTS OF DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES IN INTERNATIONAL JOURNALS - ARE THEY CHANNELS TO THE INTERNATIONAL CIRCUIT FOR COLLEAGUES THAT ONLY PUBLISH IN NATIONAL JOURNALS - A CASE-STUDY FROM THE FIELD OF ECOLOGY IN ARGENTINA Thus, it is concluded that the detection of argentinean publications in the international circuit is very low, and that if it would not be for a relatively small number of argentinean colleagues that publish in international journals, their detection in the international arena would have been nil. If this is also true in other fields of argentinean science or in other developing countries cannot be at this time asserted.
SCIENTOMETRIC INDICATORS AS A MEANS TO ASSESS THE PERFORMANCE OF STATE SUPPORTED UNIVERSITIES IN DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES - THE CHILEAN CASE The results presented herein, indicate that the use of indicators related to a "unit of state financial support" can provide academic productivity maps which permit to compare the performance of the universities, and might help the design of government policies to rationalize funding and strengthen the scientific capacity so scarce in developing countries. In addition, they can provide valuable in-house information to adjust academic policies and management.
PATTERNS OF SCIENTIFIC COMMUNICATION AMONG LATIN-AMERICAN COUNTRIES, IN THE FIELD OF MEDICAL-EDUCATION This research has contributed to understand the structure of EMS, and to some extent, the information flows among subjects and among countries in the field. Further research needs to be conducted to fully understand this pattern.
COOPERATIVE RESEARCH PROJECTS BETWEEN THE SPANISH-NATIONAL-RESEARCH-COUNCIL AND LATIN-AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS The creation and updating of this database on cooperative research projects can be useful in different ways. The scientific policy makers of the CSIC will be able to follow and evaluate these projects if, together with the present information on projects length, subject and type of the research, scientists and institutions involved, tangible and intangible results, also data on economic and material resources are introduced in the database. Another interesting feature is the possibility of determining adequate fields for future cooperation with Latin-American countries.
THE EVALUATION OF PLANT BIOMASS RESEARCH - A CASE-STUDY OF THE PROBLEMS INHERENT IN BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS Of the three methods of research assessment employed, two – bibliometric indicators and peer review – did not prove to be particularly useful in this instance.
ACCESS AND RETRIEVAL OF INFORMATION AS COORDINATES OF SCIENTIFIC DEVELOPMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT IN NIGERIA Refining of science indicators for suitability to measuring science in these countries is also advocated.
ACCESS TO THIRD-WORLD SCIENCE IN INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATABASES Evidence gathered demonstrates that the inclusion of non-US publications, and those in non-English languages, has generally declined in major US scientific and technical bibliographic databases over the past twenty years.
MISJUDGMENTS AND SHORTCOMINGS IN THE MEASUREMENT OF SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES IN LESS-DEVELOPED-COUNTRIES The scientific productivity of the LDCs is considerably higher than the estimated by conventional ways. A great amount of their scientific literature remains unknown (grey literature) to the rest of the scientific community, because it is not covered by international databases, since the greatest research effort in LDCs is dedicated to local necessities, and its results are published mainly in domestic sources. For the above reasons, the creation of national databases where all local literature were collected, is strongly recommended, as well as the promotion of cooperative data bases like AGRIS for Agriculture or LILACS for Biomedicine.
REPRESENTING SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITY BY STRUCTURAL INDICATORS - THE CASE OF COTE-DIVOIRE 1884-1968 From the methodological standpoint, we figured out a number of different indicators with clear patterns.
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COLLABORATION IN ARAB COUNTRIES Third world countries participate actively in international collaboration but are poorly represented in the bibliometric bases most frequently used by the large scientific countries.
MEDICAL-SCHOOL LIBRARIES HANDLING OF ARTICLES THAT REPORT INVALID SCIENCE The authors conclude that biomedical researchers, clinicians, and teachers should not assume published studies held in libraries are inherently valid.
THE INFLUENCE OF OCCUPATIONAL-MEDICINE ON GENERAL MEDICINE - A LOOK AT THE JOURNALS This study indicates that occupational medicine, as reflected by its journals, is a much more active scientific discipline than it was a decade earlier.This study demonstrates a number of points.First, occupational medi-cine is publishing considerably more articles than it did a decade earlier.Second, the impact factor, a reflection of how often its articles are cited, also has increased steadily.
BIOMEDICAL-RESEARCH - VULNERABLE INVESTIGATOR, ENDANGERED ENTERPRISE Cumulatively, these data present a troubling pic- ture for the health and survival of the biomedical inves- tigator.
CITATION AGE DATA AND THE OBSOLESCENCE FUNCTION - FITS AND EXPLANTATIONS We therefore stress the impossibility of using the aging function as a constant and ad- vocate the use of half-life instead.
WHAT FRACTION OF LITERATURE REFERENCES ARE INCORRECT The ultimate solution is to have our literature in computer memory so that each reference can be checked against the literature for accuracy.
RESEARCH IN A HIERARCHY OF VALUES This study replicates and extends Culnan and Swanson's attempt to assess the emergence of MIS as a distinct work point.
INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF DENTAL MATERIALS PUBLICATIONS AND PATENTS "In summary, science indicator methods can be used to provide detailed information on R&D for specialty areas such as dental materials." "These methods can generate useful data for policy-makers and provide insights into specific fields that are not available from data on larger aggregates." "The use of these methods is not without limitation."
ZIPF-HALSTEAD THEORY OF SOFTWARE METRICATION In this paper we begin with a brief discussion of Zipf-Halstead's theory of software metrication published recently by Prather. The study points out the need for a theory which can (1) provide a unified approach for bridging the theories of Zipf and Halstead; (2) derive the two program length estimates of Zipf and Halstead; and (3) generate the probability distribution satisfying Prather's inequalities. We show that the Simon-Yule model of text provides a promising approach for the theory. Most importantly, it is based on Herbert Simon's creative process for scientific discovery.
WHERE ARE ARTICLES BY CANDIDATES FOR ACADEMIC PROMOTION PUBLISHED Overall, the works of family practice fac-ulty are published in a wide range of journals.
THE NATIONAL-INSTITUTES-OF-HEALTH IS GOING HIGH-TECH IN PEER-REVIEW The system brings more than speed and accuracy to the application evaluation process.
ACADEMIC PRODUCTIVITY IN PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND REHABILITATION Academic productivity of physiatric departments showed wide variation.
IS DUPLICATE PUBLISHING ON THE INCREASE Duplicate publication is time wasting, involving editors and reviewers in unnecessary work; it is also dishonest and colludes with the notion that publication is in itself meritorious and desirable. It may also have untoward scientific consequences as it will tend to give undue weight to those observations that are being reported over and over again. The most effective deterrent to duplicate publication may be to require applicants for posts or grants to submit copies of their half dozen most important papers, which the committee can then read.
THE EARLY CHEMISTRY DOCTORATE IN AMERICA - THE 19TH-CENTURY PROGRAMS According to our data (Tables 1 and 2), the first U.S. doctorates in chemistry were conferred in 1866 by Yale and by New York University.
APPLIED-RESEARCH AND INDUSTRIAL-DEVELOPMENT IN EAST-GERMANY - INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON BY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Overall, East Germany offers an average European potential in innovation-oriented R&D activities comparable to Southern Europe. Particular technological strengths of East Germany lie in printing technology, textile technology, machine tools, handling, optics and measurement technology; in mechanics and instrumentation generally. East Germany displays particular technological weakness in chemistry, electronics, information technology, and traffic engineering.
SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS ON RESEARCH-AND-DEVELOPMENT IN SPAIN The R + D funds have increased at a growing rate in the last years. They are basically provided by the State. However, the R + D resources are still well below the O.E.C.D. average.
SOVIET SCIENCE IN THE SCIENTIFIC WORLD SYSTEM - WAS IT AUTARCHIC, SELF-RELIANT, DISTINCTIVE, ISOLATED, PERIPHERAL, CENTRAL In the global network of scientists' orientations toward primary audiences, Soviet scientists occupied a position of isolation; they were largely oriented toward a local audience and were not an audience for foreign scientists. The predicted effect of decreasing funding may very well outweigh the two predicted enhancing changes, so that the combined effect could be an overall lower scientific performance. Their most recent travels and collaboration were concentrated on Western Europe, so Soviet science is most likely to become a periphery attached to and somewhat integrated with the center in Western Europe, rather than with American science.
CITATION ACCURACY IN THE CANADIAN-JOURNAL-OF-PLANT-SCIENCE It is the responsibility of the author(s) of a research paper to ensure that the citations found in the bibliography are correct. The same care should be taken in presenting the information included in the bibliography of an article as is taken in presenting the results of the research.
PUBLICATION RATES AND TRENDS IN INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATIONS FOR ASTRONOMERS IN DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES, EASTERN-EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, AND THE FORMER SOVIET-UNION The publication rates of astronomers from DCs and USSR/EE in the ApJ and the AJ increased over the 30 yr period 1960-1989, but the increase in percentage of total papers is far less than the 30% for papers with foreign or mixed authorships as determined by Abt (1990).
ASSESSMENT OF EPIDEMIOLOGIC AND HIV AIDS PUBLICATIONS IN AFRICA This study stresses the urgent need for improving all aspects of epidemiological research and training in Africa with particular need with respect to AIDS/HIV research capacity. There is an urgent need to harness all available international epidemiological expertise to target African countries in the future.
NEUROSURGICAL PUBLICATIONS IN EUROPEAN JOURNALS The findings of this study indicate that the results of neurosurgical research by European neurosurgeons are most likely to achieve wide reception if written in English and published in one of the influential Euro- pean or American neurosurgical journals.
HIERARCHICAL DISTRIBUTIONS AND BRADFORD LAW In this study, we have derived a theoretical expression for the distribution of articles in journals, based on a model of the random and unequal partitioning of any entity-in this case the total number of articles.
AUTHORSHIP TRENDS IN POULTRY SCIENCE, 1981 THROUGH 1990 The divided and proportional methods for assigning authorship credit do not measure research productivity any better than the conventional method of counting all papers.
NEUROLOGY RESEARCH - A JOURNAL SURVEY, 1980-1990 The complexity of neurological research has driven greater collaboration between basic and clinical scientists. New areas of clinical and basic knowledge are rapidly emerging in neurology. New types of programs that emphasize training in basic research will also be necessary to make the Decade of the Brain a reality.
CITATION ANALYSIS OF 541 ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN DRUG AND ALCOHOL JOURNALS - 1984-1988 Evidence from the current investigation supports the notion that the drug and alcohol field is comparatively ac-tive with regard to information utilization. Our qualitative findings suggest that methodological and review articles are cited more frequently than are most other articles, as are sub-stantive articles emerging coincidently with social and scientific concerns (e.g., cocaine use in the 1980s). A comprehensive scientometric examination of the drug and alcohol literature is needed, particularly as the num-ber of published articles continues to grow.
TRENDS IN THE OPHTHALMIC LITERATURE, 1949-1989 These findings emphasize the growing trend in the ophthalmic literature toward multiple authors, multiple institutions, collaboration with basic scientists, and increased reliance on grant support.
THE HISTORY OF RESEARCH TRAINING AND CAREER AWARDS IN UROLOGICAL SCIENCE SUPPORTED IN THE NATIONAL-INSTITUTE-OF-DIABETES-AND-DIGESTIVE-AND-KIDNEY-DISEASES The urology community needs to capitalize on the available opportunities to expand the training programs to increase the number of physician and urological research scientists.
PRIMARY CARE RESEARCH FUNDING SOURCES All four disciplines had diverse sources of funding with many similarities and relatively few differ-ences. An important finding of the study was the amount of unfunded research conducted and published in these primary care disciplines.
THE HISTORICAL DEMOGRAPHY OF THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY, 1450-1900 This paper has had the limited aim of using biographical compendia to provide factual data that would otherwise be very difficult to obtain.
ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY IN CENTRAL AND EASTERN-EUROPE These data show the importance of Central European countries in the lit-erature and research in chemistry in general, and in analytical chemistry in particular.
THE COMPARATIVE STANDING OF INDIVIDUAL INSTRUMENTAL ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES
MONOGRAPHIC REFERENCES AND INFORMATION-SCIENCE JOURNAL LITERATURE Citation patterns pertaining to authors, titles, publication dates, and subjects of monographs in end-of-article references emerged from the limited manual analysis of 1989-1990 IPM issues.
A SIMPLE-MODEL FOR LINKED INFORMETRIC PROCESSES The proposed model is perhaps oversimplified and the assumptions unrealistic so that the results are suggestive rather than definitive.
IMPACT OF THE JOURNAL-PLASTIC-AND-RECONSTRUCTIVE-SURGERY The impact factor for Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery was at least twice as great as for any other journal related to this surgical subspecialty.
A DESCRIPTIVE ANALYSIS OF ARTICLES IN THE JOURNAL OF SOCIAL AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE (SOZ-PRAVENTIVMED) - 1980-1990 This study reflects the development in the field of social and preventive medicine and public health in Switzerland since 1980.
GINI COEFFICIENT OF MEAN DIFFERENCE AS A MEASURE OF ADOPTION SPEED - THEORETICAL ISSUES AND EMPIRICAL-EVIDENCE FROM INDIA The empirical results presented for the diffusion of wheat HYVs in India suggest that, for the purpose of analyzing aggregate adoption behavior in the case of monotonically increasing diffusion processes, the Gini coefficient of mean difference is worthy of being considered as an alternative measure of adoption speed.
ENVIRONMENTAL-HEALTH IN THE JOURNALS This report shows that specialty journals have published more articles indexed under Medline environmental headings than 15 years earlier.
MULTIPLE AUTHORSHIP IN 2 ENGLISH-LANGUAGE JOURNALS IN RADIATION ONCOLOGY The gender of the first author, however, does not seem to influence the total number of authors.
CONSISTENCY BETWEEN PEER REVIEWERS FOR A CLINICAL SPECIALTY JOURNAL Eighty percent of the reviews of manuscripts were consonant or deviated by one category when reviewed by two independent peer reviewers.
THE MICROBIOLOGY LITERATURE - LANGUAGES OF PUBLICATION AND THEIR RELATIVE CITATION IMPACT In conclusion, the data presented here indicate the predominance of English as the primary lan-guage of international microbiology research.
AN ASSESSMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY IN MIS Lack of objective information could lead to misconceptions based on institutional stereotyp-ing, parochial interests and personal experiences.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS - BIBLIOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS AND POLICY CONSIDERATIONS Based on our bibliographic analysis, we discuss several policy recommendations in Section IV, including updating the Society’s scope of interest, identifying topics for future Special Issues, restructuring Technical Committees, identifying possi-ble future spin-off entities, increasing publications by non-academics, expanding membership development, decreasing review/revision time; enhancing future analysis of publication-related data, eliminating distinction between Papers and Cor-respondences, and being recognized as an operations research and management science publication.
FACTORS INFLUENCING THE PURSUIT OF CAREERS IN ACADEMIC MEDICINE - A SURVEY OF MD-PHD RESIDENTS IN DERMATOLOGY PROGRAMS IN THE UNITED-STATES The results of this survey support the concept of providing career opportunities at the completion of the MD-PhD’s clinical training that will offer financial rewards permiting one to begin loan pay off, especially because almost two thirds of the MD-PhD residents in dermatology are not MSTP funded and therefore have more debt.
MOLECULAR-BIOLOGY - UNITED-STATES JUGGERNAUT OVERWHELMS DIVIDED EUROPEAN ELITE Instead, several of mainland Europe's senior molecular biologists suggest that strength lies in unity: There should be more central funding and peer review of Europe's highly fragmented molecular biology and greater mobility of young scientists, they argue.
INDIRECT COSTS - THE PAST, PRESENT, AND A POSSIBLE INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSE
DOCTORATE RECIPIENTS IN LIBRARY-SCIENCE - HOW THEY COMPARE WITH DOCTORATE RECIPIENTS IN OTHER DISCIPLINES For future planning, it would be desirable to have a longitudinal survey of library science doctorate recipients in order to track their employment and research records. Faculty must find ways to reduce the amount of time library and information science doctoral students spend in graduate study, unless library schools want to continue their record of having ma- ture alumni who take the most time to complete their degrees. To encourage doctorate recipients to teach, ways must be found to involve them in the teaching process.
Competition or stability? Time will tell whether the introduction of competitive elements into the system of organization of fundamental research is propitious, or whether it will be detrimental to some subjects, and restrain the desire of scientists to indulge in long-term global problems of science.
Citation data: their use as quantitative indicators for science and technology evaluation and policy-making In conclusion, publication and citation data offer the potential to develop new quantitative, objective indicators of S&T performance.
On the objectives of citation analysis: Problems of theory and method One basic point which emerges again from the above remarks is the well-known fact that a rigorous definition of a study's objectives is crucial in deciding on its design. The second point is that most truly interesting re-search objectives require the ascertainment of content-related variables, generally on the source papers, but occasionally on the citations as well. Third, the methodology of citation analysis is still burdened by unsolved questions.
PATTERNS OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This study has demonstrated that there is a positive rank-order correlation between acknowledgement and citation ranks in a predefined population.
Quality Assessment of Medical Research and Education The conclusions from this article can be summarized as a recommendation to: • Create confidence in the evaluation among the scientists or teachers who are to be evaluated and different target groups before evaluations start; • Find experts for whom the scientists or teachers have professional respect; • Choose assessment methods in relation to the focus, level, and objectives of the evaluation; and • Make the report of evaluation's findings short and explicit.
Public and Private Support of Basic Research in Japan Although Japanese scientists in the public sector used to be reluctant to complain about their poor situation, they are no longer able to endure their plight silently and have started to cry for help more loudly in recent years.
Measuring characteristics of scientific research: A comparison of bibliographic and survey data Data from survey and bibliographic sources are quite comparable for several characteristics of the research, enterprise. The extent of industrial involvement is underestimated in analyses of journal publication, regardless of whether surveys or bibliographic files are used as a date source. If a research field is largely university-based, then bibliographic data may be sufficient for many purposes. If an industry perspective is necessary, so are other data collection methods.
Origins of bibliometrics, citation indexing, and citation analysis: The neglected legal literature I propose else- where that the techniques employed in studying the natural and social sciences be enlisted for the historiog- raphy and sociology of law (Shapiro, 1991). Therefore in law, the birthplace of cita- tion study, even richer results may be possible than in the other fields to which that study has subsequently been applied.
How representative is the journal impact factor? The results suggest that, as a proxy measure of citedness, the journal impact factor is representative only for large, random samples of journal articles, which is a conclusion bordering on self-definition.
Knowledge representations, Bayesian inferences and empirical science studies In summary, I have argued in this section that the Bayesian approach in the philosophy of science is the special case of a contingency relation between dynamic structure (i.e. sets of hypotheses) and dynamic action (i.e. evidence). The information theoretical reformulation of the Bayesian formula strongly suggests a model of mutual shaping between hypotheses and evidence (or between cognition and language) which replaces the internal relations between those dimensions with external, empirical categories. In this research programme, the rationality question can also be reformulated as an empirical question: what was the rationale of what happened?
The position of British science In conclusion, while it is often possible to find a few isolated indicators to support even the most unlikely of viewpoints, the overwhelming weight of evidence clearly belies Kealey’s optimism about the state of British science.
Citation mechanics in Journals covered by the journal citation reports According to the citation mechanics described, there would be three varieties of impact figures for the journals covered by JCR and according to the evolution of their values, namely ascending, constant and descending.
Publish or Perish: What the Competition is <i>Really</i> Doing We have provided for the first time comprehensive publications perfor- mance data for finance doctorates.
Is the language of publication a criterion of accountability? So the choice is cruel for researchers in non-English-speaking countries, unless they become perfectly bilingual. Publishing in their native language involves a risk of provincialism and a recognition limited to their country only. Writing in bad English means being misjudged before the publication by referees, after it, by the operators of bibliographical data-bases and finally by readers. The quality of the language matters as much as its nationality.
Collaborative research in Spain in the field of pharmacy and pharmacology This second network has been growing along the last years, so in a short time a parallel growth of the first network, that of results, will be observed. This could be intepreted as research projects in which clinical essays and drug evaluation are the reasons for the collaboration.
Status report: Linkage between technology and science The most important conclusion from the data amassed so far is that the embrace of the dancers is getting stronger, and the tempo of the music is getting quicker, and the relationship is almost one in which there is barely a distinction left.
Displaying content of scientific journals: A co-heading analysis A co-heading analysis and different representation techniques are proposed to display the subject content of scientific journals.
An analysis of personal journal subscriptions of university faculty. Part I. science From the previous section it can be seen that personal subscriptions of the faculty cover a considerable amount of literature not available in the library. Major reasons for subscriptions are research and teaching purposes. The subscription to an SDI service turns out to be a significant parameter controlling the number of journals received and in the reading style of journals in the different classifications.
The knowledge content of science and the sociology of scientific knowledge It is suggested that these problems can be clarified by allowing for cognitive factors as independent ('heterogeneous') variables, in addition to and in interaction with (i.e., not only as attributes of) social factors.
Publication practices in various sciences We conclude that the physicists are the fastest to have their papers published, probably due to competition within the field, and the mathematicians are the slowest. The dispersion in the publication times are mostly one-third of the mean times, but for astrophysics the ratio is more than one-half.
British research productivity in psychology 1980–1989. Does the Lotka-Price law apply to university departments as it does to individuals? The results seemed to suggest that the Lotka-Price law of scientific productivity partly applied to departments in that half of all scientific contributions are made by (slightly more than) the square root of the total number of scientific contributors (in this sense psychology departments).
All well if starts well? Citation infancy of recently launched chemistry journals The impact factor "overshoot" in the second year might be the consequence of the extreme professional care which typically characterizes the compilation of the first few issues of a new journal.
Academic research productivity: Reply, still further results Our OLS regressions for pooled data and for separate disciplines all strongly support the hypotheses that research performance is enhanced by department size (at a diminishing rate), by private organization, by grant support and by the avail-ability of a larger pool of graduate students and a quality research library.
The impact of ec science policies on the transnational publication system The conclusions are that the EC does not function currently as a single publication system, but the development of international co-authorship relations among member countries does exhibit a systematic pattern.
The research grant application process. Learning from failure? The review process is clearly a demanding one if taken seriously and for the most part those academics who give up their time to perform this service do so to ensure the continued growth of knowledge in their disciplines. However, it is clear from the comments made by unsuccessful applicants in this survey that some assessors are perceived to take a more cavalier approach to peer review. Within this context grantsmanship will become of increasing importance, particularly in relation to proposal development and the ability to produce results quickly.
Assessment of the international standing of university departments' research: A comparison of bibliometric methods Several scientometric methods of assessing the research performance of university departments were compared. The best picture is obtained when both methods are combined, which shows that the better Dutch department is ranking in the sub-top of the world (at least in the more recent period), while the other department performs below average. The combination of methods seems the best strategy.
Modeling the literature of superstring theory: A case of fast literature What we have demonstrated is that there is a class of literature separate from the "normal". Further study is necessary to replicate and validate the model proposed by the Weibull distribution. Modeling such literature sets will yield greater insight into the literature of science than will modeling "normal" science.
Single versus Multiple Authorship in Professional Journals As more colleges and universities apply pressure to publish, the tendency toward increased multiple authorship will probably continue.
THE PUBLICATION AND AVAILABILITY OF SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL PAPERS: AN ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS AND THE SUITABILITY OF DIFFERENT MEANS OF MEETING THEM If the analysis is approximately correct, some options that have been widely mooted stand up to requirements less well than others that have had less attention. With several unknowns, and some unknowables (at least until a system is actually in operation), the future must remain highly uncertain. In the last resort everything depends on publishers, unless they can be bypassed, and on publishers' assessment of the economics, which must take into account not only the market but the costs of production, distribution etc.
Balancing relevance and excellence: Organizational responses to link research with decision making In an ideal situation, the dilemma between relevance and excellence should be false.
Eminence in Social Psychology: A Comparison of Textbook Citation, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Research Productivity Rankings The results of the present study suggest that the most frequently cited authors in social psychology textbooks (especially the 10 most frequently cited) have remained relatively stable over the last 15 years. The relative validity of textbook citation analysis as a measure of scientific eminence has received additional support. Finally, the present findings provide information regarding individuals who are very productive researchers and yet have been relatively ignored by other researchers (i.e., low SSCI score) and the social psychology textbooks and information regarding those productive researchers who have been cited by others in the research literature (i.e., high SSCI score) but who continue to be ignored by social psychology textbooks.
Research performance of United Kingdom university psychology departments The results show a considerable range of research performance among university departments of psychology, and the performance scores correlate significantly with previously published data on mean citations based on 1 year's output. The correlation between performance and previously published estimates of mean publications (in all periodicals covered by the Social Science Citation Index in 1 year) was also significant though slightly lower. For reasons set out in the introduction to this article, the performance indicator used in the present investigation is thought to have certain advantages over the other two measures.
Determination of Authorship Credit in Published Dissertations The results im-ply evolving authorship norms for stu-dent-faculty publications somewhat at variance with existing written state-ments.
Spanish scientific and technical journals. State of the art This study has identified actions taken by the Spanish Administration to encourage the improvement in the quality of Spanish journals but also actions that hinder them.
A publication and citation analysis of the Department of Information Studies, University of Sheffield, 1980-1990 The results show a level of publi-cation that is far in excess of that achieved in comparable us departments. With the exception of one pair of members of staff, who are co-cited very fre-quently, there is only a limted amount of overlap between the interests of the individual members of staff in the department, this supporting the idea that information studies is a not a single, well-integrated discipline.
Research, Teaching, and Publication Productivity: Mutuality Versus Competition in Academia With these restrictions, however, the findings point to a strain between re-search and teaching. Faculty members' strong interest in, commitment of time to, and orientation to research, as well as their perception that their departments reward research activities, support pub-lication productivity; the parallel teach-ing factors do not. With respect to publi-cation productivity, the sets of research and teaching variables are competitive, not complementary.
A validation study of “LEXIMAPPE” By analyzing the input and output data of LEXIMAPPE for two different years using information theory, I was able to show that the "centrality" and the "density" of the clusters produced by LEXIMAPPE are primarily dependent on the number of word occurrences in the corresponding parts of the input matrix.
Performance of british university psychology departments as measured by number of publications in BPS journals The results show a considerable range of performance among university departments of psychology in Britain, with the universities of Sheffield, Kent, and Oxford in the top-ranking positions.
Understanding Patterns of International Scientific Collaboration Data on institutional coauthorships provide an important tool for monitoring the effects of government programs that aim to encourage increased international cooperation either through bilateral and multilateral agreements or through other incentives.
Use of literature by East European scientists: What influences place of publication of sources cited? The data gathered failed to support our hypothesis that a ranking of the six Warsaw Pact countries on a scale corresponding to their "ideological proximity" to the Soviet Union could be duplicated by a ranking on a bibliometric scale.
Some facts and figures on highly cited papers in the sciences, 1981–1985 The indicator values presented in Table 1 and 2 illustrate that the above mentioned three criteria are met if the sets of highly cited papers are selected based on the thresholds ks(j) with s = 3; 5 and 10).
International comparison of departments' research performance in the humanities The results indicate that bibliometric assessment of research performance is potentially useful in these humanities disciplines.
Contributions of reviewer judgements to editorial decision-making for the Canadian Journal of Behavioural Science: 1985–1986. In summary, we replicated the finding that reviewers show only low to moderate interrater agreement on a catalogue of perceived quality indices. We posit that the single most important criterion for a positive decision to publish should be importance of the research. It is therefore concluded that as a discipline we need to pursue with even more vigour the question of what constitutes an adequate experimental design and what is important research.
An Empirical Regularity in the Market for Risk and Insurance Research Output This study provides a historical record of market concentration and an alternative basis for evaluating the research productivity of risk and insurance researchers by identifying an empirical regularity in the frequency distribution of article publications in six journals publishing primarily risk and insurance research. The identification of bibliometric regularities is useful in assessing the likelihood of multiple publications in the insurance literature. Assuming that the publishing behavior of risk and insurance researchers is stable over time, this study predicts that less than four percent of all publishing risk and insurance researchers will publish six or more coauthorship-adjusted articles in these journals over the next fifteen years and less than two percent will publish ten or more articles.
An economic analysis of scientific journal prices: Preliminary results In summary, economic analysis suggests that the most important source of subscription price variation among scholarly journals is variation in their circulation.
National science foundation funding in economics and chemistry Despite equivalent success rates, the probability of obtaining an NSF grant is substantially higher for chemists than for economists. The evidence indicates that NSF funds are more scarce for economists and that the quality of funded proposals as measured by institutional affiliation is greater for economists than for chemists. Administrators should be aware that when the supply of funds varies among disciplines, the probability of being funded and the expected value of an award will also vary among departments.
A methodology for cluster analysis of citation histories It was concluded that ALPHA is not a redundant but quite useful indicator, and that one of the normalized BETA-variants appears most suitable for this kind of studies.
International co-authorship patterns in physics and its subfields, 1981–1985 The graphs in Figure 2k and 2l, representing the physics network structure obtained through SCI and Physics Briefs, respectively, gave the same picture consisting of a core of strong connected links and a periphery with weaker ones. The economically and scientifically more developed countries form the core. The United States are inserted in the European heart. Japan is lacking. The linkage structure, obtained using the two databases, suggests that international co-operation occurs mainly in basic research where the results are published in international journals well covered by the two databases and therefore the presence or absence of national journals scarcely change the resulting structure.
Is scientists' publishing behaviour rewardseeking? The study revealed that the reward and communication functions of scientific publishing were equally important in the selection of journals, contrary to Gordon's findings17.
On the origin and meaning of bibliometric indicators: Journals in the social sciences, 1886-1985 The use of footnotes and visuals within the same discipline has been shown to vary over time.
Academic research productivity, department size and organization: Further results, comment The impact of both private vs public affiliation as well as department size on per capita publication plunge after controlling for both research support and the department's faculty rating.
Cost of chemistry journals to one academic library, 1980–1990 "The average increase in price in dollars per million characters has been, at about 8 percent per year, significantly higher than inflation."
Modeling contribution‐spans of scientists in a field: the case of cochlear implants This paper illustrates how the scientific literature can be used as a source of data to determine the contribution-spans of scientists in a field. In particular, we find that characteristics of the population as a whole (such as its size and organizational dispersion) and character-istics of individual scientists (such as their productivity and the extent of their collabor-ative network) to be highly significant in explaining the duration of a scientist's contribution span.
From Fusion Frenzy to Fraud: Reflections on Science and its Cultural Norms What is ultimately at stake in raising questions about the adequacy and internal consistency of the scientific community's response to the issues involved in these events is not just the public credibility of science, its continuing social power, and professional autonomy. It is, rather, the health and well-being of human beings. It remains an open question whether research institutions and the public are up to the challenge of this complex and difficult task.
Striking Gold in the 1990s: The Discovery of High-Temperature Superconductivity and Its Impact on the Science System We can thus speak of a growing convergence in the ways that innovation processes occur within basic research and within the field of technological applications.
Hierarchical bibliometry: a new objective measure of individual scientific performance to replace publication counts and to complement citation measures In conclusion, it is suggested that subtle, subjective bias within the scientific system of authorship, particularly embodied in, and perpetuated by, the "publish or perish" syndrome, has suppressed, perhaps until now, the emergence of a single, simple, valid and objective indicator of individual scientific performance.
The 1989 Research Selectivity Exercise: A Statistical Analysis of Differences in Research Rating between Universities at the Cost Centre Level The most consistent result was that the size of a cost centre (measured by its academic staff) had a statistically significant positive effect on a cost centre's research rating (in the majority of cost centres). The second major finding of the statistical analysis was the positive influence of the research rating of other cost centres in the same institution on an individual cost centre's research rating. Given the critical importance of the research ratings awarded to individual cost centres (and indeed departments), it is absolutely crucial that the rules are used in the same way by all advisory groups and subject panels. If some advisory groups are more lenient than others in awarding research ratings, this could result in a serious misallocation of resources between subject areas which would persist for many years.
The microbiology literature: Languages of publication and their relative citation impact In conclusion, the data presented here indicate the predominance of English as the primary lan-guage of international microbiology research.
Quality of indexing information: authors' views on indexing of their articles in Chemical Abstracts online CA-file From the above findings it may be concluded that, on average, adequacy is judged positively for all three types of CA-indexing terms, though most favourable for keywords.
The application of scientometric indicators to the Spanish Scientific Research Council In our opinion, performance assessment should be conducted, in the future, at the group or project level in order to pinpoint the best people in the different research fields. Scientometric indicators can be very useful, but by themselves they don't solve all the problems.
The lifetime productivity of eminent Australian academics The results of this study of eminent academics indi-cate, first, that their peak productive age was later than that reported for other groups (Horner et al., 1986; Lehman, 1953; Simonton, 1988a) but similar to those reported for high publishers (Cole, 1979; Dennis, 1954).
An analysis of the growth of African trypanosomiasis research between 1900 and 1985 The findings in this paper indicate that African trypanosomiasis research is still an active field which has not yet peaked or declined in interest.
Interdisciplinary Research in the Sciences: Implications for Library Organization This study of citations to the journal literature by the chemists of a university department has produced findings that should prove useful in the improvement of science library services. The high level of interdisciplinary information use measured for these chemists appears to argue against the narrow departmental library type of organization. This study should provide a better understanding of the relationships among the various science disciplines in the university environment and will inform those involved in planning new facilities for the scientific research community.
The skewness of science The skewness implies that there will always be a large fraction of uncited publications, the size of the fraction depending on the citation practices (such as the number of references per publication) within the field in question. However, as part of a continuous probability distribution even uncited articles have a definite probability of contributing to scientific progress. Since it is furthermore impossible to eliminate uncited articles for statistical reasons, they should be the cause of neither worry nor remedy.
An Analysis of the Determinants of Co-authorship in Economics In this study, we tested the prevailing theories of co-authorship determination; the findings offer new insights into the co-authorship process. Overall, our results suggest that co-authorship differs within economic specialties and that much of the collaboration found in economics is a function of researchers' working outside of their fields. This pattern, in addition to the publishing pressures in academia, forces many authors to seek collaborative assistance.
Bibliometric analysis of publications of Spanish pharmacologists in the SCI (1984–89). Part II The results of this paper show that out-Ph publications accounted for 40% of the scientific productivity of Spanish pharmacologists, indicating the significative level of interdisciplinarity of the research activity performed.
Scientific co-operation between Canada and the European Community In 1986, nearly 8% of the world’s scientific research took place within the framework of international collaboration.
Analysing The Economic Payoffs From Basic Research The outputs of basic research rarely possess intrinsic economic value. Instead, they are critically important inputs to other investment processes that yield further research findings, and sometimes yield technological innovations.
An Economic Analysis of Scientific Journal Prices: Preliminary Results In summary, economic analysis suggests that the most important source of subscription price variation among scholarly journals is variation in their circulation. Our preliminary analysis indicates that this hypothesis is largely correct. Further research based on statistically controlling for differences in quality such as the number of pages published will allow us to specify an even tighter relationship between circulation and subscription price.
Communication between Chinese and non-Chinese scientists in the discovery of high-Tc superconductor: I. The formal perspective The findings of the present research seem to be in good agreement with the formal communication patterns prevalent in developing countries. Indeed, "little consumption" was confirmed by the fact that only 17 (7%) out of the 240 cited cores were authored by researchers in China. These similarities clearly explain, from the viewpoint of communication, why China could become one of the few nations who lead the search for high-Tc superconductors.
An Analysis of the Determinants of Co-Authorship in Economics Overall, our results suggest that co-authorship differs within economic specialties and that much of the collaboration found in economics is a function of researchers' working outside of their fields. This pattern, in addition to the publishing pressures in academia, forces many authors to seek collaborative assistance. Rather, we find that repeatedly cited articles or those placed early in a journal (lead articles) contain few or no co-authors.
The citation impact of the Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry All these data show that the Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry has an important impact on its field although not necessarily reflected in its JCR-type impact factor.
Academic research productivity, department size and organization: Further results, rejoinder The impact of department size and public/private status remain in doubt until a better proxy for average faculty research productivity is found.
IMAGE OF ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY AS REFLECTED IN THE ANALYTICAL ABSTRACTS DATABASE - JOURNAL COVERAGE, CONCENTRATION, AND DISPERSION OF THE ANALYTICAL LITERATURE Our analysis has shown that the Analytical Abstract database is in general terms a correct reflection of the field of analytical chemistry as far as topical coverage and processed journal comprehensiveness is concerned. Some slight distortions of the reflecting mirror have been, however, also revealed. The main distortion we have found is the only partial coverage of the contents of "titled" analytical chemistry journals (see Table IV).
ACCURACY OF REFERENCES AND QUOTATIONS IN VETERINARY JOURNALS We concluded that misquotations and errors in citations occur frequently in veterinary journals, but at a rate similar to that reported for other biomedical journals.
SCIENTIFIC JOURNAL SELECTION BASED ON THE STUDY OF A LOCAL JOURNAL The volumes of the Nigerian Journal of Microbiology so far studied have demonstrated a remarkable effort by microbiologists to publish their research findings locally.
COMMUNICATING MIS RESEARCH - A CITATION STUDY OF JOURNAL INFLUENCE If a stable core of highly influential journals exists, then its identification and the rank- ing of its members in terms of research influence is important for funding university schools and departments; for faculty promotion, tenure, and salaries; and for awarding research grants.
THE EVOLUTION OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION-SCIENCE 1965-1985 - A CONTENT-ANALYSIS OF JOURNAL ARTICLES The main finding from the article samples for the years 1965, 1975, and 1985 is the remarkable similarity of the distributions. There is a growing need for a broader view in LIS giving more emphasis on the hu- man component in information systems and on information ecology in social contexts (e.g., Dervin & Nilan, 1986; Saracevic, 1990). Judging from our findings, the best way of improv- ing the quality and enriching the research in LIS is to go beyond one-sided attachments to institutions or information systems.
MACROLEVEL CHANGES IN THE STRUCTURE OF COCITATION CLUSTERS - 1983-1989 One interpretation of this disciplinary cycling is that there is a structural oscillation between expansion and contraction in the disciplines. The goal of mapping science has clearly not been fully achieved. Nevertheless, I believe that further progress can be made, by sharpening both methods and data. The issue at stake is the existence of a collective mind for science.
REFERENCE-STANDARDS FOR CITATION BASED ASSESSMENTS Three methods has been suggested to establish reference standards for citation based assessments.
THE SCIENCE STRATEGY INDEX Every country doing science has a science structure (country cake, circle diagram). However, it seems to be encouraging that the obtained cluster map shows more regularities than common scientific sense would have predicted. The interrelation of SSI und SRI and the correlation of these indicators with socio-economic indicators could be of interest.
DELIMITATION OF SCIENTIFIC SUBFIELDS USING COGNITIVE WORDS FROM CORPORATE ADDRESSES IN SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS Our contribution represents a first exploration of the use of cognitive address words for delimitation of scientific fields.
A CHARACTERIZATION OF SCIENTOMETRIC DISTRIBUTIONS BASED ON HARMONIC MEANS All in all, if we use the model described in the introduction, which proceeds from the contribution share of an individual object in the entirety, we can state that the above examples reflect not only an underlying cumulative advantage principle but also the growing coherence of the structure while an increasing minimum performance is assumed. The GWD(α;β,2) which is characterized by a linear coherence increase seems to be appropriate to model both effects.
MEASUREMENT OF SOCIAL-STRATIFICATION - A CONTRIBUTION TO THE DISPUTE ON THE ORTEGA HYPOTHESIS The purpose of the present paper is to contribute to extending empirical research so that it will be possible later to decide on the acceptance or refutation of the Ortega hypothesis.
ASSESSING MULTIDISCIPLINARY AREAS OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY - A SYNTHETIC BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY OF DUTCH NUCLEAR-ENERGY RESEARCH These macro-level findings are quite remarkable considering the sharp decline in Dutch expenditure on nuclear energy research in the 1980's. However, more detailed analyses of our publication data indicates that such a macro-level approach can lead to (partially) wrong conclusions about the state of affairs. This may provide valuable information not only for scientometricians, but also for R & D managers and S & T policy-makers concerned with nuclear energy research.
THE DELINEATION OF SPECIALITIES IN TERMS OF JOURNALS USING THE DYNAMIC JOURNAL SET OF THE SCI In this study, we have made some methodological distinctions of relevance to the dynamic mapping of science using aggregated journal-journal citations.
SOME INDICATORS FOR ASSESSING RESEARCH PERFORMANCE WITHOUT CITATIONS The application of the two subsets of indicators provides pieces of a puzzle that once put together allow to recognize the type of research displayed on the picture. It can be concluded that the Spanish scientists, working in the Faculties of Pharmacy, are much more involved in the recovery of natural products and the exploration of their pharmacological activities than in the study of their chemical structure.
THE NEURAL NET OF NEURAL NETWORK RESEARCH - AN EXERCISE IN BIBLIOMETRIC MAPPING We think that sophisticated bibliometric mapping techniques are indeed tools which sufficiently fulfil the above prerequisite.
TRACING THE KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER FROM SCIENCE TO TECHNOLOGY AS REFLECTED IN PATENT INDICATORS To sum up, the description of the knowledge transfer between science and technology is quite complex so that the definition of simple indicators is not possible.
RESEARCH CONTRIBUTION, AUTHORSHIP AND TEAM COOPERATIVENESS The obtained results make it possible to build up an "authorship model" for authors of natural science papers. Further investigations are needed to explore authorship patterns in other organizations and disciplines.
AN EVALUATION OF THE PEER-REVIEW PROCESS AT ANGEWANDTE-CHEMIE Based on average citation frequencies for accepted manu- scripts and manuscripts that were rejected but later pub- lished elsewhere, the decisions of the editors in all the cases subjected to scrutiny appear to reflect a consistently high degree of predictive validity. This may be taken as evidence that reviewers' suggestions for improvement have had a significant impact on a large frac- tion of the published manuscripts.
6 AUTHORS IN SEARCH OF A CITATION - VILLAINS OR VICTIMS OF THE VANCOUVER CONVENTION The phenomenon of expanding authorship in biomedical journal articles is not explained by the hypothesis that newer research technologies have necessitated more extensive col-laboration.
ABOUT METRICS OF BIBLIOMETRICS The foregoing exercise in linear algebra has shown, we believe, that man is a measure of all things only in the subspace of 'things'.
PERUSING THE LITERATURE VIA CITATION LINKS This study showed that citation searching is a useful adjunct to MEDLINE in increasing the number of relevant items retrieved, as well as in identifying a few items of definite relevance. Thus in the health sciences arena, an added citation search can have a definite payoff. Design of future interface softwares should incorporate the ease of duplicate identification.
LEADING UNITED-STATES UNIVERSITIES AND MOST INFLUENTIAL CONTRIBUTORS IN DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS RESEARCH (1971-1989) - A CITATION ANALYSIS This paper has contributed to the building of a part of the cumulative tradition by identifying the most influential contributors in the DSS area and ex- amining the institutional publishing records at the leading U.S. universities actively publishing DSS research. Among the thirty-two leading U.S. universities we identified, two universities are truly outstand- ing: The University of Texas-Austin and MIT. We hope this research will help categorize the contributions of DSS scholars and representative institutions as a subset of diverse information systems study and allow students and researchers in the field to identify those institutions most active in DSS research.
PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND REHABILITATION - TRENDS IN ACADEMIC PRODUCTIVITY With ever increasing emphasis placed on academic productivity, the trend of increasing productivity can only be expected to continue in the future.
SCIENTIFIC INFLUENCE - AN ANALYSIS OF THE MAIN PATH STRUCTURE IN THE JOURNAL OF CONFLICT-RESOLUTION Both the historical approach followed by Harty and Modell and the main path analysis presented in this article suggest that true interdisciplinarity did not emerge in the first conflict resolution movement. Our conclusion is that the Golden Years were a period of institution building but not of theory building. Indeed, scientific influence appears to be a matter of setting forth ideas at a certain level of formalism.
ON THE NATIONALITY BALANCE OF AUTHORS AND REFERENCES IN SELECTED MIS JOURNALS From the results it seems clear that the American MIS community is much more self-sustaining than its European counterpart, which relies heavily on work by American authors.
COMPUTER LITERATURE SEARCHES ON DENGUE For the global surveillance of dengue, which has increased in intensity and spread to many countries because of increased international travel, the development of a new database emphasizing tropical geographic medicine is highly desirable.
CANCER-RESEARCH IN THE EUROPEAN-COMMUNITY AND OTHER NON-EC COUNTRIES The overall picture resulting from our work is an assessment of the average quantitative development of cancer research in the EC and other developed countries. However, our quantitative data can be considered interesting information, complementary to more qualitative assess-ments. It is, nonetheless, our intention to pursue the topic further in order to complement this first study with an investigation that correlates some of the parameters we have only mentioned with produc-tivity in the field of cancer research.
PATTERNS IN CITATIONS OF PAPERS BY AMERICAN ASTRONOMERS As before, it pays to be a mature, prizewinning theorist, working on high-energy astrophysics or cosmology at a prestigious institution. The 'have' and 'have not' portions of the astronomical community are diverging, as seems to be true of society as a whole. Readers can use these numbers to decide whether particular people, departments, etc. are above or below average, but applications to individuals should be made cautiously, because citations are associated only with senior or sole authors of the cited papers.
THE MATTHEW-MATILDA EFFECT IN SCIENCE Rather than denying that this is the case, as has been the sociologists' practice to date, the sexist nature of much of the women's systematic under-recognition should be acknowledged, noted and even high-lighted in the sociology of knowledge or science, as in a named 'effect'.
CONSOLATION FOR THE SCIENTIST - SOMETIMES IT IS HARD TO PUBLISH PAPERS THAT ARE LATER HIGHLY-CITED Those in the peer review system should have access to these findings, to improve their review of innovative work.
AN ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL FOR DEVELOPING MULTIDISCIPLINARY CLINICAL RESEARCH IN THE ACADEMIC MEDICAL-CENTER Participation in the program was significantly correlated with the development of new prospective patient-based studies.
PRESCRIPTIONS FOR MEDICAL-RESEARCH .2. IS MEDICAL-RESEARCH WELL-SERVED BY PEER-REVIEW The theoretical arguments against the use of peer review for assessing innovative scientific proposals now date back more than 30 years.
FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH RESEARCH EFFORTS OF ACADEMIC FAMILY PHYSICIANS The amount of time that family medicine faculty members dedicate to research is related to a strong interest in research when seeking their academic position.
THE HISTORY OF NEUROCHEMISTRY AS REVEALED BY THE JOURNAL OF NEUROCHEMISTRY The particular method of historical analysis applied in the present paper provides objective indices of trends in the development of the subject and in its impact and should be capable of further application.
EVOLUTION OF INFORMATION PRODUCTION PROCESSES AND ITS RELATION TO THE LORENZ DOMINANCE ORDER We conclude that Lorenz curves and the majorization poset are important tools in the investigation of evolution and growth.
A REMARK ON THE GEOMETRY OF EGGHES DUAL IPPS It has been shown that the construction of dual IPPs can be given a simple graphical formulation.
RETURNS TO SCIENCE - COMPUTER-NETWORKS IN OCEANOGRAPHY "In contrast with the numerous failures to document empirically the benefits of computer technology for productivity in industry, we found evidence consistent with such benefit in science."
THE RESEARCH PERFORMANCE OF UK UNIVERSITIES - A STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS OF THE RESULTS OF THE 1989 RESEARCH SELECTIVITY EXERCISE "The two most interesting findings from the statistical analysis of differences in research ratings between universities are, firstly, that there is substantial evidence that research performance is positively related to the size of cost centres, particularly (but not exclusively) in the sciences and, secondly, that individual cost centres tend to have a higher research rating in universities with a good overall research performance."
RADIOLOGISTS PERCEPTION OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALS Radiologists are aware of, read, and have a high regard for general medical and radiologic journals.
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF PEER REVIEWERS WHO PRODUCE GOOD-QUALITY REVIEWS "Good peer reviewers for this journal tended to be young, from strong academic institutions, well known to the editors, and blinded to the identity of the manuscript's authors."
GRANTED PUBLICATIONS - TAKEN FOR GRANTED The conclusion is obvious. Approximately 75% of the original articles appearing in high-impact medical journals receive financial support. Furthermore, the fact that it is extremely difficult to develop and publish an idea or discovery without the support of various funds creates a situation in which we see fewer and fewer great discoveries, or brilliant, provocative, innovative and revolutionary ideas, and instead sink into mundane and repetitive work in an attempt to fulfill the strict criteria and demands of a group of senior scientists who control both the scientific publications and the sources of funding.
REFERENCE ACCURACY IN THE EMERGENCY-MEDICINE LITERATURE This study demonstrates a substantial error rate in the citation and quotation of reference sources in the emer-gency medicine literature.
PATTERNS IN CITATIONS TO PAPERS BY BRITISH ASTRONOMERS The similarities of patterns in British citation rates to those in American ones suggest that meaningful comparisons can be made among departments and other groups.
LAGS IN THE PUBLICATION OF RESEARCH FINDINGS IN ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY The results of our present investigation show that the diffusion of analytical chemistry research findings published in most of the core analytical chemistry journals is quite acceptable as the transit half-time averages of 5.4 in 1985 and of 5.8 in 1990 indicate. The total transit time averages of 21.0 months in 1985 and of 17.5 months in 1990, however, are fairly substantial, and when com- pared to those of the transit half-times seem to imply that about half of the analytical chemistry research findings are diffused quite quickly into the international analytical chemistry community. When we cumulate the primary (core analytical chemistry journals) and the secondary (Analytical Abstracts) half-time averages for 1985 (26.4 months) and 1990 (23.3 months), the data indicate that for current awareness oil analytical chemistry research, browsing of the core analytical chemistry journals issues at the time they appear is preferable to waiting until the secondary source appears.
PATTERNS OF AUTHORSHIP AMONG CHAIRMEN OF DEPARTMENTS OF MEDICINE Changes in the definition of authorship by medical journal editors did not seem to be important influences on the authorship patterns of the chairmen, since the chairmen did not significantly decrease the number of articles for which they were the last authors, and they significantly increased the number of coauthors of their articles. We hope that this work will provide important baseline data for future efforts in examining authorship practices.
A NEW PERSPECTIVE ON SCIENTIFIC MISCONDUCT Policies might be devised to renegotiate the relationship between science and society in a way that might alleviate the "pathogenic pressures" in the present environment.
A CITATION ANALYSIS OF BUSINESS COMPUTING RESEARCH JOURNALS This comprehensive approach and up-to-date study confirms the relative importance of a num- ber of journals already cited as integral to the research efforts in the field of business comput- ing.
CONTRIBUTION TO SCIENTIFIC-RESEARCH IN PEDIATRICS IN THE NETHERLANDS - EVALUATION ACCORDING TO SUBSPECIALITY OVER A 10-YEAR PERIOD The number of regular publications in the international literature has increased over the last 10 years.
A STATISTICAL-MODEL VALIDATING TRIAGE FOR THE PEER-REVIEW PROCESS - KEEPING THE COMPETITIVE APPLICATIONS IN THE REVIEW PIPELINE In summary, the results presented show that triage can substantially reduce the workload of the review staff without preventing highly competitive applica-tions from making it to the final stage of review. We therefore conclude that the models for triage described here are valid and useful for review purposes. This is especially true when a sponsor plans to issue few awards relative to the total number of applications submitted.
QUALITY ASSURANCE IN MEDICAL PUBLICATION All this information, useful and meretricious, has been through editorial peer review, and we have to attempt some sort of summing up of its role – in particular, asking whether we are not expecting too much from it. To conclude, there really is no alternative.
SURVEY OF ITALIAN NEUROLOGICAL OUTPUT IN THE 3 YEARS 1989-1991 However, at odds with recent comment playing down the weight of Italian biomedical literature, the upshot of our findings seems to be that in the field of the clinical neurosciences this criticism is not in or- der.
ALPHA-OMEGA-ALPHA-ELECTION AND MEDICAL-SCHOOL THESIS PUBLICATION - RELATIONSHIP TO SUBSEQUENT PUBLICATION RATE OVER A 20-YEAR PERIOD These studies demonstrate that at least at the institution studied, election to AOA and actual publication of the results of a research project were associated with increased publication rates in the medical field over the 20-year period following medical school graduation.
CONSEQUENCES OF LOTKA LAW IN THE CASE OF FRACTIONAL COUNTING OF AUTHORSHIP AND OF 1ST AUTHOR COUNTS In this paper, we studied the distribution of the weights among authors if we count authorship fractionally, in a straight way, or totally. Apart from the trivial case of total author counts, we showed that this distribution increases on [0,1] and then starts decreasing from one onward. This result has been reached under fairly normal assumptions on the frequency functions φ and ψ (respectively, the densities of papers per author and authors per paper).
A CONTENT-ANALYSIS OF WOMENS PUBLISHED MASS-COMMUNICATION RESEARCH, 1965-1989 This study demonstrates that a greater proportion of mass media research is being produced now by females than in the mid 1960s, or even in the early 1980s.
COMPARISON OF ACCEPTANCE OF CLINICAL VERSUS BASIC STUDIES ON DRUGS AND THERAPEUTICS IN INFANTS AND CHILDREN Our study supports the commonly held but previously unproven view that there is a bias against clinical research, in the context of patient-based studies, when compared to basic (bench) research.
ON GIRAFFES AND PEER-REVIEW A design based on these principles, named bicameral review, has been presented elsewhere (18, 19). Grant applications are divided into a major retrospective part and a minor prospective part, which are routed separately. Although bicameral review is much less revolutionary than the bold stroke from the brain to the larynx of our prototypic giraffe, it does offer an alternative to a status quo that is becoming increasingly unacceptable.
DROP CENSORSHIP IN SCIENCE This additional evidence further confirms the consensus that there are few cross-disciplinary differences in reviewer reliability.
PRESCRIPTIONS FOR MEDICAL-RESEARCH .1. MANAGEMENT WITHIN THE MEDICAL-RESEARCH-COUNCIL Overall the picture painted by nearly 24 hours of interviews with 25% of the MRC's key active research managers, its unit directors, does little to support the council's assertions of managerial excellence, at least in respect of operational management.
Comparing Materials Used in Philosophy and Political Science Dissertations: Doctoral students working in philosophy and political science are using and citing materials which are essentially familiar (monographs and journals) but are also using materials which reflect the kinds of topics which are part and parcel of the disciplines in which the dissertations are written.
International visibility of periodicals from Ireland, India, and Latin America Journals with high visibility are seemingly published in countries where the scientific and publishing infrastructure is mature.
KeyWords Plus™—algorithmic derivative indexing Now KeyWords PlusTM, as described above, significantly augments permuterm searching. As time and programming permit, this enhancement is being built into all those ISI products for which it is relevant, e.g., discipline citation indexes, including neuroscience, biotechnology, materials science, and chemistry.
Wide area computer networks and scholarly communication in Regional Science WANs have grown into a very powerful tool for scholarly communication and information exchange. They provide numerous highly sophisticated services that are easy to use. Despite their economic advantages, the use of WANs for scholarly commu- nication is not very common in the general Social Sciences and Regional Science in particular. A few strategic initiatives by organizations such as the Regional Science Association International could stimulate the use of electronic communication in the discipline, and allow Regional Science scholars to utilize the benefits of Wide Area Computer Net- works to a greater extent.
The Hidden Structure of Soviet Science The professional activities of physicists, chemists, and biologists in the USSR Academy of Sciences provide ample evidence for the existence of a hidden structure of Soviet science.
What Have Canadian Economists Been Doing for the Past Twenty-Five Years? These estimates confirmed the strong human capital and research experience effects but also found a strong independent role for research funding in building and maintaining successful research activity. In addition, research funding that goes to graduate students and recent graduates increases the number of trained researchers, and hence the aggregate stock of human capital in research. This will show up in part as increases in the number of future PH DS, and probably to some extent in their inclinations to adopt research careers.
Acknowledgments and intellectual indebtedness: A bibliometric conjecture More empirical data are needed to establish the equations best describing acknowledgment phenomena.
Patterns of authorship in major bibliographic databases: The European region Coverage of European authorship in these major bibliographic databases appears to be in decline, expect for MEDLINE, BIOSIS, and INSPEC.
Analysis of citation and co-citation in chemical engineering The analysis of co-citation at a low threshold of citation and co-citation with the selection of references from relevant journals made it possible to determine in detail the structure of basic research front in CE.
How Important is the Scientific Literature in Guiding Clinical Decisions?: <i>The Case of Magnetic Resonance Imaging</i> This study, combined with previously published analyses of the content of the literature on MRI, suggests that the medical-scientific literature was unlikely to be the major direct source of information guiding nonradiologists' assessment of MRI, particularly during the early stages of the diffusion process. Rather, clinicians probably relied on other sources of information, many of which might have been inferior to the ideal model of carefully designed studies directed at attending physicians. To better understand and appropriately influence the diffusion of medical technologies and practices, much more must be learned about how information on medical innovation diffuses and how decisions regarding the purchase and use of technology are made.
Author problems in a collaborative research project Some of the problems discussed here are likely to occur in the course of any large-scale collaborative project.
Discovering shared interests using graph analysis In this article we have focused on the problem of discovering users with particular interests or expertise.
Research performance indicators for university departments: A study of an agricultural university We conclude that a short-term citation window is applicable most of the times.
The measurement of international scientific collaboration The paper concludes that, in an analysis of collaborative links, it is essential to use both absolute and relative measures.
Bradford distributions of social-science bibliographies varying in definitional homogeneity The experimental-psychology bibliographies conformed, in varying degree, to the linear-form standard of the Bradford curve, with the best fit obtained for the most homogeneous bibliography, that for H. E. C. The high negative correlation (-0.98) of curvature and density of publications indicates that deviation from linearity in the Bradford display of a bibliography was very closely and inversely related to the relative standing of that bibliography on the range of densities that we encountered in our six bibliographies. These small-scale corroborations testify to the desirability of examining other bibliographies in the humanities and social sciences.
Research Management for Selectivity and Concentration ‐ With What Effect? It then seemed clear also that the new system had increased research activity by putting pressure on staff to perform better, and on universities to be less willing to wait for the retirement of professors and other senior staff who had ceased to be productive and provide leadership in research activities. There has been a considerable redistribution of grants between the pre-1991 universities despite a degree of capping and safety netting. But there is as yet not enough published information to estimate just how far the abolition of the binary line has run counter to the declared policy of 'selectivity and concentration'.
Cross-national assessment of specialization patterns in chemistry Comparative analysis of bibliometric data, particularly identification of areas of relative strength and weakness for different countries have important implications for strategic planning in science, especially allocation of priorities and related policy decisions for scientific fields/subfields, impact evaluation of previous decisions, and identification of countries and areas of research for transnational cooperation in scientific research. In this paper we have demonstrated the feasibility and usefulness of mapping of science, which reveals the structure of science based on the cumulative effect of science policies of different countries.
Identification of mainstream journals of science speciality: A method using the discipline-contribution score The method described provides a means of identifying the relevant and significant journals in a field.
Co-word-based science maps of chemical engineering. Part I: Representations by direct multidimensional scaling We believe that co-word analysis aiming at representing the (cognitive and/or social) struc-ture of a research field without help of experts, is not possible. An expert scientist is necessary to remove possible artefacts in the co-word analysis. Co-word analysis, however, gives a useful overview of the whole field under study. It may indicate structures and relations an individual expert scientist or even a group of experts would not have found.
The use of patent titles for identifying the topics of invention and forecasting trends Co-word analysis applied to patents through WPIL normalized title words appears to give a good picture of a given field: we obtain both qualitative information (themes and their word change over time) and quantitative information (weight of themes).
Rank Advancement in Academic Careers: Sex Differences and the Effects of Productivity Time in rank and the number of publications in rank are the most important factors determining rates of promotion.
Cognitive Changes in Scientometrics during the 1980s, as Reflected by the Reference Patterns of its Core Journal Using the analysis of references, evidence was collected to support the conjecture that the research field of scientometrics – as reflected in the journal of that name has undergone a crystallization process, and moved from the 'soft' towards the 'harder' sciences between the periods 1980-81 and 1990–91. This evidence consists of: - 1. the formation of a 'standard' distribution of the number of references per paper; 2. an increase of Price's index by about 20%; 3. an increase of 'first-paged' references (a proxy for journal refer- ences) by more than 20%; 4. a decrease of percentage of journals cited only once by one third. The actual value of Price's index, the composition of the cited journal set, the frequency distribution of cited author names, and some other kindred evidence, all lead us to conclude that Scientometrics represents an intermediate position between 'soft' and 'hard' science, and that the underlying research field is increasingly codified – although, in some aspects, it is still in a 'preparadigmatic' state.
A bibliometric analysis of six economics research groups: A comparison with peer review The bibliometric study yielded clear and meaningful results, notwithstanding the increasingly applied nature of the research groups.
Latin American scientific output 1986–91 and international co-authorship patterns This paper has sought to show that patterns of international collaboration in science can be traced among the nations of Latin America from an analysis of Science Citation Index publications. Trans-national co-authorship, both within the region and with third countries, is increasing fairly rapidly but is still not very high. Several E.C. Member States, notably France and Spain, have increased their co-operative programmes with Latin America and these, and the E.C.’s own International Scientific Co-operation programme, have borne a harvest of joint scientific publications.
Publication Patterns of Scientists Working in Saudi Arabia Publication productivity of the Saudi scientists was found to be quan-titatively significant. The present study has clearly established the value of bibliometric data. We would recommend that in the future, comprehensive biblio-metric research be conducted to expand the scope and add to the sample sources.
Citation Analysis Mapping of Journals in Applied and Clinical Psychology The results of this study illustrate, and to a certain extent confirm, the conventional wisdom concerning the importance and interrelationships of the various psychology journals. The derived journal importance ratings and similarity mappings suggest that there is a considerable amount of interaction between the various subfields of psychology. Further, we find a set of centrally mapped journals which form a "core," performing a critical, stabilizing, and unifying function for the discipline as a whole.
The impact of forensic science journals Forensic science is an applied science which generally tends to attract less interest, fewer papers and a lower frequency of citation compared with journals that publish basic research.
The contribution of European community less favoured region research outputs to economic and social cohesion Although the output of papers from scientists in the EC LFRs has increased substantially in recent years as have their publications co-authored with scientists from the rest of the EC (MFRs), the basic results must be treated with caution because of the increasing tendency of some groups in the last two years (notably in particle physics and medical surveys) to publish papers with many hundreds of authors. These distort the underlying trends and do not necessarily imply the existence of close partnerships evident in the majority of internationally co-authored papers with only two or three addresses and a handful of authors.
Comments on some of the statements in the article: The measurement of international scientific collaboration by T. Luukkonen, R. J. W. Tijsen, O. Persson, G. Sivertsen The results of this method of analysis of "observed" and "expected" rates are in perfect accordance with the results of the OECD report!
The Most-Cited Articles in JPR JPR's international breakthrough was due in great measure to its founder, Johan Galtung. No obvious intellectual successor to Galtung has emerged and JPR is becoming more like any other academic journal, dependent for its reputation on a large number of quality articles by a variety of authors.
Factors in American State Government spending on research and development First, it seems that a state's support for R and D and R and D plant is to some extent fostered by its own economic status: states which have stronger economies, as measured by tax capacity, are somewhat more likely to fund these programs than states with weaker economies.
Co-word-based science maps of chemical engineering. Part II: Representations by combined clustering and multidimensional scaling Our results suggest that the co-word mapping approach presented here is an acceptable method to visualize the structure of chemical engineering (CE). Representation of co-word data by a subsequent use of clustering techniques and multidimensional scaling proved to be a considerable improvement of our earlier co-word analysis technique based on multidimensional scaling only. First applications of our work together with an extension of our methods in technology [4] show that advanced bibliometric methods, and in particular co-word techniques, may become very powerful tools for science and technology policy as well as R & D management.
Measuring “publications output” and “publications impact” of faculty members of a university chemistry department Measurement is more difficult than expected, partly because lists of publications supposedly checked by faculty members still contain many errors. It would appear that the citation count is a rather imperfect tool for the measurement of the "impact" of a publication and that reliable techniques for this purpose have still to be established. The citation count is undoubtedly one component in the measurement of publication impact, and by extension of research quality, but it is certainly not the only one, and equating the two unconditionally is unfortunate, and perhaps dangerous.
The creation of postdoctoral fellowships and the siting of American scientific research The postdoctoral fellowship was initiated by the private foundations with the objective of developing the scientific talents of persons who would become professors.
Flat Organizations for Earth Science Some risks and needs arise with the new balance-or imbalance-of power.
Knowledge networks Since tij increases with distance, as noted above, the probability of collaboration declines with distance (as does the chance of knowing someone at a distance).
Measuring national output in physics: Delimitation problems With respect to the comparison of two methods to delimitate (sub)fields in science and the effects of these methods on the results of science indicators, we conclude that at the level of broad science fields such as physics both methods yield rather similar results.
A study of journals needed to support the Project 2000 nursing course with an evaluation of citation counting as a method of journal selection In order to produce an overall rank of journal titles taking into account the structure of the literature, use by students themselves and recommendation to reflect what ought to be used, the ranks produced by the four methods described in this study were combined. The unsuitability of using the Citation Index rank for journal selection was confirmed on a subjective, but expert, basis by the tutors as there was no significant correlation between the rank of titles obtained in the tutor survey and the rank of titles in the Citation Index.
Faculty research productivity 1972?1988: Development and application of constant units of measure This study's purpose has been to develop a more meaningful way to measure and interpret research productivity counts-one that is sensitive to changes in the knowledge production environment and does not assume constancy over time. In so doing, our results emphasize how skewed the research counting game has become at the national level; they highlight the magnitude of the adjustments required to compensate for the skewness in the three disciplines studied. Whatever the direction of future investigations, our study clearly demonstrates that such work must be conducted and interpreted with sensitivity to the changing environments in which faculty function.
Communication efficiency in research and development But we try to show that the evidence and arguments are inconclusive, and that the question of efficiency is an open one. It is also one which information science has an interest in pursuing.
Dependence of publication-rate on size of some university groups and departments in U. K. and Greece in comparison with N. C. I., USA It appears likely that the above concept could open up new avenues in management practices. Accordingly, further studies are in hand on the relevant characteristics of the output of various institutes and, if possible, a fuller study of size and nature of the sub-groups noted above. Since these peaks are very nearly at N = 8 1/2 × n, where n = 1, 2,...5, it can be conjectured that these groups each consist of 1, 2,...5 sub-groups of 8 to 9 persons.
Scientific quality in the eyes of the scientist. A questionnaire study The results support the conceptual framework developed in previous studies. On the other hand, there were also clear differences between two main categories of research areas, i.e. hard and soft sciences. A further implication of this study is that it confirms the possibility of doing research into the psychology of science among contemporary scientists.
Science publishing needs a reformation History will decide separately whether our results on diphasic mixtures are reproducible, interesting, significant, and useful.
Forecasting Prices of Foreign Science Journals In summary, three major factors may be used to forecast changes in subscription prices of foreign journals. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to a foreign currency can produce observable adjustments and trends; sharp changes in conversion rates may be expected to result in abrupt changes in subscription prices about two years later. Third, additional administrative expenses that are involved in operating a North American office increase costs and prices.
The evaluation of university research We are well aware of the fact that no evaluation is possible without publishing. But the flaw in the vast majority of this system is to believe that publishing itself is evaluation, by accepting two equally bad systems: publications counting and citations counting.
Index medicus price study: Publishing trends from 1988 to 1992 The primary use of this analysis is to demonstrate journal price fluctuations by discipline and country of origin to department heads, university and hospital administrators, and others concerned with the costs of health information.
Citation status of Turkish physics publications in foreign journals: A global analysis The data presented indicate that Turkish publication output in physics published in foreign (non-Turkish) journals grew relatively slowly between 1982 and 1990. Compared to earlier years, there was a considerable shift in publications of Turkish authored articles from journals that are published in Europe to journals that are published in the United States. Turkish physics appears to have become well-integrated into the world physics community. This study and earlier results also clearly show that the output of scientists is increased by making the scientific environment more conductive to research.
A method for identifying the most influential articles in an academic discipline Being able to group articles in this manner can be helpful in many respects.
A ranking of political science journals based on citation data In the final analysis, it is not simply a question of which ranking method is "right" and which is "wrong." The author does not advocate reaching journal subscription or cancellation decisions solely on ranking studies, citation-based or otherwise. A ranking study represents an additional piece of evidence that can help librarians and faculty confront the difficult challenge of serials management decisions.
Information use value: A test on the perception of utility and validity Main results of the study are that the hypothesis was confirmed at the perceptual and inferential levels.
Modeling multinational publication: Development of an on-line fractionation approach to measure national scientific output Our study of multinational publication has yielded a viable method of fractionation that can be applied in on-line bibliometric research. This means that our on-line method of fractionating provides a better estimate of publication totals involving multiple countries than an approximation method based upon first author (first address) counts, if publication totals are fractionated according to the number of countries involved. The fractionation model can be further improved by collecting more data in fields with different degrees of multinational publication, and by establishing fractionation degree values on complete counts rather than samples.
Peer Review of Term Papers in Graduate Psychology Courses However, my subjective impressions, student feedback, and some potentially useful findings relevant to an understanding of professional peer review reliability lead me to conclude that the effort is worthwhile.
A study of citing motivation of Chinese scientists The study shows that an author's citing behavior is unique, personal and complex.
Subject relationship between articles determined by co-occurrence of keywords in citing and cited titles It is evident from the analysis of data that the relationship between the Parent Articles and Related Records exists not only on the basis of shared references but also on the basis of common Keywords in the titles as well.
Determinants of academic recognition: The case of the Journal of Applied Psychology.. Results from this study suggested that research plots do differ in the number of citations they later receive.
An analysis of the accuracy of journal references in papers accepted for publication in EEB The data do not support the hypothesis.
Use of peer review to evaluate research outcomes Despite the difficulties involved in selecting reviewers and a tendency for them to be 'diplomatic' the process works well. Peer review is widely accepted in the Australian research community as a valid tool to evaluate research. At no stage in this program has any re-searcher indicated that they would prefer to be evaluated in any other way.
An international comparison of scientists in an emerging field The main conclusion from this cross-country comparison is one of similarity and homogeneity rather than one of difference and divergence.
Internationalisation of academic and scientific contacts: Aspects of Finnish scholarly exchanges "There is too little hard data and theory to judge successfully the impact of international academic activities on Finland."
How chemists use the literature If I am right, then it seems that ACS and RSC journals are more likely to survive the library cuts than those of some other publishers.
Rating of journals in catalysis Since losses in the range of journals are unavoidable, we could eliminate the less popular ones and, if we were lucky, spend the money on the most valuable ones. These data appear to represent a new feature of catalysis, in addition to interpretations given in the News Brief: catalysis is something independent of the viewpoint, even if the latter are sited as far apart as the middle of Asia and the middle of Europe.
A Ranking of Political Science Journals Based on Citation Data This article's objective is not to endorse citation ranking as infallible, but merely to fill a gap in the literature by providing a current, citation-based ranking of political science journals.
Ecclesiastes effects Bibliometrics is a metaphor for life itself, as it is described in Ecclesiastes. Or is life a metaphor for bibliometrics?
A MEASURE OF STANDING FOR CITATION NETWORKS WITHIN A WIDER ENVIRONMENT Conceptually, it makes more sense to include the wider environment, as it is a crucial part of the communication system of science.
CITATION BEHAVIOR AND PLACE OF PUBLICATION IN THE AUTHORS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC PERIPHERY - A MATTER OF QUALITY Different standards of external and internal biomedical scientific communication in Croatia have been established related to the practice of citing relevant domestic sources.
THE POISSON-LOGNORMAL MODEL FOR BIBLIOMETRIC SCIENTOMETRIC DISTRIBUTIONS This article illustrates that the Poisson-lognormal model provides good fits to a diverse set of distributions commonly studied in bibliometrics and scientometrics. If further studies generalize the applicability of the PL model, then it would replace the 'laws' of Lotka, Bradford, and Zipf. The PL model provides information related to indices of concentration or inequality in bibliometrics (e.g., Egghe & Rousseau, 1990; Hustopecky & Vlachy, 1978).
BRADFORD CURVES It has been shown that generalized Leimkuhler functions provide excellent fits to a large variety of data, including those exhibiting a so-called Groos droop or a rising tail.
A THEORY OF CONTINUOUS RATES AND APPLICATIONS TO THE THEORY OF GROWTH AND OBSOLESCENCE RATES The definition of "rate of a function f" as given by R(f) = e^(logf)' proves to be the right formulation for expressing proportional changes in time for functions dependent on continuous variables.
THE INTERNATIONALIZATION OF THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF ROENTGENOLOGY - 1980-1992 CONCLUSION. The American Journal of Roentgenology is becoming increasingly internationalized, with Korea, Japan, and Germany making particularly striking advances in the past decade. Whatever the exact reasons may be, the single conclusion of our research cannot be denied: the American Journal of Roentgenology has become increasingly internationalized during the past decade. Although the internationalization of other aspects of American life may be opposed by some with xenophobic fervor, all readers of AJR should welcome this rich infusion of ideas and science from foreign shores.
DO CITATIONS MATTER The paper concludes that citation studies remain a valid method of analysis of individuals', institutions', or journals' impact, but need to be used with caution and in conjunction with other measures.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES IN LIFE SCIENCES IN JAPAN Today, the evaluation of research activities is becoming important, and there has been an increase of interest in bibliometrics as a useful technique to determine research activities quantitatively.
STRUCTURE OF INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION IN SCIENCE .2. COMPARISONS OF PROFILES IN COUNTRIES USING A LINK INDICATOR Further to our previous article on the comprehensive treatment of a matrix of 98 countries in eight large scientific disciplines, we have presented ways of perceiving and comparing the science production behaviors of countries. Application of the methodologies should be able to create a better understanding of the science policies of any country. An investigation of patterns should contribute to an awareness of deliberate and undeliberate traditions, strategies, and priorities, determined in any particular laboratory, university, locality, or nation participating in mainstream science.
PREMATURE OR INAPPROPRIATE PUBLICATION OF RESEARCH FINDINGS Transparency of research findings and evaluation of scientific performance on other grounds than crude listings of publications are needed. The scientific and professional community should be aware of the possible threats to the integrity in the provision of scientific information. Pharmacists may contribute as gatekeepers and reviewers of publications in the biomedical and pharmaceutical press.
RESIDENT RESEARCH PROJECTS - FREQUENCY OF PRESENTATION AND PUBLICATION IN A NATIONAL FORUM Required completion of two research studies during residency bolstered by early selection of prospective projects and departmental fiscal support, as well as intensive faculty advisor direction and assistance, has resulted in resident projects with increasingly frequent national recognition.
INDEXING TERMS IN THE LISA DATABASE ON CD-ROM Our analysis of the assigned subject fields (CCs and DEs) in the LISA database has led to the conclusion that LISA's indexing policy and practice is far from exemplary. The thesaurus (or controlled vocabulary) LISA (1987) uses can quickly be seen as one not com-piled according to standard thesaurus construction principles. The next phase of our study on LISA will focus on further analysis of the DE and CC fields with respect to term dependencies and term clustering over time. We also intend to apply similar analysis to other databases that use controlled vocabulary in their indexing to refine our methods as a tool for comparison of the subject indexing in various databases.
COLLABORATION IN THE INVENTION OF TECHNOLOGY - GLOBALIZATION, REGIONS, AND CENTERS The system has been undergoing a process of globalization insofar as collaboration has been increasing. The world system of invention is differentiated horizontally by regions and vertically into a center and periphery hierarchy. Collaboration is intense between nations that are geopolitically linked. Specifically, integration in collaboration in inventions has been strong, albeit disintegrating, among the nations in the communist East Bloc. Conversely, integration has been growing among the nations forming the European Union.
RESEARCH FUNDING OF PSYCHIATRIC-DISORDERS IN CANADA - A SNAPSHOT, 1990-1991 Research funding for mental illness remains disproportionately low relative to other medical illnesses.
NORMATIVE STANDARDS FOR IS RESEARCH Knowledge gained from the study has the potential to: (1) improve the overall quality of future submissions by focusing the researchers' time and effort on key criteria and normative standards for publishing research, as differentiated by research method, (2) reduce the number of revisions required before a manuscript gets published, and (3) suggest journal evaluation forms that more accurately reflect the standards of the IS community.
CITATION PATTERNS IN THE JOURNALS OF STATISTICS AND PROBABILITY "The analyses presented here have permitted many conclusions of broad generality; that, for example, those aspects of intellectual influence that are represented well by citations tend to flow on balance from more abstract work to more applied work and within specialties in ways represented by the export scores."
UNIFIED EUROPEAN HIGHER MEDICAL DEGREES The standards of work submitted with these M.D. theses was high.
THE SIMON-YULE APPROACH TO BIBLIOMETRIC MODELING In this paper we showed the importance of computational experimentation in deriving the behavior of the bibliometric distributions.
ECONOMIC RESEARCH IN EUROPE In conclusion we hope that our report will generate a debate not only about the nature and accuracy of the data that we have assembled but also about how wisely and productively the resources currently being devoted to economic research in Europe are being used.
INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION IN SCIENCE - PARTICIPATION BY THE ASIAN GIANTS From this study as well as another study completed recently by Arunachalam et al.,19 we believe that China has a much greater chance to forge ahead quickly than India.
THE APPLICATION OF SCIENTOMETRIC TOOLS TO THE ANALYSIS OF A SECTOR IN PLANT BIOTECHNOLOGIES - NITROGEN-FIXATION In spite of these limitations, scientometrics remains an interesting approach for anticipating the state and the strategic evolution of a sector of activity. In the present case, there has been relatively little research on the important economic stakes involved in atmospheric nitrogen fixation by cereals. Such a situation probably justifies an ambitious initiative of financing new themes at an international level.
A STOCHASTIC-MODEL FOR THE AGING OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE An intimate connection between impact and ageing cannot be observed.
A BIBLIOTHECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT FACTORS OF SCIENTIFIC DISCIPLINES The quantitative data presented herein can be taken into consideration when evaluating journal collections by discipline. It seems therefore that fair faculty library budgets/allocations should be at least in a ratio 1 to 3 for the faculties A, E and S versus M, P and V, especially since the presence of bibliographic databases is also required. An investigation about the time-dependence (follow-up) of the results obtained in this paper should be attempted.
TOWARDS A DEMOGRAPHIC APPROACH TO SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS To conclude, it seems advisable today to investigate the dynamics of journals with the help of demographic techniques. This approach enables to use tools that make up the basis of research watch and which do not disregard the leading role played by journals. Therefore it appears meaningful to scan the world of journals.
NON-SCI SUBJECT VISIBILITY OF THE LATIN-AMERICAN SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION IN THE HEALTH FIELD The implications of this analysis to researchers, policy makers, and database producers is highly relevant since some caution needs to be taken when making decissions in terms of science policy indicators and evaluation; allocation of funds to research groups; and database use/acquisition.
PATENT BIBLIOMETRICS We thus conclude, as Price observed many years ago, that there are more similarities than differences between patents and papers, and technology and science, and that the general bibliometric properties of these two realms are very similar.
BIBLIOMETRIC CARTOGRAPHY OF SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS OF AN RESEARCH-AND-DEVELOPMENT FIELD - THE CASE OF OPTOMECHATRONICS Bibliometric cartography based on publications and patents is a powerful tool to analyse the structure of science and technology. Though there is no direct connection between the related clusters in the science map on the one hand and the technology map on the other, we conclude that the research activities represented by the corresponding clusters in the science map can (or should) be considered as a science base for the two technology clusters. A possible enrichment of the cartographical analyses is an investigation of the direct links between science and technology in terms of patent citations to Non Patent Literature.
SEARCHING FOR ADVERSE DRUG-REACTIONS AT THE MARGIN OF SCIENTIFIC FIELDS - THE SCIENTOMETRIC DETECTION OF PERIPHERAL BUT POTENTIALLY INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENTS IN PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH Innovations, triggered by ADRs, can be traced back when the innovation has already been successful, that is when the result is incorporated in the central structure of the scientific field.
THE SPANISH TRANSITION TO DEMOCRACY SEEN THROUGH THE SPANISH DATABASE ISOC The Social Sciences databases appear as a very useful tool for performing quantitative research analysis, due to the huge amount of information that can be automatically processed and the richness offered by bibliographic references and key-words.
DOUBLE EXPONENTIAL MODELS FOR 1ST-CITATION PROCESSES We conclude that further research is needed to find out when one of the two models is more appropriate than the other. We have proposed two double exponential models to describe the first-citation or response distribution and have fitted real data to these models. For our examples, we have found that when using one year as a time unit, the first model, without inflection, fits the data well. However, when we used two weeks as a unit, we observed an S-shaped curve and needed the second model.
A SCI-MAP CASE-STUDY - BUILDING A MAP OF AIDS RESEARCH The question remains whether a breakthrough in the fight against AIDS will come from within the field itself or from some seemingly unrelated field?
STUDYING LEADERSHIP AND SUBDISCIPLINARY STRUCTURE OF SCIENTIFIC DISCIPLINES - CLUSTER-ANALYSIS OF PARTICIPATION IN SCIENTIFIC MEETINGS The new scientometric approach presented here can be used in identifying scientific leaders and in mapping the subdisciplinary structure of the discipline of immunology in the post WWII period.
GEODE - OPTIMIZING DATA-FLOW REPRESENTATION TECHNIQUES IN A NETWORK INFORMATION-SYSTEM In this paper, we have presented a new project which is just beginning at CERESI/CNRS whose goal is to better understand the non-linear dynamics of scientific development.
THE ORIGIN AND FEATURES OF INFORMATION REFERENCED IN PHARMACEUTICAL PATENTS Surveying 250 pharmaceutical patents originating from different countries the conclusion is drawn that the scientific information background of patents is significantly smaller (about 6 items per patent) than that of journal articles.
REGULARITY AND IRREGULARITY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENTIFIC DISCIPLINES - THE CASE OF MATHEMATICAL LOGIC Our analysis shows that the difficulty of calculating reliable values of the coefficients of the epidemiological differential equations casts grave doubts upon the possibility of applying in the present form the deterministic theory of epidemics in scientometrics.
RELATION OF TITLE LENGTH OF JOURNAL ARTICLES TO NUMBER OF AUTHORS We may conclude that as far as the sciences journals studied (excluding mathematics) are concerned, in most cases a positive correlation, sometimes significant, was found between the number of authors signed on a paper and the number of substantive words in its title.
DEVELOPMENT OF A METHOD FOR DETECTION AND TREND ANALYSIS OF RESEARCH FRONTS BUILT BY LEXICAL OR COCITATION ANALYSIS Keeping this caveats in mind, combining structural and temporal aspects of network analysis (copublications, cocitations, word associations) seems to be very profitable in a bibliometric study of a field; furthermore, in cocitation analysis empirical characterization of trend versus immediacy may raise stimulating questions in term of life-cycle, and back more formal approaches.
WHO PUBLISHES IN THE LARGE ANESTHESIA JOURNALS Contrary to the widespread opinion that smaller nations are less capable of achieving high scientific output, we found that small countries were very active in the field of science and that, when taking their population into account, they were well capable of competing with larger nations.
REFERENCE ACCURACY IN THE DERMATOLOGICAL LITERATURE This study shows that the rate of citation and quotation errors is unacceptably high in the dermatologic literature, which significantly diminishes the value of the reference list.
REHABILITATION RESIDENT ACADEMIC PRODUCTIVITY - REPORT ON 1993 GRADUATES The present study established a relationship be-tween a residency research requirement and resi-dent research activity.
THE ACADEMIC QUALITY OF AI JOURNALS AND THE ROLE OF AI IN THE MIS CURRICULUM - PERSPECTIVES OF BUSINESS FACULTY The survey found that Artificial Intelligence (Nether- lands), IEEE Transactions on Pattern and Machine Intelligence, and Communications of the ACM are re- garded as the top three journals for communication of Al research.
REFERENCE CITATIONS IN RADIOLOGY - ACCURACY AND APPROPRIATENESS OF USE IN 2 MAJOR JOURNALS The rate of minor errors in accuracy of references is fairly high in the two journals studied and is comparable to rates previously reported for other types of journals. The rate of major errors in accuracy of references is slightly lower than rates for other types of journals. However, authors should be encouraged to exercise greater care in checking all of their references for both accuracy and appropriateness of use.
PARTICIPATION IN SCIENTIFIC MEETINGS - A NEW PROSOPOGRAPHICAL APPROACH TO THE DISCIPLINARY HISTORY OF SCIENCE - THE CASE OF IMMUNOLOGY, 1951-72 In this preliminary paper, we present a new approach to the prosopographical analysis of a scientific discipline, using as a model the field of immunology during a period of a major conceptual and institutional transition between 1951 and 1972.
COMPARISON OF ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN ORAL-SURGERY-ORAL-MEDICINE-ORAL-PATHOLOGY IN 1972 AND 1992 A trend toward an increased number of authors per article has been noted by others3, 4 and was confirmed by our data when 1972 was compared with 1992.
FINANCIAL-SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH IN RADIOLOGY - A SURVEY OF ORIGINAL INVESTIGATIONS PUBLISHED IN THE AJR AND RADIOLOGY Only a small percentage of radiology research attracts formal, especially extramural, financial support. This should be a cause for concern. As the informal funding of investigations from redirected clinical revenues is diminishing, action will be required to procure funds to support the radiology research necessary for the vitality of the specialty.
THE CURRENT BURST IN ASTRONOMICAL PUBLICATIONS It appears that the ApJ is the journal of choice for major studies based on space data and the theoretical interpretations of those data; it is suddenly growing rapidly because of our greatly increased capabilities in space.
ISLANDS IN THE STREAM - MAPPING THE FISHERIES AND AQUATIC SCIENCES LITERATURES Though the FAS research literatures are distinct, authors frequently span those boundaries when they cite journals from two different clusters. The intercitation networks and cocitation clusters and maps are based on the deliberate patterns of acknowledgment that are part of the formal communication process in science. They are valuable tools for fisheries researchers and the librarians who build and manage the journal collections to support research and teaching in the field.
AN ASSESSMENT OF SYSTEMS AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SCHOLARS AND INSTITUTIONS However, the institutional rankings, which suffer considerably less when conducted over only a one-year period, are probably more significant.
WHO IS PUBLISHING IN THERIOGENOLOGY AND ON WHAT SUBJECTS The present analysis confirms the central role that the journal Theriogenology plays in the world-wide communication of research results in animal reproduction. The journal's editorial policy of willingness to assist in the publication of deserving manuscripts from around the world is apparent from our results of our survey even though the large majority of authors and subscribers continue to be from the United States and Canada. We hope the present analysis will help, in some small measure, to guide editorial policy towards its intended goals.
ON KNOWLEDGE NETWORKS IN SCIENCE - COLLABORATION AMONG EQUALS These allocations are therefore stable in a competitive world when the scientific worths of all parties are public knowledge.
MANUSCRIPT QUALITY BEFORE AND AFTER PEER-REVIEW AND EDITING AT ANNALS OF INTERNAL-MEDICINE Peer review and editing improve the quality of medical research reporting, particularly in those areas that readers rely on most heavily to decide on the importance and generalizability of the findings. These results indicate that most medical research re-porting has substantial room for improvement and that peer review and editing can improve it in ways that are particularly important to readers, the media, and the lay public. A report, once published, is a permanent part of the medical literature; this study indicates that peer re-view and editing can make it more temperate and well balanced than if published as originally submitted.
EFFECTS OF RESOURCE CONCENTRATION ON RESEARCH PERFORMANCE The widespread introduction of policies of resource concentration around the world are found to have been based on little examined assumptions, and in operation to be at times counter-productive.
FORESIGHT ANALYSIS IN RESEARCH FUNDING AGENCIES - A UK EXPERIMENT The paper concludes by summarising the limitations of this approach to strategic planning, and presenting some general lessons that may be useful for consideration in other micro-level foresight exercises.
SURVEY OF FULFILLMENT OF CRITERIA FOR AUTHORSHIP IN PUBLISHED MEDICAL-RESEARCH The results of this small survey on papers published in 1993 are much the same as those of the American study (published after my data had been analysed)2; authors seem no more aware of conditions for authorship now than four years ago. Journals should ask authors to fill in a questionnaire similar to the one I used and provide a published table of contributions to the paper.5
A RETROSPECTIVE ANALYSIS OF PEER-REVIEW AT PHYSIOLOGIA-PLANTARUM The data provide support for the reliability and lack of bias in a commonly used peer-review system.
THE ASTRONOMICAL COMMUNITY IN THE NETHERLANDS Comparison in mean citation rates determined in other studies are also made, resulting in an excellent score for the Netherlands astronomical community. It follows from this that a high total citation rate is accomplished by the production of a large set of papers that keep getting reasonable citation rates rather than the production of a single, highly cited paper. Visibility depends primarily on a person's total record.
THE EVOLUTION OF COMMUNICATION-SYSTEMS A system can deconstruct a signal of one-lower dimensionality than it has available, since it needs the additional dimension in order to provide the signal with a value.
A QUANTITATIVE METHOD FOR MEASURING LIBRARY USER JOURNAL NEEDS - A PILOT-STUDY USING CD PLUS MEDLINE USAGE STATISTICS Our pilot study demonstrated that analysis of bibliographic search results can be used to identify library user journal needs.
Profiling PhD Dissertation Bibliographies: Using dissertation bibliographies to establish the contours and configurations of kinds of format used in doctoral level research is a promising approach to collection management and to understanding the disciplinary culture of political science. Serials and journals represent a major proportion of cited materials used and is useful to serials management, especially since spiraling costs of serials have become such a predominant concern among academic librarians. Continuous monitoring of dissertation bibliographies through simple but effective citation examination will prove both sound and practical for the bibliographer, serials librarian, and scholar in the humanities and social sciences.
Ranking Agricultural Economics Departments by <i>AJAE</i> Page Counts: A Reappraisal Thus, AJAE page counts appear to provide a simple yet valid representation of institutional research productivity.
The productivity of British, American and Nigerian chemists compared FRS/NAS Professors in both countries are prolific producers of papers, with no obvious significant difference in productivity between the two coun- tries. There is a big difference in the productivity of the middle ranks, i.e. Readers and Senior Lecturers in British universities produce a mean of 2.1 publica- tions per year more than the American Associate Professors. Attention is drawn to the lower productivity of the Nigerian chemists, in a deteriorating economic and political climate.
Institutional and technical constraints on faculty gross productivity in American doctoral universities The study results mean that universities cannot expect major productivity gains from their faculty without redefining their roles in research or teaching. They could increase their productivity in teaching, but at the expense of re- search. They could increase their productivity in research, but at the expense of teaching.
Assessing Research Impact Peer review is the method used most frequently by the federal government. All methods examined have their unique shortcomings.
A patent-based cartography of technology Our general conclusion is that the mapping methods and techniques presented in this publication already offer a unique way to visualize developments in fields of technology, and within technology as a whole.
Psychology of the Scientist: LXVII. Assignment of Authorship Credit in Psychological Research The merit for having discipline-wide standardized values for each of the activities that are part of a research project is that each scientist would have a referent to use. Each first author would not necessarily calculate exact values but would have a better idea of professionally acceptable placement of authorship.
Persuasive Communities: A Longitudinal Analysis of References in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, 1665-1990 By examining in some detail the references included in sampled articles from 325 years of publishing history of the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, we were able to document some of the changes that have taken place in persuasive communities over time. These changes help to explain the nature of scientific communities, and the nature of the scientific enterprise generally. A great deal of additional work needs to be done. One area that promises to be fruitful is that of citation context analysis.
Facts or imposed names on facts? According to the title, there is no doubt that the objective of the authors is to attract attention on the state of health of quantitative studies of science (scientometrics) and encourage research vigor. Thus, some of the statements (e.g. growing number of publications) "seem" to be more names imposed on facts than the facts themselves.
Relative Significance of Journals, Authors, and Articles Cited in Financial Research This study examines the references of the top journals in finance in order to establish a ranking among finance journals based on the frequency with which active researchers writing in top finance journals cite work previously published in various sources.
The republic of science in the 1990s Research councils must also become entrepreneurial - or become obsolete.
Individual co-citation clusters as nuclei of complete and dynamic informetric models of scientific and technological areas The present paper outlines several simple methodologies for complete description of research fronts, their dynamics, and the simultaneously carried out developments. These methodologies supplement traditional co-citation clustering in polysubject paper files since the focus of analysis is transfered to obtained individual clusters (research fronts). It would be interesting to use the proposed tool kit in the analysis of an individual technological area over a longer period of time for monitoring its appearance, interaction of basic and applied research, and development and its commercialization.
Institutional variations in problem choice and persistence among scientists in an emerging field Comparing early and late entrants in academic, commercial and government laborato-ries, we find that it is mainly academic scientists who demonstrate the kind of behavior we have previously found to be associated with early en-trants.
A Methodology to Choose Performance Indicators of Research Attainment in Universities The performance indicators identified as a consequence of this review allow for diversity and comparability, they involve collection by the central uni- versity administrators and the department in a co-operative venture, and they aim to minimise disagreement among the heads of department about the choice of indicators. It has been the aim of this paper to demonstrate a process (of interview, questionnaire and analysis) which could be adopted by other universities, once they have agreed upon the aim of the exercise, the research aims of the university, and what constitutes research in the university. A major effect of using performance indicators is that they open university departments to review, they place more reliance on forward rather than back- ward planning, and they can be used effectively to monitor trends.
Mapping Changes in Science and Technology The ability to incorporate comments and criticisms may not only constitute an essential step toward a better understanding and use of maps; it might prove to be one of the major outcomes of applying maps. Such a collaborative effort may significantly enhance the utility of bibliometric maps as an external means for visualizing and analyzing the intricate fabric of science and technology. This type of information may help R&D managers and S&T policymakers to obtain a better view, and improve their understanding, of the state and the developments of the S&T system.
The impact of past experience on people's preference: the case of university researchers' dependency on funding sources Past experience with a specific funding source had an impact on one's preference for that source, but this impact was not affected by the level of dependency on external support. The findings of this study have significant implications for the funding sources, and for social scientists who use resource dependency as their theoretical framework. It will be the task of further studies to examine this issue more thoroughly.
Trends in the Publication of Empirical Economics It appears that journals of higher quality are indeed less likely to publish empirical articles than are their lower-ranked counterparts, although the dif- ferences among journals seem to have eroded recently. The results described above provide limited evidence that top-ranked journals may be biased against empirical economics.
Ranking Japan's life science research This survey shows that the paper output per head can provide a measure for eva-luating scientific activity in Japan. Bibliometric evaluation provides un-biased judgment, not by an inner circle of peers but by neutral outside observers. The scientific community of Japan, as well as that elsewhere in the world, cannot avoid such evaluations.
Computer Analysis of Local Citation Information in Collection Management Local citation studies can provide information useful in developing collections to fulfill this objective.
Psychology of the Scientist: LXVIII. Trends in Multiple Authorship Although the trend toward multiple authorship has apparently stabilized, researchers have not addressed this phenomenon. Further investigation might indicate reasons for such trends as well as provide information on expectations for authorship credits in interdisciplinary collaboration.
The Determinants of Library Subscription Prices of the Top-Ranked Economics Journals: An Econometric Analysis Our findings reveal that variations in library prices for top-ranked economics journals are in accord with hypotheses derived from demand and supply theory.
A bibliometric profile of top-scientists a case study in chemical engineering We discussed the results of the method to systematically compare bibliometric characteristics of top-scientists with those of average scientists in chemical engineering. The results show a very clear 'bibliometric profile'.
THERE'S MORE TO COUNTING THAN MEETS THE EYE: COMMENT ON SHORTZ ET AL. Studies of scholarly publications and citations in marital and family therapy can facilitate future scholarship by directing students, practitioners, and researchers to theoretical and empirical developments influencing current science and practice.
The Use of Bibliometric Indicators to Measure the Research Productivity of Australian Academics A major problem in using frequency of publication as a measure of research productivity is to arrive at a valid definition of what constitutes a publication.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau Among the Footnotes: For the purposes of collection development a political science librarian engaged in maintaining a viable research collection should be aware of interdisciplinarity in political theory studies.
The Bottleneck in research communications To sum up briefly, because Rider's measure of library growth, as a barometer of educational effectiveness, parallels the growth of research reports published, it remains a useful indicator of the timeliness of university resources. As a result of this bottleneck, many academic authors and members of peer review panels have begun to assert their interests and to call for changes in university and government policies. Indeed, if an added investment were to increase productivity and shorten the gap between basic research and commercialization, wouldn't it be worthwhile?
Words and indicators. As scientometrics stands From the above and other facts (not mentioned here), however, it could be concluded that SM is just at the beginning of its exponential development phasel to become a widely accepted scientific subfield.
Tracking areas of strategic importance using scientometric journal mappings If one does not systematically account for redelin-eation in the groupings over time but uses 'fixed journal sets' instead, one risks making a predic-tion of performance with reference to an out-dated unit.
World science in the eighties. National performances in publication output and citation impact, 1985–1989versus 1980–1984
British science in the 1980s — Has the relative decline continued? To sum up, this article has attempted to demonstrate that, while a few isolated indicators might be taken to suggest that British science has been growing, the great weight of evidence points to a relative decline.
The frequency distribution of legal decision citations in the German jurisdiction One can find the characteristic distribution regularities of information science in a communication system with similarities, but also great differences to scientific communication systems.
Multi-database searches in biomedicine: citation duplication and novelty assessment using carbamazepine as an example The present results draw attention to the importance of unique documents retrieved in a multi-database search.
Shannon's entropy as a measure of the “life” of the literature of a discipline The advantage of using S instead of U may be its human unit of measure, i.e. years, and the large theoretical knowledge readily available on H (and hence on S) from the Theory of Information. Examples taken from the literatures of the XX and XIX centuries show that such an age should be around 40-50 years (an example is Shannon's paper4).
Model of manifested communication through publications The model of Manifested Communication through Publications introduced here for bilateral cases can be extended to multilateral sets. The MCP model makes it possible to determine not only information emission and absorption but real communication between players in the game of international scientific research.
Science citation index and impact factors
The highly cited papers of professors as an indicator of a research group's scientific performance These findings justify the conclusion that the number of HCPs scored by the professors (and other senior scientists) is a much more reliable predictor of the performance of a research group than the number of short-term citations of the articles published by the group within a short period.
Evaluating an Interdisciplinary Research Collection The results of the study did not reveal any gross deficiencies in the collection or lead to any substantial recommendations for improving the quality of the collection because items not held are scattered by language, format, and year of publication. The high level of overlap with other University of Michigan collections points to a need for examining the library's patterns of purchasing. Using information from this comparison, epidemiology selectors might be more attentive to the publications in the areas such as cancer, immunology, statistics, cardiology, and pediatrics.
Research output and transnational cooperation in physics subfields: A multidimensional analysis The foregoing analyses of research output and transnational cooperation in Physics subfields indicate that there is no one-to-one correspondence between these two entities. This is true for research fields as well as for countries.
An investigation of research collaboration in the sciences through the philosophical transactions 1901–1991 It is not surprising that the number of collaborative papers and the number of authors involved in collaborative research have increased dramatically, especially in the second half of this century.
University-Corporate Ties and the Construction of Research Agendas The exploration of the agenda construction process within this particular SRA has shown how we can understand the ways in which a changing context creates both opportunities and constraints for SRA members to redefine and legitimate (through their rhetorical discourse) the research they pursue.
Coauthorship networks of invisible colleges and institutionalized communities In invisible colleges the relative frequency of coauthorships is higher between scientists with the same number of publications than between authors of different ones. The opposite is valid in institutionalized communities.
Citation-based auditing of academic performance What our data demonstrate is that: (i) the distribution of citations to faculty work is highly skewed, suggestive of what Bookstein (1990, p. 382) has called "the inertia of productivity patterns"; (ii) in general, raw (straight) counts exaggerate, to a certain extent, the citational productivity of some established faculty (who, for historicocultural reasons are more likely to be sole authors) while underrepresenting the impact of junior faculty (who are more likely to be coauthors); (iii) straight counting, though comparatively cost-effective, is a less-than-adequate basis for assessing individual or unit impact, particularly as the trend to multiple authorship and collaboration grows. If collaboration is progressively becoming the publishing norm (e.g., Harsanyi, 1993), and if multiauthor papers tend to be more highly cited than single-authored papers (e.g., Rousseau, 1992), and if the scholarly community perceives coauthors as deserving of equal (i.e., full) credit, then there is a very powerful argument for using whole counts in citation analyses of both individuals and academic departments/programs. Finally, we feel that the results produced in our ten-year citation analysis of SLIS, whatever the particular charac-teristics of the School or the methodological limitations of the study, raise serious questions about the validity of the perception rankings of library and information science schools produced by White (1993).
Causal relationship between article citedness and journal impact The citedness of journal articles thus does not seem to be detectably influenced by the status of the journal in which they are published. Thus, on statistical grounds alone, journal impact is unsuitable as a proxy measure of article citedness: only a small fraction of a journal's articles are anywhere near the average citedness defined as the journal impact factor (Seglen, 1992a, b). Science deserves to be judged by its contents, not by its wrapping.
On measuring the relation between social science research activity and research publication Our investigation, although preliminary in charac-ter, has uncovered evidence of robust structural fea-tures in the research publication landscape, evidence that urges caution in the applicability of bibliometric analysis, and evidence which can assist in the evalu-ation of social science research.
Special features of the author-publication relationship and a new explanation of Lotka's Law based on convolution theory Hence, this theory provides intrinsic explanations of the Lotka and geometric functions.
A Citation Analysis of Australian Science and Social Science Journals The data from the 1991 Journal Citation Reports indicate several interesting insights into the citation patterns of Australian journals.
The impact of forensic science journals This might lead forensic scientists to publish their best results in the leading journal from another speciality. We believe that the emergence of a leader among forensic science journals such as Arthritis and Rheumatism in rheumatology or the American Review of Respiratory Disease for pulmonologists [5] is strongly needed. Following recent examples [6], we might otherwise have to accept that the best contributions to forensic science journals would be reviews by leaders in their fields who have published their original works in journals with the greatest impact.
A Critical Path Analysis of Scientific Productivity The new operational model presented here can tie together cognitive models of problem solving and sociological models of the scientific process.
The effect of editorial appointments on the citations of sociology journal editors, 1970–1989 To conclude, citation data collected from AJS, ASR, and SF over the last 20 years show that the personal citations of journal editors increase in their own journals during their editorial appointments, but mostly in As/RNs appearing in the editors' primary areas of research specialization.
The class of 1976: Publication and type of location The results of a multiple regression analysis provided consistent support for a positive association between location in a major research university and scholarly productivity.
A bibliometric study on Medicine Chinese Traditional in Medline database This bibliometric study on MCT suggested that low cost and easy use of Medline database services could reveal the growth of the literature of MCT, core periodicals in the field, and the languages in which the MCT articles were written.
The socio-cognitive frameworks of scientific productivity To summarise, the obtained data have clearly confirmed that even some sets of significant scientific productivity factors in various scientific fields may differ, according to, it seems, some socio-cognitive peculiarities of the broadest disciplinary frameworks. The predictor structures of scientific productivity adhere to and constitute socio-cognitive particularities of the scientific fields. Scientific fields are by all means determining frameworks for the productivity of researchers, being typical in regard to the division and organization of the research activity, and to the production and composition of its determinants.
Out of the Ivory Tower Our results suggest that research expenditures, land-grant status, and faculty salaries are associated with university production of research that is of interest to firms in the aircraft and computer equipment industries.
Little scientometrics, big scientometrics ... and beyond Time has come for bibliometricians, informatricians, and scientometricians to come-together and engage in a fruitful exchange of ideas with an objective to promote research in the area of quantitative studies in library and information science, including the quantitative studies of science in general and particularly of science policy, science programmes and science administration. Today, econometrics is a well defined discipline and a key subject, not because of its simple theoretical work but because of its applications and its usefulness to the society. Why not in a similar way, informetrics?
International scientific cooperation: The continentalization of science The proliferation of bonds of dependency has shown the inadequacy of bilateral scientific relations. The need for still greater integration into a unified global network of scientific exchanges seems to have as a corollary a continental fragmentation of the players, as if a regionalized or continentalized world-science were gradually being built. In fact, world-science is characterized by the advent of a true "continentalization"42 of world research. The spectacular result of this "continentalization" of science is the relativization of the United States' position in the regulation of scientific activity throughout the world.
Geographical proximity and scientific collaboration The frequency of research collaboration between domestic universities in the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia decreases exponentially with the distance separating the research partners.
Bridging the gaps: Conceptual discussions on informetrics I hope, with the overview, to have made it clear that there is an intimate methodological link between the different subdisciplines of informetrics and between informetrics and the other "-metrics" studies.
The generation of aggregated journal-journal citation maps on the basis of the CD-ROM version of the Science Citation Index The challenge in this project has been primarily a technical one: is it feasable to construct a database equivalent to the Journal Citation Reports of the Science Citation Index using the CD-ROM version of this database?
Scientists' Access and Retrieval of References Cited in their Recent Journal Articles "This study investigated the methods which scientists use for the access and retrieval of journal articles, providing contrasts among disciplines and uncovering some problems, preferences, and hopes for the future."
Has Price's dream come true: Is scientometrics a hard science? Taken literally, Price's dream has therefore not come true, since he postulated the emergence of a completely new type of social science with a natural science character. But if we reformulate his goal a posteriori in a more modest way, as the building of a relatively hard social science, it did come true.
Disciplinary variables that affect the shape of Bradford's bibliograph The present study demonstrated that the curvature of the Bradford bibliograph differentiates subject-matter specialties: for technical specialties, the curvature is nearly linear; it may be slightly convex, and it may even be concave in the case of "very compact" specialties; for humanities and "diffuse" social-science literatures, the bibliograph is likely to exhibit concave-up (convex) curvature.
The Journal Relations of Human Relations We have shown Human Relations to occupy an important position as an intermediary between a range of management, psychology, and sociology journals. The mapping can help authors in their search for background material when developing a theme, and also in their choice of journal when submitting an article. The loglinear modeling of citation frequencies as the product of similarities, importances, and receptivities is not confined to citation analysis.
Relative Significance of Journals, Authors, and Articles Cited in Financial Research This study examines the references of the top journals in finance in order to establish a ranking among finance journals based on the frequency with which active researchers writing in top finance journals cite work previously published in various sources. The top two finance journals are JFE and JF, respectively. Examining the most cited articles, topics concerning investments and corporate finance clearly dominate all other areas.
The Determinants of Library Subscription Prices of the Top-Ranked Economics Journals: An Econometric Analysis Our findings reveal that variations in library prices for top-ranked economics journals are in accord with hypotheses derived from demand and supply theory.
Reporting experiments The experimental paths are where science touches everyday experience; this may be why science has found it so difficult to take note of this factor, and consequently why philosophers of science seem almost never to have it in their field of vision.
EUROPEAN PARTICIPATION IN MAJOR INTENSIVE-CARE JOURNALS In conclusion, our study revealed an increased European participation to the major journals, but this increase is due to an increase in contributions from France, Italy and Spain, whilst the UK contribution declines in the intensive care literature.
ACCURACY OF SUBJECT AND AUTHOR INDEXES IN 5 ANESTHESIA JOURNALS Our results demonstrated that there is a variable inaccuracy in the subject and author indexes in the five anaesthesia journals examined.
PREDICTIVE ASPECTS OF A STOCHASTIC-MODEL FOR CITATION PROCESSES The above calculations are not real predictions in the sense of forecasting probabilities and expectations of future events, since estimates of the parameters q(s,t) based on five and ten years' observations were used.
THE CHARACTERIZATION OF TEXT CORPORA USING AN INPUT-OUTPUT SCHEMA FOR CITATIONS Univariate measures of dispersion (or concentration) can be applied to the description of the citation patterns within document corpora, and between corpora and their contextual corpora. On this basis, several testable conjectures relating to patterns of citation dispersion, and related matters, can be put forward to assist in the problem of describing human knowledge generation. Before work of either character should proceed, agreement is desirable within the x-metrical research community as to a standard measure of literature concentration.
FORUMS FOR MANAGEMENT-INFORMATION-SYSTEMS SCHOLARS Overall, the results of this study indicated that some issues not previ-ously addressed in MIS forum re-search may affect survey results. This study indicates that underlying discipline and personal interest affect journal perception. Issues discussed in this study, therefore, may represent a good starting point for inclusion in future studies of MIS forums.
RESEARCH AND THE CUMULATION OF KNOWLEDGE IN PHYSICAL THERAPY The findings of this study support concerns within physical therapy about the knowledge base of the profession. The findings show little evidence of cumulation of knowledge or of cohesion within the clinical liter-ature examined. The findings also show a high degree of reliance on non-physical therapy literature sources.
IMPACT OF UNFUNDED RESEARCH IN MEDICINE, PATHOLOGY, AND SURGERY These results indicate that unfunded research plays a major role in medical research. In summary, the majority of research con- tributions in the most-cited medical journals are supplied by unfunded researchers. This indicates the need for reassessing the relation- ship between funding agencies and unfunded researchers.
WHAT MAKES A GOOD SCIENTIST - DETERMINANTS OF PEER EVALUATION AMONG BIOLOGISTS Among a variety of productivity and career measures, this study identified three significant predictors that together explained about 59% of the variance in the raters' quality judgements. The most powerful predictor was the annual publication productivity rate, explaining more than 40% of the variance in the quality ratings. The key result of this study recalls the time-honoured 'publish or perish' adage. A long publication list certainly looks like a good thing to have.
THE EVOLUTION OF QUALITY IN ANALYTICAL-CHEMISTRY JOURNALS The prominent growth of quality in analytical chemistry journals in 1992 was similar to that observed in 1992 and requires confirmation in subsequent years if it is to be solidly established — in fact, the usual trend is to a see-saw variation pattern.
MANUSCRIPT PEER-REVIEW AT THE AJR - FACTS, FIGURES, AND QUALITY ASSESSMENT The use and performance of manuscript reviewers at the AJR are rigorously assessed by the editors. At present, the goals of the editorial staff, including use of most available reviewers (with particular dependence upon the best reviewers) and prompt turnaround, are being met. The data support continuing use of two reviewers for the initial peer review process as an effective method of selecting the best major papers for publication in the shortest possible time.
A STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS OF THE 1992 RESEARCH ASSESSMENT EXERCISE The main finding of this statistical analysis of the relationship between the research ratings and various indicators of research outputs and inputs is that a large proportion of the variation between institutions in the research rating is accounted for by only a handful of variables. Producing a limited number of quantitative indicators of research inputs and outputs could also provide the assessment panels with a valuable way of subjecting their decisions to a consistency check. The construction, publication and use of research indicators must therefore be undertaken with great care.
CHANGING SOURCES OF PUBLISHED INFORMATION But the low citation rate of 1% shows that that practice is not widespread. Authors may locate references from reviews but then most of them cite the original papers. Of course many of the monographs are not intended for research use but are written primarily for tutorial use.
A COMPARATIVE-EXAMINATION OF WORK HABITS AND CHARACTERISTICS AMONG PROLIFIC AND NONPROLIFIC INFORMATION-SYSTEMS RESEARCHERS This study investigated the work habits and characteristics between two groups of IS researchers.
IMPROVEMENT OF THE ACCURACY OF REFERENCES IN THE CANADIAN-JOURNAL-OF-ANESTHESIA Citation errors in Canadian Journal of Anaesthesia were considerably improved after the request to verify citation accuracy.
TRAGIC LOSS OR GOOD RIDDANCE - THE IMPENDING DEMISE OF TRADITIONAL SCHOLARLY JOURNALS Traditional scholarly journals will likely disappear within 10-20 years.
ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT AND VALUES - THE DEPARTMENTS INFLUENCE First, it seems clear that, in terms of research misconduct, "tradi-tional" departments that are productive in terms of research, teaching, and service are no more and no less likely to produce research behavior that is either illegal or highly questionable than any others.
THE ACCURACY OF REFERENCE LISTS IN ACTA-ANAESTHESIOLOGICA-SCANDINAVICA We have found many citation errors in the reference lists of Acta Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica and no improvement in these latest four years.
PUBLISHING CHARACTERISTICS OF CHAIRPERSONS OF PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND REHABILITATION DEPARTMENTS The academic productivity of the chairperson is a factor likely to influence the productivity of the department. However, in this study, a presumably greater administrative workload adversely affected the ability of chairpersons to remain ac-tive in publishing original research.
NIH AWARDS TO INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF FASEB SOCIETIES - AN INITIAL EXAMINATION Although the examination of principal investigators cannot docu-ment the full extent of NIH awards to members of FASEB societies (it was not possible to identify all of the scientists, postdoctoral fellows, and students sup-ported through these grants), the study clearly deline-ates the magnitude of one essential part of the larger system of research support.
A FEW BASIC ECONOMIC FACTS ABOUT RESEARCH IN THE MEDICAL AND RELATED LIFE SCIENCES By investing in life sci- ences research we invest in ourselves and in a productive and healthy future for all. FASEB has recommended a $1.1 billion increase in the FY 1996 NIH appropriation to $12.4 billion (2). This level of investment would maintain the rate of advance in fundamental knowl- edge needed to retain American leadership in biotechnol- ogy and assure continued growth in jobs and revenues.
SUPPORTING DECISION-SUPPORT - WHERE INFORMATION ON DSS IS LOCATED Using the empirical rankings obtained in this study, we hope that DSS professionals will be enabled to more comprehensively survey the relevant literature on subjects of interest to them, and hopefully locate more and better information than they might otherwise.
AN EMPIRICAL-ASSESSMENT AND CATEGORIZATION OF JOURNALS RELEVANT TO DSS RESEARCH As our study shows there is a multitude of journals containing articles relevant to the DSS field.
MIS RESEARCH - JOURNAL STATUS ASSESSMENT AND ANALYSIS The identification, analysis, and evaluation of journals for publishing MIS research should solidify previous research results and serve to identify top journals in the field. Coupled with existing research, the profile of leading journals reveals information that should be of benefit to academic researchers and administrators.
IMMUNOLOGY RESEARCH IN THE UK - A SCIENTIFIC AUDIT There has been substantial investment in immunology research in the UK in recent years, and this is reflected in outcome measures that show the UK second only to the USA in terms of output in the top immunology journals.
THE LIFE-CYCLE OF GOAL PROGRAMMING RESEARCH AS RECORDED IN JOURNAL ARTICLES If the propositions supported by the statistical analysis in this paper are true, then it can be concluded that GP is fol-lowing a traditional product life cycle whose current stage of productivity is in decline as the GP cheerleaders age.
UNITED-STATES RESEARCH PUBLISHED IN MAJOR SURGICAL JOURNALS IS DECREASING The study shows that less U.S.-performed research was reported in the five major general surgical journals in 1993 than a decade earlier, in 1983.
AUTHOR JUDGMENTS ABOUT WORKS THEY CITE - 3 STUDIES FROM PSYCHOLOGY JOURNALS If your scholarly work is highly cited, you are indeed fortunate, for your colleagues seem likely to rate it as high quality work, and as an exemplar for the field. Conversely, if your scholarly work is not highly cited, it may be seen as lower in quality and not an exemplar; or it just might be seen as creative in a way that no one is ready to use, but peers still think reflects high quality. All these methods, and more, are needed to produce the rich, multi-dimensional theory of citation practices that Cronin and others have called for.
PAPERS AND CITATIONS RESULTING FROM DATA COLLECTED AT LARGE, AMERICAN OPTICAL TELESCOPES The answer to this much simpler question is, to first order, no.
A BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY ON ARTICLES OF MEDICAL LIBRARIANSHIP Although it is difficult to develop a set of model characteristics for the three periodicals, the citation analysis in the above study provides a wide variety of general findings. The citation characteristics in the periodicals provided evidence that differences were likely attributable to the fact that the three periodicals were published in different countries.
SENSITIVITY ASPECTS OF INEQUALITY MEASURES We conclude that the use of this directional derivative introduces a battery of sensitivities in the class of inequality measures. This helps the information scientist to choose between otherwise acceptable measures.
A GLOBAL NETWORK OF SMALL AUTOMATED TELESCOPES From the foregoing discussion we list the following main points: (i) Appreciable savings in primary data acquisition are possible with networked telescopes, and these savings may proceed through to final new knowlegde costs. (ii) Rates of new knowledge output from networks will depend on the size of the network group, expressed in terms of a characteristic organization scale No, which will be higher for a simpler basic task (e.g. single channel photometry).
SIPP ACCESS, AN INFORMATION-SYSTEM FOR COMPLEX DATA - A CASE-STUDY CREATING A COLLABORATORY FOR THE SOCIAL-SCIENCES Did SIPP ACCESS, an ISCD, meet the opera-tional definitions and criteria for a collaboratory for scientific research? The answer is affirmative for the conceptual framework and model that led to the design of the information system, but the complete range of knowledge and function-ality in an all-inclusive network system dis-cussed in the first section of this article and advocated by Schatz (1992) was not achieved.
REHABILITATION - THE CINDERELLA OF NEUROLOGICAL RESEARCH - A BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY The results suggest that neurology is still reluctant to face the disability challenge. This might explain why greater space within the scientific literature has been obtained by a comprehensive rehabilitative approach; and it is to be hoped that this model will influence the approach to other disabling neurological diseases.
SOME STATISTICAL HIGHLIGHTS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL-JOURNAL Finally, in giving data on pages and papers published, we find that the largest impact on astrophysical publication was not due to the post-Sputnik era or periods of high funding; rather, it was due to the development of atomic physics in the 1930s and earlier.
Prestige determinants of first academic job for new sociology PhDs 1985-1992 In sum, this paper has presented evidence that patterns similar to those found in the hard sciences characterize the hiring of new sociologists. Ph.D. prestige and B.A. prestige are the strongest determinants of destination prestige, pointing to a mechanism of job placement that values academic origins over individual performance. In addition, these findings indicate that little has changed over time; the hiring mechanisms depicted here are strikingly similar to the ones described by Caplow and McGee (1958) and Berelson (1960) in their pioneering studies.
Citation-based journal rankings for expert system research This research is the first to present objective, up-to-date and fairly comprehensive rankings of journals that have significant impact in the field of expert systems. They give expert system students and researchers a prioritised reading list for staying abreast with the field. Finally, the rankings are a contribution to the creation of a cumulative research tradition in the expert system field.
Serving science and society: Lessons from large-scale atmospheric science programs Although many members of the science commu- nity have disdain to "sell" the need for or value of their science to policy makers or the public, the fact is that program marketing is a necessary part of the policy process, increasingly so in areas of science.
Formal evaluation methods: Their utility and limitations When evaluating research, one obtains the best results by applying different evaluation techniques simultaneously.
Institutional impacts on decision support system research This paper has introduced the idea of measuring an institution's impact on DSS research in two ways other than citation frequency: namely citation potency and overall impact. Collectively, these five rankings offer a more complete picture of the impacts institutions have had on DSS research. To continue developing the cumulative research tradition of the DSS field, it would be useful to periodically repeat studies such as that of Eom (1994) and the one reported here.
Evaluation activities in the Nordic countries Evaluations have come to stay in the Nordic countries. They are needed to ensure the accountability of public research funds and to ensure efficiency in the research system.
Evaluating research projects at Toshiba. Designing a conceptual framework of evaluating research and technology development (RTD) programs Regarding future approaches to RTD project evaluation, it is important to recognize that the ultimate evaluator is the customer and that the evaluation is improved by feedback from the final market.
Patents as indicators for the evaluation of industrial research output We thus conclude that the picture of Japanese strength and European weakness in critical technologies is truly global, and that both the EPO and U.S. patent systems are capturing the essence of this.
Evaluating research, technology and development in Canadian industry: Meeting the challenges of industrial innovation The competitive edge for Canadian industry is increasingly being achieved through a new appreciation of the dynamics of R & D and the systems which underpin industrial innovation.
Virtual research universes and research management Databases, reports and reviews together allow a global perception of research. However, it is very often a virtual perception. For efficient research management, the human dimension must be introduced. The methodology and the tools presented in this paper have been used on many occasions in our laboratory 18,19 and indeed facilitate a better perception of research.
Coauthorship and publication efficiency Results indicate that not only is coauthorship increasing at a very fast rate, as noted by Heck and Zaleski [1991], but also that coauthorship appears directly and very strongly related to increased output. Finally, indirect evidence suggests that coauthored articles are weighted (by those who determine rewards for publication) lower than single-authored articles, and that this effect dominates the productivity effect of coauthorship. Results from this study suggest that an increasing tendency to coauthor will be one means of achieving the required higher rates of scholarly output.
Benchmarking Academic Research Output in Australia "The existence of the benchmarking metrics presented in this paper affords an opportunity, previously unavailable, for universities and their researchers to evaluate their own research productivity on the rigorous basis of independently established empirical data. This opportunity could be maximised if the benchmarking metrics were used as an integral part of benchmarking best research practices. The process of benchmarking for best practice is currently not well understood or generally practised in universities."
Characteristics of the publishing infrastructure of peripheral countries: A comparison of periodical publications from Latin America with periodicals from the US and the UK On the basis of the data analysed in the preceding section, the publication infrastructure of the Latin American countries studied is still in a rudimentary stage.
Citation patterns in the <i>International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry</i>: Cultural ethnocentrism revisited? The citation analysis of 1992’s articles reveals a broad range of national and specialty influence, although Greeson’s (1992) ‘US ethnocentrism’ is also evident among the papers published from US authors. It is not yet possible to obtain figures for citation impact relating to the IJGP but our crude measure shown in Fig. 2 shows a healthy growth in relative influence. Perhaps, the solution for the IJBP is to select or commission racy, contentious and newsworthy articles: to Publish and be Damned.
Improving the accuracy of institute for scientific information's journal impact factors We presented strong evidence that for a number of journals the values of the IFs published in ISI's JCR are inaccurate, particularly for several journals having a high IF. Therefore, we suggest to present IFs per type of document rather than one single IF as given currently in the JCR. Evaluators of research or journal performance should be cautious in evaluating scientific publications or journals merely on the basis of the IF values printed in the JCR.
What's the use of citation? Citation analysis as a literature topic in selected disciplines of the social sciences Our study two decades later shows a more balanced and discriminating approach to citation studies.
Refereeing system of 29 life science journals preferred by Japanese scientists This survey showed that most Japanese researchers in the field of life sciences tried to submit their papers to prestigious foreign journals with a higher rejection rate. There was a high correlation between the rejection rate and the impact factor in the field of biochemistry and molecular biology. To identify which journals might publish a manuscript, the impact factor especially seems to be a reasonable basis for selection of the appropriate journal.
The Success of a Journal Makeover All this suggests that authors with ideas for reviews are well advised to consider the FASEB Journal. Nonetheless, it is clear that the FASEB Journal is now quite competitive. That FASEB Journal is arguably getting the best recent work of a decent percentage of both its American and foreign contributors: about 31%.
A citationist perspective on science in Latin America and the Caribbean, 1981–1993 Although for science overall, the relative impact of Latin America and Caribbean research is 40-60% below the world average, this is not to say that the region's researchers do not equal or even excel - in particular specialty fields.
Where Does Scholarly Electronic Publishing Get You? "It seems safe to say that very little negative response to electronic publication has been observed in the formal evaluation processes associated with academic life."
Collaboration in Indian physics: A case study of the macro and micro parametrization of sub-disciplines (1800–1950) The overall evolution of physics publications in India reveals a remarkable break with the past in the decade 1920s onwards. In fact the growth rate enters a new phase after this time. Furthermore, these growth rates exhibit quasi-doubling.
The scientometric weight of 50 nations in 27 science areas, 1989–1993. Part I. All fields combined, mathematics, engineering, chemistry and physics
Technology opportunities analysis Technology Opportunities Analysis provides a new tool to efficiently and effectively use the vast amounts of data available in electronic publication databases to identify emerging technologies and related business opportunities.
The use of citations matrices to group journals The value of the methodology would appear to lie in the analysis of large, discipline wide citation matrices, as it would impose an order onto a large quantity of quantitative information. However, prior to exploring implementation further, the value of the principle embodied in the structuring method outlined here needs to be confirmed.
Size effects in the assessment of discipline-contribution scores: An example from the social sciences The method proposed in this paper represents a development of the work of Pichappan in the area of journal ranking.
Commentary The case stories listed in this article illustrate how perseverance sometimes is necessary to publish good scientific work. I believe that we should seriously consider profound changes in the philosophical foundations of the peer review system. Electronic journals will make it possible for a large number of people to express freely their opinion on a given paper.
Citation relationships among international mass communication journals "US journals, at present, represent the center of the field of mass communication."
Electronic Chemistry Journals Choosing change puts librarians in a much better position to weather the worst impacts of the publishing revolution.
WHO CITES WOMEN? WHOM DO WOMEN CITE?: AN EXPLORATION OF GENDER AND SCHOLARLY CITATION IN SOCIOLOGY This exploratory study raises as many issues as it confirms for consideration as research topics. The findings appear to support previous work which demonstrates the phenomenon of gender bias in citation, and they raise some testable hypotheses as to why bias occurs. Further work may help establish whether bias is an artefact of the social system which we call science, or a feature of gender-based cognitive style.
On generalising scientometric journal mapping beyond ISI's journal and citation databases The case study described in this article illustrates the cognitive limits of ISI-based journal mapping.
Research performance at the micro level: analysis of structure and dynamics of pharmacological research teams To conclude, we would like to put forward the importance of studies on research teams, to comple-ment meso- and macro-analyses. In our study, a posi-tive trend was observed for the total Spanish pharmacological production, as shown by the in-crease in number of publications, in the impact factor of the average publication journal, and in the collabo-ration rate. However, only an in-depth analysis of the structure and dynamics of research teams will show what underlies this general picture.
THE CORRELATION BETWEEN CITATION COUNTS AND THE 1992 RESEARCH ASSESSMENT EXERCISE RATINGS FOR BRITISH LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENTS It can therefore be concluded that, looking at the results from the first point of view, the judgement made by the panel of eight experts correlates strongly with citation counts.
Analysis of the scientific productivity of researchers from the Republic of Croatia for the period 1990–1992 1. Researchers from the Republic of Croatia, in the period 1990-1992, published 2047 papers, covered by Source Indexes of SCI, SSCI, and A&HCI, with addresses of institutions from Croatia.
Low impact factors of ecology journals: don't worry Consequently, ecologists shouldn't worry about the IFs of their science; instead, they should worry about how to convince decision makers in science policy why ecology has less impact on the JCR scale currently used as a mechanical indicator of scientific performance.
THE DEPENDENCE OF LOTKA'S LAW ON THE SELECTION OF TIME PERIODS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF SCIENTIFIC AREAS AND AUTHORS We can draw the conclusion that the productivity distribution strongly depends on the duration of participation of authors. To get a complete picture, more attention should be paid to the quasi-experimentation approach in information studies. This would be important for a better understanding of common known distribution regularities and further their incorporation into a theoretical context.
New bibliometric tools for the assessment of national research performance: Database description, overview of indicators and first applications Our approach represents a synthesis of 'classical' macro indicator studies at the one hand, and bibliometric analyses of research groups or institutes at the micro or meso level at the other.
Research requirements for research impact assessment Thus, there is a need for more research, development, and pilot studies into RIA techniques to improve their credibility and eventual acceptability by the agencies and industry.
Can the assignment of university chairs be automated? Even if it is not possible to make strong claims for bibliometrics on the basis of two limited studies of 76 candidates for university chairs in a single field, the applicability and validity of the two evaluation procedures here implemented to the assignment of university chairs appears then proven at least to some limited extent for Biophysics and related disciplines.
Development of bibliometric indicators for utility of research to users in society: Measurement of external knowledge transfer via publications in trade journals It has been attempted to develop bibliometric indicators for research performance as directed primarily to lay users in society.
A bibliometric study on ageing and reception processes of scientific literature The study suggests that ageing seems to be specific to the field rather than to the individual journal.
Faculty Publishing Productivity: An Institutional Analysis and Comparison with Library and Other Measures (Research Note) Although the analysis presented in this paper indicates that there are some relationships between publishing activity and other variables, care should be taken not to impart too much significance to these relationships.
Correct credit distribution: A model for sharing credit among coauthors The main goal of the present paper was to introduce a model for calculating shares of credit for co-authors and to compare the data calculated with those obtained earlier empirically (Vinkler, 1993). The percentage shares suggested by the CCD model presented (CCS values in Table I) could serve as standards for co-authors. On the basis of our findings we suggest that papers submitted for publication should be provided with the information as follows: Measure of contributions to the paper by each co-author in the by-line by declaring percentage ratios of the individual contributions.
The Impact of Dermatology Journals Although each impact factor ranks these journals somewhat differently, essentially the same journals vie for the top eight positions, as all of the tables show.
The implications of scientific mobility between France and the United States In sum, mobility between different institutional settings often has the effect for individual scientists of reducing institutional constraints, at least for a time. It thus provides temporary access to an ideal of science that is increasingly rare but can be simulated by international mobility. Mobility remains a way of furthering a research career, whether that career is a "conservative" one or a "marginal" one. But that the two are not at all the same thing is an important conclusion of our work. An interesting direction for further research might be to examine the relation-ship of distance to difference or scientific variety.
Multiple authorship in biomedical papers: A South African case study The attributes found in this subset of the literature are very similar to the characteristics reported in other stud-ies of medical literature. The rate of increase would seem somewhat slower and the actual number of authors is lower than elsewhere.
A dual refinement of journal self-citation measures If journals of the smaller citable pool increase their source items, the probability of self-citations would be high.
Contributions to Economics Journals by the Canadian Economics Profession, 1981-90 This paper provides measures of average publication rates (and frequency distributions) of articles and pages in all journals indexed by the Index of Economics Articles over the 1980s.
World science in 18 disciplinary areas: Comparative evaluation of the publication patterns of 48 countries over the period 1981–1992 We conclude that three factors, geographical proximity, culture, and economic development are the principal determinants of the publication patterns of nations.
THE REVIEW PROCESS AND THE FATES OF MANUSCRIPTS SUBMITTED TO AMJ. Data recorded from actual decisions and actual reviews of submitted manuscripts produced relatively weak evidence in support of two of the more pessimistic perspectives on the review process, accumulative advantage and particularism. Our results indicate gatekeeping and coaching were both important at AMJ during the period studied. The most obvious and probably fruitful next step would be to investigate whether a process of selective amplification similar to the one documented here has occurred during other periods and at other journals.
Cognitive resemblance and citation relations in chemical engineering publications On the basis of word-profile similarity analysis we em- pirically established a cognitive resemblance between cit- ing and cited (source) publications, that is, publications with a citing relationship are content-related. Furthermore, we found that publications sharing a citation to a highly cited article, that is, bibliographically coupled publications, are also content-related. Our findings are contrary to the re- sults of an earlier study in library and information sci- ence (Harter et al., 1993) and also contrary to opinions in some circles of sociologists of science (Cozzens, 1989).
Chinese communication studies: A citation analysis of Chinese communication research in English-language journals Findings show that the four older and more authoritative journals in Chinese and communication studies Journalism Quarterly, Public Opinion Quarterly, Gazette, and China Quarterly were the more important sources of citations in the research of Chinese communication systems.
The structure of biotechnology R &amp; D The results reported here are offered primarily as a demonstration of some of the capabilities of co-classification analysis and profiling in exploring company-level biotechnology R & D.
CONSISTENCY IN REFERENCING The title of this paper, whose aim has been to argue for precision in citing, makes reference not to precision, but to consistency. The connection between the two is that if citation analysts can be persuaded to value precision in citing practice, and accordingly to focus on the extent to which citation-signallers achieve precision as described here, their findings may come to have some useful prescriptive force. This makes it doubly important that citation analysts choose the right kind of perceptual grid to operate with.
Were has the cumulative advantage gone? Some observations about the frequency distribution of scientific productivity, of duration of scientific participation, and of speed of publication The outcomes of the analysis indicate that the "principle of cumulative advantage"7 seen as crucial for lognormal distributions of productivity realizes in quite different manners. Moreover, one can see the aggravating consequences of the distinction between cross sectional analyses and analyses of cohorts. Finally I want to express my opinion that it is premature to look after a cyclopedic informetric law underlying the wellknown lognormal distributions in scientometrics and bibliometrics before the empirical and methodological foundations of distribution patterns detected in scientific processes are better clarified.
Prest's experience of evaluation To summarise, perhaps the strongest conclusion PREST would draw from its experience concerns the importance of seeing evaluation not in isolation, but in the total context of science and technology management; and the basic purpose of evaluation as an aid to that. The demand for evaluation will probably intensify, perhaps including simpler, more automatic approaches. There may also be an increased interest in more refined qualitative approaches.
Reassessing the N-rays reference network: The role of self citations and negative citations Our results seem generally consistent with observations of skeptics who suggest that the N-rays reference graph does not provide support for Price's arguments about the cumulative nature of modern science.
Recent strategies for adding value to scientific journals in Latin America The development of bibliometric and scientometric studies has allowed different scientific communities to carry out a range of studies helping to define public policies better adjusted to a country's state of the art in scientific research.
Indices of journal citation relatedness and citation relationships among aquatic biology journals Thus, two quite different clustering procedures reveal that marine biology journals are isolated from freshwater biology ones. Thus, it does not seem reasonable to regard them as representing a single specialty as is done in the Journal Citation Reports of the Science Citation Index. In the future we would like to see this method applied to other subjects.
The Plight of the Obscure Innovator in Science: A Few Reflections on Campanario's Note Of the three views on the obscure scientist's struggle for recognition, the historical evidence collated here would seem tentatively to support the maximalist view.
“Hyphenation” of databases in building scientometric indicators
Changes in the Management and Finance of the Research System in Poland: A Survey of the Opinions of Grant Applicants From our analysis, it appears that the basic factor which divides views on the reforms concerns success in applying for grants. These findings need some additional interpretation, since there is strong support for most of the reforms. Taken together, this interpretation of our results explains the high degree of acceptance of the reforms: it is an expression of our respondents' realistic attitudes and, as we have shown, is independent of a wide range of social and institutional variables.
Scientometric portrait of T. S. West Publication productivity analysis of the successful scientist, T. S. West, carried out here has thrown light on his pivotal contributions to science and technology. He can be considered as a 'role model' for younger researchers to follow. It is further suggested that citation analysis of publications of T. S. West should be undertaken to know the impact of his research.
Reexamining the role of conference papers in scholarly communication Our proposal for a new model does not seek to replace the journal article as an important unit of communica-tion.
The scientometric weight of 50 nations in 27 science areas, 1989–1993. Part II. Life sciences
Prices and impact factors of interdisciplinary social science journals Thus, rough as the comparisons are, it is fair to say that my suspicions about the impact of subscription prices on journal impact factors are not well-founded. There is only a very small negative relationship between prices and impact factors, and it is not even modestly statistically significant.
Science in the eighties: A typology of countries based on inter-field priorities This study responds to these concerns and presents a framework and a methodology for identification of strengths and potential holes in the research agenda of different countries. A typology of countries has been constructed, based on proximities of priority profiles, using correspondence analysis. It appears that research priorities of different countries are influenced more by scientific traditions and national needs than by geographical or socio-cultural proximities with other countries.
Are big university departments better than small ones? The conjecture that faculty in large departments will be more productive than their colleagues in small ones, does not get any support from this study.
The citedness of publications by United Kingdom library schools Our data show that statistically significant correlations exist between the departments' gradings in the 1992 RAE and the citations that their research attracts, and that these correlations are stronger than if publications are used. This supports the use of citation data as a PI for LIS departments in future RAEs. If this were to be the case, then our results would suggest that a department wishing to maximise its citation count should encourage its staff to write books, to edit books, and to write academic journal articles for journals that appear in the source lists of SCI and, to a lesser extent, SSCI.
On the association between journal circulation and impact factor The implications of these findings for citation analysis are discussed.
The Research Environment in Developing Countries: Contributions to the National Development of the Discipline Change is most effective and rapid if it occurs at several levels and on various facets of the research environment concurrently. The primary emphasis on human resources, for example, should be on upgrading research skills and on human resource management within universities and departments. It is important for all of us to realize that although our research may be enhanced by greater resources, there are many other needs and ways to address problems within our research environment.
Contribution of Indian universities to the mainstream scientific literature: A bibliometric assessment In this study we have developed a framework and indicators for inter-field and inter-institution comparison of research performance. Comparative analysis based on bibliometric data, particularly the identification of strengths and potential holes in the research agenda of different institutions has important implications for national science policy, especially for allocation of resources and related policy decisions for scientific fields/institutions and impact evaluation of previous decisions. This mapping of science reveals the institutional structure of science as ordained by the national science policy.
British library and information science journals: a study of quality control It is concluded that valid quality control mechanisms are in place, although there is an element of subjectivity in their application, and it is suggested that professional, as opposed to academic, journals can provide a valuable form of output for practice-oriented research findings.
The function of national journals in disseminating applied science However, to disregard the local journal for evaluative purposes may be a disservice to scientists who are trying to help in the transfer of information to the industrial sector.
Scientists at major and minor universities: mobility along the prestige continuum If institutional prestige matters at all, it appears to matter most early in a scientist's career. When we examine the data by cohorts we find that graduate school prestige is a significant determinant of the prestige of a respondent's subsequent academic appointment during the first years of a scientist's career. Finally, the comparison of early versus late entrants has raised the important issue of prob-lem choice in R&D.
RESEARCH MANAGEMENT AND COMMERCIAL MARKETS: CULTURAL CHANGE IN AUSTRALIAN RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS From our analysis, we argue that research managers must recognise that with the increasing mix of activities and objectives within large research institutions the critical management task is not simply to manage the change from one cultural perspective to another. Rather, the key task will be to manage the alliances between quite different cultural perspectives. The implications for management are that during change and organisational uncertainty it will be critical to understand the social dynamics inherent in the process of cultural change. Whatever the form of research organisation that emerges, it is likely that the most enduring ones will be those that have successfully integrated the demands, rewards and organising principles of the different sectors from which they have emerged.
Appendix. Comparing peer review and information prizes: A possible economics experiment To better understand how our scientific institutions influence our rate of scientific progress, the methods of experimental economics may be used.
Scale Effects on Impact Factors of Scientific Journals: Ecology Compared to Other Fields In conclusion, our analysis suggests that methodological approaches that are automated and laboratory based (such as in "Biochemistry & Molecular Biology" and "Genetics & Heredity") or time consuming and often field based (such as in "Ecology" and "Freshwater Ecology"), delays related to knowledge transfer towards other fields (such as in "Statistics & Probability"), and the amount of publications in a field may greatly skew impact values.
Scholarly Productivity as a Function of Graduate Training, Workplace, and Gender According to the current study, elements of graduate training, the workplace environment, and the professor's reaction to editors' responses are factors in determining the publication rate of faculty members.
Iterative approach in finding the “core” of information Hence our contention is that the standing of these journals in astronomy is revealed by DCS rather than by the impact factor.
Index medicus price study: Publishing trends from 1991–1995 The primary use of this analysis is to demonstrate journal price fluctuations by discipline and country of origin to department heads, university and hospital administrators, and others concerned with the costs of health information.
An analysis of entry and persistence among scientists in an emerging field of science: the case of neural networks Scientists who enter early and persist in a new field play a central role in the growth of science and technology.
Predictive aspects of a stochastic model for citation processes The above calculations are not real predictions in the sense of forecasting probabil-ities and expectations of future events, since estimates of the parameters q(s,t) based on five and ten years' observations were used. Nevertheless, some important conclusions can be derived for possible medium-term forecasts. Finally, we wish to note that an interesting application field of the above mentioned model may be the extrapolation of citation-based indicators, which are often calculated for a time period of one or two years following the publication date. The mean value function may then help to estimate mean citation rates for longer or overlapping time periods.
The ranking of agricultural economics journals This note has reported information on the ranking of agricultural economics journals within the context of a ranking of all economics journals. If one is prepared to accept the value of citations as an indicator of quality, the methodology used here provides a transparent way to rank journals. However, an important caveat has to be borne in mind: if a journal is not included in the ISI data base, then it cannot be ranked, irrespective of its quality.
Stochastic processes determined by a general success-breeds-success principle Stability results for the stochastic processes are obtained in the sense that we are able to determine when these processes converge. The article also studies the evolution of the expected average number of items per source.
A 'curve of growth' for Astronomers on the Citation Index The evidence presented above shows that assumption (1) is a reasonable working hypothesis, for statistical purposes. The results in section 4 show that citation rates early in the career have a modest but measurable predictive value for later citation rates. In the process of collecting data, it became apparent that changes in the definition of the sample could cause rather large differences in the results.
The international rank order of clinical cardiology The largest of the 14 countries analysed for the last decade, the United States, was responsible for half of the cardiological publication output, and two-thirds of the citations.
Personal experiences of research misconduct and the response of individual academic scientists The findings of this study suggest two primary conclusions about the social control of scientific misconduct: The confirmation of two of the four hypotheses provides partial support for Freidson’s power theory as an explanation for the enactment of social control by individual academic scientists. Such research will not only increase our understanding of the process of self-regulation in the academic profession, but may also suggest how to develop institutional and public policy directed toward the establishment of more universalistic standards and responses to scientific wrongdoing.
What fraction of astronomers become relatively inactive in research after receiving tenure? We found no numerical characteristics that allow one to predict who will become relatively inactive in research after receiving tenure.
Mapping the intellectual structure of research in decision support systems through author cocitation analysis (1971-1993) The research reported here provides hard evidence that decision support systems have made meaningful progress over the past two decades.
The MD-PhD researcher: What species of investigator? During a time when there are persistent concerns about a shortage of investigators to conduct clinical research and growing fears that America's universities may be producing more PhDs than can be meaningfully employed in the scientific enterprise, the authors' finding indicates a need for future workforce planning to better reflect the respective roles played by MDs, MD-PhDs, and PhDs in biomedical and behavioral research.
Survey of ethical issues in dental research This was an exploratory study designed to obtain baseline information on the perceptions of AADR leaders concerning the seriousness and prevalence of problematic research practices, including scientific misconduct, the quality of research within the Association, and the possible roles that the AADR could play in promoting scientific integrity. These results, together with the position papers presented at the symposium, provide a starting point for addressing the Association's role with respect to self-regulation and education to promote scientific integrity. To promote scientific integrity, this group of leaders supports the following suggested Association activities: (1) development of ethics cases and materials for use in research training; (2) creation of a process, procedures, and sanctions for addressing allegations of scientific misconduct that arise in the conduct of AADR business; and (3) development of an ethics committee or consultation service for members who need advice on ethical problems in scientific research.
The Dentist Scientist Award program and prosthodontics From the two measures of success used in this preliminary assessment, it seems fair to conclude that the Dentist Scientist Award program has been quite successful since its start 10 years ago in terms of meeting its objectives and goals.
Citation-based journal rankings for AI research - A business perspective Objective rankings of journals for AI research (from a business perspective) were developed.
Changing publication behaviour of East and Central European scientists and the impact of their papers The present investigation in its two parts indicates changes of the publication behaviour of East European physicists.
The significance of different chromatographic methods in the European Pharmacopoeia The trend-analysis has shown that this discrepancy will be weakened in the future.
A bibliometric study of the trend in articles related to epidemiology published in occupational health journals Epidemiology is assuming increasing importance in occupational health literature.
Human genetic technology: Exploring the links between science and innovation The field of human molecular and cell technology studied here through its patents is revealed to be the most science-linked area of technology yet studied.
IPCT Journal readership survey Most en- couraging from the publisher's perspective is readers' perception of the equal or higher quality (49.2%) of IPCT Journal articles compared with refereed articles in print journals. We hope to conduct several more readership sur- veys of ejournals in different fields so we might build a generalizable model of ejournal readership and readers.
How can impact factors be improved? In the final analysis, impact simply reflects the ability of journals and editors to attract the best papers available.
Coauthors' contributions to major papers published in the AJR: Frequency of undeserved coauthorship Undeserved authorship is a common and serious problem that is motivated primarily by academic promotion policies. The first two authors are said to account for the preponderance of work in almost all major papers. Perhaps the greatest success in reducing irresponsible authorship will come from rigorous self-restraint by researchers rather than by bureaucratic sanctions [13].
From laboratory to scientific literature - The life and death of biomedical research results Although the data reported here were gathered from only one academic department of one discipline, they provide useful insight to the fate of rejected, never-published papers.
Computer networks and scientific work Overall, our results suggest significant differences in the use of CMC across disciplines.
Pediatric research - National Institutes of Health support in the 'steady-state' decade, 1983-1993 Pediatric research has increased its absolute and relative NIH grant support in the last 10 years to a greater degree than all other clinical departments except for psychiatry, neurology, and anesthesiology. The distribution of grants favors a small number of departments and children's hospitals. In the era of stable NIH funding, pediatric investigators must develop other sources (private funding and industry) for expanding their research activities.
Indicators of research output in the sciences from 5 central European countries, 1990-1994 Clearly, the reserves of cooperation appear to be exhausted. Signs of exhaustion of this source of compensation can be observed in Hungary, and this can be a warning signal for other countries of the area, too. Learning more about these factors may take us closer to find the proper policy implications of the observed phenomena.
Determining the core of journals of a research centre: The example of researchers from the department of rural economy and sociology of the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, France The results obtained which overall validate the method used, made it possible to rank the journals into three groups: journals with high visibility (73), journals with restricted visibility (86), non rated journals (99). The first group constituted the core.
Characteristics and determinants of eminent scientists' productivity When generalizing the findings of this study, one can say that a comparative approach to the research of distinguished scientists' productivity and their professional profile, contrasted with the research population, is analytically fruitful.
Model for quantitative selection of relative scientometric impact indicators The present paper attempts to select relative scientometric impact indicators by special criteria.
Productivity and impact of large optical telescopes Predictably, high productivity and high impact are associated with telescopes located at good sites and fully supported for many years by organizations with large budgets.
International collaboration: Will it be keeping alive east European research? We consider that East European science did use international collaboration as a cardiology-like partial compensation for the negative financial effects which have hit the basic research system of these countries before and after the political and economical changes of the nineties.
Authorship on and usage of published papers in current Swedish biomedical theses There was no evidence for this here, nor in previous studies. 2,4,6 The only change between the two Swedish cohorts was an increase of one author per paper, from an average of three to four, which is in keeping with a general trend. A doctoral thesis based on three papers either published or in press but excluding manuscripts only submitted, could be optimal for a common European doctorate to be completed within three years.
A bibliometric analysis of physics publications from Middle Eastern countries The data on physics publications demonstrate the fact that Iran, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, S. Arabia, Egypt, and Turkey account for only 1.0% of the world physics literature in 1990-1994. Further, the percentage of the papers co-authored by foreigners, often from Europe and the USA, suggests that physics in the Middle Eastern countries, notably, in Egypt and Turkey is becoming increasingly integrated to world physics community, a situation which is necessary for the scientific survival of a nation.
Nineteenth-century mathematics in the mirror of its literature: A quantitative approach Frequency distributions of publication activity and the specialization of 19th-century mathematicians conform to patterns well known in modern scientometrics. In view of the development of the theory of groups and mathematical logic, it seems that the number of participants is not essential for the future importance of certain mathematical results. It is this cluster-like structure which makes a process of scientific innovation comparable to technological innovation.
Bibliometric performance measures Which brings us to our final point. Highly cited, science dependent, quality patents, and the related basic scientific work, seem to have wide economic impact. This has also been shown in the sample cases studied from the beginnings of modern bibliometric analysis, and now is shown statistically in technology and in its interface with science: high impact, basic scientific research is the type of research directly driving our technological advancement.
Cross-field normalization of scientometric indicators There are several methods to normalize scientometric indicators in order to make cross-field comparative assessments possible.
The use of multiple indicators in the assessment of basic research In this paper, we have argued that using a range of performance indicators is better than just one or two.
Studying research collaboration using co-authorships The results of co-authorship studies can be used in a research policy perspective. They give an overview of the main features of the scientific communication system; the collaboration can be seen from the perspective of one single research institution, a specific country and its research units or the global collaboration pattern. There is no doubt that proper skills and scrutiny limit the potential errors when using co-authorships as an indicator of research collaboration.
Bibliometric indicators and the competitive environment of R&D laboratories The evaluation of R&D laboratories is shifting toward holistic perspectives. Bibliometric indicators are complementary to but not substitutes for traditional means of evaluating research laboratories. Bibliometric indicators can be highly valuable, once evaluators are assured that similar laboratories and competitive games are compared.
Conforming the government R&D function with the requirements of the government performance and results act - Planning the unplannable? Measuring the unmeasurable? Regardless of the difficulties we may encounter on the way to full implementation beginning in FY98, our government is committed to planning and measuring its programs in relation to the outcomes expected by the public.
Source-item production laws for the case that items have multiple sources with fractional counting of credit In this way we hope to have contributed to the modeling of the frequency distributions of the number of items per source, in the case that items can have several sources, and supposing a fractional way of crediting this.
Journal production and journal impact factors In general, there seems to exist a direct linear relation between journal production and impact factor. As a general rule, we found that the more articles a "normal" journal publishes, the larger its impact factor. Review journals and translation journals are clear exceptions to this rule. Also, when considering disciplines, the fields of Mathematics and Chemistry seem to be large-scale exceptions to this rule.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1993-1995) This study represents an ongoing attempt to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE, based on publication frequency. As time passes and the rankings stabilize, these findings represent a more clear picture of where the leading published research in the systems and soft-ware engineering field is occurring.
Scientific publications from departments of clinical physiology and nuclear medicine in Denmark. A bibliometric analysis of 'impact' in the years 1989-1994 It is concluded that the total number of scientific papers from Danish departments of clinical physiology and nuclear medicine fell in the period 1989–1994, whereas the volume of quality, as assessed on the cumulated impact, only fell with borderline significance, and the impact per paper was almost constant from 1989 to 1994, and was above the national average.
Computer mediated communication and publication productivity among faculty CMC holds a number of promises and chal- lenges for higher education. It increases the accessibility of information and is associated with an increase in a number of faculty produc- tivity measures. This study has provided evidence that CMC users publish more, including co-authorship, and have a higher incidence of prestige factors than their colleagues who are not CMC users. This study has not shown that CMC offers any disproportionate advantage to those at Master's level institutions or those who are younger. There was no "democratizing effect" among these faculty. As a result of this study, the following sugges- tions for future research are offered: A longitudinal study which examines the careers of faculty over time and which takes account of network behavior would be an effective way to better address the issue of causation – that is, whether the differences in publication rates may be attributed to differ- ences in CMC use.
Modelling multi-relational data with special attention to the average number of collaborators as a variable in informetric distributions We have pointed out some delicate points in Qin's experimental approach and have shown that not all of her observations can be generalized. Yet, we were able to state conditions under which a Lotka function describing the production of authors gives rise to a Lotka function for the description of the production as a function of the average number of collaborators. Moreover, we have described a more general approach to model multi-relational data.
Rating authors' contributions to collaborative research: The PICNIC survey of university departments of pediatrics Most Canadian departments of pediatrics have not established formal policies for assessing faculty members' contributions to published research.
Searching for bridges between disciplines: An author co-citation analysis on the research into scholarly communication In other words, the sociology of science and information science are fairly clearly apart in the light of the ACA. Alternatively, the analysis can reveal the lack of connections, which is more or less the outcome of this study: the concept of the research of scholarly communication as a bridge between the sociology of science and information science is, for the most part, just speculation. The limitations of ACA have become evident in this study.
Drug information bulletins: An analysis of citations The following conclusions can be drawn from this study.
Electric writing - The Net by numbers While it is tempting to be seduced - like Time maga- zine and Wall Street apparently - by these tens of millions of Internet users and their market potential, it is also worth remembering that world human popu- lation is heading for six billion, and the majority of them have yet to make a telephone call.
Using Citation Classics to study the incidence of serendipity in scientific discovery The new approach introduced in this paper makes it possible to do systematic and quantitative studies on serendipity in scientific discoveries. The results of my research show that there is a modest percent of instances among the most-cited papers of all times in which serendipitous factors were relevant to the discovery reported in such paper. An additional consequence that can be obtained from the present study is that, as noted in the discussion of instances listed above, chance does not influence discovery except when minds are prepared.35
Online citation analysis - A methodological approach We have demonstrated the feasibility of applying a variety of recently developed online search and processing features for the purpose of collecting and manipulating citation data from the online ISI files.
Publications, cost and a proposition In the realm of shrinking research budgets in US, Europe and elsewhere, it is worth (perhaps, lucrative!) repairing the damages caused by journal proliferation. By choosing to weigh the nC and nP data together, the academic system is bound to reward those who strive for quality (nC) as well as quantity (nP). The state and the federal governments provide large support to the Land Grant Universities in the US and hence, a restriction may be placed such that the federal support shall not be utilized for subscription to journals costing more than the cutoff level.
A critical analysis of the journal impact factors of Angewandte Chemie and the Journal of the American Chemical Society - Inaccuracies in published impact factors based on overall citations only When such analyses are done, one should at least discriminate according to the type of publication. Our analyses clearly illustrate that the calculation of an impact factor per type of document does not only give more accurate results, but also provides a significantly more complete picture of a journal's impact and editorial policy.
Validation of bibliometric indicators in the field of mathematics In conclusion, the experts' views on top publications or top journals correspond very well to bibliometric indicators based on citation counts. In conclusion, we can say that bibliometric indicators mirror expert opinion very well. We are able to make a distinction between top journals, very good journals and less good journals. Moreover, we are able to recognise top publications. However, the application of these indicators is still limited. One can only use them as a quantitative indication of impact. Along with background information provided by experts, they can serve as a basis for a discussion on quality. They can never be used as a substitute for expert evaluations, nor are they a direct measure of quality.
Scientific relations between Spain and Central-Eastern European countries for the period 1982-1992 Analysis of the output resultant from scientific cooperation between Spanish scientists and their colleagues from Eastern European countries allows us to conclude that this scientific relationship has significantly increased in the last few years but is, until now, far from the more-defined relations which has been observed between these countries and the most advanced EU Member States.
Equalization, growth and integration of science Among the OECD-countries science is becoming more equally distributed and furthermore, this process is paralleled with an equalization of R&D-inputs and international scientific collaboration. Growth, equalization and integration go hand in hand. This suggests that it is of some importance for a country to be able to rely on the scientific resources of other countries, investing money in R&D is just not enough.
Publication patterns of Turkish astronomers In conclusion, the data indicate that the publication rates of Turkish astronomers in the journals indexed in the SCI increased rather rapidly over the decade period 1985-1994. We should point out that with a better level of infrastructure and access to facilities, the Turkish astronomers would be more productive and their work more visible in future. The case of Turkey can be considered as representative of developing countries with strong commitment to science and technological development.
Age, sex and standards of current doctoral theses by Swedish medical graduates Previous data from 69 Swedish and 183 Dutch publications-based theses together with these findings suggest that four papers, either published or in press, are a reasonable standard.8,9,11 Four years would seem adequate to produce four papers, to write up and be examined. The scientifically less developed nations are likely to benefit most from a common system because visits from foreign examiners will be a stimulus and candidates will develop the skill of writing in English, today's lingua franca of research.
Research performance in key medical universities in China observed from the scientific productivity In the case of scientific output, there are 214628 papers referenced by the CBMdisc from 1988 to 1992. The annual paper output is rising and the rate of increase is 2.83%.
Research productivity among PhD faculty members and affiliates responding to the Canadian Association of Professors of Psychiatry and Canadian Psychiatric Association Survey The recruitment of sole PhD holders is an indicator of the current research needs of departments and of the dearth of candidates for these positions among MDs.
A new methodological approach to bibliographic coupling and its application to the national, regional and institutional level Core documents represent recent 'hot' and research-front topics.
Reassessment of co-citation methods for science indicators: Effect of methods improving recall rates Our study shows that a combination of the methods available for micro/meso studies (appropriate clustering, extension of recall) can dramatically increase recall rates in the co-citation methods. In conclusion, co-citation methods can be reassessed to serve as partitioning tools rather than as leading edge extractors, and in this view can provide reliable indicators. Good levels of recall open up new possibilities for improved comparisons or combinations and are complementary to, rather than competive with, related methods providing good coverage, e.g. co-word analysis.
A trial of general indicator of science and technology: Methodological study of overall estimation of national S&T activity This method was also useful for investigating the nature and interpretation, as well as the reliability, of previous S&T indicators.
Comparative indicators of interdisciplinarity in modern science The suggested method for scientometric analysis of interdisciplinarity is suitable mainly for usage by individual scientists who seek for a fruitful interdisciplinary collaboration and need a rapid orientation in prospective research fields.
Local, domestic and international scientific collaboration in biomedical research The differences among subfields in relation to the collaborative activity are clearly evidenced by the bibliometric indicators used, in spite of the subject closeness between the three subfields analysed, all of them biomedical disciplines. Our data suggest that both international and domestic collaboration are correlated with productivity at the author level in the three subfields analysed. Due to the social implications of the scientific collaboration process, further studies dealing with sociological aspects, such as motivations and collaboration influence on research results from the point of view of the researchers themselves could be especially useful.
Science indicators derived from databases - The case of the social sciences So we can summarize that the genesis of a database is a highly complex social process in the deepest sense of this word. Treating research data in such a (social, systemic) way raises methodological problems of a kind unknown hitherto. Sociology/social studies of science and technology and methodology have to collaborate at least partially, and maybe even science ethics has to join them.
Mapping of R&D structures in transdisciplinary areas: New biotechnology in food sciences The results gathered by the bibliometric analysis as well as by the analysis of patent applications are confirmed by those received from a specified expert assessment gained with the Delphi method. Differences between the science and the technology activities as reflected by the indicators used may be partly explained by special features of the patent law in biotechnology. According to results gained by discussions with potential user groups the result of this kind of analysis were assessed as being of relevance especially at the strategic science and technology planning level within public policy bodies as well as in industry.
Between policy categories and research activities: Reviews and journals to describe ''environment'' networks The analysis of the "environment" field, presented in this paper, had two goals. The analysis allowed for an articulation between environmental themes and established scientific subdisciplines. This opens the way to future scientometric studies into the connections between research activities and policy issues.
Scientometrics as a tool for analysis of the industrial relationships of two departments in a major French Applied Research Institute, 1988-1992 By creating a series of synthesized variables from different research management data bases, and by analysing their impact, we were able to show: 1) the existence of different types of laboratory within the Departments studied, to which are associated specific action logics corresponding to the orientations of these laboratories and to the specific expectations of different types of firm including small local enterprises, groups of firms within the profession, large firms or small and medium-sized firms with a strong research potential; 2) the main role of scientometrics in determining the way in which questions are posed.
Do authors know who refereed their paper? A questionnaire survey This study suggests that even for a specialty journal such efforts are largely unrewarding and that most referees remain anonymous.
Measuring science: An exploration From the numbers we have one could conclude that United States academic science has been facing diminishing returns in terms of papers produced per R&D dollar, both because of the rising cost of achieving new results within specific scientific fields and because of rising competition due to the expanding overall size of the scientific enterprise, both within the United States and worldwide, impinging on a relatively slowly growing publication outlets universe.
How long are astronomical papers remembered? We conclude that the papers producing the most citations and having the longest durations are long ones which are either fundamental or useful, are generally observational ones not discussing only one astronomical object, and in fields that continue to be very active.
Linkage between research sponsorship and patented eye-care technology The NIH and other sponsored vision research is of direct and increasing relevance to the growing number of US patented eye-care technologies.
Bibliometric analysis of the scientific productivity of the Italian Society of Nephrology for a period of five consecutive years (1990-1994) In conclusion, our survey shows that nephrology research in Italy has improved during the past five years and is in good shape, even though our government spends a low percentage of its GDP on research and development. Proposals to increase this share should be taken into consideration.
The role of monographs in scholarly communication: An empirical study of philosophy, sociology and economics The principal hypothesis, of the significance of monographs to scholarly communication, has been confirmed.
Do a field list of internationally visible journals and their journal impact factors depend on the initial set of journals? A research proposal We have proposed a method to study the dependence on initial conditions for lists of internationally visible journals, and we have outlined some consequences of such an experiment. We have conjectured that at least in some cases these lists may differ significantly from ısı's. Finally, we hope that research groups will take up the challenge to perform the proposed experiment.
Judging the quality of research in business schools: A comment from accounting We argue this is because UK academics are primarily networked into a UK academic environment and UK academics work primarily on material of UK interest. These factors present a barrier to achieving publication in US journals.
Citation as effortful voting: A reply What you make of these findings is open to interpretation, but it is clear that they have already engendered a healthy debate. Citation analysis can be used in powerful ways. Citation studies promise that a cumulative body of knowledge can be built up.
Journal evaluation methodologies: A balanced response In our view, citation index studies and peer review studies are perfectly acceptable approaches to the problem of evaluating research journal quality.
Comparison of publication rates for basic sciences versus practice from pharmacy-based grant programs The results suggest that pharmacy practice should redefine a paradigm of commitment to scholarship to provide firm evidence for supporting science and sustaining professional growth. The publication rate of pharmacy practice grants is currently declining. The profession of pharmacy must take stock of its commitment to science, because the times demand a fresh look.
Computing research programs in the US We have provided a quantitative evaluation of research programs in com- puting in the U.S.
Readers' evaluation of effect of peer review and editing on quality of articles in the Nederlands Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde Evaluations by readers of the Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd indicated significant improvement of published articles after both peer review and editing. We think that peer review and editing are worthwhile tasks. We conclude that the quality of original articles submitted to the Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd is improved in several aspects by peer review before acceptance and editing after acceptance.
Bibliocryptography This article examines two conflicting issues. The first is the often overlooked value for book-retrieval of use-data.
The contributions of organizational science to the development of decision support systems research subspecialties We have identified several decision support systems research subspecialties based upon factor analysis, mul-tidimensional scaling, and cluster analysis of a massive amount of bibliographical data. Two major conclusions from this study are that decision support systems are weakly grounded in four contributing disciplines (organizational science, multiple criteria decision mak-ing, group decision making, and strategic management) and that researchers in the DSS research area are in the process of developing their own theories in the areas of foundations, GDSS, model management, user interface/individual differences, and DSS implementation.
International participation in major intensive care journals - ''The smaller the better'' The present study re-veals that the smaller European na-tions have a greater participation than the larger European nations in the ma-jor intensive care journals.
Study on the quality of peer reviewed articles published in 'lwt' The findings of this study suggest that the experts are generally satisfied with the quality of manuscripts but would like research articles to be more thoroughly treated from a statistical point of view. Although the general standard is high, an improvement in the discussion of study limitations and generalization should lead to an even better quality. Finally, a more elegant style should improve readability.
Automatic extraction of citations from the text of English-language patents - An example of template mining This work has examined patents in English only; extension to other languages is clearly a possible next step. It seems probable that comparable results can be obtained with other languages; certainly with languages of European origin. In addition, areas where significant improvements can be made to the programs are highlighted, thus offering even better recall and precision values for automatic reference extraction.
From bibliometrics to diversity - A personal view Methods of descriptive bibliometry can be used in both fields of research.
Empirical studies of negative political advertising: A quantitative review using a method of combined citation and content analysis The studies of negative political advertising have become a unique research area in political communication. The works of scholars within communication and scholars from other disciplines have strong influence on the development of this research area.
The frequencies of occurrence of scientific papers with authors of each initial letter and their variation with nationality The spectra can be used to determine the national composition of a country's scientific authors and how this has changed with time.
Research production in the arts and humanities - A questionnaire study of factors influencing research performance Apparently, the social position effect is strong with regard to research production in the arts and humanities as has been previously found in the sciences (e.g. Knorr et al.).40 Secondly, the organisational factor was negatively related to paper production, implying its relatively minor important role in the arts and humanities. The importance of the individual's qualifications and abilities for the production of papers and Ph.D.'s was clearly demonstrated in ratings and free answers and different measures of this variable ought to be tested to find out whether it is a good predictor or not of research production.46
Quantifying the utilization of research: The difficulties and two models to evaluate the utilization of research results The construction of the concept of utilization is a very subjective matter and therefore qualitative indicators should be used. The proposed models give the initial impetus to something, which can be improved later. Therefore discussion about and the definition of the concept of utilization are indispensable.
Scientific fields and eminent scientists' productivity patterns and factors The research findings analyzed in this paper do not only confirm the initial thesis on the scientific fields as the determining frameworks of the scientific productivity but also the expectation that the contextual influences will be more expressed within the prominent scientists' group than within the research population.
Publication types, citation rates and evaluation But our case studies, based on a large volume of research output over a considerable period of time, suggest that for research in the sciences, citation rates in the journal literature of source items are an acceptable surrogate for the citation rates in the journal literature of all items.
How should citations to articles in high- and low-impact journals be evaluated, or what is a citation worth? In an attempt to provide a reply to these questions and thereby to stimulate discussions, I advance the following two working hypotheses:
The cost-effectiveness of observational astronomical facilities since 1958 .1. Effectiveness There was a swing away from small, ground-based optical/infrared telescopes over the period 1958-1994 such that, by 1994, virtually no important results were being obtained from professional optical/infrared telescopes of 0.61 m (24 inches) or less in diameter.
An assessment of database research interest in MIS Our findings indicate that although 12.5 percent of MIS faculty had expressed an interest in database research, very few database articles written by MIS researchers were published during the period 1980-94. Among the published database articles, the majority of them focused on conceptual studies (57.23%), researching issues such as database design and DBMS. MIS researchers continue to fall behind in conducting empirical studies related to database research.
The portrait of a journal as reflected in its publications, references and citations: Inorganica Chimica Acta, 1990-1994 What are the main features of the portrait of Inorganica Chimica Acta seen in the mirror of scientometrics? In the author's opinion, the picture shows a fairly balanced, 'golden mean' journal of its subject field, free from any extremities.
Trends in original research published from the United Kingdom in the antimicrobial chemotherapy literature, 1980-1994 In summary, there is little change in the relative numbers of papers being published from the UK since the mid 1980s although a large proportion of antimicrobial research is performed by a small number of centres.
Profile of medical research publications from the GCC countries, 1990-1994 The overall publication record from the six GCC countries has remained stable at about 650 papers each year for the past five years. This is caused by 1) the large and stable contribution from Saudi Arabia and 2) the fact that the decrease from Kuwait has been offset by the increase from the Emirates. With the post-war recovery now taking place in Kuwait and the possibility of a further increase from the Emirates, a slight increase could be expected in the next few years.
Determining the quality of publications and research for tenure or promotion decisions The checklist proposed in this article would be a useful tool for most faculty assessment groups allowing a greater degree of consistency. The proposed checklist is a general guideline, and the faculty assessment group members should utilize this checklist approach, with reference to their local, institutional objectives and environment; and this can be supplemented by any other criteria used by individual institutions, such as JCR Reports and/or external refereeing. Information and library professionals can work closely with faculty assessment groups on reporting the basic information on a number of perceptions and variables listed in the checklist with regard to journals.
Scientific Journal Usage in Large University Library: The results given here show that large-scale citation analysis is a practical way for the local library to measure journal usage. The SCI CD-ROM can be employed in an efficient and effective way to survey the citation patterns of local researchers and provide the librarian with the means to help evaluate the collection that those researchers use.
Science policy for a highly collaborative science system The increases in the level of collaboration within scientific research suggest that more and more competencies, skills and material resources are needed to produce an advance in knowledge. With these changes, research institutions will become more permeable, and so will need to be managed differently. Therefore, addressing the issues discussed here (and no doubt there are others) and developing the necessary knowledge, techniques and skills are increasingly important challenges facing the science policy community.
Research priority areas and research programmes in Norway The criticism referred to at the beginning of this article has not been confirmed by the case studies nor by the majority of responses to the questionnaire.
Identifying Tiers of Influence in Artificial Intelligence Research: I The primary result is a two-tier rating identifying what have been the 16 most influential journals for general AI research over a recent five-year period. This filter-based ranking is a broadly grounded alternative to the previously published subjective ranking.
Scientific collaboration at the regional level: The case of a small country Our analysis shows clearly that regions tend to turn outward rather than to Montreal, to the rest of Quebec, or to Canada.
Application of the Rasch model to measuring the impact of scientific journals Rasch model ranking for comparing journals come from a measure (interval scale of measurement), subject to be applied all parametrics and nonparametrics statistics.
Assessment of research quality The British results give support to the use of some quantitative measures of research outputs and inputs as indicators of overall research quality, as determined by the process of peer review.
Calculators and crystal balls: Predicting journal subscription prices Journal price projections are helpful for library planning and budgeting purposes and can be highly accurate, allowing libraries to determine their future costs before actual prices are set.
A bibliometric assessment of research council grants in linguistics This feasibility study shows that a bibliometric approach can be fruitfully accomplished in a field in the humanities, even for the assessment of funding. It can be concluded that ST supports projects for people who generally conduct research at an inter-nationally competitive level, as shown by their pub-lications in ISI source journals.
Scholarly Publishing: Trash or Treasure? It became abundantly clear from both the literature review and the interviews that no other means would be acceptable for judging academics for promotion or tenure but that of academic publishing, though difficulties with this criterion were recognised. There was conclusive agreement on the significant role publishing plays in the academic reward structure. Further research could well focus on means to regulate electronically the increasing quantity of published materials before the academic community drowns in its own flood of words.
The publication output and impact of academic chemistry research in the Netherlands during the 1980s: bibliometric analyses and policy implications In conclusion, this study has led to gratifying outcomes such as the good international standing of chemical research in the Netherlands and the signifi-cant correlation between bibliometric impact and funding which had been based on peer review. Our findings indicate that there are no 'weak' working communities or universities in Dutch aca-demic chemistry during the time period 1980-1991. clearly a careful bibliometric analysis can provide valuable insight or raise pointed ques-tions in many science policy matters.
A content analysis of the recent information needs and uses literature While a median of 20% of the citations outside LIS appears to reveal a degree of interdisciplinarity in the literature of information needs and uses, this degree must be compared with that found in LIS literature in general, and in the LIS literature of information needs and uses over time. The predominance of survey methods (written questionnaires and interviews; 55%) shows that these methods are still the methods of choice for research in information needs and uses. The findings about what user groups are being studied is an important one for researchers concerned that, in terms of proportion of the literature, user studies tend to focus on the information needs of the privileged (e.g., scholars and professionals) as opposed to the "average citizen."
Methodological and conceptual questions of bibliometric standards Thus what is most important is that there is no single method which is applicable for all bibliometric research. There are different methods and procedures for different problems and they are different standards. The stage is set to integrate empirical models of bibliometrics into standards. Future, bibliometric studies have to address this issue and reach the stage of normative principles.
The Evaluative Use of Citation Analysis for Communication Journals The omission of 14 important communication journals from SSCI and AHCI negatively and seriously affects citation analyses of communication literature.
Rating the Rating: An Analysis of the National Research Council's Appraisal of Political Science Ph.D. Programs In a most general sense, the estimates in Table 3 show that the ratings of graduate programs collected by the NRC (1995) do tap into important aspects of program quality and impact.
A multivariate analysis of physiotherapy clinicians’ journal readership On the basis of the present results, Davids’ (1986) provocative question, ‘Are you a reader?’, would hardly justify a majority affirmative response.
An SPSS program to compute subjective organization The program can be obtained by sending a blank 3.5-in. floppy to H. Otani, Central Michigan University, Department of Psychology, Mount Pleasant, MI 48859.
Measuring the impact of scientific publications. The case of the biomedical sciences Additionally, the RPU offers a clear benefit over the IF: it overcomes the intersubfield bias inherent to the IF, permitting comparison among subfields. The RPU, unlike the other modifiers of the IF and the IF itself, makes the relationship between the impact value and quality of the work more consistent, in a way similar to McAllister's SCS.
R &amp; D strategy in a techno-economic network: Alzheimer's disease therapeutic strategies R&D strategy can be seen essentially as a learning process in a techno-economic network.
Could Long Term Shifts of Publishing Sector Dominance Among the Top 100 Physical Science Journals Slow Rates of Invoice Inflation? There are modest prospects for a slower rate of print subscription bill growth based on sector shifts.
Some practical aspects of the standardization of scientometric indicators Consequently, the appropriate standardized indices should be given by any author beside other indices introduced or applied by the authors themselves.
Differences in the construction of sci based bibliometric indicators among various producers: A first over view The observations made in this paper illustrate the complexity of the process of 'standardisation' of bibliometric indicators. Moreover, they provide possible explanations for divergence of results obtained in different studies.
Property rights and entrepreneurship in science Although the evidence is far from complete, we conclude that the movement towards privatization may be more beneficial to product development and the scientists engaged in the activity than to basic science.
A CITATION ANALYSIS OF LIS SERIAL LITERATURE PUBLISHED IN DENMARK 1957–1986 The number of hidden citations discovered when examining the sources for this study leads to the conclusion that bibliometric investigations of non-academic bodies of literature must take into account that there are ways of providing references to literature other than those which involve adding a list of references or a bibliography at the end of articles, i.e. the endnotes-based approach. The strong citation performance of a few practitioner-oriented and association-related journals, which also have a high self-citation rate and frequently cite each other, is a clear reflection of the strong impact of public library matters on the universe of libraries and librarianship in Denmark. This fairly strong performance of an independent LIS journal with a focus on research reporting and ties to a vivid academic environment could perhaps serve as a model to developing countries.
Relationships between the rate of scientific development and citations. The chance for citedness model The main conclusion of the Chance for Citedness (CC) Model is that chances to be cited would be increased on fields with increasing publication rate. The results of the present paper reveal that the Total Citedness Possibility TCP(T) values should be determined separately for each scientific field with a special publication rate and mean number of references.
Quantification of scientific article contents The main purpose of the present work has been to analyse differences in article information contents and the mechanisms underlying these differences, hopefully acquiring knowledge that may provide a rational basis for the reliable and fair measurement of scientific productivity.
The Quality of Drug Studies Published in Symposium Proceedings Articles in symposia sponsored by single drug companies were similar in quality and clinical rele- vance to articles with other sponsors and to articles pub- lished in the parent journals.
Type of empirical research reports as an explanatory factor in citation performance of psychiatric research The results of this citation analysis suggests that the importance of systematic research and the condensing of data to a format which persuades reviewers and readers should not be underestimated, as otherwise the scientific literature and community is not receptive to the research or message. Study, which analyzes publication patterns and citation performance using bibliometric data would be useful to the research communication of any new treatment approach.
Child Care, Research Collaboration, and Gender Differences in Scientific Productivity Our earlier finding that child care is a critical factor for publishing activity among female faculty but not among male faculty is supported by the present survey.
Proliferation of authors on research reports in medicine Multiple authorship continues to the rise and ever increasing numbers of authors appear on papers, especially in clinical medicine.
Standards issues in a national bibliometric database: The Australian case This example illustrates the simplest but most basic standards issue of the importance of specification. Our proposal is for a grid to be drawn up containing a comprehensive list of methodology options. We believe these limitations can be overcome in the final version as a result of discussion at this Workshop.
A comparison of Australian university output using journal impact factors Weighted impact sums provide us with a quality indicator of science journal publishing which is quick and easy to calculate, allows us to scale for institutional size both in terms of output and research staff, and which produces well-defined power law distributions in fractions of items.
PUBLICATION RECORDS AND TENURE DECISIONS IN THE FIELD OF STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT The findings are discussed in terms of their implications for establishing publication expectations for new faculty and for conducting promotion and tenure investigations. These data appear to be useful for at least two purposes. First, they may assist in assessing scholarship, although we do not recommend replacing faculty judgement about research accomplishments with a purely numerical evaluation.
A historic‐quantitative approach to psychophysiological research: The first three decades of the journal <i>Psychophysiology</i> (1964–1993) These bibliometric results show that this journal can be placed among the most experimentally oriented group within the field of psychology.
The unit of analysis (objects of study) in bibliometrics and scientometrics If bibliometric research is to facilitate reproducibility or replicability, testability, falsifiability and comparability in general, and if we desire scientometrics to be cumulative and coherent, with theoretical consistency then we need: [list of 9 points].
Coping with the problem of subject classification diversity The final objective of a study is the key point in deciding which method has to be used for delimiting a field.
Averaging and globalising quotients of informetric and scientometric data We strongly claim that, in most applications, the global average is the preferred one.
Contents and Bibliographie Styles of Japanese Scientific Journals after 1868: Dissemination of a Practice of Making References "The practice of making references, the dissemination of academic ethics and copyright thoughts, democratic movements in Japan, and the change of the way of Japanese writing from vertical to horizontal in the art of printing, appeared at the same time."
Publishing abroad: Fair trade or short sell for non-English-speaking authors? A Spanish study The fields of experimental medicine and clinical medicine (24.8% of all articles considered) were fully integrated into the international literature during the study period.
Increasing the between-year stability of the impact factor in the Science Citation Index The use of IF(4) gives the lowest instability values, i.e. the impact factor extended to four years is better suited to avoid the year-to-year variations of the index. Therefore, according to the results, the described proposal is an easy method to enhance the value of bibliometric indexes based on citation analysis. Finally, it is suggested that the Journal Citation Report should adopt the four-year scheme to optimize the stability of impact factors of the journals it covers.
RESEARCH BRIEF RATES OF RETURN TO CITATION The evidence from a range of studies conducted in North American universities on data relating to scholars in (principally) scientific disciplines, or subjects at the hard end of the social sciences spectrum, suggests that citations function as reliable predictors of pecuniary success within the academic reward system. Given the strength of the observed association between citation counts and material rewards in scholarly communities, it is surprising that formal research assessment exercises do not take publicly available citation data into account in generating departmental ratings.
Is the scientific paper obsolete? The latter two roles ensure the scientific paper's survival as a preeminent communication tool.
An assessment of research in evolution and ecology supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada Canada's strong showing in evolution and ecology, and related fields, should come as no surprise. Despite the limitations of funding in Canada, environmental sciences are among Canada's success stories in scientific research. Our job is to produce the theories that represent human knowledge and the tools humanity must use to manage its resources.
Experiences with the national citation reports database for measuring national performance: The case of Mexico "NCR is an important addition to the tools available for the carrying out bibliometric studies related to national performance."
The evaluation of national performance in selected priority areas using scientometric methods The major finding of this paper is that Canadian researchers seem to have used the priority programs as an alternative source of funding, while their Dutch colleagues were able to use these programs to help their specialties grow above the national average, and in accordance with selected priorities. In our opinion, the explanation should focus rather on differences which are culturally rooted in the respective R&D systems themselves, in their organization at the national level, and in the aspirations of the members of the respec-tive scientific communities (Skolnikoff, 1993). Thus, one can raise further questions with respect to comparisons along the national dimension of R & D systems.
The need for standards in bibliometric research and technology Though the elaboration of bibliometric standards is one of the current tasks in our field, standardisation cannot be forced.
The post-modern research system Our substantial point is the possibility of develop-ment in the direction of a post-modern research sys-tem.
Mapping change in scientific specialties: A scientometric reconstruction of the development of artificial intelligence Let us first note the turbulence in the subject area. The journal cluster of AI is unstable in a changing environ-ment. But there seems to have been a change in the struc-ture of this communication network between 1986 and 1988. However, in the second part of the decade, research in AI seems to be more fo-cused, and with hindsight this indicates that Al is enter-ing a new phase. In our view, it is more appropriate to shift the debate about Al from the philosophical issues related to the disputed possibility of Al to the possible effects of existing AI.
Have referees rejected some of the most-cited articles of all times? According the authors' commentaries, although sometimes referees' negative evaluations can help improve the articles, in other instances referees and editors wrongly rejected the highly cited articles.
Bibliometric standards: Personal experience and lessons learned Co-operation is the best solution to developing common standards. Without complete and open co-operation throughout the bibliometric community standards can not be developed. I suggest that one way to achieve this is by developing a mechanism that will focus us on methodologies which are open to full scrutiny by everyone. I believe that only through a complete disclosure of methodologies in an environment that encourages the development of novel techniques but tempered by open and vibrant international debate can standards evolve.
Information usage by biological researchers Where that survey and the present survey overlap (e.g. in terms of usage of information sources), it appears that the biological sciences display a spread of characteristics which is little different from that of the sciences as a whole.
The SCI Journal Citation Reports: A potential tool for studying journals? Our graphical method enabled us to make less categorical judgements by presenting the JCR product differently.
Special feature: What's in a name? Bibliometric analysis of 40 years of the<i>journal of broadcasting ( &amp; electronic media)</i> While the editorial board was correct in its assessment that the Journal of Broadcasting did not accurately reflect the research of the prior few years, the Journal continues to be a cohesive whole in thematic content, impact, and standing in the network of communication journals.
The standard impact factor as an evaluation tool of science fields and scientific journals Annual calculation of this standard bibliometric indicator helps to monitor new tendencies in the development of science and to compare science policies of various nations.
A systemic view of British science This systemic view of the UK research system as reflected in the Science Citation Index has analysed publication output, collaboration and the distribution of publications across scientific fields. The most striking results are the amount and growth of the various forms of collaboration, the large number of small industrial publishers and the dominance of medical and biological publishing, at least in this database. There seems to be great potential in linking bibliometric work to wider analyses of the research system, and to gain further insight from international comparison.
Market Segmentation in Scientific Publications: Research Patterns in American vs European Management Journals<sup>1</sup> There appears to be a clear, marked segmentation between US-journals and E-journals, one which follows a paradigmatic pattern. Rigidity in this respect, either on the part of US-journals or the part of European researchers, does not contribute to the universalism of science or to the communication of ideas between re-searchers. If it can be achieved, the paradigmatic wall separating the two continents may crumble, making the management scientists of the two continents more open to one another and transforming the border into little more than a reason for buying tax free cigars and liquor.
Index medicus<sup><scp>tm</scp></sup>price study: Publishing trends from 1992–1996 The primary use of this analysis is to demonstrate journal price fluctuations by discipline and country of origin to department heads, university and hospital administrators, and others concerned with the costs of health information.
Participation of Life-Science Faculty in Research Relationships with Industry Faculty members with industrial research support are at least as productive academically as those without such support and are more productive commercially.
<i>The 1995 NRC Ratings of Doctoral Programs</i>A Hedonic Model The resulting estimates can then be used to help guide resource allo-cation decisions at universities.
Index medicus tm price study: Publishing trends from 1992–1996 The primary use of this analysis is to demonstrate journal price fluctuations by discipline and country of origin to department heads, university and hospital administrators, and others concerned with the costs of health information. The authors repeat this study annually and welcome any comments.
Measuring the Quality of Academic Journals: The Case of Economics This paper contests that rankings constructed on any of these bases measure journal quality. It concludes that the citation method particularly measures influence rather than excellence, and that the correlation between influence and quality is uncertain. No universally accepted theory of citations exists, an understanding of what citations mean is "meager and unsatisfactory."
Informetric distributions .3. Ambiguity and randomness Informetrics shares with the other social sciences the ubiquity of uncertainty.
Citation theories in the framework of international flow of information: New evidence with translation analysis "The evidence presented in this study suggests that there are certain connections between the two schools of thought."
The scientific wealth of nations I thus suggest that, among the scientifi- cally advanced countries, better value for money (in terms of papers or citations per person or per dollar spent) might be associated with performing basic research mostly in universities, rather than in research insti- tutes.
Why the impact factor of journals should not be used for evaluating research For evaluation of scientific quality, there seems to be no alternative to qualified experts reading the publications.
Data sea isolation for bibliometric online analyses of research publications: Fundamental methodological issues By being aware of the idiosyncrasies of the files, as well as the retrieval possibilities and processing software features involved in the online data set creation, it is believed that the analyst is capable of producing more valid analyses and being more critical towards externally produced analyses.
Citation content analysis of a botany journal Neither this study nor our previous one supports the basic assumption of citation analysis: That authors cite their influences.
International visibility of domestic scientific literature The indexes described could be applied to any country and/or any language, provided that there is a suffi-ciently comprehensive national database, covering the whole literature being published in domestic journals. International databases are inclusive as to basic research in Physics and Chemistry (from university and CSIC), with a high TPA, while the coverage of applied research and technology (from industry and engineering schools) is not so wide. This indicator varies over time, from one discipline to another, and within the same discipline, depending on how basic or applied the scientific research is.
Impact factors of psychiatric journals The BJP would have to change the nature and number of papers published to improve its impact factor.
Getting in: Criteria for acceptance of manuscripts in Psychological Bulletin, 1993-1996 All of the ratings that the reviewers were asked to provide were statistically significant predictors of final action.
Women's studies: Bibliometric and content analysis of the formative years Our bibliometric analysis of contributions to three leading women's studies journals over twenty years revealed several notable patterns: a high level of sole authorship; a preponderance of female over male authors, and intensive acknowledgement with a higher number of credits accruing to women than men.
Qualitative conditions of scientometrics: The new challenges Without robust building blocks, linked to ongoing scientific practices, there is no scientometrics, only number crunching.
Why has Latour's theory of citations been ignored by the bibliometric community? Discussion of sociological interpretations of citation analysis Latour's theory of citation is cognitively the most ambitious attempt in recent decades to create a new sociological theory of citation.
Citation cycles and peer review cycles Analyzing science as an information cycle enables the integration of two divergent bodies of literature: one focussing on science and technology indicators as policy instruments, the other focussing on the development of scientific specialties.
The evaluation of European programmes and the future of scientometrics Overall, the study shows that over the entire 15 years under review, scientometric techniques have not yet acquired a firm presence in the toolkit of (ex post) evaluation methodologies used by European evaluators. All three communities must continue to work cooperatively on these issues. Unless such techniques are able to demonstrate their utility in evaluation studies, their use will, we fear, continue to be on an ad hoc basis.
The use of S&T indicators in science policy: Dutch experiences and theoretical perspectives from policy analysis It is argued that the use of S&T indicators can only be understood well if one takes the socio- political context with its specific dynamics and rationalities into account. Thus, the role of the S&T indicators for evaluation has grown, but at the same time their impact decreased. An essential part of such reflection is a good understanding of the configuration in which indicators are used, which indicators can be taken up, and how they can affect strategies of all actors.
Indicators and the relations between science and technology The various examples given in this paper demonstrate that publication and patent indicators are not only interesting instruments for analysing either science or technology, but also for elucidating the structures of the science-technology interface.
Mapping the dynamics of telephone switching devices To sum up, findings appear consistent with the expectations that might be derived from Granovetter's 29,30 views concerning both social change and the frequency of interaction and from the related views concerning language proposed by Coser 33 and Bernstein. 34
Desktop scientometrics We dream of two things. First, we dream of building an interactive graphical interface to assist social scientist and policy analysts from all disciplines to probe the dynamic signature of national systems of innovation as reflected in publication records.
Scientometrics and communication theory: Towards theoretically informed indicators Policy implications and the consequences for a theory-driven type of scientometrics will be elaborated.
Dimensions of scientometric indicator datafiles - World science in 1990-1994 With the examples given in this study, we wanted to illustrate that one-, two-, three- and multidimensional representations all have their specific role in the comprehensive and careful analysis of scientometric indicators. Both ends of the process are crucial; as to the first, thoughtfully built indicator databases (such as ISSRU's Scientometric Indicator Datafiles is attempted to be) are required, as to the second, well-conceived general guiding principles (such as the "principle of antidiagnosis") might be helpful.
Bibliometrics of alkaloid chemistry research in India Activity Index of Indian alkaloid research increased significantly during 1979 to 1987, reaching at its peak in 1981. Average activity index was, however, at par with world average. The Collaborative Coefficient of different research groups does not vary significantly, and the values of Collaborative Coefficient for different research groups indicate that alkaloid chemistry research is fairly collabora-tive. As reflected by the pattern of publications and citations, Indian alkaloid chemistry research forms a part of main stream science; however, major portion of the research results have appeared in Indian and low impact factor journals.
Self-organization of scientific specialization and diversification: A quantitative case study Certainly, bibliometric indicators as used here yield only a pale reflection of scientific processes. But that reflection seems to me promising enough to apply scientific theories of self-organization, not only verbally or symbolically, to science itself. The power laws described above gave us some footprints of a process of scientific self-organization that could lead, in the end, to a better quantitative understanding.
The earliest Hebrew citation indexes Shapiro (1992, abstract) states that legal citation in-dexes "date at least as far back as 1743." Nearly two centuries earlier, a legal citation index was embedded in the Talmud.
Journal of Documentary Reproduction, 1938-1942: Domain as reflected in characteristics of authorship and citation "Positioned in the late 1930s and early 1940s, at a peak of interest in new methods of information storage and retrieval, JDR presented cutting-edge research and reports by technicians, librarians, and researchers in and out of the library community."
Variation in informativity of titles of research papers in selected humanities journals: A comparative study 1. Our hypothesis about one single pattern of paper title length for all humanities journals checked, was not confirmed. 2. However, as a group, these journals showed throughout the last fifty years a significant increase in title informativity, as defined by number of substantive words included in titles. 3. Assuming that the eighteen journals checked represent the humanities, one may conclude that informativity of paper titles in journals in the humanities, as measured by the number of substantive words in the title, is lower than that found in journals in the sciences and the social sciences. 4. Further research is needed concerning groups of journals from the sciences, the social sciences, and the humanities, in order to re-examine our findings and conclusions, and to reach more solid conclusions regarding the question of title informativity.
Measuring giants and dwarfs: Assessing the quality of economists The Dutch economist conforms more to the archetype of the 'policy advisor'.
Impact factor and international collaboration in Chilean physics: 1987-1994 Chilean physics presents a steady growth measured in terms of number of published papers and in terms of cumulative impact factor of the journals where the paper appeared.
Analysis of publication quality in a cancer research institute The method developed by our Institute provides a viable starting point for a more objective judgment of the quality of a given publication and should be reproducible independently of the disciplines considered.
Update on science mapping: Creating large document spaces The data presented illustrate a general framework for creating large scale maps of science, while presenting some new techniques for implementing individual steps. This paper has not dealt with user interface issues, but clearly these will be critical to the successful utilization of large scale document ordinations. Other unresolved technical issues are how the structures will be updated and their stability over time.
Scientific research collaboration in China The findings in our study show that there is sufficient evidence of a steady increase in the number of authors per article and in the proportion of coauthored articles in China, which is in line with international trends. Although the rate of increase would seem somewhat slower, the increase in the proportion of collaborative articles involving authors with different institutional affiliations indicate a growing collaborative level in scientific research and reflect the multidimensional science of China.
Nanoscience and nanotechnology on the balance It has been shown that the investigations dealing with graphite nanotubes represent kinetically the most active field of research in the nanosciences.
X-ray diffraction used to measure levels of sp(2) and sp(3) carbon in fossil fuels: A microcosm of the 1990's, working harder and getting less The approach of WB to separate the x-ray scattering of the organic portion of the coal matrix lacks foundation with respect to physical principles, the cited prior work, and known experimental results.
DogitaLS1: The Dortmund digital library system As a conclusion to this paper, this section discusses issues that have not yet satisfactorily been addressed in DogitaLS1.
Palaeontology in Science Citation Index 1995 With such a marginal coverage in SCI, evaluation of achievements of particular palaeontologists and palaeontological institutions is frequently not faithful, however, especially outside USA and Great Britain.
Price index and its relation to the mean and median reference age These graphs, consequently, confirm our theoretical findings.
Why words and co-words cannot map the development of the sciences The codifi-cation of meaning identifiable in one text breaks down if one generalizes among more texts, even within this nar-rowly defined subject area.
The use of bibliometric data in evaluating research on therapeutic community for addictions and in psychiatry This study demonstrates the current status of published TC research.
The computer revolution in science: Steps towards the realization of computer-supported discovery environments What is essential for the realization of such computer-supported discovery environments is the recognition that we are building large-scale sociotechnical systems.
Comparative citation rankings of authors in monographic and journal literature: A study of sociology The evidence from our study of the sociological literature points to the possible existence of two populations of influential authors one in monographs, one in journals. Given the lack of comparability between highly cited authors in the monographic and journal literatures, an SSCI-based analysis of scholarly impact may sometimes underestimate, or overlook, the contributions of an author. More care may be necessary, though, in studies which examine the long-term, or post mortem, influence of an author's ideas on thinking within and across disciplines.
Using citation analysis to explore the intellectual base, knowledge dissemination and research impact of Interfaces (1970-1992) Thus, it is fair to say that the dissemination or knowledge through Interfaces is both rapid and signifi-cant. This study shows that to a large extent Interfaces is meeting the needs of scholars in the field. The editors might consider increasing the number of papers on surveys, education, OR training, and the interdisciplinary na-ture of OR to meet the considerable interest in these topics.
The mathematical model of productivity- and age-structured scientific community evolution The authors believe that the proposed model enables to reflect sufficiently some general properties of evolutionary processes in scientific community.
Authorship patterns in information systems The high proportion of multiply-authored papers is characteristic of the physical and life sciences rather than the social sciences. IS, then, seems to fit more into the multiply-authored norm of the physical or experimental sciences than the humanities/social sciences. The degree of collaboration in IS that crosses institutional and geographic boundaries is significant, and warrants further attention-in particular, to investigate the communication techniques that support co-authorship.
The ''mad cow disease'', Usenet newsgroups and bibliometric laws In this paper we examined the applicability of bibliometric laws and methods to news items published in Usenet newsgroups on mad cow disease.
Scientific articles and national medical cultures: A comparison of Russian and American medical journals American and Russian medical journals represent quite different research communities.
Mapping the terrain of pharmacy: Co-classification analysis of the International Pharmaceutical Abstracts database The present research has clearly demonstrated the ability of co-classification analysis to visualize the gross or coarse structure of a professional literature. As a result, the comparable value of two methods of classification assignment was assessed, and it was determined that distinguishing between primary and related headings contributes very little to coherently structuring the literature as a whole; in fact, making such a classificatory distinction may actually obscure the meaningful structural patterning underlying the database as a whole. This finding of course has practical implications not only for the indexing policies of IPA, but for information retrieval from IPA as well.
Authorship patterns in marine mammal science, 1985-1993 Marine mammal science research, like other areas of scientific research, has become a very complex enterprise, which each project requiring expertise in a combination of areas which include, but not limited to: behavioral observations, engineering and mechanical skills, statistics, and molecular and cellular biology techniques. This may possibly show that individual colleges, universities, and other organizations and institutions increasingly do not have the expertise and/or equipment/laboratories to support increasingly complex marine mammal research.
Scientometric studies on chemistry .1. The exponential growth of chemical substances, 1800-1995 Unlike 'formal' bibliometric indicators, the number of chemical substances can be considered as a cumulative measure of the growth of knowledge in preparative chemistry.
Scientometric studies on chemistry .2. Aims and methods of producing new chemical substances Chemistry, as today's main active science, is for the most part concerned in producing and characterizing new substances.
Seed science literature on Nigeria, India, Australia, United Kingdom and United States: A comparative study of author collaboration In conclusion, the findings of this study clearly show that the degree of author collaboration in the literature of seed science in Nigeria, India, Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States of America is generally high.
Reviewer and editor decision making in the journal review process Also consistent with the gatekeeping function, reviewer's overall evaluations of manuscripts were most strongly related to their ratings of adequacy of research design, conceptual development, and adequacy of operationalizations of key constructs.
More authors, more institutions, and more funding sources: Hot papers in biology from 1991 to 1993 The characteristics of these papers analyzed for this study may reflect a trend of the modern scientific culture. Therefore, in order to list the names of authors who have truly contrib-uted to the publication of a paper, I think that more sophis-ticated methods should be introduced to evaluate and as-sess their contributions. “The existing definition of what constitutes authorship is becoming unworkable, and it may be that by adopting a very restrictive definition" (Horton & Smith, 1996), otherwise, an infinite number of authors in a paper will be the result.
Losing ground: NIH funding to New York State researchers New York faces a critical situation.
Principal trends in modern ecology and its mathematical tools: An analysis of publications The performed analysis allowed to clear up some problems dealing with the modern situation of scientific research in ecology.
The importance of human relationships in scientific productivity The data presented above shows that, in spite of the great sophistication of science in our days, scientists still give much more importance to human factors than to material conditions as the main driving force for scientific productivity. It is worth noticing that this view was identified in a developing country (Brazil) in which material conditions are far from being ideal.
Scientific collaboration in finance does not lead to better quality research The empirical results in this study do not lend support to the contention that scientific collaboration leads to better quality research.
Statistical profile of science and technology in India and Brazil The development of S&T in India and Brazil has to be seen in relation to the great advances that have taken place in the world and to the necessity of ensuring that it is relevant and serves the overall purpose of the development. These efforts have led to the capacity and capability building in many areas of S&T and a move towards achieving self reliance. Science and technology policies are being reviewed towards attaining industrial competitiveness.
Authorship patterns in Dutch sociology Co-authors analysis shows a trend towards more collaboration in Dutch sociology between 1939 and 1987. Although co-authored publications constituted less than a quarter of the total productivity, co-author analysis proved to be a useful tool for the detection of clusters of sociologists. Further research could be directed towards answering questions with regard to a possible increase in collaborations as measured by these other types of relationships.
Research collaboration at Nordic universities Research collaboration is of prime importance for all Nordic universities, regardless of their size and nationality. The point is that different specialisation profiles make the creation of Nordic networks even more important for the future of university research in the Nordic countries. Our findings raise some questions for research policy makers and for the agenda of further work on Nordic communication patterns in research.
The enacted fate of undiscovered public knowledge In conclusion, this article has considered the influences on Swanson, followed by his influence on subsequent authors.
The role of references in the astronomical discourse The statistical analysis of the number and distribution of references in the text of 1179 papers sampled from A&A over 20 years provides a manual of referencing style for astronomers.
Database tomography for information retrieval In summary, database tomography is a powerful tool for retrieving records from familiar or unfamiliar databases with a high degree of accuracy, and is sufficiently flexible to be combined with other information retrieval techniques such as search tree or co-citation approaches.
The literature of the information profession in anglophone Africa: Characteristics, trends and future directions From this study, it is obvious that librarianship still constitutes the area most researched into; however, archives and information science are no longer so neglected as in the past.
How well does journal 'impact' work in the assessment of papers on clinical physiology and nuclear medicine? In conclusion, although a phase of no citation was identified, which gave a lower citation factor as compared with the journal impact factor, the citation frequency increased over time, and altogether there seems to be a good agreement between the journal impact factor and the overall citation frequency of papers on clinical physiology and nuclear medicine. It may thus be concluded that the journal impact factor is a fairly good estimate of the actual citation frequency in clinical physiology and nuclear medicine.
Research without external funding in North American psychiatry Unfunded studies make a substantial and economically efficient contribution to psychiatric research. Future investigations should detail the institutional conditions necessary to sustain this type of research productivity. Such information may help departments maintain academic productivity in the current climate of economic pressure and diminishing resources.
University faculty and networked information: Results of a survey It is evident that the information provided by the respondents ensures that many faculty use networked information for some kinds of communication and information-seeking activities.
Quality measurement as a basis for resource allocation: Research assessment exercises in United Kingdom universities The research assessment exercises have required the new universities (principally the former polytechnics) to compete on an equal footing with the established universities for research funding and thus for their staff to engage more fully in research. This paper offers a preliminary examination of the attempts by universities to respond to this change with the consequential effect upon the labour market. While the mobility of the research-active may well have increased the reverse is true for those not active in research.
A new explanation of the geometric law in the case of library circulation data In our study, it is when we suppose that the quantification of the number of articles in a periodical is geometrical that we get (Theorem 1) a geometrical distribution of the circulation.
Re-examining Price's conjectures on the structure of reference networks: Results from the special relativity, spatial diffusion modeling and role analysis literatures Our results indicate that had he chosen to examine special relativity, he would have had a far stronger case for his claim about the characteristic network structure of research in the natural sciences. Our results suggest, however, that Price did not anticipate the variety of structures that reference networks can exhibit. Our results constitute only a first step in re-examining the general issues Price raised in his papers on reference networks.
Development of an academic productivity scale for departments of physical medicine and rehabilitation This shortened instrument of 28 questions fits the Rasch analysis, has questions that evenly range from easy to very difficult, and addresses six measurable categories that are correlates of PM&R departmental influences on the aca- demic productivity of the PM&R teaching staff.
Citation analysis cross-field normalization: A new paradigm This example illustrates the added dimension provided by the citation efficiency perspective; the ability to evaluate and interpret research paper utilization patterns within and across different disciplines.
Time dependencies of Bradford distributions: Structures of journal output in 20th-century logic and 19th-century mathematics The shape of a Bradford distribution depends considerably on the time interval taken for the computation of such a distribution.
Third World Countries (TWC) research publications by disciplines: A country-by-country citation analysis In summary, of this study it is apparent that during the study period TWC (excluding India) did not make a significant contribution to science as evidenced by the Science Citation Index.
Corpus relevance through co-word analysis: An application to plant proteins In this article we showed how the co-word analysis makes it possible to give a synthetic representation of the content of different corpuses.
Productivity of authors as reflected by duration of their scientific participation and speed of publication The paper analyses the frequency distribution of scientific productivity of authors in theoretical population genetics from an entirely new perspective, as suggested by Wagner-Döbler.
Collaboration profile of theoretical population genetics speciality The analysis presented in this paper offers evidence to support the hypothesis that the increased collaboration is generally associated with proportional increase in funding of research papers in theoretical population genetics. A strong relationship is observed between collaboration, productivity, and funding of research papers. The analysis clearly brings forth the changes taking place in the nature of collaborative research. A distinct shift is found to be taking place over the years from local collaboration to domestic and international collaboration. This trend is encourged by deliberate government policies and supported by funds through concerned funding agencies.
Autoimmune diseases - knowledge generation and utilisation Firstly, autoimmune diseases can be considered as a strongly science-based field, thereby representing the assumed new type of science based innovation.
Types and levels of collaboration in interdisciplinary research in the sciences To conclude, the present study investigated the status of scientific communication in the context of interdisci- plinary collaboration.
Fractional counting of multiauthored publications: Consequences for the impact of authors Impact results, obtained by standard counting, are unreliable in the case of multiauthorships, as shown here, and they will remain so in general, because single authorship becomes the exception rather than the rule in a large number of disciplines (Hicks & Katz, 1996). It is rather surprising to see that, even for cooperating scientists and using the same citation data, scientists' rankings by impact can be reversed (see Fig. 1), depending simply on the accrediting method used. This ratio, i.e., the relative impact, therefore shows an internal inconsistency, due to the combination of two different counting methods: (ii) in the numerator and (i) in the denumerator.
Structural modeling of network systems in citation analysis In summary, a structural model usually has the following basic properties and usages:
The diffusion of scientific journals analyzed through citations The latent variable “diffusion,” defined in terms of citations, is a theoretical conception serving as a support for measurement.
Microlevel infometric investigation in phytochemistry One aim of this study was to answer a specific question at low cost price.
Hypothesis testing for positive feedback models: some uses of a modified Poisson distribution for loops involving the self-fulfilling prophecy It is worthwhile to reiterate the objective of this paper: to advance our capability to perform rigorous probability-based hypothesis-testing of hypotheses that incorporate positive feedback.
Mainstream engineering publishing in Latin America: The Chilean experience Summing up, the exposed tasks are yet to be done and advances can only be achieved with knowledge based on a strong nexus between S&T and development; thus, acknowledging that there are financial and human resources limitations, the future of Latin American countries depends critically on reaching these goals, after which it will be possible to move to the forefront of science and walk safely through the industrial society. Obviously, a reduced scientific mass undermines the future of science; however, there is an attempt to reverse this situation through a domestic policy which intends to enhance the obtention of Ph.D.’s, increase the training of young researchers and strengthen the creation of R&D centers, all of this by means of greater and more significant government support to reach the goal of a budget averaging 1.3% of the GDP by year 2000, giving priority to education as one of the most important areas of development.
Current state of science and technology in the Muslim world The material presented above reasonably demonstrates the meagreness of science and technology in the Muslim world. This poverty, regrettably, is not caused by the paucity of material resources or the infertility of Muslim scientists. Until this driving force plays a positive role, there is little hope for the future of science and technology in the Muslim world.
Tracking changes in research priorities in Physics: A macro level analysis "This study provides an useful method for monitoring changes in research priorities of a country using bibliometric indicators." "Tracking of imbalances in the structure of research priorities is of fundamental concern to science policy." "Therefore, a collateral objective is to observe the priorities of countries in different time-spans and thereby assess the changes that have occurred during the intervening period."
An exploration of expert-based text analysis techniques for assessing industrial relevance in US engineering dissertation abstracts The results of this work suggest that text analysis of engineering dissertation abstracts holds potential utility for identifying industrially relevant university-based engineering research, when used in conjunction with expert input and feedback. Overall, this exploratory research indicates that there exists potential for future use of text analysis techniques to study certain broad characteristics of university-based engineering research, such as its industrial relevance, and to help identify prominent research and the major performers of that research. Given that most of the experts from both university and industry who participated in this study expressed surprise at how much of the research evaluated in dissertation abstracts was potentially relevant to industry, it appears that using dissertation abstracts for identifying relevant research would be a worthwhile activity.
Database Tomography for technical intelligence: Comparative roadmaps of the research impact assessment literature and the journal of the American Chemical Society This paper has provided maps of the RIA and JACS Chemistry fields, although only a small fraction of the raw data has been presented. The key conclusion is that, starting from the raw data, the analyst can generate any cross-cutting relationships desired to proceed further in specific directions of personal interest.
Analysis of distribution of the age of citations in theoretical population genetics The analyses of age of references in source papers of theoretical population genetics speciality indicate the patterns in the references cited. It throws light on the extent of obsolescence and the rate at which the speciality literature is getting obsolete over time. The study concludes that the age of references cited in source papers of theoretical population genetics, irrespective of the period studied, is found to be best modelled according to a simple lognormal probability density function.
Relations of relative scientometric impact indicators. The relative publication strategy index The findings indicate that publishing in journals with higher impact factor is a necessary but not sufficient requirement for attaining higher Relative Subfield Citedness (Rw) index.
Modeling the human factors of scholarly communities supported through the Internet and World Wide Web The Internet and World Wide Web have already established themselves as major factors in the operation of scholarly communities world wide.
On the value of research in health care It seems likely that the higher public investment (% of GNP) in research in, e.g., Sweden, Japan or USA, provides excellent return in terms of jobs created in these countries.
Forums for MIS scholars Overall results indicate that the top four journals in MIS are MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, Management Science, and Communications of the ACM; the top conference is the International Conference on Information Systems. This follow-up study has provided results to compare with those of the previous study: Comparison with the results from 1991 reveals relative stability of the ranking of the top-10 journals, although the top two journals now appear to be two “pure” MIS journals—MISQ and ISR.
Publication trends of papers on schizophrenia - A 15-year analysis of three general psychiatric journals Given the importance of schizophrenia in psychiatric research and practice, it will be useful to regularly monitor the research trends in this specific field.
Research collaboration in parasitology between Indonesia and Australia Future collaboration in parasitology between Indonesia and Australia would promote the interests of both countries. Both countries are well placed to develop collaborative projects addressing their national priorities.
How reliable is peer review? An examination of operating grant proposals simultaneously submitted to two similar peer review systems These findings suggest that the process of peer review has considerable robustness, even across different agencies.
Trends in astronomical publication between 1975 and 1996 The ADS database provides a wealth of data for studying trends in astronomical publication.
Out of particles: Impact of CERN, DESY and SLAC research to fields other than physics Having analysed the relations between publications of, and citations to, CERN, DESY, and SLAC on different levels, we may conclude that, in general, the institutes do equally well in terms of impact (receiving citations), but have different main interests.
View from afar: 'visible' productivity of scientists in the developing world Self-reported productivity is 2-3 times higher than productivity estimated using international sources.
Mapping the social and behavioral sciences world-wide: Use of maps in portfolio analysis of national research efforts Perhaps more negative is that, across both maps, the impact of Dutch research is in 27 cases significantly below average, and only in 8 cases significantly above the international average.
International publication patterns in social sciences: A quantitative analysis of the IBSS file The conclusions obtained from our empirical analysis of the IBSS files are as follows: (1) A large proportion of all monographs is published in a small proportion of countries.
A scientometric approach to autism based on translation sociology The co-word analysis puts in evidence the approaches which, to a given moment, seem to play a promising or strategic role.
Direct and indirect literature overlap measures for information pools of research teams To characterise similarity of data pools important for research teams, three indicators are suggested.
The future of the quality assurance system: its impact on the social and professional recognition of scientists in the era of electronic publishing "We conclude that most changes primarily will be technological, but not conceptual. Publication via journals or journal-like media of high reputation is, in most fields of science, crucial to receive the most visible professional recognition. That will remain so in the 'electronic era'."
Inorganica Chimica Acta: its publications, references and citations. An update for 1995-1996 The results of the present study, in general, confirmed and further articulated the portrait of Inorganica Chimica Acta drawn in the previous paper [1]. The journal's international character has definitely increased, both as the authors' national diversity and the international cooperative nature of the papers are concerned. Using Koestler's 'bisociation' concept, some potential 'cre-ative foci' were identified in the form of pairs of title terms, around which some new ideas may emerge.
Mapping Australia's basic research in the medical and health sciences The most encouraging inference we draw from our study is that, using the measure of Relative Citation Impact, Australian medical research stands relatively high in terms of international visibility.
Qualitative medical sociology: what are its crowning achievements? Citation is only a proxy for impact, let alone quality. In this paper we present examples of high-impact work which show that qualitative research can produce insights unobtainable in any other way. Rosenhan, Goffman and the other workers cited here do not just answer questions they pose them; they ask what A is, what X and Y might be and what outcomes should be considered.
Referring to schools of thought: An example of symbolic citations Analysis of articles like Huber's challenges an assumption upon which citation indexing is based: namely, diadic similarity between authors (or between their knowledge claims). If the existence of 'symbolic papers' representing schools of thought poses a challenge for users of citation indexes, it can be a boon for historians of science. Papers like this can serve as in- dicators of the prevalence of scientific debate, and can be used to track their course over time.
Modern science and the explosion of new knowledge However, the explosion of new knowledge generated the following complex situations that must be carefully dealt by society
Ambiguity in measurement "Still, we can't help being struck by the resilence of the Lotka form to the attacks we exposed it to, and we think it reasonable to suggest that such resilience be reflected, at least approximately, in a real-life situation."
Cross-national comparison of Frontier areas of research in physics using bibliometric indicators From science policy perspective therefore it gives direction for funding resources. In other way, it reveals the structure of science based on the cumulative effects of science policies of different countries. Comparison of maps at different periods of time indicates the effects of change in science policy.
Characteristics and impact of the Matthew Effect for Countries As far as we can use citation numbers as quantitative expression for scientific performance in the international community, the MEC can serve as an additional tool for the assessment of countries. It is our hypothesis that the MEC provides an additional approach for the assessment of the scientific performance of nations.
Comparison of research team activity in two biomedical fields The behaviour of the most productive groups in PHARM and CARD followed the general pattern showed by each subfield as a whole (Camí et al. 1997).
The use of deciles of the citation impact to evaluate different fields of research in Israel The average numbers of citations of the most cited ten percent of papers in a given field and country is, no doubt, a useful measure of the impact of the most "visible" segments of research in the field.
Fractal and informetric aspects of hypertext systems The paper closes by mentioning some open problems.
On the possibility and reliability of predictions based on stochastic citation processes In the preceding section we have seen that true predictions of future citation rates are possible, if the reference period is close to the prediction period.
A computer system for big scientometrics at the age of the World Wide Web In this paper, we have proposed a computer system for "Big Scientometrics" at the age of the World Wide Web.
Growth of research literature in scientific specialities, a modelling perspective The application of the modified versions of these models has generally improved the parameter values, fit statistics and the graphical fit to the data. The best improvement, however, seems to be observed in the modified Exponential - Logistic Model which gave the parameter values as expected from the data. The value of R2 have also considerably improved and are quite close to 1. The fluctuations in the growth data were also fully captured by this model.
Online determination of the journal impact factor and its international properties We believe that such properties of a journal associated with its actual JIF provide an enlarged understanding of the meaning of calculating such factors.
How much is a collaboration worth? A calibrated bibliometric model First, we have demonstrated that, in general, the impact of UK papers in any discipline or sector are higher if there is a collaboration of some kind. The highest impact comes from publications involving collaboration with foreign institutions. In the future we hope to investigate the change in impact for the mixed collaboration type.
Assessment of scientific profiles and capabilities of PhD programs in Chile: A scientometric approach The results presented herein show that a clear portray of the performance in science within cognate Ph.D. programs can be inferred using scientometric indicators.
Patterns of behaviour in coauthorship networks of invisible colleges The coauthorship networks in invisible colleges of physics show the same behavioural patterns as the non-scientific populations: Birds of a feather flock together. It should be studied whether similar patterns exist also in other science disciplines, or what kind of deviations might be possibly provable. The behavioural patterns in institutions should also be verified in their three-dimensional form. It is probable that rules to the contrary exist and are valid: Opposites attract.
Modelling and measuring multilateral co-authorship in international scientific collaboration. Part I. Development of a new model using a series expansion approach The introduced model proved appropriate to reflect both the particular collaboration patterns in individual science areas and their change in time. The paper is concluded by a first attempt to estimate the errors involved in our approach. These estimates can be used for the statistical reliability tests in cross-national analyses within selected fields.
Modelling and measuring multilateral co-authorship in international scientific collaboration. Part II. A comparative study on the extent and change of international scientific collaboration links The above analysis could confirm intensifying co-authorship as well as increasing 'multilaterality' as a general trend in scientific research in the period 1983-1993. Remarkable differences between the selected fields, on one hand, and individual countries could be detected. Developing countries and economies in transition are the most concerned by changes in collaboration patterns.
Non-indexed medical journals in the Web: new perspectives in the medical literature It is concluded that the international scientific community is not indifferent for information published in NIMJs.
Statistics on statistics: measuring research productivity by journal publications between 1985 and 1995 The main purpose of this paper was to identify countries and institutions that held a comparative advantage in theoretical and applied statistical research between 1985 and 1995.
Is North American IS research different from European IS research? Results indi-cate that in terms of research methodologies, European MIS dissertations are predominantly non-empirical while North American MIS dissert-ations are predominantly empirical.
The use and value of MSc in information studies information management dissertations at the University of Sheffield This study confirmed previous findings that the dissertation project is of significant benefit to the students, giving them the opportunity to develop a range of skills that many of them found valuable both in gaining and in carrying out their subsequent jobs.
The public reception of the Research Assessment Exercise 1996 The approach taken here contrasts with other treat-ments of the research assessment exercises in the information science literature.
Getting Noticed in Economics: The Determinants of Academic Citations There is support for the ideas that reputation, documented research, self-advertising and a good publishing journal all help to garner citation value. There are obviously numerous improvements that could be made to this paper, but a continuing lack of easily usable data limit most proposals.
Disciplinary Culture, Bibliometrics, and Historical Studies This preliminary study offers insight into how bibliometrics can be used to examine community formation at its most rudimentary level.
The ‘well-stirred reactor’: Evolution of industry-government-university relations in Canada The model should be useful beyond the Canadian case.
Funding university research in the Nordic countries To sum up, in all Nordic countries the relative size of general government grants for R&D has declined from 1981 to 1993. Nevertheless, in fixed prices the appropriations have either increased somewhat or remained stable until around 1991; thereafter they declined in Finland and Sweden. The universities have gradually become more independent of external funding sources.
The Exchange of Knowledge Data on international contact and publication patterns indicate that Norwegian university faculty members are relatively well integrated in the Western European and North American research communities. There are remarkably small differences among fields with regard to various types of international contact but striking differences in degree of international publishing. It will thus be a challenge for the sociology of science to reach a better understanding of the factors that constitute these field differences.
Quantity, Quality, and Depth of Research as Influences on Scientific Eminence: Is Quantity Most Important? The current study provides clear answers to the three questions posed at the beginning of the article: Quantity and impact were moderately positively related; quantity predicted global eminence over and above impact, but impact added no variance in global eminence over and above quantity; and, finally, eminent scientists did not publish more deeply once quantity was controlled.
The Scientific Talents of Nations The most striking conclusion from this paper is that a whole gospel parable can serve as a faceted metaphor - maybe even as a Biblical model for a precisely measurable phenomenon in the social sciences - in the global field of scientific communication.
A family of link based metrics for the evaluation of Web documents We believe that the proper use of link based metrics whose values could be periodically collected by an automatic tool can contribute to a successful management of hyperdocument authoring process and web maintenance.
The correlation between citation counts and the 1992 research assessment exercise ratings for British research in genetics, anatomy and archaeology The results make it clear that citation counting provides a robust and reliable indicator of the research performance of UK academic departments in a variety of disciplines, and the paper argues that for future Research Assessment Exercises, citation counting should be the primary, but not the only, means of calculating Research Assessment Exercise scores.
Optical telescopes – biggest is best? These results clearly show that 'big is best' when looking at cutting-edge research. That is not to say that there is no role for small telescopes, but at a national level we need to build and equip the largest optical/infrared telescopes we can afford.
Academic-industry research relationships in genetics: A field apart The results of our surveys of American life science firms and fac-ulty suggest that AIRRs among genetics firms and faculty differ significantly from AIRRs among life science firms and faculty not conducting research in this field. The management of AIRRs remains a continuing challenge for public and private authorities. Our study of the differences between AIRRs in genetics and other life sciences suggests that approaches to managing these relationships should take into account likely vari-ation in the underlying scientific characteristics of particular fields, and the associated characteristics of their AIRRs.
Informetric analyses on the world wide web: methodological approaches to ‘webometrics’ The previous sections have confirmed that it is possible to use informetric methods on the WWW, i.e. to perform Webometric studies. The case study demonstrates a method which can be used for Webometric analyses.
Key National Factors in the Emergence of Computational Chemistry Firms These results show that the emergence of firms based on new science depends heavily on the strength of universi-ties and public research institutes in the underlying sciences. Third, it shows that the strength of entrepreneurial activity related to these new sciences in a country is strongly conditioned by the strength of its underlying research and research networks. This suggests that national (and European) policies to emulate the US performance in science-based entrepreneurship should give more emphasis to improving the quality of the underlying science, as compared to providing risk capital and science parks and provoking the so-called "cultural" changes.
What is research collaboration? In future, we would argue, a more symmetrical approach should be adopted to assessing the potential costs and benefits. Nevertheless, policies for science which assume, explicitly or implicitly, that more collaboration should be encouraged need to be re-examined.
Standpoint: Citation analysis of the journal of broadcasting &amp; electronic media: Another perspective First, there is a lack of reciprocity of citations between JOBEM authors and other social science fields.
Life in the Knowledge Society "Therefore, it is truly perverse of celebrants of the knowledge society to declare that we are on the threshold of a new conception of knowledge that will have to be evaluated on its own emerging terms."
Use and misuse of metrics in research evaluation "Metrics should be an integral part of a more comprehensive approach to research evaluation, in which the leading role is assumed by expert peer review."
Citation analysis and Northern Ireland: a quality measure? While it is unlikely that citation analysis will ever fulfill the criteria to represent a good and acceptable performance indicator (e.g. Beecher and Kogan, 1992), not the least because of the costs of collection and problems in using incomplete databases, citation analysis remains an important initial indicator of research impact.
An observation on publication habits based on the analysis of MS/OR journals This note presents data on publication habits that are not easy to explain in terms of national characteristics of authors in general and the characteristics of US authors in particular.
Sense and nonsense about the impact factor The impact factor is a valid tool for the quality assessment of scientific journals. The impact factor is not valid for the assessment of the quality of individual papers. The impact factor is not valid for the assessment of the quality of individual scientists.
The Rise and Fall of Uncitedness Nevertheless, large-scale uncitedness was an important discovery signifying a far more loosely coupled, noninteractive scholarly communication system than anyone had suggested. LIS, for ex-ample, has only two salient patterns of influence or interaction between subdis-ciplines; both are unidirectional and es-tablish C&RL's central-most position in the LIS system, as a storer of Library Jour-nal messages (from librarianship) and as a feeder of messages to Library Quarterly (in information science). On a final note, one other unexplored area warrants future research. It involves the issue of uncitedness versus usefulness for practitioner-oriented articles or jour-nals.
Nepotism and sexism in peer-review Our study strongly suggests that peer reviewers cannot judge scientific merit independent of gender. Most important, the credibility of the academic system will be undermined in the eyes of the public if it does not allow a scientific evaluation of its own scientific evaluation system. The development of peer-review systems with some built-in resistance to the weaknesses of human nature is therefore of high priority.
Productivity Profiles of PhD-Granting Geography Departments in the Unites States: 1980–1994 Our study has utility for many users. Perhaps most importantly, faculty and depart-ment administrators may wish to use these data to assess strengths and weaknesses in their programs, to better understand the pro-ductivity profile of their units when compared with their peers, and to better plan for the future. As geographers, it is important to evaluate and critique ourselves periodically (Trimble 1987, 203).
Publishing Strategy and Ssci Citation Impact The foregoing analysis also shows that the SSCI citation impact of both book and article authors in Third World tourism research is, in general, rather disappointing and its distribution quite uneven. The best chances of success are provided by a highly selective approach. A qualitative evaluative assessment implies a judgement by peers as well as final users of scientific knowledge.
Study suggests Swedish peer review biased The data are 'certainly disturbing,' comments Constance W. Atwell, associ- ate director for extramural activities at the U.S.'s National Institute of Neurologi- cal Disorders & Stroke and leader of the group that framed recommendations for changing the proposal review process at the National Institutes of Health. The findings 'make us think about whether our assumptions of fairness and lack of bias are really true,' she adds. But he says the study has made SMRC aware of problems in its evaluation process, and steps are being taken to 'minimize the risk of unfairness.'
ISI's impact factor as misnomer: A proposed new measure to assess journal impact While a journal ranking based on article impact factor would create a list according to absolute quality of the articles published, we believe that a ranking based on journal impact factor more realistically indicates relative contribution to scholarly communication.
The diffusion of scientific journals analyzed through citations The latent variable “diffusion,” defined in terms of citations, is a theoretical conception serving as a support for measurement.
Continuing problems with gray literature* Scientific conferences should be designed to reverse the production and use of gray literature by limiting the scope of the proceedings to invited reviews, with other presentations appearing only as abstracts to encourage their ultimate publication in peer-reviewed journals.
Science and technology mapping: A new iteration model for representing multidimensional relationships Various tests with this iteration model, using different Jaccard matrices and different initial values, have shown a high convergence and that this model leads to better results than the MDS.
The transition from "national" to "transnational" model and related measures of countries' performance We have shown that the transition process towards the transnational model of science, as observed in the SCI, was still taking place during the last decade for some countries/disciplines and has now almost been com-pleted, except for Russia. More specifically, our results show a moderate correla-tion between transfers of publication activity towards SCI (and associated citation flows) and specific transition changes (language, publishers) at the country/discipline level, suggesting that transition is a global and efficient strategy from this point of view. In contrast, we observed the near-independence of evo-lution of impacts and transition markers.
Hotel cosmopolitan: A bibliometric study of collaboration at some European universities The science policy implications of these findings are obvious, since they suggest that the size of universities does not affect the structure of institutional collaboration, that is, the proportions of internal, national, or international collaboration.
Bibliometric indicators of university research performance in Flanders These studies have, in fact, generated an enormous amount of empirical data related to the publication charac- teristics and research performance of scientific institu- tions.
Monitoring scientific developments from a dynamic perspective: Self-organized structuring to map neural network research Our conclusion is that the method in which the subfield structure is derived from the present data, is better suited to our purposes. We think these transformations and comparisons have interesting potentials as devices to identify successful pathways or dead end trajectories, and, in addition, to identify leading actors in the field, pointing to future de-velopments.
Evaluation of the research norms of scientists and administrators responsible for academic research integrity Surveyed scientists and institutional representatives had strong and similar norms of professional behavior, but differed in their approaches to an unethical act.
Alternative to the Science Citation Index impact factor as an assessment of emergency medicine's scientific contributions Contrary to the implications of a low impact factor, an analysis of journal citations in ACLS publications over two decades suggests that emergency medicine has made significant contributions to a broad and important area of scientific inquiry.
Evidence of methodologic bias in the derivation of the Science Citation Index impact factor The apparent failure of emergency medicine journals, as measured by the SCI impact factor, to keep pace with other indicators of academic development of the field is at least in part attributable to a methodologic bias inherent in the derivation of this factor.
Institutional sources of medical school faculty and patterns of personnel flow among medical schools The findings suggest that medical schools can be grouped and characterized by looking at institu-tional-level data on faculty production and employment. Research-oriented medical schools have been the major producers of medical school faculty. Recent emphasis on generalist careers may have the unintended consequence of further diminishing the variety of institutional sources of medical school faculty.
Scholarly communication in developmental dyslexia: Influence of network structure on change in a hybrid problem area Overall, this study provided clear evidence for a pro- cess of evolution-as compared to revolution-in this particular hybrid area, to add to a growing family of studies on the process of change in scientific structures.
New bibliometric techniques for the evaluation of medical schools The main lesson from the first evaluation, of the Imperial College Medical School, was that the researchers were rather suspicious of the bibliometric approach and much time and patience was needed in order to secure their co-operation or at least their acquiescence.
The effect of funding on the outputs of biomedical research The analysis presented here has shown that the number of authors and the number of funding bodies have a substantial influence on the impact of research outputs.
Publication delays in the science field and their relationship to the ageing of scientific literature Publication delays among journals differ widely.
Bibliometric analysis of AIDS literature in Latin America and the Caribbean AIDS literature in Latin America/the Caribbean represents about 1% of the total world production on AIDS. Finally, these preliminary results have been useful to identify further lines of research in the field. These are the following: a) subject distribution of the production and comparison within the Latin American/Caribbean region; b) patterns of communication/information flows used by researchers, including international collaboration; and c) case studies of specific countrires and AIDS related topics. An interesting result of the study was the broad coverage of Caribbean countries.
Linkage between patents and papers: An interim EPO/US comparison The data in this paper are still rather preliminary. They do raise some provocative questions about the functioning of the U.S. and EPO patent systems, and also potentially about the role of science as a source for technological advance in the two patent systems.
Advanced mapping of science and technology The proposed adjustments to bibliometric maps improve their applicability. Moreover, certain aspects enable us to validate the obtained structure of a S&T field. The implementation of a grammatical tool to extract terms from texts, will enable us to stay close to recent developments in science and technology.
Bibliometric law used for information retrieval The goal of this research was to purpose an adequacy of both trends.
An analysis of Bradford multipliers and a model to explain law of scattering This study thus suggests that Bradford's assumption that n₁ = n₂ is unlikely to be correct and log-linear model unlikely to explain the law of scattering. Again based on a small sample of 12 data sets, it has been argued that log-normal model fits much better than the log-linear model. Also, this study indicates that Bradford multipliers vary from zone to zone.
Changes on publishing behavior in response to research policy guidelines. The case of the Spanish Research Council in the field of agronomy An evident conclusion is that scientific production in the field of Agronomy has undergone a remarkable growth since 1990.
Publishing patterns of Mexican scientists: Differences between national and international papers The present results indicate that the papers coauthored with institutions from abroad are more likely to be published in SCI journals than those not involving international coauthorship, even in the case of Mexican scientists with an important production of papers in the mainstream literature involving only national institutions. In spite of the general belief that authors from DCs, are more likely to be the junior partners in joint projects with colleagues abroad, the present study suggests that, at least in the case of this small group of Mexican scientists, first author status is more frequently assigned to them than to their foreign coauthors. The next stage of this project will determine the importance that these scientists attach to their international links and the role that these have played in their career development.
A general framework for creating large-scale maps of science in two or three dimensions: The SciViz system At present SciViz exists as a prototype written in Visual Basic for the PC.
Bibliographic scattering and time: An empirical study through temporal partitioning of bibliographies The analyses have proved beyond doubt that partitioning of bibliographies or merging of disjointed bibliographies do not follow any pattern for resultant bibliograph. They are completely dependent on the states of growth of the subject field over time and inherent characteristics of the subject field itself which is probably manifested solely by the ratio of the items and sources. The paper shows that much needs to be done in this area and partition studies may be a useful technique.
International cooperation of Polish researchers with partners from abroad: A scientometric study The results of the study show the increasing activity of the Polish researchers in international teams, reflected both in the number of co-authorshiped papers and geographical expansion of cooperation, following the political and economic changes in the Eastern Europe.
Measuring impact by a full option method and the notion of bibliometric spectra Although the tendency to publish in journals has certainly increased since 1950–1960, the full option method will make bibliometric analyses scientifically more complete and transparent and hence less controversial than the method currently used.
General performance indexes calculated for research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences based on scientometric indicators The quantitative evaluation process presented here should be completed by a relevant peer review keeping in mind differences in publication and citation habits and possibilities by activity fields and subfields.
Defining subject collections for informetric analyses: The effect of varying the subject aboutness level The first result of the investigation is that the size of one subject collection and various size-related properties change dramatically as successively lower criterion aboutness levels are used. The second result of this investigation is that some collection parameters of interest do not vary as the collection size changes from variation in the criterion aboutness level. Clearly more analysis is needed, and for this type of measure to have further value, it must be generalized over subjects.
The signs of science These feedbacks amount to nothing less than undermining the intellectual and political monopoly of science to judge itself.
The 'language preference' in sociology: Measures of 'language self-citation', 'relative own-language preference indicator', and 'mutual use of languages' To determine the 'relative own-language preference' (ROLP) existing among groups of scholars in a certain field one should relate the proportion of 'language self-citation' of a group of scholars publishing in a certain language, to some estimate of this language share in the existing body of research literature of this field.
Internationalization of scientific journals: A measurement based on publication and citation scope relative measure internationalization of journals proved to be praticable, with a clear characterization of 'domestic-oriented' journals either by publication or citations.
Polish Sociology Citation Index as an example of usage of national citation indexes in scientometric analysis of social sciences SSCI has been found to show the presence and the impact of Polish sociology on the international arena (reflected by publication and citation patterns of the most popular international sociological journals). Although this information is of interest to social sciences policy makers and the sociological community in Poland, it does not allow for an in-depth analysis of the local dimensions of the discipline. Evaluating researchers based on the degree to which their publications are used is undoubtedly one of the more effective quantitative ways to measure their performance. However, for social sciences and humanities, it is necessary to create local citation indexes which reveal a picture of the discipline within a single country, since SSCI and A&HCI can be relied upon only to provide information on the international perception of the field.
Education and employment patterns of US PhD's in the biomedical sciences In the last decade, there has been a substantial increase both in the number of biomedical science graduate students working as research assistants and the number of biomedical science Ph.D.'s awarded by U.S. institutions. Unemployment and measured underemployment for U.S. citizens, however, have been extremely low. Nonetheless, there have been some important changes in employment opportunities for U.S. Ph.D.'s in the biomedical sciences, including growth of jobs in industry while academic positions have remained stable.
Database tomography for technical intelligence: A roadmap of the near-earth space science and technology literature This paper has presented a number of advantages of using DT for deriving technical intelligence from the published literature.
Literature growth and author productivity patterns in Indian physics A systematic trend has been observed in the growth of Indian and World physics literature from 1900 to 1950.
Is the astronomical literature still expanding exponentially? However, there is no sign of a leveling off in the growth of our literature. The number of different authors also increased steadily. Thus, the growth in the American astronomical papers can be explained entirely by the growth in the numbers of astronomers, and the additional growth in pages is due to a doubling in paper lengths since 1960.
Visualizing a discipline: An author co-citation analysis of information science, 1972-1995 ACA shows two broad subdisciplines in information science, each with a certain internal coherence, each with authors who read, write, and are co-cited in both. In our view, most of the authors mapped here are united in working on aspects of literatures as modes of communication.
Use of scholarly book reviews: Implications for electronic publishing and scholarly communication The results of this study suggest sufficient interest among the scholars surveyed to justify pursuit of further research involving a larger and broader sample of respon-dents. The book review in electronic format is a reality, and in some ways it may allow the dissemination of information on more new books more quickly. However, the major component of the book review process is still the human process of writing the review itself.
Citation indicators of Japanese journals It can conclude that the Japanese journals do not compare favorably internationally except for International Immunology in terms of citation indicators.
Cumulative advantage and success-breeds-success: The value of time pattern analysis This article has shown that the method of time pattern of publication for individual authors can be used to discriminate between Cumulative Advantage and non-uniform giftedness models. Furthermore, each component distribution can be tested independently and directly, without needing to include assumptions about the other component distributions. As shown in this article, the component distributions can be, and should be, examined independently, thereby deriving their shapes directly from the time pattern of production.
Non-indexed indirect-collective citedness (NIICC) The findings of this first fact-finding examination of the NIICC phenomenon indicate the frequency and great importance of the phenomenon in the representative, elite, physics journal literature and refute the representativity of the Citation Indexes in the field of citedness in the scientific journal literature during the science history pe-riod of early Big Science. If this research in progress establishes the significant frequency of the NIICC phenomenon also in the decades of our present Big Science, it will become necessary to amend, limit and reduce the now commonly accepted mean-ing, value, and validity of the quantified bibliographic data of the Citation Indexes and of “citation analysis,” of sci-ento- and other “metrics” studies based on them.
A multivariate analysis of publication trends in the 1980s with special reference to south-east Asia The present study nevertheless clearly shows that neither disciplines nor countries advance at an even pace; there are cutting edge-disciplines and emerging nations. In the 1980's, the emerging South East Asian countries reinforced their expertise in chemistry, engineering and physics, integrated new disciplines (e.g. materials sciences, computer sciences), and began to be concerned by environment and health care, but they did not yet acquire the balanced publication patterns that characterize the most advanced countries. There is, without doubt, an overall shift toward an American-style pattern that may be a true reflection of research interests worldwide but that may also be explained by the hegemony of those who hold the reins of international publication.
Authorship patterns in theory based versus research based journals The results contradict previous studies. This inquiry did not find substantial increases in either co- or multiple authorships. In conclusion, we need to reexamine the literature in light of these and other findings.20
Human resources and scientific productivity in Brazil The data presented indicate that even in a period of economic crisis, a selective investment of funds in human resources led to an increase of the scientific productivity of the country. A continuation of the Brazilian policy of investing in qualified human resources, may prove an effective maneuver for scientific and economical development.
Citation ranking versus expert judgment in evaluating communication scholars: Effects of research specialty size and individual prominence To conclude, there is evidence that citation data can be applied to the evaluation of universities, journals, research publications and also individual scholars. The validity of the citation method is once again demonstrated. As citation results correlate highly with expert review results, we are more comfortable in the use of citation data as an alternative and even a substitute for peer review exercise. At present we should at least feel more confident about the validity of the citation method, especially when we are evaluating more prominent scholars in the context of smaller research specialty areas.
Impact of SERC's funding on research in chemical sciences A clear thrust due to SERC funding is seen in the activity index of research output in "Biochemical Methods", "Surface Chemistry and Colloids", "Essential Oils & Cosmetics", "Organometallic and Organometalloidal Compounds" and "Catalysis Reaction Kinetics" and "Inorganic Reaction Mechanisms". The growth model for Indian and world output in "Organometallic and Organometalloidal Compounds" indicates that the growth structure of research in India compares well with the international trend. SERC project investigators account for 36% of India's contribution in the journals with impact factor ≥2.
Research and research impact of a technical university - A bibliometric study The methods can be used to analyze institutional and national research efforts and to monitor effects of changing policies.
Neural networks research in context: A longitudinal journal cocitation analysis of an emerging interdisciplinary field Overall, the structure of neural networks research as seen through cocitation analysis is a reasonable reflection of the status of the field as it has been described in narrative histories and previous bibliometric research. The connections between neural networks research and related or foundational work in the older, established disciplines from which it arose have changed over time as the field matured and changed. While some relationships have weakened (e.g. the movement of physical and natural sciences journals away from the main body of neural networks journals), there is still a high level of integration as evidenced by the number of journals that appear to be boundary spanners in terms of cocitation pattern similarity.
Intensity breeds effectivity A strikingly high parallelism can be observed between the intensity and effectivity values (r = 0.93; p < 0.001) - (third question). We cannot interpret this high correspondence between quantity (intensity) and quality (effectivity) comprehensively. Our calculation from the data of Davis and Royle2 reveal the corresponding quantity-quality relation between the publications per research staff ratio of 20 Australian universities (intensity) and the mean impact factor of the journals containing their publications (effectivity); (r = 0.65, significant at p = 0.002).
Scholarly communication and electronic journals: An impact study This research provides citation data concerning the impact of ejournals on the conduct of research and scholarship, and concludes that thus far they have made very little impact.
Citation context versus the frequency counts of citation histories The most important outcome of this research is that no congruency was found between, on the one hand, a purely numerical citation analysis, taking the citation events at their face value, and, on the other hand, context analysis based on the citing taxonomy (high/low intensity levels) and citing location (within the citing papers), in a discursive relation of the citing to the cited text (Leydesdorff & Amsterdamska, 1990).
The profile of the Chemical Engineering Journal and Biochemical Engineering Journal as reflected in its publications, references and citations, 1983-1996 The bibliometric profile of CEJ (volumes 27-62) shows the typical features of engineering journals: a low degree of international coauthorship, long reference half-life, moderate citation rate.
Scientific periodicals in Latin America and the Caribbean: A global perspective The picture derived from this global analysis of the journals pro-duced in LA&C is that of a very heter-ogenous universe, beset with the tradi-tional problems of instability, lack of vis-ibility, insufficient material of good qual-ity, precarious resources and limited read-ership.
Bibliometric analysis of the impact of Internet use on scholarly productivity Our results were from a sample of natural scientists at a major research university, and it is difficult to know how well they might generalize to other groups.
Distributions of distances in information strings The preliminary analysis of distances in information strings gave some interesting results.
Scientific publications of China in 1994: Evolution or revolution? A decade after the drastic measures taken by the Chinese government to reorient its national system of research towards applications and in spite of an authoritarianism which speaks for itself, the profile of Chinese publications drawn from the SCI data base does not depart from those of other (developed) countries.
Four aspects of the institutionalization of physics research in India (1900-1950): Substantiating the claims of historical sociology through bibliometrics The first three decades constitute a major landmark in the institutionalization of physics research in India, wherein eventful researches of front running physicists was symptomatic of a much broader process. The appearance of Indian journals and the practice initiated by the leaders of Indian physics to publish in Indian journals promoted the development of physics research in India.
The global science base of information and communication technologies: Bibliometric analysis of ICT research papers One of the main findings of this exploratory study is the dominant position of domestic science and engineering bases in research co-operation.
The transition from an individual science to a collective one: The case of astronomy Beyond the mere quantitative aspects, the above results express, to our understanding, deep changes in the way research in Astronomy (and, perhaps, in all natural sciences) is carried out. Yet, the growing complexity of science is a permanent feature (unless civilization were obliterated and the clock of scientific discoveries had to be reset) suggesting that collective science really represents a turning point in the development of the scientific enterprise, as important as the scientific revolution of the seventeenth century.
Research evaluation in plant science: the different connotations of journal impact factor in traditional and emerging disciplines The results of this study underline the need to consider cita-tion patterns in each discipline when a research evaluation is done in the context of a multi-disciplinary field. Once more it is important to point out the importance of using multiple indicators of scientific output, together with expert criteria, as a way to provide a more bal-anced evaluation of research (Martin, 1996).
Information processing using citations to investigate journal influence in accounting First, in the accounting literature the mode, median, and mean number of years of citations are found to be 3, 7, and 9 years, respectively. Also, the generalized gamma distribution is shown to be the best fit.
The genesis of modern science: Contributions of scientific societies and scientific journals The natural philosophers of the 17th century made an incalculable contribu- tion to the genesis of modern science. Communication among scientists through professional societies and scientific jour- nals remains an essential element in sci- entific progress. We salute the natural philosophers who established such an effective system for scientific communi- cation. It is our hope that should some future scholars reflect on current scien- tific societies such as the Radiological Society of North America and scientific journals such as Radiology, they will con- clude that we have made a contribution by honoring and refining the standards set in the 17th century.
The National Research Council graduate program ratings: What are they measuring?
The first century of The Scandinavian Journal of Economics I do not share that view. Of course, any technological change will affect market structure the number of firms, the size distribution of firms, and the welfare of the consumers but I think this particular change will not have substantially greater impact than other technological advances in the history of journal publishing.
Nanotechnology - Interdisciplinarity, patterns of collaboration and differences in application Our bibliometric study has raised a number of questions. We could show that the share of boundary-spanning, interdisciplinary and interfield publications is exceptionally high and still growing. The answer to those questions, however, won't be entirely a bibliometric one.
On the overlap, the precision and estimated recall of search engines, a case study of the query "Erdos" The main finding is that there is no one "best search engine", at least when one is interested in high recall. A search engine may be better than another in terms of its user interface or search capabilities, but no search engine even comes close to covering the whole Web (at least for the queries "Erdos" and "bibliometrics AND growth"). To conclude, we believe that more such extensive and thoroughly analyzed searches and retrievals should be carried out in order to learn more about the true nature of the Web and its capabilities.
Research fronts in library and information science in Spain (1985-1994) Our results show that during the period from 1985 to 1994, three research fronts existed in Spanish LIS.
Looking at science in Brazilian universities: The case of the Instituto de Biofisica Carlos Chagas Filho The results reported herein show that the ISI-Brazil database can be used as a valuable complementary source of information to develop performance indicators. Such indicators can be used as a point of reference for mapping scientific and doctoral-level educational capabilities in Brazil, and to follow up the performance inside universities of biological/biomedical basic science research institutes like the IBCCF. The follow up of performance indicators trends presented can be useful as an additional data set to support policies' evaluation by peer review process, and particularly the evaluation of long term policies directed to implement human resources programs and institutional collaborative work in the Brazilian scientific institutions.
A new literature growth model: Variable exponential growth law of literature Our research shows that the new model is more convincing than the former ones.
The thirteen most cited journals in economics We have demonstrated how the impact of economic journals may be estimated as the result of weighted citations, the weights being the values of various journals discoverd in this process.
The scientific investments of nations What conclusions can we draw? First, total investment in R&D is on a rising trend. Second, public investment in R&D is at best holding level relative to GDP (despite rhetoric about its importance), as governments worldwide struggle to keep public expenditure under control. Third, in countries with relatively high investment in defense R&D, public funding has fallen steeply; the peace dividend seems to have gone into the general coffers, not into increasing civilian R&D. Fourth, worldwide nongovernment sources (principally businesses but also charities) are accounting for a higher proportion of total R&D investment, not just in applied activity but also in basic research. Fifth, as governments seek to control their own investment in R&D, they will continue to look to the private sector for growth.
Authorship - The coin of the realm, the source of complaints Authorship disputes are increasingly frequent.
What are the factors determining authorship and the order of the authors' names? -: A study among authors of the Nederlands Tijdschrift voor Geneeskunde (Dutch Journal of Medicine) Authorship was mostly in accordance with ICMJE criteria although many authors were not familiar with them.
Multiple authorship - The contribution of senior authors Over the last 20 years the number of BMJ authors of original articles increased, mainly because of the rise of authorship among professors and department chairpersons.
Prevalence of articles with honorary authors and ghost authors in peer-reviewed medical journals A substantial proportion of articles in peer-reviewed medical journals demonstrate evidence of honorary authors or ghost authors.
Changes to manuscripts during the editorial process - Characterizing the evolution of a clinical paper The proposed framework may be useful for characterizing quan-titatively the effects of peer review and for comparing those effects across editors, journals, and specialties.
Reliability of editors' subjective quality ratings of peer reviews of manuscripts "Subjective editor ratings of individual reviewers were moderately reliable and correlated with reviewer ability to report manuscript flaws." "Individual reviewer rate of recommendation for acceptance and decision congruence might be thought to be markers of a discriminating (ie, high-quality) reviewer, but these variables were poorly correlated with editors' ratings of review quality or the reviewer's ability to detect flaws in a fictitious manuscript." "Therefore, they cannot be substituted for actual quality ratings by editors."
What makes a good reviewer and a good review for a general medical journal? Conclusions.—The characteristics of reviewers we studied did not identify those who performed high-quality reviews.
Effect of blinding and unmasking on the quality of peer review - A randomized trial Blinding and unmasking made no editorially significant difference to review quality, reviewers' recommendations, or time taken to review. Other considerations should guide decisions as to the form of peer review adopted by a journal, and improvements in the quality of peer review should be sought via other means.
Effect on the quality of peer review of blinding reviewers and asking them to sign their reports - A randomized controlled trial Neither blinding reviewers to the authors and origin of the paper nor requiring them to sign their reports had any effect on rate of detection of errors. Such measures are unlikely to improve the quality of peer review reports.
Does masking author identity improve peer review quality? - A randomized controlled trial Masking reviewers to author identity as commonly practiced does not improve quality of reviews. Since manuscripts of well-known authors are more difficult to mask, and those manuscripts may be more likely to benefit from masking, the inability to mask reviewers to the identity of well-known authors may have contributed to the lack of effect. Techniques to improve masking success are needed to determine whether masking the identity of renowned authors improves review quality or fairness.
Masking author identity in peer review - What factors influence masking success? Masking success appears unrelated to a journal policy of masking, but is associated with reviewers' research experience and could be affected by other characteristics.
US and non-US submissions - An analysis of reviewer bias Reviewers from the United States and outside the United States evaluate non-US papers similarly and evaluate papers submitted by US authors more favorably, with US reviewers having a significant preference for US papers.
Perceived value of providing peer reviewers with abstracts and preprints of related published and unpublished papers The majority of respondents indicated that supplemental materi- als helped (or would have helped) them evaluate manuscripts and valued them more highly when they actually received them.
The reported training and experience of editors in chief of specialist clinical medical journals Clinical journals are usually edited by practicing clinicians who are self-taught part-time editors, but willing to accept further training.
Phenomena of retraction - Reasons for retraction and citations to the publications Retracted articles continue to be cited as valid work in the biomedical literature after publication of the retraction; these citations signal potential problems for biomedical science.
Latin American biomedical publications: the case of Colombia in Medline These results indicate the need for Colombia to develop a research strategy directed at the leading threats to health, such as accidents and violence, as well as the social and political context of health.
Simon's generating mechanism: Consequences and their correspondence to empirical facts The results obtained by considering hypothetically the Bradford distribution as a realization of the Simon gener-ating process in (a) the sequence of equal time intervals, and (b) during the successive prolongation of the obser-vation period, may be summarized in the following: ... The limited applicability of the model is not a conse-quence of the conceptual weakness, but rather the con-sequence of the incapability of the proposed distribu-tion function to cope with the variations produced in the course of time.
Standardizing relative impacts: Estimating the quality of research from citation counts The standard method for determining bibliometric scores, seems to be the least reliable one, when compared with available alternative methods for bibliometric analyses. This method could lead to conclusions about the quality of local research efforts, since due attention is given to both the structural and publication-dependent parts, contributing to impact in accordance with expectations, Equations 3 and 5, in particular. Different approaches to bibliometric analyses should be explored urgently to remedy this very unfortunate situation, as R&D-managers and -policy-makers are relying more and more upon bibliometric scores to check for the scientific reliability of research units (scientists).
Using scientific evidence to improve hospital library services: Southern Chapter Medical Library Association journal usage study Although the small sample size precluded definitive results, the study's findings constituted a baseline of data that can be compared against future studies. The unanticipated lack of commonality among the frequently used titles in these hospital libraries indicated a strong need to maintain unique journal collections. Ultimately, the health sciences library professional will have the tools at both the aggregate and the institutional level to make collection decisions based on scientific evidence.
Grade inflation in the UK's 1996 Research Assessment Exercise? Our conclusions are that UK business schools have increased their share of publications in the most prestigious business and management journals by about 20%, albeit from a relatively low starting position of less than one article per 100.
Gastroenterology research in the United Kingdom: funding sources and impact UK gastroenterological research outputs from 1988-94 have increased in absolute numbers but have declined slightly as a percentage of all UK biomedical output.
Bridging the gap: The use of pathfinder networks in visual navigation The virtual reality-based user interface described in this paper offers an intuitive and effective means of navigating in a complex information structure.
The impact of Internet-based electronic resources on formal scholarly communication in the area of library and information science: a citation analysis This study shows that the impact of e-sources on formal scholarly communication in LIS is much smaller than that of print sources, as measured by e-sources cited in journal articles published during 1994–1996.
The Medical Journal of Australia Internet peer-review study Open peer review is acceptable to most authors and reviewers.
Contribution of medical student research to the Medline™ indexed publications of a German medical faculty Medical student research activity can significantly influence the published output of a medical faculty.
Peer review and editorial decision-making Assessors and editors tend to agree on what is clearly not acceptable for publication but there is less agreement on what is suitable. Constructive proposals for improvement can contribute to the debate arising from the findings presented here.
Measuring S&T activities in the former socialist economies of central and eastern Europe:: Conceptual and methodological issues in linking past with present Our conclusions are that: i) the process of methodological harmonisation of S&T indicators has progressed considerably and we have provided some evidence in that respect; ii) the use of similar or identical indicators (business R&D, innovation counts, patents, citations) when making inter-country or inter-temporal comparisons, should be approached with caution because of the significant differences between the socialist and post-socialist periods and the post-socialist R&D systems and R&D in other market economies.
Relationship between growth in gross domestic product (GDP) and growth in the chemical engineering literature in five different countries In all cases, a positive linear correlation with a confidence level greater than 99% was obtained, indicating a strong positive dependence of GDP upon publication volume in this area. Also, a general relationship, normalized to the latest 1996 values for these two variables for each individual country, was developed, and a strong positive correlation (confidence level in excess of 99%) was again demonstrated for the entire community of five nations. ...and presumably would be valid for most other countries also.
Measuring knowledge flows between countries: The use of scientific meeting data The above analysis leads to three broad conclusions. First, most of biliometric findings hold for proceedings, and do not add very much to what is known. However, and this is our second conclusion, there is new information brought by the indicator: second place in meetings and proceedings changes for other countries.
Applicability of selected probability distributions to the number of authors per article in theoretical population genetics In the case of fields where the single author dominates the results of Rousseau were corroborated: the truncated Poisson and the geometric distribution give often adequate fits to describe the number of authors.
Growth and obsolescence of literature in theoretical population genetics On the basis of this we can now say that there may not be any relation between growth and obsolescence. Therefore, one may not believe that “higher the growth of literature, higher the obsolescence of literature”. We can, therefore, conclude that there may not be any relationship between growth of literature and half-life of literature.
Collaboration in theoretical population genetics speciality Concludes that the authors who are more productive are generally found to be more collaborative and funded.
Hierarchical author networks: An analysis of European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) publications The above study has illustrated how it is possible to create hierarchical author networks that provide a detailed picture of all relationships among authors within an institution, i.e. without using a cut-off level, and how it is possible to interpret these networks by using complementary statistical methods such as correspondence analysis that relate authors to research topics.
The influence of international collaboration on the impact of research results - Some simple mathematical considerations concerning the role of self-citations The central point is of course that proper impact measurement must involve corrections for self-citations. As this case concerns a nation-wide and coherent activity in an important, highly internationally oriented discipline, on a high level of scientific quality, we think that our findings are a significant prove of 'impact-strengthening' by international collaboration.
Equating research production in different scientific fields The conception of diffusion as a latent variable and the application of Quantum Measurement as a measurement technique based on Rasch probability have allowed us to establish an equivalence, for a given measure of diffusion, between the citations generated by works belonging to different fields, allowing an equivalence to be set up between the areas of research.
The underlying process generating Lotka's Law and the statistics of exceedances This proposal is confirmed here where random samples of inventors exhibited exponential distributions for Frequency and Lifetime. Using the Mellin transform, the general product of two exponential distributions is derived. By empirical, phenomenological and mathematical arguments, a 1/v weighting is proposed. The resultant mixing distribution, applied to Poisson mixtures, produces Lotka's Law for a wide range of distribution parameters.
Who reviews the reviewers? Feasibility of using a fictitious manuscript to evaluate peer reviewer performance These data suggest that the use of a preconceived manuscript into which purposeful errors are placed may be a viable approach to evaluate reviewer performance.
Effect of attendance at a training session on peer reviewer quality and performance In a self-selected group of experienced reviewers who attended a 4-hour workshop on peer review, no effect could be identified in subsequent performance as measured by editors' quality ratings or reviewer performance statistics.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1993-1997) This study is one in an ongoing series whose goal is to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE.
Science policies as principal-agent games - Institutionalization and path dependency in the relation between government and science The empirical detour is just to give some feeling of the value of the analytical framework developed in this paper.
The public interest As far as I can gather, there is no evidence that the naming of individuals as authors in collaborative trials is in the public interest. Indeed, the practice may jeopardise these studies by eroding the sense of collective responsibility and credit upon which their success commonly depends. Alternative ways of describing, registering, and assessing contributions to collaborative research should be investigated, such as those described by Duley¹ and by Rennie and colleagues.²
Theories of citation? I have argued that the quest for a grand theory of citation implies a meta-theoretical question, since citation analysis is itself based on a theoretical reflection of scientific practices that have been shaped historically.
The use and misuse of citation analysis in research evaluation - Comments on theories of citation? The quantitative results serve as the 'red flags' or warning lights that a problem may exist; they are the modern day equivalents of the 'canary in the mine' approach to volatile gas detection.
Mathematical theories of citation - Comments on theories of citation? Hence convolutions constitute an important tool in the elaboration of a theory of citation.
Citation analysis as a theory of friction or polluted air? Comments on theories of citation? Hence, my criticism on Leydesdorff's theory10 is not that it should be wrong, but that it mixes basic ingredients (ethics and shorthand) with external complicating factors. Metaphorically speaking it is 'a theory of polluted air': interesting, useful and difficult but not the crux of the matter. we would like to express the hope that Leydesdorff's ideas - with some modifications – will amount to a real step forward.
Random thoughts on citationology. Its theory and practice - Comments on theories of citation? If there is a theory and practice of citation, it should probably be called citationology.
The citation system: Citation networks as repeatedly focusing on difference, continuous re-evaluation, and as persistent knowledge accumulation - Comments on theories of citation? In this paper, I have shown one possible theory of citation; that is, linking the heterogeneous usage of citation in social context and the common usage of statistical citation indexes. The citation, used as a compass, contributing to knowledge accumulation, can be used as a performance measure, legitimating common uses of citation indexing. This can provide a theory to fill a wide gap between science dynamics and measurement, that is, highly desirable in the context of linking qualitative and quantitative approaches in STS.
Productivity of research groups - Relation between citation analysis and reputation within research communities - Comments on theories of citation? This result suggests that widely used quantitative measures of the productivity do not give meaningful measure for the actual contribution of a research group to science.
Citation - Networks, science landscapes and evolutionary strategies - Comments on theories of citation? Virtually constructed science landscapes make hidden or distributed information visible and facilitate the orientation and navigation in the existent knowledge landscape.
Comparative investigation of frequency and strength of motives toward referencing, the reference threshold model - Comments on theories of citation? From the Reference Threshold Model it can be concluded that citations and indicators derived by them are valid measures on most of fields of natural sciences for determining information links and assessing publication performance.
In matters of quantitative studies of science the fault of theorists is offering too little and asking too much - Comments on theories of citation? These results offered little evidence for the rethoric/ceremonial view on citation practices. They also refuted both the Matthew effect as well as the Ortega hypothesis.
The structure of medical informatics journal literature The authors saw indications of a core literature and of several major research fronts. The field appears to be viewed differently by authors writing in journals indexed by SCI from those writing in journals indexed by SSCI, with more emphasis placed on computers and engineering versus decision making by the former and more emphasis on theory versus application (clinical practice) by the latter.
The present state of medical journals I have given slanted opinions about journal quality and have added to three established indices of journal quality seven new and untested ones.
E-print archives: a new communication pattern for grey literature Although the advent of e-print archives prob-ably marks the end of the phase in which much GL was hard to identify and obtain, they nonetheless have an information circuit of their own, which continues to elude the control of normal commercial channels.
Scholarly use of Internet-based electronic resources The results of this study showed a notable increase in the number and proportion of articles with e-source citations, suggesting a wider use and recognition of e-sources in the scholarly community, even though at present e-sources are cited much less frequently than print sources. The citation data and the details about how e-sources are used during the research process, along with the quantitative indicator of use (frequency of use) of various Internet tools and resources, suggest that e-sources are becoming an important component in research and are serving a wide range of purposes and functions. This study indicates that citation data alone are not sufficient to investigate the scholarly use of e-sources, especially because they cannot reveal the process of use.
Scientific communication and scientific work: a survey of four disciplines This research strategy will provide substantial information on how workers and work groups that are steeped in the information sector are using this new technology. The results will also add to our understanding of the more general question of the relation between social structure and technology. Finally, the results will be useful to policymakers who are interested in science policy, particularly for dealing with questions of further investment in the communication infrastructure for science.
Location and indexing of articles written by pediatric physicians The MEDLINE database was found to contain the largest number of the biomedical journal citations to articles written by podiatric physicians selected for survey in this study. For this reason, MEDLINE should be the first indexing source used when one is searching for citations to podiatric medical literature. Both the Podiatry Index and Embase are also very good sources for obtaining citations to podiatric medical literature and should be used when a MEDLINE search yields few or no articles or when an exhaustive search must be done.
Patent citation analysis of Allergan pharmaceutical patents Co-citation analysis reveals that Allergan has three core technological competencies in pharmaceuticals: compounds with retinoid-like activity; ocular hypotensive agents; furanones as anti-inflammatory agents
Software engineering as seen through its research literature: A study in co-word analysis First, the field is rapidly evolving, as is demonstrated by the changing descriptors in networks and by the changing centrality/density scores. This study demonstrates the feasibility of co-word analysis as a viable approach for extracting patterns from, and identifying trends, in large corpora where the texts collected are from the same subdomain and divided into roughly equivalent quantities for different time periods. Hence, this examination, of software engineering's emergence, points the way for further research into the evolution of software engineering and computing, as well as well-restricted subdomains in other technical fields.
Global cooperation in research To summarise the changes which have taken place over the past decade, without doubt there has been a very substantial increase in global cooperation in science and technology.
Clinical research - Perceptions, reality, and proposed solutions The panel's final recommendations to NIH included maintaining at least the present proportion of NIH funding for clinical research; continuing mentored opportunities in clinical research for medical students; promoting clinical research training by offering didactic courses and grant opportunities in clinical research to nascent investigators emerging from specialty training programs and providing partial salary support for mentors; restructuring study sections that review patient-oriented research applications to include more physicians; encouraging clinical investigators and basic scientists to work closely together and weld collaborations between academic clinical investigators and colleagues in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies; and developing a joint policy between academic health centers and NIH for the support of clinical research and clinical research training.
Applications for bibliometric research in the emerging digital libraries This study suggests opportunities for conducting bibliometric research on the evolving digital libraries. These repositories are suitable platforms for conventional bibliometric techniques (such as obsolescence studies, quantification of physical characteristics of documents comprising a subject literature, time analysis, etc.).
Brazilian sciences and government funding at the State of Sao Paulo The Brazilian scenario is one of increasing production under an international pattern.
Bibliometric study on vaccines (1990-1995) part I: Scientific production in Iberian-American countries The countries with a larger scientific production in the domain of vaccines are Spain (302 articles) and Brazil (189 articles). In the research for new vaccines, scientists from Iberian-American countries have more cooperation with foreign researchers than they do with nationals. PRA was the type of institution that had the most dynamic activity in research on vaccines (37.6%), followed very closely by the universities (35.8%).
The effects of changes in the funding structure of the Flemish universities on their research capacity, productivity and impact during the 1980's and early 1990's Our findings point towards the problem that if these trends continue to develop, a situation may emerge in which the basis normally provided by the university itself has become too small for externally funded research activities.
Science ethics: A study of eminent scientists' professional values At the empirical level, the results of this research offer an insight into the hierarchy, structure and contextual differentiation of the professional values of eminent Croatian scientists.
The use of multiple databases in the assessment of research. An application in the field of plant science According to the results of this study and the above mentioned comments, we point out the usefulness of collecting and combining data from ICYT and SCI databases in order to obtain a more realistic representation of scientific output in both, botanical and non-botanical disciplines, as well as for the whole field.
Multiple authorship revisited: How much is enough? As emergency medicine matures and academic respectability becomes more important for advancement and longevity, the trends shown in Table 1 give cause for only cautious optimism.
Library journal use and citation half-life in medical science This study explores the nature of the citation half-life and use half-life and the difference between the mean of them.
Invoked on the web The Web is both a publishing and a conversational medium. It engenders new modes of scholarly interaction and signaling.
Citation and impact of the Journal of Child Neurology JCN has been a great success story over its first 12 years. This reflects several factors. The timing was right—JCN first appeared when there was a relative void in pediatric neuroscience journals in North America.
Electronic journals: a study of usage and attitudes among academics The results of the survey would seem to suggest that, although they are not using electronic journals in large numbers yet, academics are aware that material is avail- able in this new medium and are not dismissive of the possibility of this type of publishing. There is indeed potential for electronic journals to become an important part of the academic publishing scene. Based on the results of this survey, one has to conclude that there is a future for electronic publica- tion, if only because academics appear willing to give it a chance.
Patterns of self-citation across disciplines (1980-1989) The study hypothesis that the exposure given to self-citations does not differ significantly from that given to citations to others is well supported by the data. Over all, it appears that a lack of substantive differences in self-citation behavior is consistent across disciplines. However, since no differences in the amount of exposure given to self-citation and citations to others was found, it seems that other reasons, such as the greater number of co-authors or the more incremental nature of research in the physical sciences, are more plausible.
The evolution of core collections can be described via Banach space valued stochastic processes Criteria for the convergence of these processes are given, leading to a stable limit set of core items, for t (time) high. THEOREM. Let the process (Xt, Ft, P) describe the evolution of the set of core items as defined by formula (9). This function determines uniquely a stable limit set which is the limiting set of core items.
An overview of rheumatological research in the European Union Bibliometric findings are useful to follow research trends.
Determinants of research productivity Among the eleven factors which are identified to have influence on the research productivity, there is a dominance of personal factors over the organizational factors. Seven out of the eleven factors belonged to the personal group. While the rest four factors belonged to the organizational group. Nevertheless, each of the eleven factors, holds its own importance for research productivity of scientists.
Indicators of 'innovation as a process' Moreover, data from a set of companies around Delhi, indicate the justifiable use of these indicators for the above purposes.
Mapping a research area at the micro level using co-word analysis This paper uses the method of co-word analysis to understand the structure and dynamics of CMP based on words extracted from titles occurring in concurrent set of journals in 1990 and 1995. This analysis opens up new possibility to uncover important research areas. These plausible research areas can be interpreted as the frontier research areas as they are derived from high ranking words, as explained above.
Organizational environment and performance of research groups - A typological analysis In this paper, we have proposed a synthetic representation of research units in terms of major dimensions characterizing their organizational environment, linkages with the outside world and access to resources and facilities.
Comparative study of physics research in India and China based on INSPEC-Physics for 1990 and 1995 Comparing physics research in China with India it is found that the former leads the latter in terms of publication count. It maintained this leading position both in 1990 and 1995. Given the rate at which China is staging progress and improving its performance in physics research by way of publication size and publication quality, the possibilities are that it (China) may emerge as a stronger nation in physics research as compared to India in the near future.
Scientometric study of laser patent literature An analysis of the patents filed and scientific papers published and abstracted in the Journal of Current Laser Abstracts (JCLA) for the period 1967-95 indicates that innovative activity in laser science and technology was at its peak in the early 70s.
Collaboration patterns in theoretical population genetics The results are consistent with the analyses of bibliographies where the co-authorship networks in invisible colleges probably have shown the same behavioural patterns as the non-scientific populations.
Medical research in New South Wales 1993-1996 assessed by Medline publication capture "The universities and teaching hospitals account for most of the medical publications arising from NSW, and also those appearing in Australian journals."
Is there gender bias in research fellowships awarded by the NHMRC? Lack of data about the numbers of eligible men and women means that we cannot draw conclusions about self-selection biases among potential applicants. However, the selection procedures of the Committee appear to be unbiased. The gender of applicants does not influence the outcome of their application. Further debate and resources to support such a study are recommended, as is research to examine any differential success rates in project or program grant applications to the NHMRC by male and female investigators.
The role of funding agencies in the cognitive development of science The concluding remarks can be brief. It has been my intention to discuss some of the general features and dynamics which may influence politics and policy-making in funding agencies as a major intervening variable for the cognitive development of science. Taking into account the structure and dynamics of funding decisions developed here, further research might more concretely and extensively describe the funding process and give a more detailed account of both the problem of inefficiency produced by of various forms of cronyism, and the transformation of external interests into the cognitive development of science by funding institutions.
Lotka's law and institutional productivity The study indicates that non of the three distributions are applicable for institutional productivity in engineering sciences. However, Lotka's law holds good for full as well as truncated set of data for the patents filed by industrial firms. One of the possible reasons for non validity of these distributions for productivity by institutions for engineering sciences is the large number (72%) of single producers.
How did university departments interweave the Web: A study of connectivity and underlying factors Various patterns in hypertext references and hypertext citations indicate underlying relationships between the use of the WWW and some characteristics reflected in the profile of an organisation. That is the old university department, which received more research funding and smaller proportions of teaching funding, good RAE ratings and SHEFC teaching assessment ranks, is more likely to have a balanced and well-developed website than a new university department, which can be characterised towards the other end of the scale for almost all the organisational environment variables (especially with larger SSRs and less research funds from SHEFC). In the future, it would be an interesting topic to repeat the ranking periodically and monitor systematic changes in the patterns of connectivity.
Making progress: Does clinical research lead to breakthroughs in basic biomedical sciences? "It follows that neither the policy makers making research funding allocations, nor the biomedical scientist planning his or her own investigations, should draw a line in a doctrinaire manner between applied (clinical) and basic work."
Knowledge mining with VxInsight: Discovery through interaction VxInsight is a powerful and flexible tool for interacting with large collections of abstract information.
Comparative analysis of a set of bibliometric indicators and central peer review criteria Positive and significant but no perfect correla- tions are found between a number of bibliometric indicators and peer judgements of research pro- grammes in condensed matter physics in the Nether- lands.
Region-based citation bias in science It is difficult to pinpoint the causes of the bias highlighted by our analysis. In other words, awareness of the citation game can influence the choice of citations.
Why some papers have long citation lifetimes We find that both the length of the paper and the speed of growth of the field are crucial in determining the duration and number of citations it receives. But on average, papers that are long and in sciences or subfields that are growing the fastest will be cited most often over the longest period.
Ranking University Libraries: The Taiwan Case The present study develops a set of criteria for ranking university libraries.
A new classification system to describe the ageing of scientific journals and their impact factors We conclude that our corrected citation half life (CCHL) is a much more valid indicator of the rapidity of decline than ISI’s cited half life printed in the JCR. Our journal impact factors and the JCR impact factor measure different aspects of journal impact. Hence, we suggest to calculate and apply both short term, longer term and normalised impact statistics, rather than relying on just one. The classification of journals into ageing classes is useful as it reveals the orientation of the journal in terms of rapidity of maturing and decline.
Webometry: measuring the synergy of the world-wide web We have described a complete, step-by-step procedure for the measurement of the connectiv- ity of a subweb of the WWW. We hope in future to apply these methods to societies of nations, such as the Council of Europe, the United Nations, and so on. As a kind of weather map for the climate of international health, a distant early warning system for outbreaks of interna- tional paranoia and other disorders might be cre- ated.
The role of publication type in the evaluation of LIS programs "It is suggested that faculty publication types should be differentiated in program evaluations, that book production by faculty is important to such evaluations, and that the role of humanities-oriented LIS faculty may be misread or lost without attention to book production."
Should authors pay publishers? The desperation of the new paradigm Page charges are probably not the solution to improved dissemination.
Bugs in the NRC's Doctoral Program Evaluation Data: From Mites to Hissing Cockroaches We do, however, see the reputational evaluations of program quality as tainted with serious mea-surement error, and deem the repu-tational assessments of program change to be often meaningless. Given the severity of the possible distortions, the citation data are probably far too unreliable to permit reasonable analysis. Scholars and policymakers will need to tread cautiously.
Sense and nonsense of science citation analyses: comments on the monopoly position of ISI and citation inaccuracies. Risks of possible misuse and biased citation and impact data. It is beyond any doubt that ISI has done and is doing great work in collecting and classifying citations to scientific papers. However, their data should primarily be used for their original purpose: to serve scientists in the progress of research and development (R&D)! In summary, I arrive at four major recommendations: Librarians: Do not take your decisions on journal subscriptions based on 2 year IF values published by ISI; instead try to collect other 'impact factors' covering much longer periods from other sources.
The incoherence of the new science policy Improving science communications and redefining productivity might well be the large mis-sion sought by the Speaker. With or without new technology, revitalizing co-herent and timely information probably cannot be ad-vanced without linking adequate funding for libraries to the productivity of research and education. Such technology offers a pretty conduit, but is as useless as having a luxury car like a BMW without having money for fuel.
Evaluating the research activity and impact of funding agencies Based on an analysis of the larger contributors to international malaria research, there would appear to be significant divergence between indicators of activ-ity and impact, and no simple relationship or evident correlation between funding inputs and publication outputs across a three- to four-year time lag.
Absorptive Capacity, Coauthoring Behavior, and the Organization of Research in Drug Discovery We believe that R&D managers may have much more to learn from academic science than published research results, while scholarly understanding of macroeconomic growth may be enhanced by closer attention to the wider institutional setting of industrial R&D, in particular the nature and extent of linkages to non-profit organizations. On the public policy front, we speculate that the ability to 'do good science' in the private sector may not be supportable in the long run without a close partnership with the institutions of open science. Policies which weaken these institutions, make public sector researchers more market-oriented, or redistribute rents through efforts to increase the appropriability of public research through restrictions in the ways in which public and private sectors work with each other may be therefore be counter-productive in the long run.
Informetric analysis of the international impact of scientific journals: how “international” are the international journals? The analysis of the statistical significance of differences gave some useful data, the impor-tance of which to marketing and publishing strategies is obvious.
Journal Peer Review: an Endorsement in Principle In other words, peer-reviewed publications continued to be rated higher than other types of publication in tenure and promotion decisions irrespective of the region or the institutional designation within the regions.
Which journals should you read to keep up to date? Our aim will be to bring to the practising dentist summaries of the best available dental literature based on a core list of journals producing the greatest yield of useful papers.
Citation analysis as an unobtrusive method for journal collection evaluation using psychology student research bibliographies Citation analysis of student research papers, particularly when coupled with subscription price data, can contribute important details to the information needed for effective library collection development and evaluation.
Journal Quality Assessment for Performance Based Funding In other words, the high quality journal which contributes detailed feedback to authors, regardless of acceptance of their contributions, makes a significant contribution to maintaining and improving the quality of university research and researchers. Journal editors and reviewers who perform highly in their own roles play an essential part in the learning loops of university academics.
Filling the gap between discussions on science and scientists' everyday activities: applying the autopoiesis system theory to scientific knowledge First, the journal system demonstrates that the essence of science is not in the structure but in the operation, and that the accumulation of knowledge is achieved not by the structure as a paradigm, but by the operation of the system – i.e. publishing. This gives us an empirical perspective on how the difference between the two cultures (as popularized by C. P. Snow) can be described by differences in how the systems operate. This journal system forces us to reconsider discussions on previous science studies, and the implications provide many fruitful suggestions for both scientists and science studies researchers.
Basic and applied research in developing countries: The search for an evaluation strategy In the present article we have stressed the urgent need for a better un- derstanding of all aspects of scientific research in DCs.
The impact of transaction costs on the institutional structuration of collaborative academic research Although not entirely unexpected, the main findings of the present study help flesh out reflections and generalizations regarding the efficiency of institutional structures for collaborative university research.
The Quest for Institutional Recognition: A Longitudinal Analysis of Scholarly Productivity and Academic Prestige among Sociology Departments This inquiry demonstrates that prestige is tied to both the reputations previously held by departments and universities (institutional context) and to faculty productivity (performance indicators). Indeed, of these two, institutional reputations are far more important in determining present perceptions of departmental rank than are corresponding levels of scholarly productivity or other departmental characteristics.
Bonding number in scientific disciplines Productivity may increase over time, but the amount of communication per author reflected in the bonding number σ has been roughly constant through the period of 12 years for which publication data are available.
Institutional research rankings via bibliometric analysis and direct peer review: A comparative case study with policy implications However, overall, the citation-based approach outlined in this paper appears to give very similar results to the peer review based RAE for institutions rated 3, 4 and 5 in RAE92. But it does so on the basis of published data and in a manner which has the virtue of transparency. It is also potentially much cheaper.
Citation characteristics of English-language monographs in philosophy This study documents that contemporary American and English philosophy is largely concerned either with issues arising from analytic philosophy as it devel-oped in the second half of the century or with interdisciplinary trends drawn from the social sciences, stressing political action, gender studies, psychology, econom-ics, and history.
Support for Biological Research by an Academic Library: A Journal Citation Study The data seem to indicate that the Libraries at UNC are doing a good job of providing researchers in the Department of Biology with the literature they require. It is not surprising that reprints seem to be the most popular means of access to these items. Such comparative studies might enable libraries to monitor their own performance and make meaningful comparisons with other libraries.
The governance of external research: empirical test of some transaction‐cost related factors Empirical tests support our hypothesis on the influence of these variables on the choice of external R&D governance structure.
Governmental research funding and economic distortion Our challenge is to find ways to encourage scientific and technological progress.
Ranking of scientists – a new approach Our observations at the National Centre of Bibliometrics may be summarised thus: (1) When the contributions of a scientist in terms of research papers is reasonably high, say, one hundred or more, his papers can be grouped in four distinct categories on the basis of citations they receive: (i) a small number of papers receive a large number of citations. (2) The citation profiles of research papers lead us to generalise the fact that the citation generation potential (CGP) is not the same for all papers, it differs from paper to paper, and also to a certain extent depends on the subject to which the papers belong. (3) The method of ranking in no way replaces peer review. It acts as an aid at the hands of the peers to help them arrive at a better decision.
Risk and Insurance Research Productivity: 1987-1996 One of the obvious conclusions that can be drawn from the results reported in this study is the dominance of Pennsylvania, which ranked first among employers and degree-granting institutions for all measurement criteria used.
Institutions and the map of science: matching university departments and fields of research For all of that, this information does suggest the importance, when evaluating largescale fields of re-search, of focusing on research clusters or groupings rather than principally on cost centres such as depart-ments which retain their main function in the organi-sation of teaching.
The calculation of web impact factors We are confident that analyses of national, sector and larger web segments' or sites' Web-IFs are reliable.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Collaboration in the Field of Information Retrieval There is a perceptible increase in collaborative research in the field of IR from 1987 to 1997.
The role of reputation in the recruitment of scientists We would contend that this suggests some sort of 'signaling' by the companies that may assist them in their recruiting efforts.
Bibliometric Indicators of the Scholarly Productivity of Researchers and Scientists in Kuwait as Documented by Citation to Their Published Works This study shows that productivity of Kuwaiti scientists and researchers was found to be quantitatively significant. However when disciplines are compared, there seems to be a clear imbalance among the disciplines, with some disciplines, such as medical sciences and social sciences, making significant contribution to the global knowledge-base while others are poorly or non-represented. Kuwaiti institutions should establish a more rigorous reward system by which faculty most frequently cited in citation indexes are recognized and rewarded.
Recommendations for Benchmarking Web Site Usage among Academic Libraries The authors strongly favor establishment of a formal reporting structure for comparing Web server statistics across academic libraries.
Assessment of social sciences: The use of advanced bibliometric methods as a necessary complement of peer review We conclude that bibliometric performance indicators allow substantial improvement of peer-review based evaluation by supplying new elements in terms of objective analysis of research output and impact. Finally, advanced bibliometric indicators provide a substantial insight into scientific communication practices. The cost of advanced bibliometric analysis is comparable with, or even lower than, that of peer review.
A comparative study of citations from papers by Korean scientists and their journal attributes The findings imply that librarians should look for various factors in determining candidate titles for subscriptions or cancellations by discipline.
PATENTS AS CORPORATE ASSETS The development has several implica-tions, especially if further analyses bear out their findings.
Normative versus Social Constructivist Processes in the Allocation of Citations: A Network-Analytic Model Overall, these results suggest that authors are likely to cite those articles most relevant to their work in terms of intellectual content, and seem little concerned with the char- acteristics of authors who write them.
Sex Differences in Research Productivity: New Evidence about an Old Puzzle The answer is both yes and no.
Diversification Versus Concentration: A Note on the Allocation of Effort Among Risky Research Projects / Diversifikation oder Konzentration in der Forschung Thus, for short term results concentration of effort is better while the long run strategy should be diversification of effort to equalize returns at the margin.
Citation Analysis and the Web The results of this research indicate that libraries are creating unique Web resources comparable to physical library collections.
Access to Journals We conclude that the major general astronomical journals have been doing well in aiding research in DC.
Reputation and Competence in Publicly Funded Science: Estimating the Effects on Research Group Productivity The results show that the productivity of aggregate resource expenditures supporting scientific research is critically dependent on the institutional mechanisms and criteria employed in the allocation of such resources. Our objective in this paper has been to demonstrate the possibilities of quantitatively describing the relationships that proximately govern productivity in scientific research groups. In doing so, we have made a start towards fully uncovering how competence (both innate and acquired), reputation, and the institutional mechanisms for the funding of academic research interact in the production of scientific knowledge.
Visualizing a discipline: An author co-citation analysis of information science, 1972–1995 ACA shows two broad subdisciplines in information science, each with a certain internal coherence, each with authors who read, write, and are co-cited in both.
Citation indicators of Japanese journals It can conclude that the Japanese journals do not compare favorably internationally except for International Immunology in terms of citation indicators. The editorial policy and strategy have to be established to attract the best articles and receive a larger international readership for Japa-nese journals.
Standardizing relative impacts: Estimating the quality of research from citation counts The standard method for determining bibliometric scores, seems to be the least reliable one, when compared with available alternative methods for bibliometric analyses.
Use of scholarly book reviews: Implications for electronic publishing and scholarly communication The results of this study suggest sufficient interest among the scholars surveyed to justify pursuit of further research involving a larger and broader sample of respon-dents. The book review in electronic format is a reality, and in some ways it may allow the dissemination of information on more new books more quickly. Findings from this study hold implications for the content and access to electroni-cally published book reviews, and further research.
Bugs in the NRC's Doctoral Program Evaluation Data: From Mites to Hissing Cockroaches We do, however, see the reputational evaluations of program quality as tainted with serious mea-surement error, and deem the repu-tational assessments of program change to be often meaningless. The NRC data don't operationalize the theory well enough to provide an appropriate empirical test. Perhaps these would be useful additions, but the NRC's goal of providing a fount of useful infor-mation can be better achieved by addressing some of the problems in the current data before adding fur-ther information that may be equally error-prone.
Bibliometric indicators of university research performance in Flanders The university research evaluation authorities consider the methodology outlined in this article as a valuable and very important instrument, but definitely not the only one. These studies have, in fact, generated an enormous amount of empirical data related to the publication charac-teristics and research performance of scientific institu-tions.
Effect of blinding and unmasking on the quality of peer review In the opinion of authors, there was little or no differ- ence in review quality between masked and unmasked groups and between blinded and unblinded groups.
Measuring information through topical subheadings of the Medline database:: a case study The latent variable ‘topical subheading information', as defined in the present terms, can contribute towards a better understanding of the development of anaesthesiology research.
Korean international co-authorship in science 1994-1996 Korea has shown remarkable growth in the areas of science and technology, as shown by this study as well as others [3, 4, 9, 19].
The change from French to English and its effect upon the impact factor and ranking of the Pasteur journals Conclusions: the change of language did not increase the impact factor of the French journals nor improve their ranking among publications of the same discipline. With the aforementioned data and this analysis, we can claim that the transition from French to English did not bring an increase in the IF or improve its ranking among other journals with the same classification, and the impact of the Pasteur journals was not improved. Therefore, it was not a useful strategy in this case.
Physics 1800-1900:: A quantitative outline One can conclude hypothetically that also scientific mobility is distributed quite unevenly: Only few scientists use to migrate to other physics areas notwithstanding the extraordinary importance of scientific mobility for the development of new scientific ideas and approaches. The graphs visualize the ups and downs of the written communications in each field. It is obvious that many fields with practical importance led to intensive research; the most striking example is the detection of X-rays by W. C. Röntgen in 1895, which evoked several hundred publications in the few years until 1900.
Science in America Latina:: A comparison of bibliometric and scientific-technical indicators "The most obvious conclusion to be derived from this analysis is that the scientific output of Latin-American countries is directly proportional to the input indicators, be they budgetary resources or human resources."
The increase in the rate of publications originating from Turkey We have observed that the group of professors is divided into three groups. Approximately 40% of the sample are consistently not publishing. These findings lead us to the conclusion that besides the group of professors who have not produced publications during the ten-year period under investigation, there seems to be a group of researchers who have successfully improved the research scenery in Turkey.
Own-language preference: A new measure of "relative language self-citation" In this paper, we were concerned that to some extent these high relative values may have been the result of biases due to the domination of English in the Sociological literature. To correct for this, we defined a new measure, the probability-ratio, which can be seen as a generalization of the ROLP. The refined measure does seem, to a considerable degree, to change the picture, especially if the lower estimate for the English language share is used. The main advantage of the probability ratio measure is its being size-free, that is, independent of, and unaffected by, the 'raw' size of the body of research existing in a certain language.
A measure of originality: The elements of science The results of this study indicate that the typology merits further study as a means of investigating or evaluating scientific originality.
Scientific publications - The challenge for Chinese scientific journals We believe that with close attention and energetic support from the scientific and technical establishment in China, the aca-demic level and international influence of our scientific journals will be greatly im-proved in the near future.
Toward a canoe of the pain and analgesia literature: A citation analysis Citation analysis is a useful tool in identifying important contributions to the biomedical literature. Recent and continuing research trends include the use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, opioid mechanisms, and persistent pain disorders. Current trends expected to become stronger include description of pain from the patient's perspective and mechanisms of the transition from acute to chronic pain.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1994-1998) By now, at the end of five years of conducting the study, we believe we can identify with some confidence those top scholars and institutions:. Regarding the relationship of the field with its collegial fields of CS and IS, we find: Similarities with CS in the list of top institutions, but still enough differences to be able to say that SSE is a different field from CS. Enough differences with the field of IS to say that they are clearly quite different fields.
Information and knowledge in the age of electronic communication: a developing country perspective As suggested by Bruce Alberts, President of the National Academy of Sciences, USA, knowledge dissemination structures need to be put in place which are not entirely based on commerce.
Critical comments on Institute for Scientific information impact factors: a sample of inorganic molecular chemistry journals The analysis in this paper has clearly shown that for a careful comparison of IFs, even for related journals, one should consider: (1) the fact that the two-year citations window-based IF may not be the most suitable parameter, let alone that it can be the only parameter used; (2) the underlying types of papers (the share of reviews, letters or notes) in certain journals can (heavily) influence the overall IF; (3) other parameters, such as the presented degree of uncitedness in given time windows can give useful impact information; (4) IF values for journals with modifications in con- tents and/or name can be quite unreliable.
Reviewers' and editors' perceptions of submitted manuscripts with different numbers of authors, addresses and funding sources It appears that they are also more likely to obtain favourable recommendations from reviewers and edi- tors of a specific journal and hence to be selected for publication in a journal which rejects the large majority of manuscripts submitted to it.
Database currency Our findings support the use of the best performing COVID-19 collections by systematic reviews to replace paywalled databases.
Indirect-collective referencing (ICR):: Life course, nature, and importance of a special kind of scientific referencing As a result of the present research it can be stated that one of the most serious scientometric shortcomings of the Citation Indexes is the absence of indirect-collective references; it is more serious than the failure to show coauthors, an inadequacy that was criticized immediately and for a long while. The time has come when the meaning, value, and validity of the quantified bibliographic data of the Citation Indexes and of the evaluative results of "citation analysis," of sciento- and other "-metrics" studies and indices, based on these data must be reduced. There is a need for a discipline of "literature science" as the philology of the scientific literature.
Funding Australia's basic biomedical research of 1993 and 1994 Acknowledgements analysed for the REPP study were primarily external in origin and were in addition to the implicit internal funding received.
Strategic management and implementation of textual data mining in government organizations In a competitive global environment, the fundamental limitation to the quality of S&T strategic management is understanding the S&T that has been performed, is being performed, and is planned to be performed. This paper has presented an approach to improving the database limitation problem through the joint construction of multi-national S&T databases whose core data entries are more complete. The relatively extensive training proposed and required is probably most cost-effective for organizations that want to develop a long-term strategic TDM capability.
Disparities in the geographical distribution of authorship between invited and peer reviewed papers When editors of UK journals commission invited papers they appear to give preference to UK-based authors, and within the UK two of the four journals studied gave preference to authors working in the southeast of England.
The life span of a specific topic on the Web - The case of "informetrics": A quantitative analysis This paper describes a first attempt, known to us, to thoroughly study the dynamics of Web documents on a given topic over a period of time.
Measuring interdisciplinary collaboration within a university:: The effects of the Multidisciplinary Research Programme In summary, we think that the low amount of the MRP financing reduces the capacity of the Programme at fostering interdisciplinary collaboration. But in any case, the MRP worked as a catalyst, enhancing interdisciplinary relations within the UCM. The interest of the MRP initiative is supported by its positive effects, both direct effects on granted teams and indirect on the whole UCM community.
Ophthalmology and optics: An informetric study of Australia's contribution to fields in the vision science domain, 1991-95 Among the benefits of such a study is the potential for the Vision Science research community to discover a new perspective on their own domain. The study will provide a benchmark from which changes in the domain and its associated fields can be charted in the future. Data from our Vision Science Project will add to a body of empirical studies that shed new light into the links among disciplines, fields and sub-fields, among journals and citing authors, and among research institutions and countries that contribute to the literature.
A model for measuring the congestion in library shelves So, not only is N(1-P₁) the expected number of congested periodicals (previous section) but it is also the most likely number of congested periodicals, at any time j.
An item-by-item subject classification of papers published in journals covered by the SSCI database using reference analysis The subject of a considerable share of otherwise unassigned publications could be successfully determined.
Influence of Latin American journals coverage by international databases A decrease has been observed in the coverage of Latin American journals by SCI in the last years. We therefore suggest that small local journals should merge together into larger and regional journals, where scientists from the different LA countries could publish. The need to design special indicators suitable to measure scientific activity of peripheral countries is stressed, as has already been proposed in previous debates.
Collaboration and cross-disciplinarity in autoimmune diseases The analysis undertaken points to the fact that scientific research in autoimmune diseases is indeed highly relevant for application oriented research and technological development.
The distribution of bibliographic records in databases using different counting methods for duplicate records The paper has successfully achieved its main aim — that of exploring the distributions of bibliographic records in online databases using the authors' data set on Fuzzy Set Theory and those of two earlier studies in Emergency Management and Acid Rain.
Publication behaviour and international impact: Scandinavian clinical and social medicine, 1988-96 In conclusion one may state that the Danish strategy and research behaviour so far has been successful. However, the Finnish contrasting strategy seems even more beneficial. However, the same research behaviour may inhibit the country to take up health issues and medical areas commonly seen as important for maintaining a welfare society at a high level, for instance, as demonstrated in the case of Social Medicine.
A new model of scientific collaboration Part 1. Theoretical approach In conclusion it can be stated that scientists, manifestly in the wake of a scientific process of work, are pursuing an interrelated pattern of relations which, apparently, is endowed with validity in terms of the diversified kinds of relations and characteristics in terms of the diversified kinds of relations and characterisics (partly even valid for the animal kingdom), as expressed in the proverbs "Birds of a feather flock together" or "Opposites attract".
A new model of scientific collaboration Part 2. Collaboration patterns in Indian medicine Based on both these last two behavioural patterns and additionally on the two ones which resulted in this study we assume that perhaps a general regularity could exist in co-authorship networks. But from our present study a final conclusion is not possible as to whether the divergence between the two patterns was caused either by the underlying different social relations or by the different time period. Which conclusions could be drawn from these theoretical findings towards science management?
The definition and calibration of biomedical subfields Once a subfield has been defined in this way, it is possible to characterise the papers within it and so to make comparisons of the relative impact of different groups (by reference to citation counts, journal impact categories or the frequency with which they are cited on patents or clinical guidelines) and of their research level (from clinical or applied to basic research). This analysis can then show what contribution an organisation or country is making to a subfield, both in a qualitative and a quantitative way.
Profile of the Mexican health sciences elite: A bibliometric analysis of research performance Our results showed the scientific pre-eminence of laureates. We concluded that bibliometric data could complement other indicators of research performance. Bibliometrics could insure the Prize committee against error and the operationalization of the Matthew Effect could be minimized to honor only the most creative researchers. The publication of Mexican papers in high-impact journals suggest that laureates have been successful at targeting such journals. They are probably in the periphery in terms of the infrastructure needed for scientific research, however, they are part of the world's scientific effort.
Is the science citation index US-biased? For the basic and applied sciences, the SCI seems to cover equally well the US and the EU research works and no 'US-bias' was observed. The differences in visibility of the work published by European and American scientists can not, indeed, be explained by the relative weight of their publications in SCI-covered journals. In ongoing work, using data from the SCI-covered journals, a country-to-country analysis of addresses in target articles and in their cited references will be made, in order to investigate patterns in the citation traffic between countries and their relative weight in the total number of citations to a country's publications, for different scientific disciplines.
Subject content analysis of AIDS literature, as produced in Latin America and the Caribbean Our investigation of the use of check tags, subject headings, and subheadings of AIDS in the LAC region demonstrates that major research concerns centred on the epidemiological aspects and transmission of AIDS; and more recently, within the time frame of the study, on the prevention and control of the disease. The interest for the population studied switched during the 1982 - 1998 period, from male to female; and the age groups, from middle age, to adolescence. Further research is needed to identify for example, the co-word analysis of the geographic terms and the citing/cited relationship of the production in order to identify the patterns of collaboration in the LAC region.
Towards appropriate indicators of journal impact We are convinced that more expanded and detailed analyses of the type presented in this section, as well as in the other parts of this paper, enable us to obtain a deeper understanding of the accuracy and validity of journal impact factors. We feel that bibliometricians share the responsibility to conduct such analyses, and report on the outcomes to all users of journal citation data.
Integrating research performance analysis and science mapping This study presents an integration of "standard" performance analysis and science mapping for evaluative purposes. Three described imperfections of the composing parts are addressed by the integrated approach. This approach proves to be useful to address the imperfections.
A quantitative study of Indian engineering literature The following are some of the conclusions drawn from the study of COMPENDEX Plus from 1990 and 1994: ... Indian engineers used 900 journals to publish their research results. Out of the 900 journals, 47 were Indian journals. 12% of the journal articles were from Indian origin. Only 4 journals from Indian origin have an impact factor in the 1994 JCR. However, the impact factors of these journals are below 0.400.
Ratio of short term and long term impact factors and similarities of chemistry journals represented by references short, medium and long term impact factors of chemistry journals run parallel,
William!Goffman's "Mathematical Approach to the Prediction of Scientific Discovery" and its application to logic, revisited To put the result in another way: The growth waves of scientific literature are connected with growth waves of important ideas, at least in logic.
Using online databases to form subject collections for informetric analyses From these comparisons, I conclude that with respect to size-invariant features in both classes of distribution, the Dialog sample matches closely those of the (moderately-defined) Exhaustive Collection, i.e. it 'estimates these population parameters' well.
Internationalization of communication - A view on the evolution of scientific journals A massive phenomenon of internationalization in scientific communication clearly appears.
Output counts: comparing the published contributions by agricultural economists across countries Our results are compatible with the hypothesis that incentives, competition and the division of labour stimulate output and productivity in research as in other walks of life. The analysis of the German data suggests, however, that the research output of a large non-English speaking country is obviously incompletely captured by SSCI. As a result, for better or worse, we expect the European section of the world-wide agricul- tural economics forum to put additional emphasis on publications in recog- nised journals and citations acquired by those publications.
Lotka's law and the pattern of scientific productivity in the dental science literature The dental science literature conformed very well to Lotka's model with c= 1.95.
The road to success: Factors affecting the speed of promotion of academic radiologists The rate of publishing original articles at the assistant and associate professor levels and the rate of overall publication at the assistant professor level were the most important parameters in predicting speed of promotion. The results of our survey substantiate that radiology faculty members who publish original articles at a faster rate are also promoted more quickly to both associate and full professor than those with a slower publication rate. Junior faculty members should seek out a mentor in their department who can advise them on the expectations of their institution.
Bioelectrochemistry and Bioenergetics -: A bibliometric survey of volumes 1-48 The stabilization of the journal itself at the first position with a healthy self-reference rate of about 8% should be seen as a sign of maturity. Comparing the three lists of Tables 1, 6 and 13, it is rather apparent that a very coherent set of scientists dominate the lists whether publishing, citing or cited authors are concerned.
Effect of open peer review on quality of reviews and on reviewers' recommendations: a randomised trial Asking reviewers to consent to being identified to the author had no important effect on the quality of the review, the recommendation regarding publication, or the time taken to review, but it significantly increased the likelihood of reviewers declining to review.
Growing pain: 10-year research trends in the study of chronic pain and headache These results disclose interesting trends in chronic pain research over the past 10 years. The different findings yielded by the Medline and PsycLIT databases confirm that searching either alone would provide a distorted perspective of research trends in the study of chronic pain. Both are needed to provide a complete picture.
A citation analysis of the technology innovation management journals One can conclude with some degree of con-fidence that these journals are more "effective" or have a greater "impact" than others in the TIM field.
The review process at PSPB: Correlates of interreviewer agreement and manuscript acceptance There are several noteworthy advances in our under-standing of the publication process from this study re-garding the two focal issues in the peer-review process that have been the subject of most prior research: inter-reviewer agreement on ratings of manuscript quality and associated mechanisms, and predictors of publication judgments and associated mechanisms.
Growth of world and Indian physics literature The methodology suggested by Egghe and Ravichandra Rao is shown to work satisfactorily, except for longer time series growth data, when we may have to restore to data splitting approach, if suggested by the plots of new growth rate functions. The present paper therefore suggests the need to use split data approach. The split approach helps us to use a combination of two growth models to explain the growth of literature in a research discipline.
Technological trends in the area of fullerenes using bibliometric analysis of patents The case study amply demonstrates the use of patent information in identifying research trends and technological opportunities. It also indicates that firms and R&D organisations could undertake similar study for specific topics of their interests and obtain relevant insights. The information so obtained could facilitate these organisations to narrowly define the technological opportunities and identify one's research or business strategy.
Obsolescence of literature in the field of psychology The result of the present study would assist a library to derive, review and incorporate data on obsolescence in the field of psychology. The findings have implications in the formation of policies relating to the planning and organization of reading materials, binding of books and journals, retrospective searching of literature etc. in the libraries. Fundamental research remains to be done on obsolescence.
The relevance of short communication in scholarly journals: An empirical study The results show that the generally perceived feeling of SCs getting cited more frequently and faster does not appear to be valid. Hence, the practice of publishing SCs on a priority basis is perhaps not warranted.
Growth of food science and technology literature: A comparison of CFTRI, India and the world There is a perceivable and steady growth in food science and technology literature published by food scientists of CFTRI, India and the world in forty years (1950-1990).
Assessment of the impact of the journal literature produced by Indian CSIR laboratories using subfield corrected impact The subfield normalisation could be functional if and only if the constituent journals of a subfield are effectively identified. No single study or indicator would reveal the standing of a group or laboratories. The use and application of composite indicators, (not in piecemeal, but assigning due weightage and linking them properly) like productivity of journal and non-journal literature, citations, patents, and peer review may provide a correct assessment.
Ranking serials in oceanography: An analysis based on the Indian contributions and their citations From these comparisons it is concluded that referencing by Indian oceanographers is in no way inferior to that by the scientists all over the world contributing to the core oceanography serials. The rank list of serials also helps in identifying the literature needs of the scientists. English is considered as the lingua franca by Indian oceanographers.
Collaboration and author productivity: A study with a new variable in Lotka's law It is concluded that when the number of collaborators per author was used as a substitute in Lotka's equation, the data did not comply with the Lotka's Inverse Power Law, using both the methods described above.
Combining mapping and citation analysis for evaluative bibliometric purposes: A bibliometric study We concluded that the method provides a detailed and useful picture of the position of the institute from an international perspective.
A bibliometric study of reference literature in the sciences and social sciences Consequently, the model of information transfer from scientific literature to scientific (journal) literature assumed by standard bibliometrics requires substantial revision before valid results can be expected through its application to social science areas.
On the law of Zipf-Mandelbrot for multi-word phrases So, we have presented a rationale for these experimental findings and found that the power law of Zipf-Mandelbrot is not correct for the case of m-word phrases.
Structures and strategies of interdisciplinary science Information initiatives can provide "leeway" to help researchers shift their efforts away from their core specialization to the peripheral domains that infuse their interdisciplinary work.
Boundary crossing in research literatures as a means of interdisciplinary information transfer Contemporary models of disciplinarity fail to account for the boundary-crossing publication practices described in this study.
A model for estimating the occurrence of same-frequency words and the boundary between high- and low-frequency words in texts Both theoretical analysis and practical examination demonstrate the reliability and the effectiveness of the model for estimating the frequency of same-frequency words, and for demarcating high-frequency from low-frequency words. We believe that the model presented has significance in both English and Chinese bibliometrics, and that it should be investigated for applicability in other languages.
The impact of Alcohol and Alcoholism among substance abuse journals But instead of paying attention to the impact factor of a journal, scientists should give more consideration to the speed and efficiency of the editorial handling of their manuscripts and particularly to the quality and timeliness of the peer review.
Patterns of restructuring in research, development and innovation activities in central and eastern European countries:: an analysis based on S&T indicators The implication of this for convergence processes within Europe may be far-reaching. While this conclusion may sound very optimistic for CEECs, the reality is that the current recovery in CEECs is not strongly linked to their R&D systems. The supply of R&D in CEECs still does not seem to be a problem, but rather lies in the demand for R&D and quality of supply.
The authorship list in science: Junior physicists' perceptions of who appears and why First, the distribution of authorship is a relatively undefined undertaking.
Lotka's law reconsidered: The evolution of publication and citation distributions in scientific fields In sum, from the explanation point of view, our findings are somewhat disappointing.
Yugoslav politics, "ethnic cleansing" and co-authorship in science As has been shown earlier,14 bibliometric indicators provide a sensitive mirror of the real world and they reveal much of the recent history of Yugoslavia including signs of "ethnic cleansing" in parts of Serbia. Internationally, we see that scientific co-operation does not take place in a vacuum but is based firmly on the geographical and political situation that prevails in the real world.
Structure and dynamics of scientific networks.: Part I:: Fundamentals of the quantitative model of translation In the present work, we have mathematically defined the concept of translation as the derivative or gradient of the quality function, depending on whether the translation space is one-dimensional or multi-dimensional. The principle of "success breeds success" is a result which is immediately and easily demonstrable for the above concepts. We propose a principle of translation composition which implies the existence of elemental translations (those of equilibrium and those of reversibility) and the rest of the translations, which would be a combination of the previous ones.
Structure and dynamics of scientific networks.: Part II:: The new Zipf's Law, the clusters of co-citations and the model of the descriptor presence We have used our quantitative translation model in the three fundamental spheres of scientometrics: classic bibliometrics, co-citation analysis and co-word analysis.
Misconduct in clinical research -: The Scandinavian experience and actions for prevention The Nordic experiences point strongly to the necessity of an independent national control body.
Bibliometric analysis of Spanish scientific publications on tobacco use during the period 1970-1996 In conclusion, although the presence of Spanish scientific research into tobacco use, at an international level, has increased in recent years, the existence of stable groups investigating this field is still relatively infrequent in Spain, though this does not preclude the production of high quality contributions.
Clinical trial potential of academic centers in India High-quality medical research is therefore very much in existence in India, even though there is an uneven distribution of this research potential among the various institutions (ie, national institutes vs medical colleges, the former surpassing the latter). A revolutionary improvement in the research potential of the medical institutions is possible with an increased investment in health care and research,5,12–14 and with an increase in manpower at research laboratories.
The American College of Physicians' Resident Abstract Competition: Success of US Military trainees This survey of the ACP's Resident Abstract Competition demonstrates that military IM trainees are significantly more likely than their civilian counterparts to be selected in a blinded judging of scholarly abstracts. We conclude that military IM residents are much more successful than their civilian colleagues at the national ACP's Resident Abstract Competition.
Top cited authors in dermatology - A citation study from 24 journals: 1982-1996 A relatively small proportion of all au-thors account for a high proportion of all citations of the dermatologic literature.
The value of interdisciplinarity: A study based on the design of Internet search engines The exploratory study detailed in this paper, based as it is on a small and highly focused set of articles, can provide only a beginning for research in this area.
Athletic training education programs: To rank or not to rank? "Ranking systems on the basis of levels of perceived quality and academic productivity of programs that prepare future professionals will help potential undergraduate and graduate students make informed decisions when select-ing an educational program."
Trends in the UK contribution to the otolaryngological literature "We have shown that there has been a significant increase in multiple-and reduction in single author papers published in the studied journals over a 10-year period."
Bibliometric assessment of research performance in Flanders: policy background and implications In this article we have illustrated the use of bibliometric tools in the evaluation of scientific research conducted at Flemish universities and publicly funded research organisations, and in the assessment of scientific-technological performance in Flanders in the field of information technology. In terms of these distinctions, the effects of the bibliometric studies on the policy debate were indirect. Nevertheless, in our view the studies have provided useful information to evaluators and policy makers in Flanders.
Hypersonic and supersonic flow roadmaps using bibliometrics and database tomography Combination of the average of 2.63 authors per HSF paper and the SCI keywords' emphasis on computational approaches implies that many of the HSF research projects are individual author or small team CFD efforts.
Do deans publish what they preach? This snapshot suggests that the administrators of leading LIS schools and departments are not, in the main, scholars of note.
Science funding in the former Soviet Union needs the bottom-up approach The stunning success of recent bottom-up efforts, outlined below, could serve to persuade more Western institutions of the vital need to increase similar activities.
Nanotechnology in Europe: scientific trends and organizational dynamics One single nanotechnology including all relevant research in the nanometre range is unlikely. Nanotechnology is a real, ebullient area of research. However, nanotechnology will not be the only technology which uses nanotools, is based on nanometre-long structures and utilizes properties which can only be made at a nanoscale.
Predictors and correlates of prevention research careers: A national study of residency graduates Factors associated with high research productivity could be utilized to improve the resident selection process and promote research careers. This could enhance research programs and education and promote the overall prevention research agenda. Lessons from this national survey may help to identify and encourage research careers and subsequent productivity, an important goal for medical education that has received only limited attention.
Critically evaluating an applications vs theory framework for research quality Overall, therefore, Ormerod presents an interesting and thought-provoking response to the debate on both publishing patterns and research quality.
An application of martingales in the limit to a problem in information science The paper closes with some problems in this connection. In the above sense, will we be able to prove that, no matter with which set A we start, we will always end up with the same limit set (i.e., fixed limit distribution)? What is the stability of the results obtained here, i.e., if we change the criteria to become a source journal a little bit, will the set of source journals, when followed for t increasing, experience dramatic changes or not?
Disclosure of researcher contributions:: A study of original research articles in The Lancet Publication of lists that specify contributions to research articles is feasible and seems to impart important information. The criteria for authorship outlined by the Vancouver Group do not seem to be congruent with the self-identified contributions of researchers. Our findings indicate that, in general, readers, editors, and members of review committees should not depend on authorship standing or byline order as reliable indicators of the type or degree of work performed.
Patent co-citation analysis of Eli!Lilly & Co. patents This article has illustrated how the co-citation analysis technique can take a large number of patents, almost 3,000 in this case, and organise them into Groups without the need for an expert to read and classify each. The technique quickly organises the patents in a portfolio and gives a starting point that can help experts focus on areas of major importance or interest. A company can apply this technique to identify core areas of its patent portfolio, areas where it might face stiff competition, areas where others have found value within its patent portfolio, and areas where licensing opportunities may exist. Competitors applying this technique can see areas of a rival's strength and areas the rival has abandoned or is not following up on.
RETRACTED: Which countries publish in important anesthesia and critical care journals? (Retracted Article) We conclude that, with regard to publications in the areas of anesthesia, pain, critical care, and emergency med-icine, the US is the most active nation.
Indicators in a research institute: A multi-level classification of scientific journals To position a research institute in ISI databases, we tried a seed-free hierarchical structuration of SCI/CMCI journals based on direct journal citation-transaction.
Science publication indicators for India: Questions of interpretation Through this paper we have tried to show that scientometric data can be misinterpreted even when used in good faith, that certain caveats are required and it is not always self evident what these may be.
The Matthew Index - Concentration patterns and Matthew core journals In this paper we have focused our attention on the micro-structure of the Matthew effect for countries. For a certain country, Matthew core journals carry the potential of gaining a surplus of citations and the risk of losing a high number of citations as well. In order to improve the usage of a country's scientific talents, national publication strategy should be encouraged to take the risk of publishing the best scientific work in Matthew core journals.
An item-by-item subject classification of papers published in multidisciplinary and general journals using reference analysis The subject of a large share of otherwise unassigned publications could be successfully determined. The methodology proved to be efficient at both the level of major fields and subfields. The results of the new methodology may improve the validity of bibliometric studies for research evaluation purposes.
Analysis of the structure of international scientific cooperation networks through bibliometric indicators Bibliometric indicators proved to be a useful tool in identifying both formal and informal scientific cooperation of LA countries (Fernández et al., 1992).
Gaining scientific recognition by position: Does editorship increase citation rates? These findings indicate that, for American journals, assuming editorship responsibilities for a major psychology journal increases one's scientific impact, at least as reflected by a measure of citation rate.
Profiling institutes: Identifying high research performance and social relevance in the social and behavioral sciences The results provide a first insight in the extent to which institutes and authors address socially relevant topics. A clear finding for both dynamic and static topics is that the bulk of 'visible' research, i.e. research that exceeds output and/or impact thresholds, is conducted at universities. As reactions of users show, the present results might be particularly relevant to middle and lower level policy bodies such as Royal or National academies, visitation committees of fields, and deans of universities.
Scientific communication and its relevance to research policy In this paper we have dealt with a number of developments in scientific communication and information. The analysis on the basis of the forces and functions leads us to conclude that the transformation is not a product transformation, as such a transformation would only be driven by aspects represented in the accessibility force. To study this process in more detail more research is needed, as is nowadays undertaken e.g. in the various digital library projects.
Temporal differences in self-citation rates of scientific journals Generally, this proves that the influence of a scientific journal on its reference and citation distributions differs considerably at the beginning and in the tail. We conclude that the citation curve of a journal is composed of two curves with different characteristics: a self-citation (or self-cited) curve and a curve representing external citations.
Patterns of author cogitation in information policy: Evidence of social, collaborative and cognitive structure The apparent convergence (or is it just a coincidence?) of cognitive, social and collaborative data is striking and requires further qualitative analysis. It seems, in the field of information policy at least, that the distinction between forms of knowledge and knowledge communities may indeed be a subtle one.
Beyond the holy grail: From citation theory to indicator theories Thus, this proposal for a reflexive indicator theory does not invalidate the use of specific indicator theories.
Knowledge production, publication productivity, and intimate academic partnerships The most significant role in scholarly productivity of such collaborations may not, as has been supposed, be the indirect contribution of an egalitarian division of labor in the home. Instead, it may be the direct contribution to productivity through access to the many types of highly specialized, intellectual, emotional, and physical labor required to produce scholarship made possible by a partner with overlapping skills and interests. Findings from this research point to a number of related areas for fur- ther research.
In which journals will pediatricians find the best evidence for clinical practice? This study provides the general pediatrician and pediatric trainee with a strategy to identify efficiently a significant proportion of the best evidence on pediatric practice by restricting searches and reading to a limited number of journals. It also highlights the fact that the best quality evidence on pediatric practice is found in a large number of medical journals. This potential implication is even more poignant as of 1998, because Medline users no longer have the option to limit searches to the Abridged Index Medicus.
Changing explanatory frameworks in the US government's attempt to define research misconduct The changing frameworks suggest that closure will not be achieved without an authoritative effort, which may occur through the Research Integrity Panel's recent attempt to create a government-wide definition. The curtain on the definition may not fall after its report, but the panel's authoritative choice of frameworks is probably the only hope for closure on this issue. But a definition consistent with DAB's ruling, which emphasizes the aspect of due process that holds that standards must be clear to a reasonable researcher at the time of the conduct, will likely trade ground on the issue of intent for a less prominent role for scientists in the adjudication of research misconduct.
Confronting misconduct in science in the 1980s and 1990s: What has and has not been accomplished? Over the last decade, researchers and research institution have made significant strides toward restoring that trust by actively confronting misconduct, establishing comprehensive misconduct policies, developing administrative structures to monitor research, and taking steps to promote education and foster integrity.
European economics: An analysis based on publications in the core journals We have provided rankings of European academic institutions and European countries based on publications in a core set of 10 mainstream economic journals for the period 1991–1996.
Bibliometric overview of Library and Information Science research in Spain L&IS research in Spain seems to concentrate mostly in the areas of information retrieval, studies of scientific and professional communication, and description of services.
Digital libraries and autonomous citation indexing Widespread use of digital libraries with ACI should pro-mote the visibility and dissemination of more literature.
A survey of reference accuracy in two Asian dermatologic journals (the Journal of Dermatology and the Korean Journal of Dermatology) This study shows that the rate of citation errors is unacceptably high in the Journal of Dermatology and the Korean Journal of Dermatology, which significantly diminishes the value of the reference list. We would strongly urge that the peer review of citation and quotation accuracy should be strengthened. Our survey documents that reference citation and quotation errors are common in the Journal of Dermatology and the Korean Journal of Dermatology.
Geography of biomedical publications in the European Union, 1990-98 We recognise that simple counts of the number of publications are only rough estimates of research productivity. Our results only reflect the country of the corresponding author's affiliation and not that of the other authors. However, these data show that northern European countries, such as Sweden, Finland, and Denmark; and Netherlands and Spain, were shown to be the most productive countries in the EU, when the publications were normalised to population size and GDP.
Blind review of research proposals in Korea: Its effectiveness and factors affecting applicant detection The analysis of 474 respondents (blinded reviewers) indicated that blind review is fairly effective.
From individual scientific visibility to collective competencies: The example of an academic department in the social sciences First of all, the sample demonstrates that it is possible to map competencies of university department without a complete audit.
Citation bias in medical journals Citation counts contain hidden information on citation habits that can be unearthed by appropriate descriptive multivariate methods. There is a transatlantic rift in citation practice, as reported elsewhere. Is there not a case for trying to find ways of fostering original research that springs from the diversity of national cultural traditions?
The scenario of Brazilian health sciences in the period of 1981 to 1995 The information provided can advise national policy makers on science & technology about priorities concerning the improvement of the country's competitiveness.
Scientometrics of Indian organic chemistry research Based on the publication pattern in national and international journals and their impact factor it is observed that organic chemistry research performed in India, had a poor connectivity to mainstream science during the 70s and 80s.
History matters: The inherited disciplinary structure of the post-communist science in countries of Central and Eastern Europe and its restructuring Our conclusions about the communist heritage in the disciplinary profile of the science in CEECs has implications for our understanding of the current restructuring processes of science systems in CEECs. Probably, the common heritage in terms of disciplinary structure of CEECs will not be lost overnight. However, an increasing divergence of disciplinary profiles of CEECs based on papers suggests that the process of departure from the post-communist heritage has started.
The efficacy of different modes of funding research: perspectives from Australian data on the biological sciences The general bearing of this study suggests that, on most of these measures, researchers appointed to full-time research positions in the biological sciences, whether from ARC or other modes of funding support, achieve higher visibility for their research than do researchers with significant other duties (such as teaching or clinical work).
The self-similar science system In summary, these finding suggest that the Matthew effect in science (measured using recognition and size) and the size structure of the science system (measured using size and size rank are scale-independent processes that are relatively independent of size and nationality, indicative of self-organising characteristics that may exist from the level of a national sector science system to a national system and finally to the world science system, and can be used to predict the existence of other scale-independent relationships such as the power-law relationship between (1) recognition and recognition rank and (2) impact and impact rank
Territorial concentration and evolution of science and technology activities in the European Union:: a descriptive analysis First, the geographic distribution of S&T activi-ties, as expected, appears much more concentrated than population and economic activity in general. To summa-rize, a preferential S*T co-localization was ob-served in small countries, and G * T in large coun-tries. Much additional work is needed: refining the country-dependent territorial connection of S&T to population and GDP structure, adding variables (such as industrial output), and looking at lagged relation-ships within an enlarged time window.
Development of the Review Quality Instrument (RQI) for assessing peer reviews of manuscripts "Although improvements to the RQI should be pursued, the instrument can be recommended for use in the study of peer review."
A worldwide assessment of medical journal editors' practices and needs results of a survey by the World Association of Medical Editors There was strong interest among respondents in a global organisation for medical editors. Peer review was widely reported by medical journal editors throughout the world, although specific practices varied widely. Half of the responding editors reported having access to the Internet, making participation in a worldwide computer network of editors feasible.
Visualising semantic spaces and author co-citation networks in digital libraries We have described a novel approach to the development of intuitive and engaging digital libraries, and we have explained the value of techniques such as LSI, Pathfinder networking scaling and virtual reality. This approach provides a means for transcending the boundaries of collections of documents and visualising more profound patterns in terms of semantic structures and co-citation networks. Author co-citation networks provide a snapshot of a scientific field as reflected through publications in the literature.
Visualizing science by citation mapping This article has described an approach to science mapping that utilizes citation data to provide a two-dimensional ordination of tens of thousands of documents across a multidisciplinary sample of scientific papers.
Institutional collaboration in science: A typology of technological practice Cluster analysis identifies managerial, decentralized, noninstrumental, and routine multi-institutional collaborations.
The interest of scientific communities in sea-related research topics The numbers of articles on sea-related topics were found to be very few and to be almost always less than those of articles on similar topics such as air-related topics or sometimes less than those of articles on contrasting topics such as sports or hotel management, although sea-related problems are crucially important for human lives, national securities and all industries.
A bibliometric analysis of international scientific cooperation of the European Union (1985-1995) The results of the study clearly show the ever growing importance of the EU as scientific collaboration partner of both advanced and developing countries.
The role of domestic journals in geographically-oriented disciplines:: The case of Spanish journals on earth sciences Domestic journals are of a great importance for Spanish researchers in Earth Sciences, as reflected by the fact that 69% of articles in this field during 1990-1994 are published in these journals. Encouraging researchers to publish in mainstream journals (such those covered by the SCI) prevailing Spanish evaluation procedures are doing a disservice to Spanish journals in Earth Sciences..., jeopardising the national dissemination of results of some research works... In this paper, international diffusion of main Spanish journals in Earth Sciences is considered as a strategic matter. It is of the greater importance to undertake actions devoted to increase the presence of these journals, in adequate updating conditions in the most prestigious databases.
The "own-language preference": Measures of relative language self-citation The new refined RSCR measures, proposed in this article, still give the nine studied sociology journals the same rank as former measures mentioned in the literature, although the gaps between individual journals, and especially between the two groups (English-language journals and non-English ones) narrows.
Scientometric portrait of nobel laureate Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin Quantitative analysis and graphic presentations of the publication productivity of a scientist facilitates easy and clear perceptions about the work of a scientist. Team of research collaborators working with a successful scientist documents the sociological aspects of history of science while generating knowledge by a leader in a domain. Core journal titles and keywords in the titles of the articles provide glimpses of the domains of interest to the researchers.
Scientometrics of laser research literature as viewed through the journal of current laser abstracts Like all scientific fields, articles in journals are the main channel of communication. However, technical reports and patents also form important channels of communication in laser S&T. Major contributors to the publication output are USA, Japan and the erstwhile USSR. The impact of research effort did not commensurate with publication effort for USSR, China and India, while for USA, Switzerland, The Netherlands and Canada the impact is greater than publication efforts.
A comparision of productivity of male and female scientists of CSIR Concludes that no significant difference exists between productivity distributions of male and female scientists.
An explanation of the relation between the fraction of multinational publications and the fractional score of a country The ressemblance with Fig. 1 is so high that we can say that we have provided a (first) explanation of the Nederhof-Moed findings (albeit we could not work with fractionated scores – this is left as an open problem).
Relationship of mathematical programming with mathematics, economic regional planning and other specialties Surveying the references cited in the papers of the journal titled Mathematical Programming (Math. Prog.), research activities of mathematical programming (or the constrained optimization in mathematical terms) was found to have now formed its own closed circle and to be far from pure mathematics, economics and others from which it has historically originated. Instead of taking technical seeds from pure mathematics and modeling or formulation seeds from economics, regional / urban planning, business and others, mathematical programming now was found to take its technical seeds from papers on mathematical programming or on the optimization and to provide technical seeds to succeeding papers on mathematical programming in a self-sufficient reproduction process. Its shift from economic, regional or business planning to the experiment design or the engineering design was observed.
Chinese science citation database: Its construction and application In the previous section we have presented the Chinese Science Citation Database (CSCD): its origin and its structure.
Probability and statistics: A tale of two worlds? The results reported in this paper yield cursory measures of research productivity in probability and statistics for the ten-year period extending from 1986 to 1995, based on a survey of eighteen international refereed journals, nine from each area. Thus, this information should be both instructive and useful, provided that the results are put in proper perspective. First, it is imperative that the variables and associated rankings not be regarded as measures of the quality or in-fluence of people's scientific writings.
Citations and knowledge claims: sociology of knowledge as a case in point Each unit of scholarly communication, such as a journal article or a book, is itself a knowledge claim. The citations that the reader can especially see as epistemically linked to the author's statement are those that are explicitly recognized in their own right as knowledge claims. Citation studies have enhanced our understanding of the communication process, but the variation offered here can enable inquirers to examine the particularistic functions that citations serve.
Scholarly communication and the continuum of electronic publishing Our analysis leaves us with several sensitizing concepts and normative recommendations.
The warholian moment and other proto-indicators of scholarly salience If some of the approaches above are to be considered as supplementary sources of data for P&T committees and academic evaluators in general, then it is important that the preferred measures demonstrate requisite validity and reliability, not to mention some degree of utility. Much remains unclear about the kinds of emergent practices and proto-indicators sketched in this note and their longer-term import within the academic evaluation context, but, here, surely is an issue ripe for systematic scrutiny.
Synthetic chemical literature By the consensus of three major producers of reaction databases, over 95% of new synthetic methods are reported in a core of about 100 sources.
Classic and near-classic articles in the dermatologic literature Few articles are cited at least 25 times, and few persons are first authors of multiple articles in the dermatologic literature cited at least that frequently.
Mapping the intellectual structure of information retrieval studies: an author co-citation analysis, 1987-1997 ACA has been applied successfully to map the intel-lectual structure of the IR field over two consecutive time periods of 1987–1991 and 1992–1997. This parti-tioning of the period of study has demonstrated that more information can be inferred from ACA in contrast to studying the whole eleven-year time period. From the results of this study, it is evident that ACA is indeed a useful tool for studying the intellectual structure of scholarly disciplines.
A new explanation of the negative binomial law and the Poisson law with regard to library journal circulation data Hence, the geometrical case is not generalisable.
Impact assessment of oncology research in the European Union The key words analysis shows that the leading fields of research were breast cancer for diseases, cisplatin for drugs and p53 for experimental studies. A standardisation of key words on behalf of journal editors is proposed. Despite its limitations, however, many studies have shown that this approach provides useful information for the evaluation of productivity, and may well constitute a good general guideline in an era of cost-effectiveness and quality control.
A controlled analysis of authorship trends over two decades There is an inflationary trend in authorship that is not explained solely by the increased col-laboration between centers and funding for research. Our article should serve as a reminder to researchers and journal editors who should be more aware that the con-cerns regarding authorship are real.
Aspects of JASIS authorship through five decades It appears that the field of information science underwent a important transi-tion after the 1950s.
Advanced bibliometric methods for the evaluation of universities Thus, advanced bibliometric analysis offers a much broader range of information on research performance and scientific developments than many opponents try to make us believe.
Bibliometric indicators for the evaluation of universities - Intelligence from the quantitation of the scientific literature In this sense, the RCR is also an indicator of the publication strategy of the university in question, giving information on the quality of the publication channels used by its scientists.
Bibliometrics - Some warnings from the North Publication data/bibliometrics are useful as tools if used within their area of applicability.
Publication trends of vegetarian nutrition articles in biomedical literature, 1966-1995 The present study documented a sharp increase of vegetarian nutrition publications in biomedical literature during the past 30 y.
Growth of international contributors to dermatologic literature International representation of author-cited articles appearing in the dermatology literature is increasing.
Science and technology innovation The integrated approach has the potential to be a major breakthrough for the systematic promotion of innovation and discovery.
Latin American nephrology:: Scientific production and impact of the publications This study indicates that although efforts to- ward improving the quantity and quality of research in Latin America have been made, the final results are less than other regions in the world.
Interdisciplinary influences in the study of intercultural relations:: A citation analysis of the International Journal of Intercultural Relations The overall influence of psychology in the interdisciplinary study of intercultural relations is shown in various places in this study.
Scientific communication - A vanity fair? There is an incentive system operative in science, which links the collectively most rewarding allocation of attention with the maximum value of the attention its holder can earn.
National bias in citations in urology journals: parochialism or availability? There are significant differences in citation rates both with authors’ nationality and between journals.
Black Africa in the science citation index It is important to see, that an analysis of the scientific publications of the Black African countries which is based on the SCI or any other database of an occidental country or institution, enables us at least to draw comparisons can be a starting point for further analyses.
Scientometrics of institutional productivity of laser science and technology Fifty institutions identified as major institutions contributed about 39% of the total S&T output. Most of the identified institutions belonged to the category of either academic or research institutions which paid more attention to theoretical or experimental laser research and played the major role in S&T output in most of the countries. Twelve institutions, (4 from USSR and 1 each from USA, UK, France, Canada, India, Israel, the Netherlands, and Australia) had less than average normalized impact per paper, publication effectivity index, and proportion of high quality papers.
Summing up approaches to the study of science and technology indicators As was foreseeable at the outset, attempts to reduce the multiplicity and variety of the range of indicators presently used to measure science and technology to lean patterns have so far proved unsuccessful.
Scientometric analysis of nature, the journal Direct analysis of articles permits to distinguish a natural trend based on the growth of the activity of scientists and the artificial increase of quantity of papers caused by editorial policy or other external factors. The earlier shown correlation between rapid growth of the number of articles and average age of employed instruments (or methodology of data treatment) is confirmed by scientometric analysis of Nature. However, the study of a single journal leads to inevitable errors.
Differences in knowledge production between disciplines based on analysis of paper styles and citation patterns Our analysis of the relation between the paper length and the impact factor (Figs 1 and 2) showed two obvious groups of journals – review journals and article journals – in "physics", "biochemistry", and "psychology".
Transnational linkages of Indian science: A structural analysis Statistical analysis of transnational links of Indian science reveals that about one-eighth of all articles had involved international cooperation.
Impact of national size on research collaboration - A comparison between Northern European and American universities We can conclude that the American universities have a higher proportion of national collaboration and a lower proportion of international collaboration than the European universities have.
The modernisation of research evaluation: The case of the UK The RAE is part of the process of modernisation of UK higher education: towards the concentration of resources in pursuit of efficiency and effec-tiveness, towards evaluation against output, towards transparent measures of performance and towards clearer demarcation of the functions of research and teaching. Its impacts on relationships has been paradoxical, creating solidarity and divisiveness.
The criteria used by editors of scientific dental journals in the assessment of manuscripts submitted for publication. The application of these results can help authors to prepare manuscripts that are more attractive to editors of dental journals.
Why be my colleague's keeper? Moral justifications for peer review The paper develops two kinds of justifications for a simple claim: peer research is desirable and morally defensible. As researchers, contributors to the production of knowledge, and members of the Academy, we need to restore respect for rigorous, independent, honest peer review.
Expert systems diffusion in British banking: Diffusion models and media factor The diffusion of expert systems in British banking best fits the mixed-influence model of innovation. It also fits the external-influence model quite well.
Gender, Knowledge, and Scientific Styles With increasing numbers of women in science, and with the sug- gestive areas of difference in men's and women's styles and conceptions of sci- ence, it may well be in the interest of the scientific enterprise to embrace the advantages of a nonstandard style.
Stabilizing the Boundary between US Politics and Science: The case of OTT demonstrates that a policy breaching the essentialist boundary between politics and science does not open into the abyss.
La producción científica española en el área cardiovascular a través del Science Citation Index (1990–1996) Spanish Cardiovascular research showed an increasing international visibility over the studied period, as shown by the growing number of publications in the Science Citation Index database, the up-rising trend towards high-impact-factor journals, and the ever-growing collaboration of Spanish authors with foreign partners.
Networked scholarly publication The networked scholarly publication system seeks to sup-plant the existing for-profit system by fostering current ten-dencies within the scholarly community and focusing re-sources on a completely different, cooperative economic model for communicating ideas.
The Role of Libraries and Librarians in Organising Digital Information All access lines have in common the requirement that somebody manage the infrastructure by means of processes of input; these include: acquisitions policy; data mining and capture by navigation; quality criteria and control; knowledge organisation; and processes of output, i.e. communication; visualisation; interactive retrieval, navigation and browsing; filtering; extraction and summarisation; use, work task, and interest fulfilment.
An assessment of social sciences coverage by four prominent full-text online aggregated journal packages Although aggregated online full-text packages offer access to journals at relatively low cost for the number of titles made available, only 412 of the 1,513 journals indexed in the 1996 Social Sciences Citation Index are available in these full-text packages.
Citation, funding acknowledgement and author nationality relationships in four information science journals Almost a fifth of all the peer-reviewed articles published by these four information science journals had not been cited once after five years – and in many cases even longer. Articles whose first authors had North Atlantic affiliations were more likely to have been published in JDoc and JASIS and also more likely to have been cited than those written by authors in other countries. Logically, the next step is to look beyond the bibliographic characteristics of cited and uncited articles, as Harter and Hooten [1] have done, and as we have done here in partial fashion, in order to explore the views of those most intimately involved in the scholarly communication process.
Rewards and costs: how do they affect the choice by university researchers of the preferred funding source in the USA? One of the apparent implications of the study is that federal government agencies are still the leading source for funding for almost all university researchers. This finding should be acknowledged by university administrators who strive to match the needs of the faculty with the different funding sources. Most likely, there are other important factors which might influence the decisions of academic researchers to prefer one funding organization over another. These factors should be explored and studied in future research to allow better understanding of the relationship between university researchers and their funding sources.
College Rankings<i>and</i>Faculty Publications:<i>Are They Related?</i> This study is a snapshot of how scholarly productivity and selectivity are strongly related, but more data are needed to further explore this relationship.
On-line indicators of Danish biomedical publication behaviour 1988-96: international visibility, impact and co-operation in a Scandinavian and world context The on-line publication analyses presented show that, aside from the traditional publication activity indica- tors, mainly developed in association with the citation indices in various versions, we can produce reliable national indicators for individual S&T domains that involve central domain-related databases as well. In terms of publication behaviour, the Danish bio- medical research community shifts research and pub- lication strategies during the period: international collaboration with other countries increases both in volume and in the number of countries involved. We observe that the Danish national impact increases from 5.6 citations per publication in 1992 to 6.6 in 1996.
What do impact factors tell us? It seems that any proper comparison must be constrained to journals within a field, and, even then, more fine-scaled divi-sions are likely to be problematic: the same issues apply at a smaller scale because any field can be subdivided. A further concern is that the demand for high impact ratings will subvert science; for example, by placing increasing emphasis on areas where it is possible to complete and carry out research very quickly.
On smoothing performance in periodic merit reviews To the extent that the coefficient of variation is the appropriate measure of expected fluctuations, the two schemes currently in common use do indeed dampen fluctuations. This is not necessarily so for other measures of fluctuations, however.
A global approach to the study of teams in multidisciplinary research areas through bibliometric indicators The broad strategy proved more successful than the journal approach in providing a comprehensive picture of the Spanish teams working on cardiovascular research: it supplied an additional 40% of the teams
Evolving journal costs: implications for publishers, libraries, and readers We have provided evidence of the cyclical effect of circulation, publishing costs, price, and circulation (again) for traditional print journals. We believe that electronic publishing will not appreciably affect the current relationship of circulation, cost, and price because the cost of electronic publishing will not change significantly. If our cost data are valid, we believe that lower access cost to electronic subscriptions and separate copies of articles will reduce the cost to users and provide them with a better service. This can generate additional revenue for publishers as well, thus reversing the negative impact of spiralling prices on all the journal system participants.
Knowledge Production, Publication Productivity, and Intimate Academic Partnerships The impact on scholarly productivity of an academic partner varied by the pattern of coauthorship.
Patterns of Scholarly Communication in Information Policy: A Bibliometric Study "In many ways, the profile of the information policy test collection that emerges from this study challenges some of the assumptions about the behaviour of social science literatures that are commonplace in writings on bibliometrics."
Information science and information policy: The use of constant dollars and other indicators to manage research investments Massive evidence suggests that information science and policy, which once complemented and nourished each other, parted company about 30 years ago.
The status of research productivity in communication: 1915–1995 The top-ranked individuals have published early in their careers, and they have maintained a consistency in doing so. The top-ranked authors are cited quite often (Funkhouser, 1996). In addition, they have had a large number of books published in the discipline. The fact is that studies such as this one and that of Funkhouser (1996) are much more likely to continue than to fade away. Other disciplines, such as psychology (Cox & Catt, 1977) and economics (Laband, 1985) indicate that such qualitative analyses are likely to be continued and expanded as threats to programs and declines in funding for higher education persist.
Assessing the Quality Ranking of the<i>Journal of Advertising</i>, 1986–1997 In sum, citation analysis and expert opinions reflect favorably on JA's quality and prestige as a specialty or field journal.
Trends in publication output and impact of universities in the Netherlands Our findings suggest that, at the level of subfields (ISI journal categories) in the natural, technical and life sciences, there has been hardly any concentration of research activities among universities during the 1980s and 1990s. We found that, during the 1980s and 1990s, level-ling of the universities' research output in the natural and life sciences is a dominant trend in the Dutch aca-demic science system. We found evidence that the structure of the Dutch academic system is different from that in several other West European countries.
Library journal use and citation age in medical science The use age distributions for the mean of all the journals or of each subject category illustrate an exponentially decaying curve.
Is there a Scandinavian psychology? A bibliometric note on the publication profiles of Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden The results of this study suggest that there is a Scandina- vian psychology, but also that there are differences within Scandinavia.
Citation analysis as a collection development tool: A bibliometric study of polymer science theses and dissertations Specifically, this study has provided useful information about a large user group in the Science and Technology Library at The University of Akron.
National Publication Output in Medical Research The present study found an unexpectedly high national publication output of smaller countries as well as a clearly disproportionate number of published articles from national authors in The Lancet and the NEJM during the years 1986 to 1990 and 1991 to 1995. A gross overrepresentation of some countries in high-ranking medical journals could put others at a disadvantage in the form of a national publication bias, which could influence the international spread of scientific results and new therapeutic strategies. Ideally, countries with qualitatively comparable standards of research should make proportionally similar contributions to the total number of publications in international journals.
UK company directories on the Web Overall, our view is that Web directories can be a quick and useful tool for searching for UK companies.
The Doctoral Origins of Economics Faculty and the Education of New Economics Doctorates The education of economics doctorates is largely undertaken by graduates of a few top schools.
Collaboration in sociology and other scientific disciplines: A comparative trend analysis of scholarship in the social, physical, and mathematical sciences Collaboration in science is becoming more common irrespective of discipline. It is approaching near universality in the physical sciences, particularly in physics and chemistry, and to a lesser extent in biology. Most of the social sciences are moving toward collaborative endeavors in research.
Historical note: The Start of a Stop List at Biological Abstracts The Stop List could be run automatically. It removed clutter for the user and reduced cost for the producer. The title index could also be produced in a timely manner. The Stop List provided an improvement over the raw computer output of titles while retaining the advantages of a computer produced keyword-in-context index.
Can search engines be used as tools for web‐link analysis? A critical view The limitations which are inherent in commercial search engines should cause researchers to have reservations about any conclusions that rely on these tools as primary data-gathering instruments. In the foreseeable future, researchers who rely on commercial search engines will be limited in the scope of the research methodologies that they can use for web-link analysis and in the reliability and validity of the data generated through existing methods. A possible resolution of these problems might be the development of a search engine designed expressly for web-link analysis.
Building a list of journals with constructed impact factors The possible usefulness of constructed impact factors for citation and evaluation studies is discussed.
Searching Institute for Scientific Information databases at the Deutsches Institut für Medizinische Dokumentation und Information, Cologne The management and analysis of scientific productivity represents one of these areas and so the information specialist, as the key professional figure in this process, becomes not only an information keeper, but a special expert adviser to administrators and researchers involved in important decisions.
Red or Expert: <i>Membership in the Chinese Academy of Sciences</i> Although the Chinese Communist Party places great value on political loyalty, it has adopted a liberal policy toward elite scientists by giving more weight to their academic competence than their political soundness. Political loyalty is not equally weighted and is meaningful only in regard to those who hold administrative positions. The shift from the red-and-expert criterion to the sole emphasis on expertise means the end of political evaluations and promotions of Chinese scientists.
The Golden Age of Nobel Economists As shown in the first part of this paper age clearly matters as most Nobel economists achieve a breakthrough in academia in their twenties, hitting the mother lode of their efforts at the end of their thirties.
Boundary crossing in research literatures as a means of interdisciplinary information transfer Contemporary models of disciplinarity fail to account for the boundary-crossing publication practices described in this study. Results suggest that disciplinary boundaries are less restrictive than the literature suggests, and that boundary-crossing publications are involved in complex patterns of interdisciplinary information transfer.
An analysis of web page and web site constancy and permanence The World Wide Web represents a third model, a third information communications vehicle.
Combining mapping and citation analysis for evaluative bibliometric purposes: A bibliometric study We concluded that the method provides a detailed and useful picture of the position of the institute from an international perspective. Moreover, we found that the results of each of the two parts are an added value to the other. An additional requirement will be that the structure is obtained by analyzing words in abstracts, rather than using classification codes and controlled terms (of INSPEC).
Structures and strategies of interdisciplinary science Information initiatives can provide “leeway” to help researchers shift their efforts away from their core specialization to the peripheral domains that infuse their interdisciplinary work.
Citation analysis as a collection development tool: A bibliometric study of polymer science theses and dissertations Specifically, this study has provided useful informa-tion about a large user group in the Science and Tech-nology Library at The University of Akron.
Searching scientific information on the Internet: A Dutch academic user survey The majority of the members of the academic community are using the Internet for study- or work-related purposes. The World Wide Web is being used primarily to search general, factual, ephemeral, or very specific information. Libraries can play an important role in counteracting this problem by per-forming their traditional tasks, such as selection, biblio-graphical description, controlled subject indexing, current awareness, group courses, and individual assistance.
An assessment of social sciences coverage by four prominent full-text online aggregated journal packages Although aggregated online full-text packages offer access to journals at relatively low cost for the number of titles made available, only 412 of the 1,513 journals indexed in the 1996 Social Sciences Citation Index are available in these full-text packages. Given the many factors that should be considered in selecting access to online journals, variation in prices and impact factors for full-text journals may not deserve to be the dominant selection factors, at least not for these four packages.
A multi-method evaluation of journals in the decision and management sciences by US academics The research hypotheses that we investigated found support for some commonly held beliefs as well as confirmed the results of some previous research stu-dies.
Citation ranking versus peer evaluation of senior faculty research performance: A case study of Kurdish scholarship This study shows that citation ranking can provide a valid indicator for comparative evaluation of senior faculty research performance.
Publication trends of doctoral students in three fields from 1965-1995 Although the number of papers produced has not shown any dramatic or consistent increase over the years, the number of graduate students contributing to the literature in-creased in analytical chemistry and in American literature.
Methods for accrediting publications to authors or countries: Consequences for evaluation studies It is shown that different methods give not only different relative numerical results, but that unexpected (paradoxical) results may occur.
The influence of publication delays on the observed aging distribution of scientific literature We have explained how the publication delay function interacts with the aging distribution. Generally, we found that publication delays shift the mode of the aging curve to later times. More research and collection of detailed data are needed, both for publication delays and observed aging data. We assume that this "paradox" is largely the result of discretizing otherwise continuous phenomena (see Fig. 8). However, we leave this as an open problem.
Semantic similarities between a keyword database and a controlled vocabulary database: An investigation in the antibiotic resistance literature The data show that only a very small portion of the matching records in SCI and MEDLINE resemble each other, and the similarity dimin-ishes as the term association changes from similar to par-tially similar to dissimilar.
Open peer review: a randomised controlled trial This study supports the feasibility of an open peer review system and identifies such a system's potential drawbacks.
A profile of the members of FASEB societies: NIH-awards, degrees, and institutional affiliations, 1999 Data from the FASEB Directory of Members and NIH were used to provide a perspective on the characteristics and activities of the U.S.-based members of FASEB Societies.
Accuracy of references in the orthopaedic literature
The Research Assessment Exercise: its effect on scholarly journal publishing There is little doubt that the RAE does have an effect on journal publishing – how, really, could an exercise so tied in with the publication of research not have some effect? It seems, though, that the effects it does have are concentrated in certain areas. Finally, through the effectiveness of peer-review, and the international nature of journal publishing, the publishers remain at least somewhat insulated from the effects of the RAE on the communities they serve.
Distribution of research awards from the National Institutes of Health among medical schools Research funded by the NIH is becoming more concentrated in the medical schools that are most active in research.
Fullerene data mining using bibliometrics and database tomography Full-text phrase proximity analysis is in its infancy but has the potential to produce extremely significant relationship results.
Self-citations in six anaesthesia journals and their significance in determining the impact factor A high self-citing rate of a journal may positively affect its impact factor.
The physician-scientist: Career issues and challenges at the year 2000 The number of medical students interested in pursuing a career in research continues to diminish.
Determining the publication impact of a digital library A citation analysis on the documents distributed by the LTRS showed almost no impact.
RETRACTED: Composition of the editorial/advisory boards of major English-language anesthesia/critical care journals (Retracted Article) Most editors/editorial board members of important Anesthesiology, Emergency and Critical Care journals came from the USA.
The Web as an information source on informetrics? A content analysis The results of these comparisons indicate that valuable, freely available data is hidden in the Web waiting to be extracted from the millions of Web pages. Our systematic comparison with commercial bibliographic databases shows that the Web has an excellent potential to serve as a bibliographic database, although it totally lacks the appropriate interface for it. Further research in additional areas of science is needed to substantiate the finding that valuable and thorough bibliographic data can be extracted from the Web.
The impact of interdisciplinary research in the environmental sciences: A forestry case study Using citation analysis and ordinary least-squares regression, we found strong statistical evidence that articles drawing from a diverse literature were characterized by higher citation rates than articles having smaller and/or more narrowly focused bibliographies.
How good are the best papers of JASIS? The best articles of JASIS appear to be long, single-authored statements about on-line searching and retrieval.
Opportunities lost: NIH research funding to New York's medical schools The time is right for an expansion of New York's capacity to conduct funded research.
Scientific publication productivity of Korean medical colleges: An analysis of 1988-1999 MEDLINE papers In summary, the 12-year review of medical publication outputs contributed from Korean medical colleges reveals that two universities, Seoul National University and Yonsei University, are the major centers of medical re-search internationally recognizable. The newly established medical colleges at the University of Ulsan and Sung-kyunkwan University made an outstanding progress in less than ten years. The productivity of Internal medicine is on the rise from the mid-1990s, and the field began to produce the most number of papers since then.
The impact of the International Foundation for Science (IFS) funding on Latin American research in animal health and production From the trends in the number of grants given to LA scientists from 1975 onwards it is possible to see the progressive development of the IFS as an important funding body for the region. Nevertheless, the increase does indicate that the IFS goal of contributing to the development of LA science is being achieved regardless of whether this is happening through increased individual or collective output. As far as value for money is concerned, analysis of the relationship between the levels of grant assignation and scientific production would suggest that IFS invested wisely with respect to the funding given to Costa Rica, Brazil and Chile.
Science in a small country at a time of globalisation: domestic and international collaboration in new biology research in Israel To overcome the problems of conducting world-class research in a small country, Israel uses collaboration with overseas laboratories to great advantage. The Government in Israel sees international scientific cooperation as vital for Israel in several ways. In fact, Israel's scientists are the world's most international.
Scientific publications in gastroenterology and hepatology in Western Europe, USA and Japan in the years 1992-1996: A global survey In conclusion, we have presented an overview of aca-demic gastroenterology and hepatology in western Eu-rope, USA and Japan during the period 1992-1996 de-fined by the quality and quantity of scientific publica-tions.
Top-cited dermatology authors publishing in 5 "high-impact" general medical journals "Top-cited authors in dermatology jour-nals also frequently publish in the leading 5 high-impact general medical journals."
The accuracy of citation and quotation in otolaryngology/head and neck surgery journals This study has demonstrated a citation error rate of 37.5% and a quotation error rate of 17% in the otolaryngology/head and neck surgery literature. These results are consistent with error rates in other medical specialties, which have shown little change over at least the last 12 years. The onus is on authors, reviewers and editors to reduce these rates as much as possible.
The mathematical models of the periodical literature publishing process Two kinds of the theoretical mathematical models which represent the periodical literature publishing process are established. The effectiveness of the models on illustrating the physical essence of the literature publishing process is demonstrated. It not only provides the effective mathematical tool for the quantitised study on the literature publishing process, but the methodological significance for the study on literature obsolescence and increasing process.
Measuring research quality: peer review 1, citation indices 0 In conclusion, these results support the view that peer reviews are regarded as a better absolute measure of research journal quality than citation scores.
Survey of active verbs in the titles of clinical trial reports They are indeed “improper and imprudent," and too often plain wrong.
Faculty in transition: A longitudinal analysis of perceived control and type of institution in the research productivity of newly hired faculty If the adjustment of newly hired faculty is viewed in terms of research productivity, then these results suggest that perceived control, the milieu of research-oriented institutions, and age (to a limited extent), are important predictors of faculty performance.
Science in Africa: A bibliometric panorama using PASCAL database A preliminary overview of other databases bears out the general tendencies we brought out in this article. They show that the current decade is one of crisis in African research. The Maghreb is witnessing an unprecedented gain in power. Nigerian science is, in quite the contrary situation, imploding. The "privatization" of science (contractualization, a rush of consultancy study proposals) makes production at the fundamental end of scientific endeavour even rarer and does little to help increase and perpetuate the breeding grounds for learned activity.
Multidimensional analysis of trends in patent activity The above studies have shown that a multidimensional analysis of patenting profiles by CFA – that uses time as one of its key variables – can provide graphic overviews of the trends in the patent activity of nations in different disciplines. A handful of overviews replace reams of binary comparisons. The overviews consider the object of the study as a dynamic system; they do not arise from the comparison of items in isolation. Moreover, this multidimensional technique is particularly valuable as it is flexible and highly comprehensive.
Developing and using indicators of multilateral S&T cooperation for policy making: The experience from European research programmes For these reasons indicators of EU programme participation can play an important role in the development of national research policy; they provide decision-makers at the regional or national level with the tools needed to grasp a complex situation and suggest important tracks to prepare strategic decisions for the future.
Laboratory activity profiles:: An exploratory approach Activity profiles thus reveal de facto strategies (may these be formal or not, or depend or not upon a voluntary approach). The test, however limited it is, clearly demonstrates that profiles cross institutional and disciplinary barriers. This calls for new empirical work on lab trajectories.
Strategies of European SMEs in biotechnology:: The role of size, technology and market 2) No specific national characteristics appear clearly. Consequently, the evolution of the technology base at the sectoral level is primarily due to developments in the number of SMEs. The renewal of technologies is due to newcomers. 4) Four clusters of associations between technologies and markets can be observed.
Demand for scientific articles and citations:: An example from the Institut de l'information scientifique et technique (France) It may therefore be assumed that a trade in electronic articles is likely to develop quite rapidly in disciplines which are common to both lists, although this would focus on reputed titles only, but that a different pattern of electronic document exchange would emerge for scientific literature in other disciplines.
An analysis of document types published in journals related to physics: Proceeding papers recorded in the Science Citation Index database Main results provide useful information about the way ISI document type categories have evolved since 1990: Letters tended to decrease; Notes disappeared to the benefit of Articles; Proceedings represented more than 15% of all documents and they ranked second after Articles (about 75%).
A new approach to the SCI Journal Citation Reports, a system for evaluating scientific journals Our guide for evaluating journals, which is the synthetic reconstruction of two sections of the SCI JCR, helps to avoid making incorrect interpretations, because it avoids an over-simplified view of the complex reality of the world of journals.
Shadows of the past in international cooperation: Collaboration profiles of the top five producers of science Area of political and cultural influence is probably still the most accurate predictor of scientific network for the five countries examined.
The NASA Astrophysics Data System: Overview We find that the ADS increases the efficiency of astronomical research by 333 Full Time Equivalent (2000 hour) research years per year, and that the value of the early development of the ADS for astronomy, compared with waiting for mature technologies to be adopted, is 2332 FTE research years.
The accuracy of references of three allergy journals In summary, an unacceptable rate of reference errors has been found in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Clinical and Experimental Allergy, and Allergy. Greater emphasis and responsibility must be placed on authors to check the accuracy of cited refer- ences in submitted manuscripts.
How can we investigate citation behavior? A study of reasons for citing literature in communication To summarize the results of the multivariate analyses, the three most significant factors in predicting citation to a document are the following: first, the perception that the cited work is novel, well known, and represents a genre of studies; second, the citing author's judgment that citing a prestigious work will promote the cognitive authority of his or her own work; and third, the perception that a cited item deserves criticism-which can also serve to establish the citer as an authoritative, critical thinker. Further work is needed to address the respective roles of creativity, contrasts, and similarities among works, and works that are cited mainly because they review other literature. If creative works indeed have such a dual nature, the use of citation counts in university promotion decisions (and in other contexts) is further complicated.
An "interest" index for WWW servers and CyberRanking The time-based interest (TBI) index was designed to reflect the popularity of Web pages. Experimental evaluation of the TBI index showed that is obeys Zipf's law, as does the number of accesses to pages. The CyberRanking visualizaton system was designed to analyze access logs based on the TBI index.
Evaluating "payback" on biomedical research from papers cited in clinical guidelines: applied bibliometric study Analysis of the evidence base of clinical guidelines may be one way of tracking the flow of knowledge from the laboratory to the clinic
Measuring the quality of publications: new methodology and case study This methodology gives ranked lists of journals (ISI and non-ISI) and proceedings, and book publishers respectively.
General study of the distribution of N-tuples of letters or words based on the distributions of the single letters or words In this paper, we have established the rank-frequency distribution of N-tuples of objects, given the conditional object distributions in coordinate i ∈ {1, ..., N}. We formulate here the problem of extending the conditional distributions P(ri | i) (as used here) to distributions of the form P(ri | i, N) where the probabilities also depend on the length N of the N-tuple and to prove results similar to the ones here but using P(ri | i, N) instead of the simpler P(ri | i).
A bibliometric analysis of publications by the Chemistry Department, Seoul National University, Korea, 1992-1998 No correlation between the number of papers by a particular chemist and the average number of citations per paper for that chemist was indicated by the study.
Luhmann, Habermas and the theory of communication The communication is expected to change both substantively and in terms of its structure.
Mining the Web for relations In this paper we studied the duality problem of how entities are related on the Web.
What is wrong with obsolescence? The concept (or term) “topicality,” considered as a latent variable defined in terms of citations, is a more faithful reflection of the information that is being used in research than the concept of obsolescence defined in terms of an aging factor. The criterion obtained with "topicality" leads to a more satisfactory selection of journals than that provided by the aging factor.
Probability distributions in library and information science: A historical and practitioner viewpoint First, the skewed distributions found in library and information science and described by empirical informetric laws are not unusual.
North and South: bridging the information gap The difficulties in research, publication, editorial bias, and information access facing the least-developed parts of the world are profound and seem almost intractable (panel 2).
Individual and institutional productivity of racial and ethnic minority research in the Journal of Counseling Psychology Our results identify current leaders in the field of racial and ethnic research in counseling psychology who have published in JCP, as well as the institutions in which they work. Future research should continue to expand the results from this study to include other journals in which counseling psychologists publish (e.g., The Counseling Psychologist, Journal of Counseling & Development, and Journal of Vocational Behavior) to examine a more comprehensive picture of productivity in racial and ethnic research within the profession. Moreover, research that determines the potential impact of ethnic and racial articles on the provision and delivery of mental health services by counseling psychologists to diverse populations may be warranted.
Judging surgical research: How should we evaluate performance and measure value? In the future, a tighter alignment between business and research strategies will create the need for changes in the department of surgery that challenge the existing culture, traditional hierarchical structures, and reward systems.
Motivations for hyperlinking in scholarly electronic articles: A qualitative study "Therefore, it may be concluded that hyperlink counts cannot be used as a simple measure of the relative quality, influence, or impact of source documents hyperlinked in scholarly electronic environments."
Impact of prior electronic publication on manuscript consideration policies of scholarly journals The findings suggest that editorial policies regarding prior electronic publication are in an early stage of development. Most journal editors do not have a formal policy regarding the evaluation of work previously published in electronic form, nor are they currently evaluating such a policy. The findings of this study reveal how the Internet and the World Wide Web are currently affecting manuscript consideration policies of scholarly journals at this early stage of Web and Internet publishing.
RETRACTED: Changes in the impact factor of anesthesia/critical care journals within the past 10 years (Retracted Article) Although the value of the IF is highly controversial, it is a frequently used tool to assess rating of a medical journal.
Inbreeding in law school hiring: Assessing the performance of faculty hired from within We present evidence that the doctoral programs have a solid basis for their rules.
Determinants of citations to articles in elite law reviews There may be a strong temptation to read many of our results as recipes for citation success.
How many neurosurgeons does it take to write a research article? Authorship proliferation in neurosurgical research The proliferation of multiauthor articles and the decrease in the proportion of single-author articles in the neurosurgical literature parallel trends observed in many other areas of biomedical research. This survey demonstrated that the neurosurgical literature mirrors the general trend of authorship proliferation in biomedical research. Possible explanations include larger research teams, variable or absent journal criteria for defining authorship, and the increased awarding of "gift" authorships.
Statistical research in Europe:: 1985-1997 The analyses we have presented indicate a very dynamic situation in statistical research in Europe in the last 12 years. As far as countries are concerned, the U.K., The Netherlands, and the Scandinavian countries decrease their relative contributions whereas Spain, Italy, Belgium, France and Austria have a big increase in their contributions. As far as institutions are concerned, the changes are very profound. Only half of the institutions that were among the top 50 in the first period, 1985-1989, remain in this category in the last period, 1993-1997.
Database tomography applied to an aircraft science and technology investment strategy In summary, database tomography (DT) and bibliometrics would appear to be extremely effective tools for technology program man-agers in the development of an investment strategy.
Measuring consensus about scientific research norms In this context, perhaps the major finding of the study is that both scientists and their science administrators define the ethics of scientific research practice primarily through actions of the investigator. Among the four kinds of scientific misconduct represented in the four kinds of scenarios, misleading scientific practice is on the average seen by both scientists and administrators to be the most unethical. The general lesson is that to capture the requisite complexity, respondents must be presented with an elaborate stimulus.
Geographical distribution of publications in Human Reproduction and Fertility and Sterility in the 1990s In conclusion, the geographical distribution of publications in HR and F&S follows the pattern of the distribution of publications in general biomedical research. Most publications come from affluent countries. Although the USA and the UK appear to be the most productive countries in absolute numbers, smaller affluent countries like Israel and Belgium are more productive when the numbers are normalized to population or GDP.
Databases in materials science -: Contemporary state and future If the aim of Science is the pursuit of truth, then the pursuit of information may divert people from Science (and curiously thus from the truth, too).
Intellectual property - Coauthorship and coinventorship The proposed system fully recon- ciles the notions of author- ship and inventorship, solving most legal problems arising from concomitant publication and patenting of the same sub- ject matter. This solution would not only sat- isfy the legalistic worries of patent special- ists; it would also alleviate some of the prob- lems plaguing the current authorship system.
R&D evaluation at the beginning of the new century Returning to the first part of our contribution, the as-sessment of the socioeconomic impact of R&D, we conclude the following.
Indicator-assisted evaluation of R&D programmes: possibilities, state of the art and case studies S&T indicators discussed in this contribution can be used successfully for R&D programme evaluation.
International trends in evaluating university research outcomes: what lessons for Australia? Australian experience with 'results' evaluation for academic research has been quite extensive. The greater involvement of universities themselves in research evaluation and performance management and assessment is certainly consistent with international trends, and with the 'learning loop' model of evaluation discussed in the study. But, if the issue is extending the evaluation of the quality of university research, developing new approaches to measuring its relevance or impact, recruiting intermediaries and users to the evaluation process, or tracking the broader social contribution of research trained graduates, it will undoubtedly pay Australian research councils and agencies to keep a weather eye on the evaluation strategies of their overseas counterparts.
360 degree linkage analysis This paper offers an exploration of a complete institutional level analysis of bibliometric linkage information, with DuPont taken as a case study.
Aging, obsolescence, impact, growth, and utilization: Definitions and relations Our main results are that growth can influence aging but that it does not cause aging.
Renormalized impact factor Thus Fr allows a direct comparison among different scientific area journals without introducing other considerations.
Does peer review predict the performance of research projects in health sciences? This analysis of the Spanish Health Research Fund data support the use of peer review in proposal selection, but more research is needed to further improve the selection process. Funding agencies should monitor their selection process and assess the performance of funded projects to design future strategies in supporting health sciences research.
Authorship and citation patterns in operational research journals in relation to competition and reform The above analysis of authorship and citation patterns revealed a mixture of different directions in the two OR journals.
Forgetting and the ageing of scientific publications We might conclude that, at least from 'age 4', the inverse function is the best predictor of the ageing process of scientific information, just as it has turned out to be for the ageing process of historical facts from 'age 1'.
Journal as markers of intellectual space: Journal co-citation analysis of information Retrieval area, 1987-1997 Base on this research, journal co-citation mapping produced clear, coherent, and reasonable results. So, we can conclude that IR specialty is multi-disciplinary specialty. This research also indicates that IR can be considered as a maturing specialty during the period of 1987-1997 because of the stable IR journal-set during this period.
A bibliometric study of the publication patterns in the sciences of South African scholars 1981-96 "The findings obtained in this study point to a steady decline in productivity and World shares for most of the scientific fields, except for Physics." "However, the quality of the publications from South Africa, in terms of relative citation impact, is increasing since 1993 and may soon again reach the level obtained during the 1980s." "The study points to the marked difference in productivity of Professors, Associate Professors and Senior Lecturers with regard to publications."
Patent statistics as indicators of competition an analysis of patenting in biotechnology The present paper applied this understanding, and generated a number of indices derived from data bases on patenting. These are indicators on Competition, Technology Pool, Language Technology Pool, Modified Competition, Market Attractiveness and on the Strength of Patent Market. The future research now needs to be taken up in this area of comprehending the competitive aspect of patenting. The indicators proposed in this paper are only the first step in this direction.
The introduction of economic methods to scientometrics: The citing-cited table and the autopoietic systems of citations The method discussed here has four main merits. Second, the method is based on Fujigaki's theory allowing the gap between theoretical and methodological aspects to be bridged. Lastly, this method has great potential.
Inside the frontier areas of research in physics: A micro level analysis In this paper, a methodology is proposed for uncovering the Frontier Topics in a research area and generating the profile of countries active in them. The objective of this exercise has been to show that activity measured in terms of research output can be utilised to revel some insights into the research performance of a country.
Fragmentation of the intellectual structure of political communication study: Some empirical evidence The findings of this quantitative study complements and cross-validates the assessment made by other traditional qualitative reviews about the field.
Bibliometric output from Colombian researchers with approved projects by COLCIENCIAS between 1983 and 1994 Main conclusion from the previous panorama is immediate: there exists a high concentration of scientific production on few actors and this is true in all levels of desegregation studied.
Trends and profile in enzyme engineering research during 1971-98 There is a general decrease in the number of outputs (patents and publications), and also in the number of groups involved in R&D in this field from 1993 onwards. This identification contradicts the expectations one would have made by seeing the potential applications of immobilized enzymes and their chances of getting commercialized successfully. The reasons and happenings during that year need to be investigated in order to explain the observed phenomena, which will be taken up in the later study.
Do important papers produce high citation counts? Therefore important papers almost invariably produce many more citations than others, and citation counts are good measures of importance or usefulness. Thus the important ones have 2.5 times the half-life as average papers. It appears that astronomers can write important papers throughout their careers.
Contribution of Turkish researchers to the world's biomedical literature (1988-1997) We summarized the preliminary findings of our research that was based on 8442 biomedical publications that were contributed to by Turkish researchers and appeared in MEDLINE between 1988-1997.
Bibliometric distance between methodology and application in statistics Statistical methodology and applied statistics are certainly different and distant each other but at a more moderate degree than presupposed in presenting the hypotheses.
The bias of sighted reviewers in research proposal evaluation: A comparative analysis of blind and open review in Korea Based on the discussions so far, we are able to conclude that evaluation behavior is different between blinded and sighted evaluation groups. Thus, we recommend the KOSEF and other similar funding organizations that they expand the blind review system as much as possible. We suggest further testing of moderating variables.
Science in Scandinavia:: A bibliometric approach Sweden is, beyond any doubt, the biggest scientific power in Scandinavia but, for the nineties, the bibliometric indicators applied in this study describe a more favourable situation in Finland and Denmark.
Patent citations in a novel field of technology - What can they tell about interactions between emerging communities of science and technology? This paper has shown that patent citations are not only essentially different from literature citations, but also that the patent citation linkage reflects a reciprocal and interactive relationship between science and technology. Most citations found connect instrumentation technology with natural sciences (especially physics and chemistry) and multidisciplinary sciences. However, one cannot answer these questions by solely relying on patent citation data. Case studies of (non-) interaction between nano-science and technology will be necessary to further examine the relationship between the emerging R&D communities.
Knowledge production and knowledge flows in the Swedish biotechnology innovation system Bibliometrics is a very useful tool in studying research intensive innovation systems. It allows us to identify prominent actors in public and private sectors and their scientific profile as well as relations between actors. A significant result in the present study is the strong dominance of Karolinska Institutet in this area. The strong dependence on university research that the innovation processes in biotechnology seem to have was indicated by the bibliometric data since as much as 65 percent of the firm articles were co-authored with a public research organisation.
Bibliometric analysis of the Welfare Topic The study, which primary aim is to improve the methodology of quantitative analysis in the so called "soft" sciences, will increase the interest among social scientists, scholars of the humanities and library and information science to use databases as analytical tools and to apply the modern text mining techniques for the extraction of knowledge from bibliographic data.
Critical aspects of the Danish Welfare State - as revealed by issue tracking The methodology of issue tracking has been used to follow the developments within the Welfare State debate in Denmark.
A heuristic study of the first-citation distribution By combining an exponentially decreasing aging function for the citations to articles and a Lotka function for the number of received citations, we were able to prove the following mathematical model for the cumulative distribution of first-citation times: Φ(t₁) = γ(1-a^t₁)^α-1 combining the aging rate a and Lotka's exponent α in one formula. We have shown by practical examples that function (9) on its own is capable of fitting accurately first-citation data, whether they are concavely shaped or S-shaped. In a forthcoming paper we hope to even refine the above model by combining the lognormal aging distribution with the Lotka production distribution.
International collaboration in Indian scientific papers Unlike other developing countries, India has a large indigenous scientific production in the basic sciences, of which a part is reflected in the SCI.
Some characteristics of young vs. established American astronomers: Entering the new century Thus the claim that American astronomy was becoming increasingly dependent on fresh faces from other countries was not true at the time it was made, but turns out to have had considerable predictive power. The earlier two groups were both about 10% female, rising to 15% in the new group (both the trend and the approximate percentages being confirmed by other sorts of samples). But the median time has now leveled off at 6 years for PhDs received in 1989-1994 and 1995-1999.
National systems of innovation: Institutional linkages and performances in the case of Korea and Taiwan In general we have found that not only their sharp increase in outputs of knowledge production and technological capabilities but also brought about internationally competitive position.
A comparison of Iranian scientific publications in the Science Citation Index: 1985-1989 and 1990-1994 Our study has shown that Iran is slowly, but steadily, increasing its international profile in science and technology through research publications in journals indexed by the Science Citation Index. Our study period points to Iran's increasing efforts and funding in education and research especially in the biomedical fields and selected applied fields such as nuclear science and chemical engineering.
Validation of bibliometric indicators in the field of microbiology: A Norwegian case study Thus, insufficient subfield delineation, and not lack of coverage, appeared to be the main methodological problem in the bibliometric analysis of microbiology. Our study has shown that a large majority of the international scientific publications in Norwegian microbiology is covered by the NSIOD database. Our author-gated retrieval procedure would seem well suited for a combinatorial approach in which the present expert classification is replaced by a keyword-based search algorithm to produce a fully computerised bibliometric method for analysis of scientific fields.
Stratification among journals in management research: A bibliometric study of interaction between European and American journals First of all it was demonstrated that the network among the journals was structured in such a way that the European journals formed a periphery in relation to the American core journals.
The international visibility and citation impact of Scandinavian research articles in selected Social Science fields: The decay of a myth The conclusion is that SSCI, although biased towards Anglo-American publications, actually makes room for valid bibliometric and scientometric analyses of research published by Scandinavian and other smaller countries with English as the second language in journals regarded international by ISI. Hence, for the NW region of EU the usability of SSCI as a tool for information retrieval as well as research evaluation at international scale seems quite meaningful. For this region the decay of the prevailing myth, that SSCI does not display feasible and reliable informetric measures, is fast in progress.
Socio-bibliometric mapping of intra-departmental networks This study has shown how the intra departmental interactions can be studied by adding social data to different types of bibliometric networks. The most obvious differences between the two departments is that Department A appears to be much more egalitarian than Department B, when it comes to the successive formation of interactive links among junior and senior, male and female authors. Summing up, combining bibliometric data with sociological data about the authors appears to improve our understanding of the structure and dynamics of internal networks of academic departments.
What is special about patent citations? Differences between scientific and patent citations One major conclusion will be that the general nature of a common framework for both scientific and patent citations would severely limit its usefulness, but research on academic citations might still be a great source of inspiration to the study of patent citations.
Scientific productivity and group size: A bibliometric analysis of Norwegian microbiological research The overall scientific production (including microbiological as well as non-microbiological articles) was thus a strict function of the number of authors associated with each research group, i.e., the per capita productivity was independent of group size. The relatively uniform (Poisson-distributed) per capita productivity of the Norwegian microbiological research groups, and the remarkably constant (and subfield-independent) productivity index makes it unlikely that organizational factors other than group size will be identifiable as significant determinants of scientific output. If the results of the present study have any general validity, the allocation of such positions can obviously be done without any fear of compromising the optimal size of research groups.
External research collaboration in two small science systems From the above analysis, we can conclude that there are similarities between these two islands in the extent of research collaboration and the characteristics of their ties to the wider scientific world.
Bradford's law in the context of information provision This study shows that by comparing core journals in different databases it is possible to identify a "core of the core", which consists of journals in more than one database. These journals seem to be essential if a basic collection in the subject field "Information retrieval and seeking" is developed. Bradford analyses could be applied also on other criteria than the scholarly journal.
The fate of manuscripts rejected by a general medical journal The majority of the manuscripts that were rejected from a large general medical journal were eventually published after an average of 18 months.
Mapping cancer, cardiovascular and malaria research in Brazil The results reported here show that the ISI and Medline databases can be merged to produce reliable performance indicators for the mapping of scientific capabilities and for monitoring scientific activity in Brazil in health-related areas such as cancer, cardio- vascular and malaria.
Reproducibility of peer review in clinical neuroscience - Is agreement between reviewers any greater than would be expected by chance alone? In neither of the journals that we studied was agreement between independent reviewers on whether manuscripts should be published, or their priority for publication, convincingly greater than that which would have been expected by chance alone. In other words, the reproducibility of the peer review process in these instances was very poor. There is a need for further research into peer review in each of these areas.
Evaluation of the publication activity of research teams by means of scientometric indicators The assessment method has become an integral part of the management system of the Institute.
Mapping fish research in India Fish research in India appears to be mediocre in general. A large majority of their papers got published either in non-SCI journals or low-impact journals of poor visibility. Papers that reported the use of molecular biology tech-niques got published in journals with somewhat higher impact and better visibility, but even these were not cited often.
Mapping international collaboration in science in Asia through coauthorship analysis By 1998 the situation has improved considerably for collaboration involving the three Asian giants and other Asian countries. In particular, China, South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore have become much more international. China, in particular, seems to be emerging as a regional focal point.
Partial orders and measures for language preferences We have shown that similar to the notions of concentration, diversity, and evenness, the relative own-language preference and the openness of one language with respect to another one can be represented by a partial order.
Communication between science and technology studies journals: A case study in differentiation and integration in scientific fields The above analysis shows that patterns of differentiation dominate strongly, between the sociological and the more policy-oriented approaches within STS, as well as between the sociological approach and the methodological approach.
Percolation as a model for informetric distributions: Fragment size distribution characterised by Bradford curves Percolation seems to be an interesting technique to simulate generalised bibliographies (IPPs), such as publication lists of scientific institutes, and their time evolution.
The distribution of N-grams We have shown that, under more realistic assumptions than in Mandelbrot (1977), where we assume that the symbols follow a power law (instead of a uniform distribution) and where they occur independently of each other, that the N-gram distribution is a power law of ΨN(r), where ΨN is the inverse of the function fN(x) = x lnN-1x. This result is new and is obtained without any simplification (as mentioned in section II) or approximation. As open problem we can formulate: Establish a theory in which general texts (words with arbitrary lengths) can be treated.
Is the European Union becoming a single publication system? In the case of the publication system, however, the main conclusion from this study seems to be that R&D is internationally integrated, for example, with the American and Japanese R&D-systems.
A bibliometric profile of Flemish research in natural, life and technical sciences The first characteristic of the Flemish research potential in natural, life and technical sciences is the high productivity of its scientists.
Science-technology linkages in an emerging research platform: The case of combinatorial chemistry and biology The results of the empirical analysis provide evidence that supports the following conclusions. First, the predominance of patent citations to basic research journals supports the view that technological invention in combinatorial synthesis is characterised by an extremely high scientific content. The preliminary results of this study emphasise the significance of the contribution of academic research to industrial innovation.
Bibliometric indicators reflect publication and management strategies Our outcomes reveal that differences in rankings cannot be interpreted merely in terms of quality or significance of research, and underline the necessity for evaluating agencies to combine the findings in bibliometric studies with background knowledge on the state of development of the units to be assessed, and on their publication and management strategies. A possible implication at the science policy level is that different requirements should hold for departments of different age or personnel structure. It is suggested that the problem of assigning papers resulting from multi-lateral collaboration to the contributing research groups has not yet been solved properly, and that more research is needed into the influence of a department's state of development and personnel structure upon the values of bibliometric indicators.
On growth, ageing, and fractal differentiation of science On the basis of the measured time-dependent distribution function of references in recent (1998) scientific publications, over a total period of two centuries, we have made a number of observations leading to the mathematical formulation of ageing and growth of science. Thus, we derive from our empirical findings a fractal differentiation model of science, which is in agreement with earlier empirical findings20 concerning the clustering of scientific literature. Science is always revolutionary, but by the typical statistics of complex systems, there are mostly smaller and only rarely big breakthroughs.
Scientometric studies and their role in research policy of two research councils in the Netherlands The studies demonstrated the possibilities to give a scientific and quantitative basis to science policy, based on statistical description and analysis. No doubt, future scientometric analyses will be partly directed on subjects which are relevant for contemporary topics in science policy.
Output-financing at LUC The main advantage of the output evaluation and financing system used by LUC's research council is the simple fact that it has made research output debatable.
Citation analysis of cuban research. Part 1. A case study: the Cuban Journal of Agricultural Science Although the self-citation rate is high, the journal compares well with journals published in Developing Countries but it scores particularly low at the international scene, which seems a characteristic of DC-journals. At the local level, the analysis reveals interesting and consistent details about Cuban agricultural research, of which CJAS is the most prominent medium. We showed that, at least technically, a bibliometric analysis of Cuban research efforts produces consistent results, which, when interpreted carefully, may turn out to be useful for a Cuban research policy.
How to select publications on occupational health: the usefulness of Medline and the impact factor Simply following up occupational health journals is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the occupational health professional.
A revisited auditing of the analytical abstracts database Our auditing has shown that the AA database is in general terms still a correct and useful tool of information gathering and retrieval in analytical chemistry, as topical coverage and covered journal comprehensiveness is concerned. A small drawback we have found is still the only partial coverage of the contents of a few specialized “titled" analytical chemistry journals. Additionally, a wise shortening of the tail of the distribution would perhaps be useful professionally and lucrative economically.
Publications on paediatric anaesthesia: a quantitative analysis of publication activity and international recognition We conclude that publications on paediatric anaesthesia are clustered in a small num-ber of journals and are written predominantly by authors from English-speaking countries, who achieved the highest international recognition.
The accuracy of references in Australian and New Zealand Medical Journals The reference error rate in Australia and New Zealand medical journals is high and is preventable. Authors should be more diligent and preferably verify cited references against the original article.
Preparing astronomy majors for the job market of the new millennium This proposal will not solve all the problems but I do believe it shows a way in which we can address some of them.
Citation classics from the information systems literature Identifying these ‘classics' allows the neophyte to find and fill the gaps in his or her knowl- edge base. A greater understanding and appreciation for the classic literature results in greater understand- ing and comprehension of the current literature.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1995-1999) This study is one in an ongoing series whose goal is to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE.
Bibliometric analysis of physics in Catalonia: Towards quality consolidation? In short, we could consider that physics research in Catalonia is evolving in a positive way from the bibliometric point of view, especially in the last few years, reaching important features in certain subfields of physics' areas, some of which are already consolidated. Yet it has still many important drawbacks, such as the meagre relationship with industry, the low level of financial support and scarce number of researchers, as compared with European averages, the excessive fragmentation of groups, a low presence at the scientific policy decision level, and an industrial environment more devoted to production than to development and research. Other aspects such as patents in applied or technological research, or the amount of funding, should be explored in order to obtain a wider and deeper view of research in the field of physics in Catalonia.
Results of an extensive search for "S&T indicators" on the Web: A content analysis Our searches clearly show that the Web is a valuable information source on the topic "S&T indicators".
Activity and growth of organic chemistry research in India during 1971-1989 India's research activity in organic chemistry as reflected by the values of the Activity Index was lower than the world's during the 70s, however, the activity picked up during the 80s.
Citation footprint analysis Part I: UK and US chemical engineering academics However, it does appear from our results that chemical engineering in the US has re-invented itself, whilst in the UK it remains much closer to the traditional subject of the past. The RF and "footprint" techniques we have described are, of course, capable of further development. Research is currently underway to develop these footprint studies.32
Driving factors of high performance in Brazilian Management Sciences for the 1981-1995 period "In conclusion, the present paper has shown that collaboration seems to be the most important driving factor for performance improvement in Brazilian Management Sciences."
Modelling the growth of literature in the area of theoretical population genetics On comparing the results obtained from actual statistical fits of the different growth models and the appropriate growth model likely to fit, as reflected in the plots of two growth rate functions of the data on the cumulated growth of publications and new authors, it is concluded that power model (α > 0, γ > 1) is observed to be the only model which best describe the cumulative growth of publications and new authors in theoretical population genetics. This observation is, quite in agreement with the results obtained by Egghe and Rao while studying growth of literature in number of databases in S&T, but is contrary to the general view that exponential or logistic growth models explains such a growth in research specialties.
Web-based analyses of e-journal impact: Approaches, problems, and issues These findings call into question the legitimacy of using backlink searches to evaluate the scholarly impact of e-journals and e-journal articles (and by ex-tension, e-journal authors). We believe that researchers cannot legitimately use the latter for purposes such as evaluation of the impact of e-journals, e-journal articles, and by extension, article authors, until these differences are much better understood than they are presently. The present research is a step in this direction.
Bibliometric Information Retrieval System (BIRS): A Web search interface utilizing bibliometric research results The results of the user evaluation of the BIRS confirm that this system can help user form and expand their queries as well as aid users to better understand the information retrieval domain area.
Portmanteau test for randomness in Poisson data We have shown that the Portmanteau test is a powerful method for testing randomness in discrete, Poisson data.
Shifts in the world science centre: space-time characteristics and disciplinary analysis A number of conclusions may be drawn from the analysis described above, although it should be noted that these conclusions are provisional and must be verified by further analysis of more data from other chronological tables.
Normative orientations of university faculty and doctoral students This paper confirms that subscription to the Mertonian norms is very high, especially among faculty. As supports for academic self-regulation, these norms remain firmly in place. This study also suggests, however, that it would be wrong to assume that all members of the academy are equally strongly committed to classical norms as expressed in Merton's set, that these norms represent the everyday routine in academic departments, or that researchers reject alternative normative formulations.
The politics of certainty: Conceptions of science in an age of uncertainty We must remain open to novelty and surprise, letting time tell its often unpredictable tale.
Assessment of Spanish scientific journals on geology "The present study pro-vides objective data for improving the knowledge about domestic scientific jour-nals. Spanish journals on Geology form a heterogeneous group, as far as their the-matic and geographic coverage and the nature of the publishing institution are concerned."
The transformation of scientific communication: A model for 2020 The period of transition is underway, without question. While print and electronic information will continue to coexist, eventually digital libraries with much enhanced access will prevail. All these developments are resulting in blurred roles for participants in the system of scientific communication.
Connecting minds: Computer-mediated communication and scientific work As anticipated, CMC does appear to be central to both professional and research-related aspects of scientific work.
Not just a matter of time: Field differences and the shaping of electronic media in supporting scientific communication This analysis concludes that communicative plurality and communicative heterogeneity are durable features of the scholarly landscape, and that we are likely to see field differences in the use of and meaning ascribed to communications forums persist, even as overall use of electronic communications technologies both in science and in society as a whole increases. We expect that considerations of trust will continue to shape the kinds of scholarly communication that are seen as legitimate in a specific field. The divide between fields where researchers share unrefereed articles and papers quite freely ("open flow fields") and those where peer reviewing creates a kind of chastity belt ("restricted flow fields") is likely to change slowly, if at all.
Sharing digitized research-related information on the World Wide Web Web publication of digitizable research-related informa-tion appears to be a significant activity in the natural sci-ences. The results reported here support the contention of commentators that the Internet/Web is providing new com-munication channels for the scientific community while, at the same time, allowing the maintenance of community perspectives concerning the importance of free and open access to scientific information.. There was little evidence of concern for intellectual property pro-tection; what concern there was seems to be accommodated primarily by a request for acknowledgment of use via cita-tion, an announcement of copyright protection, or provision for free access by noncommercial users.
Scientometrics of prolific and non-prolific authors in laser science and technology 1. As expected, prolific authors produce the most papers, and make more impact. However, the same can't be generalized as the productivity and impact varied from country to country. 3. Prolific authors on an average made greater impact than non prolific authors in terms of normalized impact per paper, proportion of high quality paper as well as the publication effective index.
Comparison of the maps of science Comparison of maps of one scientific field obtained by coword analysis in various periods enables to obtain empirical knowledge about the dynamics of scientific fields and scientific themes.
Search for fundamental articles in economics Elaboration and amelioration in these four directions enables more precious determination of fundamental themes and fundamental articles.
Scientific production in Puerto Rico in science and technology during the period 1990 to 1998 The present study stands as proof that Puerto Rican scientific production may be analysed independently of the United States. The results of this paper show that scientific production has grown substantially in institutions located in Puerto Rico, with current output nearly doubling the figures observed in the early nineties. Collaboration among authors has been found to be very highly developed in the Puerto Rican scientific community.
Using the curriculum vita to study the career paths of scientists and engineers: An exploratory assessment "Results from this preliminary assessment of the use of CVs as data for research on scientists' and engineers' career trajectories show that the potential of this approach is mitigated by several practical problems, some easily remedied, some not."
The reference-frequency relation in the physical sciences For original research papers, the average number of references is a linear function of the paper length in each field.
The publication productivity of young scientists: An empirical study The patterns and determinants of the publishing productivity of young scientists are a neglected, but important issue in the sociology of science. Knowing them allows for a better understanding of scientific productivity, as well as of the professionally formative and socialisation processes in science.
A bibliometric study of semiconductor literature, 1978-1997 After the year 1986, the literature grows approximately linearly with a growth rate of about 23000 items per year. Twenty-five core journals may be identified from the Bradford-Zipf's plot. The analysis of author affiliates indicates that the semiconductor researches are widely dispersed in research division of private companies, major universities and research institutions.
A note on using patent statistics to obtain competition indicators In conclusion, we reiterate that Banerjee et al. have raised an important question: how can we use patent statistics to measure firm or national research competence? We have thus raised these issues so as to clarify the nature of the problems involved in the construction of competence and competitive indicators and their subsequent implementation on data bases, in order to stimulate further reflection and work on these questions.
Authors in dermatologic surgery This indicates that our authors not only contribute to the field through publication of original research, but by sharing their expertise through reviews, notes, and proceedings.
Ingelfinger over-ruled Journals will have to downsize to providing their only remaining essential service: QC/C, paid for on a per-paper basis by author-institutions out of their annual S/L/P savings. Ingelfinger over-ruled.
Publication ethics and the research assessment exercise: reflections on the troubled question of authorship The overall aim of the RAE, namely to improve research quality and excellence, is worthy and is indeed difficult to disagree with on ethical grounds.
Webometric analysis of departments of librarianship and information science Our conclusions are that sitation data are not well suited to the quantitative evaluation of the research status of LIS departments and that departments can best boost their web visibility by hosting as wide a range of types of material as possible.
Towards an automated citation classifier Good performance of the automated citation classifier on the design set of articles was achieved.
The impact of computer usage on scholarly communication among social scientists One significant impact of information technology seems to be an increasing democratisation of the international research community. Electronic communication is having the effect of democratising the social science research community. The result is that the social science research community seems to be moving towards a greater international homogeneity.
A highly visible scientist - Jack Meadows "Meadows is a consistently productive scientist, over a 40-year period. His publications have been cited in a wide range of disciplines and sub-disciplines, including library and information science, the history and philosophy of science, scholarly communications, the sociology of knowledge, the nature and extent of publications and citations in science, bibliometrics, electronic journals, and the refereeing process in science. According to De Solla Price [3], only 5% of scientists and social scientists publish more than 250 works in their career and only 7% receive more than 400 cita-tions to their publications. Hence, the number of publi-cations and citations received by Meadows places him in the 93rd percentile or above, in terms of his produc-tivity and visibility."
New informetric aspects of the Internet: some reflections - many problems This paper poses more problems than it solves: it investigates the new (virtual) world of the Internet and the challenges that it offers for informetric analysis.We have no applications of this, nor do we have other fractal models for hypertext systems such as the WWW.This is definitely a large and open problem.It is clear from the above that measuring the fractal dimension of the Internet or of the WWW is not an easy thing to do.
Structural relationships within medical informatics The representation of the structure of medical informatics shown in Figure 1 shows a perspective on the field as derived from MEDLINE indexing.
Building web resources for natural scientists Building research environments promises the identification of new and challenging problems; using research environments promises new perspectives and discoveries.
Patterns of use of electronic journals The names we have adopted enthusiastic users, restricted users, specialised occasional users, focused regular users, the lost users, the exploratory users, the tourists and the searchers, are an attempt to encapsulate this variety. The examination shows that the contents (both coverage and relevance) and ease of use of a system as they were perceived by the user were the most significant factors affecting patterns of use. All service providers will need strategies to cope with this diversity.
Using local citation data to relate the use of journal articles by academic researchers to the coverage of full-text document access systems In terms of method, local citation analysis has been found to be a valid indicator of the potential use of journals in an academic research environment. In terms of substance, the impressive achievement of the British Library Document Supply Centre in covering the journals cited by a sample of UK academic researchers has been confirmed. Other systems were less successful, although their strengths might lie elsewhere, for example in terms of instant, desktop access to electronic resources.
Comparison and evaluation of some economic models of digital-only journals It is clear from our results that staff costs and the overhead on them are the most substantial costs incurred when producing digital journals.
Influence and reputation in the social sciences - How much do researchers agree? To sum up, the results show only a modest degree of consensus among social science researchers in their assessment of the most influential scientists in their discipline in the twentieth century. The results seem to be more in accordance with Whitley's more pluralistic picture [11]. There are large differences between fields, however, especially regarding integration internationally, where economics seems to be much more Anglo-American dominated than political science and sociology, and certainly than legal science.
Report of a case of cyberplagiarism - and reflections on detecting and preventing academic misconduct using the Internet Cyberplagiarism may be a widespread and increasing problem. Plagiarism could be easily detected by journal editors and peer-reviewers if informatics tools would be applied. There is a striking gap between what is technically possible and what is in widespread use. As a consequence of the case described in this report, JMIR has taken the lead in applying information technology to prevent and fight plagiarism by routinely checking new submissions for evidence of cyberplagiarism.
Peer Review in a Post-Eprints World: A Proposal The major proposal presented here is based on the view that eprint servers such as the ClinMed NetPrints website provide a novel opportunity for the establishment of what Peter A. Singer has called " free market in knowledge" [24].
Is a Picture Worth a Thousand Words? The Use of Non-Text Items in Information Systems Research It would appear that articles that use higher levels of non-text items are more widely cited, so if citedness is the definition of 'success', then it may be practical to incorporate a range of non-text items. If consideration is given to the motive behind selection of articles for citation when preparing research, it seems possible that increased use of non-text items improves the clarity of research findings, leading to their increased usage, uptake and citation levels.
Pragmatism and self-organization To summarize the main points, we have seen how the reasons to collaboration vary on a range where cognitive and material answers like ‘co-author has special competence' or 'special data or equipment' dominate.
Does science push technology? Patents citing scientific literature The cases are consistent with previous work characterizing (or at least implying) patent citation links to scientific literature as being of a highly mediated nature.
Interdisciplinary dynamics of modern science: analysis of cross-disciplinary citation flows The first results presented in this article provide a macro-level overview of the multidisciplinary nature of research activities at the international level and across a wide range of disciplines.
Evaluating the stability of the search tools Hotbot and Snap: a case study In this case study we examined the search performance over a period of ten days of two search interfaces - Hotbot and Snap - which draw their results from the same database (Inktomi). We discovered surprising differences between their retrieval patterns; Snap's results were rather stable during the period, while Hotbot's results fluctuated greatly. This study together with previous works mentioned in the introduction should alert users to interpret the search results they receive with greater care.
Impact of collaborative research on academic science Still, up to the present, this phenomenon does not seem to have had any major deleterious effects on the scientific output (number of papers) and impact of Ca-nadian researchers.
Content Analysis of the World Wide Web The rise of the WWW as a major communications medium should be warmly welcomed by the community of content analysis researchers.
Semiotics and evaluative bibliometrics Semiotics cannot provide a unifying theory for understanding the intentional and extensional significance of citation, but it does offer a frame-work within which to examine specific phenomena and reproducible practices and to assess the strengths and limitations of the competing theoretical models.
Trends in publishing academic grey literature: examples from economics The survey presented in this paper shows that producing electronic publications is, at the same time, a source of hope and eagerness for some people and the origin of skepticism and uncertainty for others. Meanwhile, people will continue to enjoy both printed publications and online texts, and grey literature should take benefits form the two media.
Lotka's law and productivity index of authors in a scientific journal. The result suggested that repeated publications in the Journal were more difficult than those predicted by Lotka (1/N2).
Co-authorship in the academic library literature: A survey of attitudes and behaviors The incidence of co-authorship in library and information science and in other disciplines has risen steadily and dramatically in recent decades, marking an important change in the way that a large percentage of research is conducted.
In Citing Chaos First, looking at both the number of citations over time and the way these articles were subsequently cited provides us with a greater understanding of both the measures of success and the methods of persuasion within the sci- entific community.
The Gendered Nature of Assessment Procedures in Scientific Research Funding: The Dutch Case However, the results indicate that there is some mechanism of gender bias in assessment procedures and decision-making processes. One of the major conclusions of the study of the TALENT, PIONIER, and Royal Dutch Academy relative to the sciences grants is that the differences in the success rates of applicants among disciplines are remarkable. But, now that more research on potential gender bias in scientific assessment has been carried out, more detailed analysis is needed that takes into account the considerable differences in this area among disciplines.
ResearchIndex: autonomous citation indexing on the Web With wider implementation of autonomous citation index-ing and broad adoption of such services as the ResearchIndex, the visibility and use of less-frequently cited scholarly journals, as well as relevant non-journal literature, can be expected to increase significantly.
Scholarly Productivity of U.S. LIS Faculty: An Update SSCI, while representing a useful source of data, is not a complete source of publications by LIS faculty. While there are some changes over time, many of the same programs appear in the ranked lists in this and the previous two studies. Further, in the future there may be some examination of the elements that contribute to perceptions of excellence and the connection between those perceptions and the publication and citation measures that are the focus of this study.
Web impact factors and search engine coverage For the domains that are surveyed here the exciting concept of the Web-IF appears to be a relatively crude instrument in practice owing to the limited cover-age of the web by search engines.
Trends in psychology: An empirical issue. Views about how the field is changing are not always supported empirically, and such claims need to be substantiated with data. It is worth concluding on a simple point: No single study can address all re-search questions and all methodological limitations. If psychology is indeed at a crossroads that will determine its future as a science (Wilson, 1999), then the decision about which path to take should be guided by a better understand-ing of the field's past.
Scientists and global spaces Scientists seek to enhance their profiles and boost their credibility among their peers by extending their networks through travel; at the same time, scientific sites strive to attract the best and most talented scientists to maintain and improve their high reputation for possessing expertise.
Building a social capital model of research development: the case of the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research To benefit from social capital formation, EPSCOR and the states may consider ways to adopt strategies more conducive to systemic social, economic, and scientific development, recognizing that: Scientific achievement in underdeveloped states must serve some economic or social end (Lambright, 1996). Programs like EPSCOR, and the R&D evalua-tion enterprise itself, would benefit by considering a social capital model of research development because capacity generation and institution building are cen-tral to the objectives of these initiatives. However, for R&D development programs, the conduct of scientific research is not an end in itself, nor is it the sole means.
Bibliometrics and the evaluation of Australian sociology While bibliometric analysis clearly has its limitations, it remains a potentially useful source of information for sociological research. Bibliometric analysis demonstrates that Australian sociology is very strong internationally, and is, in fact, one of Australia's leading fields of research in the social sciences. Finally, it must be recognised that the Australian government currently has a serious interest in the evaluation of academic performance, and bibliometric indicators are one of the methods it has explored in order to obtain information relevant to funding decisions.
A new generation of tools for search, recovery and quality evaluation of World Wide Web medical resources The design of a health-related information portal for Spanish-speaking countries requires new techniques and methods in order to guarantee its viability, adequate coverage of new resources and quality of its contents.
The influence of voluntarily disclosed qualitative information Thus, our study makes two primary contributions.
Two years of impact assessments The annual impact survey has provided DERA IR with a useful tool, which, when used in conjunction with conventional user satisfaction surveys and management statistics, allows a far deeper assessment of which services are seen by its customers as critical to the success of the organisation.
Use of the &lt;i&gt;Journal Citation Reports&lt;/i&gt; for Serials Management in Research Libraries: An Investigation of the Effect of Self-Citation on Journal Rankings in Library and Information Science and Genetics The results of this research project strongly suggest that librarians and others do not need to adjust JCR data for journal self-citations. Except for a minute number of titles, self-citations do not exert an appre-ciable enough effect on a journal's relative rank within its discipline to influence prac-tical decision making. For most practical decision-making purposes, one can use JCR rankings with-out adjusting the data for journal self-ci-tations.
The Internet Journal of Chemistry: A Case Study of an Electronic Chemistry Journal "The Internet Journal of Chemistry and other electronic chemistry journals are clearly pioneering a new paradigm for communication among chemists.21"
Wer kontrolliert die Kontrolleure? Zehn Thesen zum sogenannten Impact Factor The impact factor favours research areas that promote short-term studies, whereas a tendency to treat long-term clinical investigations as less important is simultaneously created.
Landscaping climate change: a mapping technique for understanding science and technology debates on the World Wide Web The case study of the global climate change debate confirmed the researcher-surfers' intuitive link-following impression of the non-randomness of hyperlinks between websites presenting a common issue.
New informetric aspects of the Internet: some reflections - many problems This paper poses more problems than it solves: it investigates the new (virtual) world of the Internet and the challenges that it offers for informetric analysis.
A bibliometric analysis of publications by the Chemistry Department, Seoul National University, Korea, 1992-1998 Although Korea's leading chemists contribute much of their work in journals covered by SCI, an increasing number of Korean papers appearing in prestigious journals earn most of the impact generated by the nation's chemists. However, work reported in a Korean journal is not currently receiving as many citations as that which appears in international journals, and national journals make very little contribution to the growth of world science. No correlation between the average number of citations per paper for a particular chemist and the number of publications by that chemist was indicated by the study.
A highly visible scientist - Jack Meadows Meadows is a consistently productive scientist, over a 40-year period.
The South African system of evaluating and rating individual researchers: its merits, shortcomings, impact and future In conclusion, it is clear that a unique and effective evaluation system that addressed the needs for developing human resources and promoting research excellence has been developed, implemented and adapted over the last 15 years. In conclusion it is clear that, apart from promoting healthy competition amongst individuals and institutions, the research evaluation rating system also serves as an important tool to monitor the growth and performance of institutions. It can be expected that the appropriateness of this approach as part of an evaluation portfolio that has to deal with current challenges will be on the agenda of the NRF in the near future.
The impact on the international literature of the scientific production of Italian researchers, in the disciplines «psychiatry» and «psychology». A bibliometric evaluation The results entail important implications for Italian research in psychology and psychiatry. On a general level, these analyses appear to be helpful for monitoring scientific production by granting agencies and for comparing different individual researchers. On a more specific level the analysis has identified the leading trends in research of Italian psychiatry and psychology.
Methods of information retrieval using Web of Science: pulmonary hypertension as a subject example The combination of Web technology and the use of citation interconnections provides a fast and useful retrieval mechanism.
Scale-independent indicators and research evaluation This paper has demonstrated that power law rela- tionships can be found between recognition, impact and collaboration and publishing size. It has also shown that there are power law relationships between publishing size and R&D expenditure or number of researchers. It may also help us to account for the intricate dynamics of the national and international innovation systems.
Using the Literature: Reference Networks, Reference Contexts, and the Social Structure of Scholarship I have shown that the structure of scholar- ship, as manifested by the temporal pattern of references in a reference network, varies substantially across research areas and that this variation is at least partly due to differ- ences in how scholars use their colleagues' work. Together, these findings sug- gest that variation in core knowledge across fields leads to variation in scholars' behav- ior at the research front. In combination with longitudinal studies of how structures change over time, studies of reference net- works for additional research areas should illuminate both the causes and consequences of those structures.
Cognitive structure of research: Scientometric mapping in sintered materials The usefulness of the results will be determined by their value to the final users (firms, research centres and ministries) in the definition of R&D strategies. In this context, the application of mapping as an analysis tool within a CTI system is synergistic. We concluded as well that firms should develop CTI systems including the mapping of the research structure and the analysis of markets on the particular business interests areas of the companies.
On the World Wide Web Clearly, in the long run, for the Web to become an important part of the scholarly communication process, an electronic infrastructure for citations, copyrights, authentication, and preservation will need to be established.
Are Scientists in Developing Countries Isolated? The short answer to the question 'Are scientists in developing countries isolated?' is 'No'.
Subdiscipline-specific journal rankings: whither Applied Economics? A journal's quality can be judged by its impact on the entire discipline, as captured by traditional citations-based ranking methods, or by its impact on a subdiscipline(s) of interest, or both. Our results reveal that many journals key to particular applied fields are buried in the general disciplinary rankings, which implicitly put zero weight on most applied fields. This may lead to oversight in the evaluation of journal quality in the evaluation of researcher performance and in library acquisition decisions.
How good are the best papers of JASIS? The best articles of JASIS appear to be long, single-authored statements about on-line searching and retrieval. They are heavily cited and self-cited by the JASIS commu-nity. The preceding citation analysis establishes that the best articles are clearly better than average.
Webometric analysis of departments of librarianship and information science Our conclusions are that sitation data are not well suited to the quantitative evaluation of the research status of LIS departments and that departments can best boost their web visibility by hosting as wide a range of types of material as possible.
Implications of ambiguity for scientometric measurement This article focussed on the Informetric Distributions, in part because they are among the gems of Information Science, and their discovery constitutes one of Information Science's most conspicuous successes.
Semantic similarities between a keyword database and a controlled vocabulary database: An investigation in the antibiotic resistance literature "The data show that only a very small portion of the matching records in SCI and MEDLINE resemble each other, and the similarity diminishes as the term association changes from similar to partially similar to dissimilar."
Intellectual Collaboration It is difficult to gauge how well our findings with respect to intellectual collaboration in economics and biology generalize to the other social and natural sciences. Thus it may not be unreasonable to surmise that the differential patterns of informal intellectual collaboration that we observe reflect differences between the natural and social sciences in the social construction of science. The social sciences may indeed be more “social” than the natural sciences.
Social Contracts and the Impact of Matching Fund Requirements on American Research Universities The thrust of these principles is twofold. First, they reduce the "excesses" associated with agency/ program manager behaviors, albeit at the admitted cost of reducing the benefits associated with dis-cretionary judgments. Second, they codify the con-ditions under which matching and cost sharing occur. The outcome is to make matching/cost shar-ing a legitimate clause in the social contract but to constrain its application. These principles are presented here as a framework in which the PRD findings may be reviewed.
Citation searches in on-line databases: possibilities and pitfalls The major issues relating to searching for citations in electronic databases are the identification of first authors, and the accuracy and consistency with which the references are entered in the original articles. Further, it is usually necessary to search for citations both in the RE and RAU fields, but terms which give comprehensive results in the latter may be particularly hard to obtain. However caution should always be exercised and if comprehensive results are essential then very lengthy processes based on the names of first authors are required.
Australian medical patents granted in the United States in 1984-1999 Only a few organisations account for most of the patenting of medical technology. The inventors and their organisations listed on medical patents could be canvassed when developing government policy and targeted for support in commercialising their medical technology. Our study suggests that medical technology, especially medical biotechnology, is an increasingly important part of Australia's intellectual property portfolio.
Academic otolaryngology in the new millennium: Are we falling behind? Trends may be developing that predict decreasing publication rates for newly trained otolaryngologists entering academic practice.
Productivity of medical research in Switzerland Productivity in medical research, measured by peer-reviewed articles produced, requires adequate resources and ability to respond to new scientific challenges, and it can be anticipated by peer-review.
Technological innovation activities in Turkey: the case of manufacturing industry, 1995-1997 More detailed surveys over longer periods are needed to gather data for exploring the mainstream of the tech-nological activities in Turkey. Such studies would also serve, for the users (planners, decision makers, man-agers etc.) as tools for setting up S&T policies and information based decisions crucial in increasing com-petitive capacities of some strategic sectors in Turkey for global markets. However, the built up of the technological infrastructure to utilize this potential is still poor so that the industry in general could not make use of the knowledge generated in uni-versities sufficiently.
Financial support for research in otolaryngology Computer-assisted surveys are an effective method of tracking funding for research in otolaryngology and other specialties.
Implications of ambiguity for scientometric measurement What this study suggests is that there are mechanisms that are resilient to confusion and imprecision, probably a lot more diverse than those I have been speaking about, and that in the course of investigating a subject we naturally gravitate towards these simply because they work. I believe that such mechanisms play a much larger role than has been recognized in the evolution of scientific investigation, and that we should be attuned to uncovering and exploiting these in a wider range of research domains.
Authors as citers over time Recitation analysis links citers and citees by name, implicating characteristics of both. As part of the stylistics of scholarship, it is available not only to devotees and critics of authors, but to the authors themselves, who may be unaware of the patterns latent in their own prose. Now that citation identities have been brought forward, perhaps eventually their use will become commonplace.
Infometric methods and measures for sharing knowledge over Internet Raising the question of Scientometrics and Internet requires taking a position with respect to the role we would like to see technology play in organizing collective practices.
Bibliometrics and Internet: Some observations and expectations The scientific journal will not disappear.
Bibliometric mapping of science in a science policy context We believe to have brought bibliometric mapping as a science policy supportive tool back to life by presenting them as graphical interfaces to explore research fields. Particularly, the fact that the maps can be accessed by common WWW browsers appeared to be a positive impulse. If, in due time, we are able to skip the expert input and still come up with valid structures of publication databases, the map and interface could be used as an information retrieval (IR) tool for particular (text) databases, as well.
The e-volution of preprints in the scholarly communication of physicists and astronomers It is, therefore, evident that arXiv.org e-prints have evolved into an important facet of the scholarly communication of physics and astronomy.
Indirect-collective referencing (ICR) in the elite journal literature of physics.: I.: A literature science study on the journal level On the basis of these facts it can be stated that the quantity of nonindexed indirect-collective references in the elite physics journal literature now alone exceeds many times over the quantity of references listed in the Science Citation Index.
Contrasting views of software engineering journals: Author cocitation choices and indexer vocabulary assignments Overall, our results provide a coherent picture of the content and structure of software engineering when author and indexer perspectives are considered together and illustrate the usefulness of a journal core list for establishing a broad subject outline for software engineering education. Because one criterion for a separate discipline is the existence of a disciplinary literature, these research results support the idea that software engineering is a field distinct from computer science. Our findings provide support for the importance of object-orientation, which is viewed both an integral part of the discipline and as a separate subject area.
Fitting the jigsaw of citation: Information visualization in domain analysis This approach not only augments traditional domain analysis and the understanding of scientific disciplines, but also produces a persistent and shared knowledge space for researchers to keep track the development of knowledge more effectively.
A noninformetric analysis of the relationship between citation age and journal productivity We note the importance of detecting regularities in graphs of (clouds of) points.
Bibliometrics and beyond: Some thoughts on web-based citation analysis As scientific publication moves to the web, and novel approaches to scholarly communication and peer review establish themselves, new methods of citation and link analysis will emerge to capture often liminal expressions of peer esteem, influence and approbation.
Links between information construction and information gain. Entropy and bibliometric distributions We have observed that, in the case of the Zipfian distribution law, the corresponding effort function was logarithmic; in the case of geometric law, it was linear. In each case, the entropy is decreasing with a.
Visualizing a knowledge domain's intellectual structure Our approach facilitates visualizing intellectual structures based on widely available sources of citation data. This method augments knowledge-visualization approaches that focus on documents and concepts.
Review times in statistical journals: Tilting at windmills? Using limited data, I argue that the review times in statistics are far too long for the field to keep pace with the rapidly changing environment in science. I believe that shortening review times and shortening times to publication are critical for the health of our profession. My strongest hope for this article is that, as a profession, we build statistics into the review process.
Scientific impact of large telescopes The strong showing by small optical telescopes suggests that cutting-edge science does not always require the largest aperture available, and this augurs well for the continued scientific impact of 4 m telescopes in the era of 8 m telescopes.
Geographical distribution of biomedical publications from the Gulf Corporation Council countries Taking into account that Gulf Cooperation Council countries have a relatively short history of research, the data show that the Gulf Cooperation Council countries are very prolific in terms of Medline-indexed biomedical research publications.
Double effort = Double impact?: A critical view at international co-authorship in chemistry International co-authorship, as a rule, results in publications with higher citation impact than purely domestic papers.
Central international visibility of Brazilian psychiatric publications from 1981 to 1999 We conclude that Brazilian psychiatric research is a subject worthy of particular concern, especially if we take into account the country's modest scientific performance and the socio-economic consequences of mental disorders in the Brazilian population.
Lattices in citation networks: An investigation into the structure of citation graphs We have studied lattice structures in the context of citation analysis and have shown that such substructures exist in real-word citation networks. We have further shown that, through its relations with co-citations and bibliographic coupling, the diamond (a four-element lattice) is a basic structural element in citation analysis. Finally, citation compactness values, as defined by De Bra, are determined for the four- and five element lattices.
Bias, structure and quality in citation indexing For sets with small numbers of publications (generally smaller than 50, with some variation depending on the subfield), the classical relative citation index should not be used anymore. This result shows that the classical relative citation rate should not be used for small samples of publications because of the bias induced by the skewness and higher moments of the citations' distribution (Figure 1). This method is a general one for small sets of publications, and we hope it will be helpful for higher education and research managers as well as for appointment procedures.
Two decades of "scientometrics" -: An interdisciplinary field represented by its leading journal The above trends and figures tell unambiguously against an evolution of bibliometrics towards a discipline of 'hard' social science (Schubert-Maczelka hypothesis). On the other hand, we cannot speak of stable characteristics, either (Wouters-Leydesdorff hypothesis). The indicators allow only an interpretation in the sense of the third hypothesis. The field is indeed heterogeneous, and each sub-discipline has its own characteristics.
Scientific production:: A statistical analysis of authors in mathematical logic We have shown that explicitly recording the dates of publications can greatly improve the analysis of scientometric data.
All author citations versus first author citations The shortcomings of using first cited authors are obvious and should be avoided. Compared to first author co-citation, using all author citations does not significantly change co-citation maps in terms of the subfield structure of the research field. If it is not possible, first author citation and co-citation analysis must make strong reservations when interpreting the results in terms of the most influential authors.
The accuracy of MEDLINE and Journal contents pages for papers published in Clinical Otolaryngology Although it contains some errors, MEDLINE is generally remarkably accurate, especially considering the scope for error in manual indexing, which was the system in use for most of the years covered in this study.
The journals crisis: Redirecting the blame Therefore, any global publication paradigm change must originate from within the author community. We have created the circumstances that have inevitably led to the "journals crisis”. The chemical research community holds the key compo-nents to this future, for it is we that produce and consume the product.
Quality management for biomedical research in Germany Quality management is a matter of a vivid discussion in Germany and professors and junior faculty members alike are generally open-minded towards quality management activities to improve output-ori- ented research. Professors and junior faculty members are generally open-minded towards a strenghthened productivity orientation by means of quality management activities. Further steps are to be done in the future to extend and enrich the learning experience on qual- ity management for the sake of further improvement of German biomedi- cal research.
RETRACTED: Price development in important anesthesia and critical care medicine journals in comparison to journals of other disciplines (Retracted Article) A disproportionate rise in journal prices was seen over the past 6 years.
Perceived relevance and quality of POM journals: a decade later Perceptions of US scholars about the relative merits of POM journals have remained relatively constant over the past decade. US scholars continue to draw a distinction between the relevance of a journal to POM and quality of that journal. Methodological rigor appears to be the most important issue in assessing the quality of a POM journal, but other factors come into play as well.
'Peer review' culture It is concluded that weaknesses of the 'peer review'system are significant and that they are well known or readily recognisable but that necessary counter-measures are not always enforced.
Hyperauthorship: A postmodern perversion or evidence of a structural shift in scholarly communication practices? In biomedicine, authorship has irrevocably shed some of its craft associations: to be an author is not necessarily to be a writer. It is possible that the ongoing debate in the biomedical literature will spark fresh exami- nation of publication, and reward, practices in other fields, but much more systematic investigation will be required, along with some exploration of the extent to which article genre and place of publication influence rates of coauthor-ship across disciplines. In the future, it is quite likely that the concept of the "author-function", to use Foucault's (1977, pp. 124-131) term, will vary from one "epistemic community" (David, 1998, p. 139) to the next.
The cognitive structure of current cardiovascular research "The aim of this paper has been to capture the main aspects of the intellectual base of recent research in the time period investigated and also to identify current research themes of recently published papers."
Evaluating publication trends in clinical research:: How reliable are medical databases? Our correspondence factor analysis has identified possible quirks in MEDLINE indexing of publication types. But, most importantly, it has encouraged us to view critically the way our information sources are structured. Databases are indispensable but we need to know how the data is processed, who decides, and on the basis of what evidence.
Brazilian immunology: One hundred years later Brazilian immunology started at the end of the 19th century in two states São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro and at the end of the 20th century those are still the states that hold supremacy in this field. It is a growing research field, which started as a deterrent to various epidemics. The present work did not analyze citations but verified that nearly half of total immunology papers produced in Brazil and published in international journals appeared in journals with a high impact factor.
Scientific production:: A statistical analysis of authors in physics, 1800-1900 Thus, there is no evidence to support cumulative advantage. We have shown that treating dates of publications as continuous variables can greatly improve the analysis of scientometric data. However, it will be necessary to analyze a much wider range of scientific groups and fields to determine this method's general validity and to systematically explore the causes of the differences across groups and fields.
What makes a scientific article influential? The case of demographers The central question of this paper was: what makes a demographic article influential? From the outset it should be stressed that both the universalist view and the social constructivist view carry some weight in explaining citation frequencies. There is some evidence that author reputations do effect citation counts, but their additional explanatory power is weak. Journals are a dominant force in allocating citations.
Citation rates, knowledge export and international visibility of dermatology journals listed and not listed in the Journal Citation Reports It is concluded that the additional data given, especially the data on knowledge export and international visibility, are necessary ingredients of a comprehensive description of a journal's significance and its position within its subject category.
A bibliometric analysis of physics publications in Korea, 1994-1998 Over the last two decades, there has been considerable growth in Korea’s concern with the state of science. Evaluation of research performance in terms of research publications and the citations’ impact is coming to be considered an integral part of science, and the scientific community of Korea can not avoid such scrutiny. Since the fusion of technology and interdisciplinary research is one of the mainstreams of new technologies, basic science must be emphasized as the key to interdisciplinary research.
Third party funding of German universities. An indicator of research activity? A research indicator based on informations about third party funding is suitable to describe research performance of departments in subjects where external funding is usual.
Investigating trends in acoustics research from 1970-1999 A shift in research focus away from underwater sound and general linear acoustics and toward speech, audition, and, to a lesser extent, bioacoustics is documented over the period 1980 to 1999.
An inventory of Canadian anesthesiology. Human research from 1995 through 1999 The collected counts provide a comprehensive overview of research trends for the past five years.
Mooers' law: In and out of context If one accepts this "Scale of Information Retrieval En-vironments," then perhaps it can finally be seen how the Mooers' Law that is "in context" can coexist with that which is not: the first would hold true in environments at one extreme of the scale, whereas the second would hold true at or near the midpoint.
Author inflation leads to a breakdown of Lotka's law We have shown that Lotka's distribution breaks down in the case the dataset includes articles with an "inflated" number of authors. We think this could be the case for some fields, but for the majority of fields, where the number of coauthors of one article will always be limited, we predict that Lotka's distribution will keep its validity as a general trend curve.
Theory of first-citation distributions and applications In light of the above results, and as a simple case, the exponential distribution and the lognormal distribution have been tested and accepted.
The impact of physics research Basic research has several obvious characteristics: it is inherently uncer-tain and many of the impacts of basic research on technology are indirect rather than direct. Therefore, these methods substantially underestimate the value of basic-physics research. The approaches described in this article - publications and patent citation techniques, econometric models, network modelling and citation mining - are a small step in that direction, but much more research is needed.
Redundant surgical publications: Tip of the iceberg? Almost 1 in every 6 original articles published in leading surgical journals represents some form of redundancy.
Assessing the quality of computer print magazines: practitioners' versus academics' perceptions Six publications were suggested by the survey participants as most useful for supporting the professional functions of an IS faculty member, namely, teaching and research.
The rediscovery of previously described dermatoses So what does all this mean? First, it means that we should regard any ap-parently original ideas with some sci-entific skepticism and do a careful literature search.
Initiative to strengthen publications by young faculty The workshop has been a motivating activity to help the participants to work toward writing journal papers.
Analysis of publications and citations from a geophysics research institute All observations suggest that reported differences in cited half-lives must be quite large to be significant. If one accepts that citations are a valid measure of a publication's influence, then the results of this study confirm the suggestion (Hamilton, 1990) that the most influential papers are published in the 'first-tier' journals. This result suggests that if one chooses to compare citation rates for different fields, institutions, or individuals, it is important to compare rates for similar-category publica-tions.
Urquhart's and Garfield's laws: The British controversy over their validity Thus, in my opinion, the controversy is for the most part resolved. Urquhart's and Garfield's Laws mutually corroborate each other, and the scientific and technical information system is highly structured and restrictive. Moreover, the points made by Line are also largely valid.
Google's web page ranking applied to different topological web graph structures Google's ranking algorithm needs to be adjusted to different topological web structures to be able to successfully rank web pages without any contextual information added.
How to analyze publication time trends by correspondence factor analysis:: Analysis of publications by 48 countries in 18 disciplines over 12 years Moreover, by treating time just like any other variable, we have been able to discover the "inner clocks" governing trends.
Who dunnit? Metatags and hyperauthorship We are not promoting an essentialist taxonomy for authorial contributions, but suggesting that, in the right hands, and under the right circumstances, an XML-like mark-up schema as sketched here may provide useful insight into the shared responsibilities of collaborative work, both within and across disciplines.
Searching scientific databases for guides to experiment and theory First, although data mining the scientific literature has much potential for summa-rizing past research efforts in a given field, care must always be taken so as not to misinterpret the results. Second, STM studies are often done by chemists and materials scientists whose familiar-ity with the Periodic Table make them more likely to include an element name in the publication ti-tle. Finally, science does not stand alone—it im-pacts human life through technology.
The construction of a discipline: Materials science in the United States Despite repeated efforts to stabilize the field as an autonomous discipline, MSE remains out of equilibrium. Far from gaining more and more stability, the field is exploding rather than imploding.
A citation analysis of the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre In absolute terms, the high citation rates of CSD1–CSD4 indicate the value of crystallographic data in general and of crystallographic databases in particular, and the longevity of several of the selected publications is a reflection of the definitive nature of databases such as the CSD, and of tabulations of structural metrics derived from them.
Mathematical menopause, or, a young man's game? But his slogan, "Mathematics is a young man's game," is misleading, even harmful. So far as it may discourage people from mathematics when they're no longer young, it's unjustified and destructive. Older and retired mathematicians are an under-utilized resource for the mathematics community.
International alignment and scientific regard as macro-indicators for international comparisons of publications To sum up, the understanding of the Observed Citation Rates is substantially improved by the computation of the related indicators Scientific Regard and International Alignment.
The international publication productivity of Latin American countries in the economics and business administration fields This constitute a baseline assessment of the state of the art that might help illuminate policy decisions to promote research in the countries of the region.
The editorial policies of scientific journals: Testing an impact factor model Thirdly, and more specifically, we received confirmation of the reliability of the impact factor as an instrument to monitor the quality of research and as a means of evaluating the research itself.
Power laws of research output. Evidence for journals of economics We find increasing competition over time among economists on the individual level.
A study of collaboration in laser science and technology 1. Japan, France, Italy, and the Netherlands had more than average value of collaborative coefficient as well as higher values of co-authorship index for mega-authored papers. 3. Most of the collaborative research papers have resulted by bilateral collaboration of institutions as well as countries. Academic institutions are the biggest collaborators in this field of science and technology. 4. Domestic collaboration as indicated by the value of domestic collaborative index is higher for Japan, USA, France and India, while international collaboration as indicated by the value of international collaborative index is higher for China, Israel, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Investigating the concentration within a research community using joint publications and co-authorship via intermediaries Through a macroscopic study of co-authorship patterns, this paper has attempted to depict the scientific community's “social fabric.” Given the intensity of modern research collaboration, one could have reasonably expected the international community of authors to be tightly knit, but the evidence provided herein partly dispels this belief. More generally, the Erdős distance seems promising as a surrogate measure of social proximity between two arbitrary authors in a field.
The cognitive and the social structure of STS If we summarize the findings, we see that the cognitive patterns of integration and (mainly) differentiation to a large extent are visible within the social structure of the field. Further analysis may reveal the leading dynamics, that is answering the question whether the 'social' follows the 'cognitive', the other way around, or whether the dynamics has the pattern of 'co-evolution'. In other words, ‘following the actors' is not enough: we also need to follow the products of the actors, which have their own dynamics.
Monitoring technology trends through patent analysis: a case study of thin film To a large extent we have shown that through our methodological approach it is possible to answer these questions.
Interdisciplinarity as a multidimensional concept:: its measure in three different research areas What is clear is that there are interdisciplinary cogni- tive needs that could be solved by following different strategies by research groups.
Revisiting bibliometric issues using new empirical data At high levels of aggregation, the lack of agree-ment between two methods of field of research classification does not necessarily lead to vastly different evaluation outcomes.
Extracting information from the literature by text mining Text mining can substantially improve the breadth and rele- vance of records retrieved from databases. One benefit that has accrued from text mining studies, from an organization's long-range strategic viewpoint, are the broadened horizons and perspectives of the technical experts who participated in the process and who can use this expanded knowledge to better support, conduct, and manage S&T. Although the text mining tools, processes, protocols, and prod- ucts are important, they are of lesser importance to the organi- zation's long-term strategic health, relative to the expert with advanced capabilities.
Managing laboratory work through skepticism: Processes of evaluation and control I contend that scientific skepticism solves the control problems facing intellectually di-verse, uncertain, and reputation-based work-places. Scientific skepticism is socially or-ganized.
Publishing trends in otorhinolaryngology from January 1997 to December 1999 in the UK There has been no major growth in the output of otorhinolaryngological publications from the UK in the last 10 years. Table 4 indicates that it is still teaching hospital and uni-versity affiliated departments that produce the bulk of the publications and that very little has changed in 10 years. We hope this brief paper can form a platform for discussion.
A multiple criteria assessment of decision technology system journal quality This paper has presented a methodology that objectively rates decision technology system journals across multiple, and relevant, dimensions.
A bibliometric analysis of IOLIM conferences 1977-1999 There is no doubt that the International Online Information Meetings have had a profound influence on the developments of the information industry and community.
Application of statistical physics methods and concepts to the study of science & technology systems In this paper, we have described a style of research that may be quite new in the field of science policy. We believe that this new approach may shed new light on the behavior and characteristics of S&T systems, answering questions such as "To what extent do S&T systems at different scales (countries, universities, different financing modes) obey the same underlying evolutionary laws?” Understanding these processes and the data characterizing them is of great relevancy not only in S&T studies but also for science policy.
Competition in science and the Matthew core journals Scientific competition among countries for recognition is strongest in the Matthew core journals, they are the most competitive markets for scientific publications.
Improving the functionality of interactive bibliometric science maps The objective we set out with when starting the design of the presented implementation was, simply put, to overcome problems noted with the use of our first-generation interactive maps. Especially the inability to locate a familiar item on the map was a reason to re-implement our interface. In this, we have succeeded with the presented design.
National characteristics in international scientific co-authorship relations On the basis of overall patterns and selected examples, the following answers have been found to the research questions formulated in the introduction. First, the analysis has confirmed once again that international collaboration has strongly intensified in the last decade. International scientific collaboration thus proved again to be a complex and heterogeneous phenomenon which cannot be sufficiently characterised by bibliometric indicators alone. Bibliometric methods, however, afford a deep insight into national characteristics in international co-authorship relations.
Information science as "Little Science":: The implications of a bibliometric analysis of the Journal of the American Society for Information Science The Journal has undergone many changes in its fifty-year history.
Studying the international diffusion of a national scientific journal This study described a case of the international diffusion of a scientific journal, and this has its implications for the conclusions to be drawn from the analysis, on the basis of which no generalizations can be made.
Growth dynamics of scholarly and scientific journals The results presented here for journal dynamics at both the micro and macro levels show that journal development clearly follows researcher behaviour and growth characteristics.
Patent citation analysis in a novel field of technology: An exploration of nano-science and nano-technology In spite of claims that foresee the advent of ‘techno-science’ or a transdisciplinary-transient industrial-academic structure, the evidence presented in this article appears to support the idea that nano-science and technology are still mostly separate activities that are related to each other chiefly in a mediated manner. More specifically, university-assigned patents tend to cite university-authored papers more frequently than do other patents. The evidence presented here appears to be in favor of a two-branched view of the science and technology interchange.
An approach to interdisciplinarity bibliometric indicators At the level of disciplines, all the indicators used in this study were convergent: ACHEM appears as a more interdisciplinary category than POLYM. In summary, our results support the usefulness of the bibliometric indicators here proposed for the study of interdisciplinarity in the categories analysed. Finally, for the study of journals the most appropriate indicators are those obtained from specialised database classifications, such as Chemical Abstracts, from which a typology of journals may be obtained.
World distribution of social science journals: A view from the periphery The present study has served to demonstrate the extent of the world literature in the social sciences and humanities with many journals emanating from the peripheral countries.
Assessing the quality of scholarly journals in Linguistics: An alternative to citation-based journal impact factors The study provides an alternative to research performance assessments based exclusively on ISI citation indices. The indicators that were developed are especially useful for application in (sub)disciplines publishing only to a limited extent in ISI source journals, and/or frequently in languages other than English. Our journal rankings should be considered as tentative. Nevertheless, we believe that our findings are sufficiently valid and provide a sound basis for discussions among Linguistics scholars on the quality of journals and optimalisation of publication strategies.
Citation delay in interdisciplinary knowledge exchange Scientific methods, techniques and results published in scientific journals in other disciplines, in general appear to take more time to be incorporated in a discipline than results from within this discipline.
Mapping interdisciplinary research fronts in neuroscience: A bibliometric view to retrograde amnesia Combining quantitative bibliometric data with the qualitative expertise of a peer it could be shown that co-citation analysis is a useful tool for identifying and analysing a research front in the interdisciplinary area of neuroscience.
Language biases in the coverage of the Science Citation Index and its consequences for international comparisons of national research performance We have shown empirically that language biases play an important role in the comparison and evaluation of national science systems, due to the simple fact that the SCI also covers non-English language journals of which the papers have a considerably lower impact than those in the English-language journals.
Competition amongst scientists for publication status: Toward a model of scientific publication and citation distributions In this paper we have studied a model in which scientists are competing for publication status by trying to get their work published in the best journals. From this model, we have derived a statistical approach for the distribution of citations over publications. We find a good agreement between the outcomes of our model and empirical data.
International gastroenterology research: subject areas, impact, and funding Bibliometric analysis can reveal differences between countries in their research in a subject when a common methodology is applied to an inter- national database. Variations in research methods in different countries can plausi- bly explain some of the variation in the potential impact of the work. This suggests that gastroenterologists need to make more of an effort to work with colleagues in the field of genetics, which could be to the long term benefit of both. This suggests that funding bod- ies should aim to support larger teams of researchers working in cooperation rather than lone investigators or small teams.
A bibliometric evaluation of European Union research of the respiratory system from 1987-1998 In conclusion, productivity and repercussions of European Union research of the respiratory system experienced an important increase during this period. Likewise, those countries with the most relevant contribution in productivity and reper-cussion have been identified. Lastly, no attempt should be made at relating the described changes in the European Union as a whole, or in any one of its member states, with political or social events, in spite of their being seemingly temporarily associated.
Scholarly publishing in the Internet age: a citation analysis of computer science literature While there can be no doubt that the World Wide Web provides a fast and efficient means of disseminating and accessing scientific information, it may be premature to ring the death knell for traditional publishing and databases that provide access to the traditionally published literature. Currently, it seems that scholars in computer-related fields prefer to cite books and journal articles. From this starting point, we hope to identify additional research areas dealing with information dissemination and citation practices in computer science and the utility of autonomous citation indexing on the Web as an adjunct to commercial indexing services.
A bibliometric study on chemical information and computer sciences focusing on literature of JCICS (1) JCICS has been the outstanding journal in productivity in the CA subsection “Chemical information, documentation, and data processing" for the last 30 years. Research trends in the CICS field can be known by analyzing JCICS articles.
Discouragement of innovation by overcompetitive research funding Radical changes are required to improve the system's efficiency, to liberate creativity, and to encourage innovation from below.
What happens to the manuscripts that have not been accepted for publication in Occupational and Environmental Medicine? More than half the articles rejected by OEM found their way into the scientific literature covered by Medline.
Bibliometric cartography of information retrieval research by using co-word analysis This study demonstrates the feasibility of co-word analysis as a viable approach for extracting patterns from, and identifying trends, in large corpora where the texts collected are from the same domain or sub-domain and are divided into roughly equivalent quantities for different time periods.
Intellectual activities and influences of Belver C. Griffith: A citation perspective In retrospective, Griffith explored such fields as psychology, scholarly communication, social studies of science, bibliometrics, and evaluation of bibliographic retrieval systems in his decades long research profession. His contributions to science studies and bibliometric information science are indeed pioneer and significant. The analysis of the 377 citing papers gathered for this study also demonstrates the strong national and international influences of his publications on the intellectual world, particularly in the areas of bibliometrics and scientific communication among researchers.
Publication and cooperation patterns of the authors of neuroscience journals It was shown that the categories of authors introduced by Price and Gürsey (continuants, transients, newcomers and terminators) have definite relevance while analysing author productivity and cooperativity patterns. As to the relation between author productivity and cooperativity, it was found that even for continuants there is no unambiguous trend between them. Rather, authors in the cooperativity range of 4-5 (i.e., contributing to papers with 5-6 authors, in average) have maximum productivity, while those in the cooperativity range of 10-12 have a minimum.
Lessons from the study of scholarly communication for the new information era In summary, the study of communication flows in research, where Belver Griffith was a seminal figure, and the concomitant study of research productivity have valuable lessons to contribute to our new information environment characterized by a dramatically increased emphasis upon the importance of the creation and the employment of knowledge, and upon the importance of intellectual property rights. The conclusion that should be drawn is that companies should indeed think carefully about knowledge management strategy, and align that strategy with their business operation and goals, but the 80-20 and 20-80 are not either/or choices; they are instead the practical limits of the range in which the appropriate knowledge management strategy mix lies, and the correct balance may lie anywhere within that range, and may differ across different functions of the organization.
A co-citation analysis of representative authors in philosophy: Examining the relationship between epistemologists and philosophers of science Overall, however, the map and the clusters do seem to capture the intellectual structure of these philosophers. Even with these considerations the use of author co-citation analysis is clearly valuable in going beyond the anecdotal evidence that there is a general lack of communication and interaction between philosophy of science and epistemology. Moreover, this author co-citation analysis provides a structural picture of the intellectual relations between these various philosophers which can provide the basis for further inquiry.
Scholarly communication as a socioecological system The study's findings show information foraging practices among human behavioral ecologists to vary according to their location within the core-periphery zones of a defined bibliographic environment. Core concerns are distinguishable from surrounding peripheral interests in terms of resource density and familiarity, searching strategies, information-supply arrangements, and handling practices. The observed behavioral differences can be accounted for by principles of least-effort or maximization models, in which scholars behave like human or animal subsistence foragers.
Author-centered bibliometrics through CAMEOs: Characterizations automatically made and edited online Thus, a scientometrics that incorporates CAMEOs is likely to be more interesting than one that does not, even if depersonalized writings are judged more important for the field.
Stochastic modelling of the first-citation distribution We have shown that the well-known mixed-Poisson model with ageing provides an intuitively reasonable description of prospective citation studies.
Fish science research in China: How does it compare with fish research in India? This work on the research output in fisheries science reveals many parallels in the publication patterns of Indian and Chinese researchers. Probably China is better at bridging the gap between knowhow (research) and do-how (technology and creation of employment and wealth). This study also brings out the need for databases to follow a standard format, which would facilitate easy use of information derived from different databases.
The quantity and quality of female researchers: A bibliometric study of Iceland The analysis has shown how female researchers have increased their presence in one country over the last two decades, but really only in the life sciences.
How the European Union writes about ophthalmology Despite the limitations of the existing methods, bibliometric findings are useful for the monitoring of research trends.
Citation analysis using online databases: Feasibilities and shortcomings The expanded search possibilities for online searches provide decision makers in science with an additional indicator to measure the impact of scientific activity.
Scientific cycle model with delay We considered a simple model of growth of scientific ideas what allow us to obtain some new results. We have found that there are periods of high and low science activity without the external perturbations such wars, famine, political perturbations. This cyclic behaviour is proved by using the Hopf bifurcation theory.
Reasons reviewers reject and accept manuscripts: The strengths and weaknesses in medical education reports While overstating the results and applying the wrong statistics can be fixed, other problems that the reviewers identified (ignoring the literature, designing poor studies, choosing inappropriate instruments, and writing poor manuscripts) are likely to be fatal flaws war- ranting rejection.
Publication decision The risk stated by the author cannot be accepted at its face value once the author's conclusions appear in print.
Two-step competition process leads to quasi power-law income distributions - Application to scientific publication and citation distributions In our view, the model presented in this article has a more generic value, particularly in economics to explain observed income distributions. With the help of our two-step competition model, we have found that the distribution of citations over publications does not follow a power law, but is represented by a modified Bessel function. The citation distribution process can be seen as a specific representation of a more generic process of income distribution.
Analytical chemistry in the European Union during 1993-1999: an appraisal on the basis of papers abstracted in Analytical Abstracts The present analysis gives an overview of the status of analytical chemistry research in the EU for 1993–1999, on the basis of papers abstracted in Analytical Abstracts.
INDICYT science and technology indicators in Spain:: development of an application for interactive search on the Internet INDICYT will be a useful tool for research managers, scientists, and the services sector or the SMEs, enabling the detection of relevant information for their research activities.
Evaluation of books as research outputs in history of medicine "It seems reasonable to conclude that the bibliometric evidence is robust and that it has served a useful purpose within the overall context of the current evaluation."
Is nursing research typical of biomedical research? The consequences of these and other findings for nursing research are to suggest that there is much potential within the field to contribute more effec- tively to government service and scientific priorities but that these need to be managed in a more strategic way.
Selection of databases, indicators and models for evaluating research performance of Chinese universities Our examination reveals that there are some problems in current scientific and technical statistics procedure in China that make the use of reported databases not very convincing. Two important Chinese databases, CSTPC and CSCD, are of different sizes and have different disciplinary structures, and therefore produce different evaluation results. As a mathematical model of rank-frequency distribution, the extended negative exponent function is only a test. We need more research to improve the model and give it a better explanation.
Factors that lead to advances in neonatal intensive care: Comroe and Dripps revisited The original purpose of this study was to validate both the methodology of Comroe and Dripps, and their results as to the importance of basic research in clinical advances. This we were unable to do. The calculation of a single figure that would quantify the overall value of basic research in clinical advances, as was done in the Comroe and Dripps study, is therefore meaningless.
Evaluating patterns of co-operation: application of a bibliometric visualisation tool to the Fourth Framework Programme and the Transport Research Programme Visualisation of net-works indicates specific co-operation patterns beyond quantitative one-dimensional analysis and thus is a valuable method for characterisation of co-operational networks.
Using mathematical programming to solve large ranking problems The mathematical programming model introduced in this paper is a method useful not merely in predicting journal quality, but would also be useful in problem situations where the number of stimuli to be ranked or rated is numerous.
Publication patterns and perceptions of the Australian podiatric medical faculty Publication in scholarly journals is an important responsibility of podiatric medical faculty members, and the range of publishing opportunities in podiatric medicine necessitates the careful selection of target journals by authors.
Perspectives on publication among highly productive women adapted physical activity scholars Based on thematic analysis of interview data, we posited the following: high publication productivity of women adapted physical activity professionals is associated with internal motivation to write, which is enhanced by positive interactions with other professionals, supportive home environments, and supportive work environments. The most highly productive women adapted physical activity scholars are different from their peers primarily in (a) self-determination, also called perceived control or perceived ability-related attributes; (b) prioritization of writing relative to significant others; (c) collaboration with younger professionals and students; and (d) collegiality. Following are some of the hypotheses that emerged as we analyzed data. We recommend them to guide further study of highly productive women scholars.
Scholarly productivity in adapted physical activity pedagogy: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, the application of Bradford's law of scattering and Price's law that success breeds success provides insight into scholarly productivity within the pedagogy subspecialization of adapted physical activity. Our findings support Bradford's law in that 770 articles were scattered among 259 serials in a predictable pattern, allowing us to identify the four journals that contribute the most to the knowledge base. Graduate education in adapted physical activity should include exposure to bibliometrics and specific training in citation skills and in critical thinking about the impact of specific articles and journals.
Impact factor and electronic versions of biomedical scientific journals We identified a new limitation of this indicator: the impact factor seems to be related to the amount of circulation of information through Internet.
International co-operation in science and in social sciences as reflected in multinational papers indexed in SCI and SSCI The number of internationally co-authored papers in science substantially increased from 1992 to 1998, and was doubled in case of multilateral co-operation.
Mathematics research in India today: What does the literature reveal? All the three chroniclers1–3 also lament the sad state of training and research in Indian universities. The future of mathematics, it appears, depends a great deal on the few DAE institutions, ISI and the Board of Higher Mathematics. The University Grants Commission and the Academies should think of ways to improve the overall standards of teaching mathematics at the college and university levels.
Symmetric and asymmetric theory of relative concentration and applications We have extended the theory of concentration of a vector to the case of relative concentration of one vector to another.
Scientometric perspectives of the analysis of chemical terminology The results of the present pilot study clearly showed that formal quantitative analysis of large collections of secondary documents (CA and SCI) may attain two goals: 1) to monitor a selected group of terms, and 2) to discover specific (semantic) links between words.
A new method for analyzing scientific productivity For all the samples, the distribution of author productivity (publications per year) is exponential, not the normal (bell curve) distribution.
The non-Gaussian nature of bibliometric and scientometric distributions: A new approach to interpretation The non-Gaussian nature of the distributions in biblio-metrics and scientometrics, as well as the basic principles of Stankov's new Theory of Sciences, could be considered as a starting point to a new "wave concept” of the information.
Citation mining:: Integrating text mining and bibliometrics for research user profiling The combination of citation bibliometrics and text mining provides a synergy unavailable with each approach taken independently.
Extracting macroscopic information from Web links Web link metrics, then, can yield results that correlate highly with nonelectronic phenomena, despite all of the acknowledged problems.
Help from faculty: Findings from the Acadia Institute graduate education study Much of what students need to succeed in their postgraduate careers has little to do with their knowledge of content and method.
Influences on the ethical beliefs of graduate students concerning research Based upon the respondents' replies, further education in courses is ranked as the most important of the nine factors studied.
Mapping the scholarly development of strategic management The study demonstrates the potential to shed objective light on the social construction of knowledge and to address important issues in other scholarly disciplines.
Citation characteristics of research published in emergency medicine versus other scientific journals Research submitted to the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine meeting and subsequently published is cited about as often as the average scientific journal article but receives more impact, is cited more widely, and is more likely to be cited by a broader range of authors when published by non-emergency medicine journals.
Collaboration, creativity and rewards: why and how scientists collaborate Because of this adoption, the contradiction between collaborative research and individual careers has been solved so far and does not hinder a scientist's career.
Ranking analytical chemistry by country The audit confirms British analytical chemists' worst fears about their country's competitive posi- tion. According to the Ferguson, the United Kingdom needs to strengthen its expertise in areas such as miniaturization and time-of-flight MS, which are critical for postgenomics science. UKAP plans to repeat the survey in three to five years.
Forums for information systems scholars: III Findings suggest that we are seeing an increasing convergence and identification of a smaller set of journals which primarily publish IS research and which are considered to be outstanding or significant outlets for publication by IS researchers.
New practices for electronic publishing 1: Will the scientific paper keep its form? We conclude that the scientific article will change considerably but that, in its new more composite form as an ensemble of various textual and non-textual components, it will retain many of the current cultural and scientific requirements with regard to editorial, quality and integrity. In the second article, attention will be given to the unique features of electronic publications and the need for clear publishing standards.
Federal agency management practices for prioritizing and funding rehabilitation-related research To paraphrase a saying about politics and politicians, judgements about bureaucratic procedures for prioritizing and funding research are too important to be left entirely to bureaucrats. The initiative is required, too, of in-dividuals and organizations with a vested interest in rehabilitation re-search. Constructive debate can then occur that may lead to a sustained process of salutary change.
Internet publishing and transformation of knowledge processes The transition from conventional publishing to Internet publishing is leading to many changes and clearly will lead to more changes to the knowledge sectors that participate in the production and consumption of journal articles. Many signs of transition to Internet publishing are noticeable, such as digitization of library documents in conventional libraries, reduction of library collections because of divergence of funds to Internet activities, emergence of Internet libraries offered by nontraditional library owners, closure of less-efficient or underused libraries, blurring of the traditional roles of publishers and libraries, and direct publishing of articles by authors.
Academic anesthesiologists' views on the importance of the impact factor of scientific journals: a North American and European survey IF for academic appointments and funding is more important in Europe than in North America. More than 50% of anesthesiologists agree that IF needs to be improved. Academic anesthesiologists believe that it should be improved upon or replaced by a better index.
The accuracy of references in paediatric journals The overall error rate is one of the lowest reported, and is similar to a study published in a general medicine journal where the authors evaluated five leading journals, finding a mean value of 26.5% and a range of 4.1-40.3%.
The scatter of documents over databases in different subject domains: How many databases are needed? The first conclusion that can be drawn from the results of this study is to confirm the results of earlier studies that in many bibliographic searches, multifile searching will be necessary to achieve acceptable coverage of the topic.
The self-organization of the European information society: The case of "biotechnology" Our results indicate that the various European national contributions mainly differ in terms of the couplings of their respective repertoires to the global developments.
The publication speed of information in bibliographic chemical databases When evaluated against this simple quality criterion, the performance of CA and particularly AA might still be improved.
Publication speed in analytical chemistry journals Most of the important analytical chemistry journals publish the printed version of their papers within a time lapse that is close to a common industrial standard. Vast changes in publication technology and electronic mail did not result yet in a general speedup of publication. It is likely that the possibility of selfpublication on the Web or other forms of competition through extremely fast publication will push some journals toward more speedy and more disciplined publication.
Nobel population 1901-50: anatomy of a scientific elite The Nobel population offers so many opportunities for studies not just of the Nobel institution but of the interna- tional physics community more generally, it will remain a valu- able resource to historians of science long after the hullabaloo surrounding the Nobel centenary has subsided. Nevertheless, historical studies based on the Nobel ar- chives are the closest we will ever get to knowing how prize winners are selected. Everything else is pure speculation.
A web crawler design for data mining The distributed architecture has shown itself capable of crawling a large collection of web sites by using idle processing power and disk space.
Internationalization of general surgical journals - Origin and content of articles published in North America and Great Britain from 1983 to 1998 "Internationalization of the highly rated Brit-ish and the 5 highest rated US general surgical journals has occurred. The decrease in the number of national ar-ticles in the US journals has been accompanied by sig-nificant decreases in government funding and basic re-search articles and a static output of clinical randomized studies from North America. The theory that internationalization of the major English-language general surgical journals has occurred during the last 15 years is no longer conjecture."
Journal quality assessment: An integrated subjective and objective approach This paper presents a fuzzy set approach that integrates the subjective and objective approaches. A Web-based decision support system has been developed to demonstrate the feasi-bility and effectiveness of this application, using a case study in Hong Kong; it is posted on the Internet. The major benefits of the proposed approach are: 1) providing a comprehensive framework for journal quality assessment by integrating subjective and objective infor-mation; 2) providing flexibility to the evaluators by permitting them to input their assessment qualitatively and/or quantita-tively;
The Brazilian investment in science and technology Unstable federal resources for science, together with the poor returns of private resources in terms of developing new technologies, may jeopardize the future of Brazilian technological development.
Declining critical care research publications by authors from US institutions, 1990-1999 The reasons for the decline in authorship by investigators from U.S. institutions are speculative and likely multifactorial.
International collaboration in science in India and its impact on institutional performance The index GIFCOL therefore adds another dimension to the process of evaluation. When we tried to assess the impact of international collaboration on institutional performance in India, both in terms of increase in productivity and in terms of increased impact, we found that there were indeed strong differences. The Tata Institute (Cluster 3) stands out, in that it has a very high productivity, collaboration and IF. It gains in impact through collaboration, and is clearly the star performer in the Indian context.
Elite researchers in ophthalmology: Aspects of publishing strategies, collaboration and multi-disciplinarity The study to date, we believe, provides initial benchmarks from which changes in the field of ophthalmology, optometry and associated fields can be charted in the future. We intend to augment our case study by looking at citation data for the case authors and by examining many aspects of a research and publication career. Finally, the project as it progresses will provide new analysis and interpretation on the evolving domain of vision sciences in the health, medical, physical and social sciences.
Integrating scientometric indicators into sociological studies:: methodical and methodological problems If scientometrics wants to remain a scientific field (and not merely a technological community of people applying standardised methods), it must contribute to explanations in science studies.
Collaboration behaviour of Berlin life science researchers in the last two decades of the twentieth century as reflected in the Science Citation Index German as well as Berlin life scientists had extended their transnational co-operation in similar proportions with West Berlin going ahead. As expected they also intensified East-West collaboration after the fall of the Iron Curtain. Unexpected and not yet explained by me is the result that East German life scientists were ahead of their colleagues from the West regarding the tendency towards higher numbers of authors per paper.
Chinese-Indian-German collaboration results that provided the impetus for the foundation of COLLNET The change of Gestalts in Indian medicine could be made visible in Figures 3 and 4 in the present paper. Indian experts assume that the increase of international collaboration during the last decades in Indian medicine probably could be the cause for this change of the patterns.
Citation counts of multi-authored papers - First-named authors and further authors On the basis of our data, we cannot recommend such approximations, because straight counts give a biased representation of complete counts.
Age structures of scientific collaboration in Chinese computer science A special type of ASSC exists in Chinese computer science, which is mainly composed of scientists younger than 36 or older than 52 years of age. The unique character of the ASSC of Chinese computer science results from historical causes and cultural background. Future possibilities for research include similar scientometric studies of other fields of Chinese science, and further analysis and discussion of the sociological and psychological causes underlying the formation of ASSCs in Chinese science.
Collaboration and cognitive structures in social science research fields. Towards socio-cognitive analysis in information systems The present paper shows how socio-cognitive analysis uses two types of bibliographic information, namely co-authorship and keyword co-occurrences, to depict the relationship between cognitive and social structures of a research field. The results indicate that the positions of actors in scientific social networks are associated with their choice of themes. Currently, a prototype is being designed at the Social Science Information Centre in Bonn that will model actor-related relevance functions on the basis of the present empirical findings.
Continuity and discontinuity of collaboration behaviour since 1800 -: from a bibliometric point of view None of the existing explanatory approaches meets this heterogeneity; the most salient feature is a propensitiy to collaborate in fields where theoretical and applied research is combined.
Collaboration patterns in Indian and Bulgarian epidemiology of neoplasms in Medline for 1966-1999 The research collaboration of the Indian and Bulgarian authors is realized at several levels: a) institutional (intra- or interdepartmental), b) domestic (intercity or regional), and c) international (bi- or multilateral). Our comprehensive bibliographic data could contribute to creation of Indian-Bulgarian teams and promote the involvement of the most active foreign partners in an effective international interdisciplinary cooperation.
Developing the Chinese social science citation index The development of CSSCI is significant in creating a new system and has been attracting the attention of scholars and institutions around the world. It will certainly have a positive effect on the research and development of China's social sciences.
Usage patterns of an electronic theses and dissertations system The usage patterns illustrate that system usage has seen a significant increase since May 2000. While most users appear to be domestic users, the KISTI ETD system also attracts users from many other countries, suggesting that the KISTI ETD system has become a part of the international networked digital library of theses and dissertations. These findings have implications for ETD system design and deserve further evaluation.
The A to Z of authorship: analysis of influence of initial letter of surname on order of authorship Having a surname with an initial letter at the beginning rather than the end of the alphabet seems to be an advantage for order of authorship in papers in the BMJ. Academics could follow the precedent set by Larry Adler's grandfather and consider changing their surname to enhance their likelihood of first authorship. Our results reinforce the current debate on the meaning of the alphabetical order of authorship, rather than contributorship.
Trust, conflict and performance in scientific collaborations In conclusion, we suggest that the segmentation of scientific collaborations through bureaucratic organization can impose a structure for interaction resembling work that is actually noncollaborative. Trust between individual scientists is decreasingly important in the con-temporary scientific world, where multi-organizational collaborations are required. Our central argument has been that the relations between struc-tural components (such as project teams) are more significant than trust among individuals for the operation and success of large scientific projects.
Cost effectiveness of a medical digital library Based on our experience at Rouen University Hospital, it is possible to conclude that our electronic library was and will remain cost-effective for several years when compared to interlibrary loan costs.
The decision-making constraints and processes of grant peer review, and their effects on the review outcome The most unambiguous conclusions to be drawn from this study regard the effects of guidelines, rating scales, budgets and ranking methods.
The determinants of visibility of software engineering researchers The development of a generally recognized body of literature is an essential step in the evolution of software engineering as a discipline. The visibility of key authors is a good indicator that this evolution is continuing. Our analysis indicates that their first step should be to seriously consider publishing a book as soon as possible.
An assessment of Systems and Software Engineering scholars and institutions (1996-2000) This study is one in an ongoing series whose goal is to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE.
Visualizing latent domain knowledge In order to track the development of scientific paradigms, it is important to take into account latent domain knowledge as well as mainstream domain knowledge. The new visualization ap-proach can not only capture the intellectual structure of highly cited works but also make it possible to uncover connections be-tween latent domain knowledge and the body of the mainstream domain knowledge. The two case studies have shown that this approach has the potential to be a new way of supporting knowl-edge tracking and knowledge management.
Use of numerical taxonomy and journal impact factors in the evaluation of chemical engineering academics' publications The paper also shows that a number of senior chemical engineering academics do not conform to the publication habits of an ‘ideal’ chemical engineer, as defined by JCR. This method could be used not simply to analyse what individuals or departments are publishing, but also to identify potential synergies between departments with significant overlap of interest (or, conversely, with no overlap of interests), and could be used to track developments over time. we suggest that ISI should consider using our technique, or something similar, as one of its inputs when making its decisions about revising its JCR subject listings, to ensure that they do accurately reflect the publication vehicles the academics use when publishing the results of their research.
Exploring the link structure of the Web with network diagrams The proposal for four types of diagram has attempted to fill this particular gap, at least for small numbers of sites.
Link based clustering of Web search results By filtering some irrelevant pages, our approach clusters high quality pages into groups to facilitate users' accessing and browsing.
Referees' attitudes toward open peer review and electronic transmission of papers There was a preference among the participants for masking the referees, and a tendency to use the Web as the medium of transmission because it is considered faster, easier, simple and more economic.
The Impact Factor: Time for change The IF (and all measures derived from it) should be abandoned. A 'return to basics' in evaluating published work is overdue. As seductive as a simple formula is to assess quality, shortcuts are unavailable and unlikely to be useful.
Organizational contexts and university performance outcomes: The limited role of purposive action in the management of institutional status First, institutional status, as measured by a comprehensive set of performance indicators, is quite stable over time.
Quality and the research assessment exercise: just one aspect of performance? Measuring academic research performance is notoriously difficult.
Sense and nonsense of S&amp;T productivity indicators Originating in the field of business management, benchmarking is under high risk of falling into the trap of simplification nonsense when applied naively (or ideologically) to public policy.
Analysis of publications and citations from a geophysics research institute All observations suggest that reported differences in cited half-lives must be quite large to be significant.
Angewandte Chemie in Light of the Science Citation Index To summarize: The exclusive consideration of the International Edition in the bibliographic section of the SCI in the case of an evaluation through standard processes results in an underestimation of Angewandte Chemie papers by the percentage of citations which occur exclusively in the German Edition. Additionally, reviews can experience a drastic underestimation due to incorrect storage or citation of the first page. Apart from the possibilities for errors which lie in the nature of journals, the short timeframe of the citations demand great caution in the application and in the interpretation of JIFs.
Acknowledgement trends in the research literature of information science This modest snap-shot of five leading information science journals indicates that acknowledgement practice is more firmly institutionalised than was the case dur-ing the 1970s and 1980s.
The Productivity and Impact of The Leukemia &amp; Lymphoma Society Scholar Program: The Apparent Positive Effect of Peer Review We conclude that it is probable that selection through the peer-review process resulted in a more productive cohort of scientists funded by the Society than would have been achieved by random selection.
Co-authorship and the output of academic economists Using panel data on 339 economists, this paper has shown that output is negatively related to co-authorship: the more an individual economist co-authors, the lower the research output attributable to that individual.
“Ambiguity” and scientometric measurement: A dissenting view None of the foregoing should be interpreted as an attempt to belittle Abe Bookstein's substantial contributions, which have had a profound and far-reaching effect on the conceptualization of informetrics. Rather, we have sought to stress the importance of having a solid mathematical basis to support our constructs and to realize that in many cases we are trying to model informetric processes rather than informetric distributions. We would argue that one of the most urgent current challenges is to test thoroughly the resilience of the stochastic models, especially in how they measure up to observed changes over time, and for this we need many more data sets collected over extending time periods.
The Web's hidden order In spite of its seemingly random growth, many properties of the Web obey statistical laws describing its structure in a simple and nontrivial fashion. Equally important, and aesthetically pleasing to us, these laws can be derived from a dynamical organizing principle that helps reveal the structure’s historical evolution and future behavior. The knowledge of strong regularities, such as the small-world phenomenon, or the law of surfing [7], can be used to design better Web services, including searches, and increase the time users spend at Web sites [8].
Is Age an Appropriate Criterion for Moving Journals to Storage? Therefore, storage deci-sions regarding physics journals need not be contingent on users from related disciplines. If journals are retained at a level that satisfies physi-cists, they are likely to satisfy chemists as well. Science research libraries will undoubtedly continue to retain and add to their print collections for many years, and managing print collec-tions will continue to be an important part of maintaining a relevant col-lection of documents for scientific research.
Applying evaluation criteria to New Zealand government websites What lessons arise for government website designers from this study? While all the criteria offer guidance to designers, the following appear to be areas that require attention: Sites should provide orientation information—a statement of scope and purpose of the site, the legal status of information at the site. Most important of all, the government entities concerned are showing that they are prepared to experiment with and exploit the new medium of the Internet.
Bibliometric Research of International Scientific Conferences Proceedings in the Context of the Current Objectives of Library and Information Service We think that our results show that the magnetic fluids domain seemed to reduce slightly the quantity of literature items used in the cre-ative work and enlarged the part of older literature to be used.
Expressing criticism and evaluation during three centuries Language constructs science in relation to the cognitive dimension (the scientific content), the social dimension (relations within the group), and the macrosocial/societal dimension (the scientists' role in society). Medical articles serve as one tool for medical scientists in their construction of their scientific reality and identity.
The Commerce of Letters: Networks and "Invisible Colleges" in Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century Europe The study of correspondence plays an important role in research in the history of ideas. The body of relevant correspondence in the history of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century science has been a fruitful source for this purpose. A study of these relationships based on "co-correspondent" research could enhance their use in the history of science and perhaps also reveal additional “invisible colleges.”
The Place of E-Prints in the Publication Patterns of Physical Scientists Because these findings correspond to what was known of preprint authorship, or predictable of e-print authorship, it seems safe to conclude that: • e-prints are not being transformed into peer-reviewed journal articles at a rate higher than that at which preprints were transformed. e-prints do not seem to be lessening the amount of traditional, peer-reviewed publications because e-print authors often publish extensively, even if they do not always transform particular e-prints into peer-reviewed journal articles. In any case, continued scholarly attention needs to be paid to the blurring of this boundary; the changing publication forms and roles that result therefrom;25 and the resultant, emerging paradigms of scholarly and scientific publishing.26
Influence of interdisciplinarity on peer-review and bibliometric evaluations in physics research Thus, we found no general evidence for a peer-review bias as well as a bibliometric bias against interdisciplinary research.
Quality versus quantity: Ranking research records of economics departments in New Zealand Overall, according to this analysis, the top three departments are Auckland, VUW, and Canterbury.
Commercial Web site links Business Web site interlinking is, therefore, a natural and widespread phenomenon.
A new Web assessment index: Spanish universities analysis The primary value of this work is that it clarifies the need for universities to evaluate their Web sites. The validity of the index has been tested in our evaluation of Spanish universities sites. A final interest of this study lies in its foundation for future research; having identified the critical categories and factors in the WAI, the next stage is to apply it to universities from other countries and measuring the relationship between the index value and university efficiency.
Exploring the link structure of the Web with network diagrams The proposal for four types of diagram has attempted to fill this particular gap, at least for small numbers of sites. This showed that the final, most balanced, graph could still hide some critical information and could not, therefore, be able to be used in place of the others, despite its apparent advantage in balancing domain sizes.
Benchmarking of RTD policies in Europe: ‘research collectives’ as an entry point for renewed comparative analyses It shows that the well known and striking differences between European Union nations, in terms of institutional structures and access to resources, do not directly translate into different productive patterns of research collectives, thus emphasising the self-dynamics of both the given organisations and, more important, their research collectives.
Journal impact factors: a ‘bioequivalence’ issue? IMF does not represent the impact of an individual paper. Furthermore, if the comparison of journals is treated as a bioequivalence issue, the citation data should be log transformed prior to calculating IMF such that they represent the likelihood of citation for the median article. The individual impact factor of a publication cannot be assessed using the journal IMF.
The Institutional Concentration of Authors in Top Journals of Economics During the Last Two Decades Our main findings partly confirm prior studies, but add important aspects, like time trends or productivity considerations, a high concentration of economists of the second generation, and typical exporters and importers among universities. Second, if we adjust our data by input indicators, such as population, number of universities with economics departments, or manpower in economics, in order to include some kind of productivity measurement results appear much less worrisome for the economics profession. Third, we find that concentration ratios like the Herfindahl-Index lack a clear time trend. Nevertheless, we dare to conclude that the position of the United States has been weakening during the last five to ten years.
Tools for Evaluating Research Output Although it is ultimately a mat-ter of judgement, we regard these results as indicating a rather high degree of stability in journal rankings.
Development and Application of New Journal Impact Measures This study has shown that whatever journal impact measure one chooses to apply, its outcomes have to be interpreted and used with care, and one needs to keep scrutinizing these measures.
Urquhart's and Garfield's Laws: The British controversy over their validity Thus, in my opinion, the controversy is for the most part resolved. Urquhart's and Garfield's Laws mutually corrob- orate each other, and the scientific and technical information system is highly structured and restrictive.
The Integrity Of Uk Academic Research Under Commercial Threat The presumption of the independence of academic science has long been a main guarantee of its quality and of the reliability of its findings.
The Sociotechnical Networks of Scholarly Communication The situation and the question would seem to invite the application of a conceptual framework such as the actor-network theory approach outlined here. For the dynamic flux in the field of scholarly communications will not be amenable to any analysis based on a static framework or methodology. The interdisciplinary ferment that continues to shape the rich vocabulary and methodological tools of ANT makes it an impressive candidate for use as an overarching framework for analysis and description in this field.
Using the World Wide Web for research: are faculty satisfied? Faculty members participating in this study have accepted the Web as a research tool suitable for their own use. At the same time, the results indicate that faculty members question both the accuracy and reliability of much information found on the Web and do not consider the Web to be sufficient as a sole source to deliver the type or quantity of research information they need. This is important for all those involved in library collection development and financing.
Author Productivity and Collaboration: An Investigation of the Relationship Using the Literature of Technology This study demonstrates that the degree of au- thor collaboration in the literature of technology is very low.
Searching for hazardous substances on the Internet "Although there are irrelevant, incomplete or even false data on the Web, it can be regarded as a significant provider of free chemical related data for scientists and engineers. When adequate databases or print collections are not available or costs are a problem, the Web is at least worth a try. Ten recommendations for searching hazard data on the Internet can be given: (1) Choose relevant sites or databases directly (see Appendix). (2) Always use more than one search service. (3) Search CAS-No. - if known."
The use of combined bibliometric methods in research funding policy Overall, one may conclude that the ap-plication of bibliometric analysis supports funding organizations to assess the effectiveness of funding strategies.
Publish or Perish: A Business and Professional Argument for Private-Sector Scientists to Publish in Refereed Journals Given our unceasing need to enhance our professional and corporate credibility, our need to react to questionable claims by individuals and groups who are opposed to technology in general or to a product specifically, our need to optimize our R&D opportunities, our need to recruit the best and brightest scientists, and, most importantly, our need to contribute to science and society, it should be clear that as private-sector scientists we do indeed exist and operate within a publish or perish paradigm.
Unintended consequences of cooperative research: impact of industry sponsorship on climate for academic freedom and other graduate student outcome Thus, while industry's presence is widespread our results offer little support for those who believe that presence is undermining the research experience stu-dents receive and/or eroding core values like aca-demic freedom. Perhaps more importantly, the current study has demonstrated the feasibility, and we hope the desir-ability, of empirically addressing these kinds of is-sues. In the final analysis, we share the optimistic viewpoint of Giamatti (1982) about our ability to balance the demands of science and relevancy: “We should negotiate appropriate arrangements, openly arrived at, that can further our mission.
An Examination of the Usefulness of JSTOR to Researchers in Finance The discipline of finance was shown to meet the criteria tolerably well. Actual coverage was then measured, with the finding that approxi-mately 37% to 42% of the articles cited in a recent year were available to finance researchers in the JSTOR archive at the time they were preparing their research. The JSTOR archive is clearly a significant resource for support of scholar-ly research in finance.
How to analyze publication time trends by correspondence factor analysis: Analysis of publications by 48 countries in 18 disciplines over 12 years Although different countries laid emphasis on publication in dif-ferent disciplines, the overall tendency was toward greater uniformity in publication patterns with time. The general point we can make is that there is an overall trend toward a greater uniformity in the publication patterns of many countries and that this “average" pattern is defined essentially by the United States and several Euro-pean countries (in particular, the United Kingdom, France, The Netherlands, etc.) and not necessarily by the countries with the highest publication outputs. Our analyses therefore beg the question: what is the reason for this, and is an average spread of disciplines a “good thing” (May, 1997; Ojasoo, 1998).
Informetrics and webometrics for measuring impact, visibility, and connectivity in science, politics, and business "The aim is to learn how to use websites and online databases, not only as a registry, but also as an analytical tool."
Method or Madness? Educational Research and Citation Prestige "This analysis has shown that there is little conformity between the selection decisions of the traditional, discipline-specific databases such as CIJE and Education Abstracts/Index and ISI's SSCI."
Using clustering techniques to detect usage patterns in a Web‐based information system The goal of this article was to bring a new concept to studying usage patterns: segmenting user not by who the users are or their demographics, but rather by what pat-terns of usage they had in common.
Crisis and transition: the economics of scholarly communication It is impossible in a short paper to reflect the complexity of the issues. There is no obvious solution, no single solution, and no easy solution to the difficulties currently faced by those seeking the cost-effective dissemina- tion of scholarly information.
Bibliographic Displays of Web-based OPACs: Multivariate Analysis Applied to Latin-American Catalogues Software used by Latin American libraries is very diverse. The Israeli software Aleph has had a great impact on the region. Finally, it is important to note that multivariate analysis methods constitute solid, useful tools for the analysis of complex series of data.
Results from a web impact factor crawler The first web impact factor calculation does not produce results that are closely linked to accepted research ratings primarily because of the number of web pages and links on a server that are not related to research. WIFs can be calculated accurately, provided that a sufficiently restrictive condition is placed on the pages that are eligible to be included. WIFs do not measure or correlate with university research profiles; they are more a measure of average interest and utility per document hosted on the site, over a wide range of types and purpose of document.
The Impact Factor and APAQ The impact factor of APAQ compares quite favorably to most other journals in sport science, special education, and rehabilitation. However, it is strikingly different in 1998 and 1999, and therefore scholars should monitor it closely in the next few years while remembering it is only one estimate of journal prestige. Overall, the impact factor of APAQ is quite respectable, but its stability should be monitored carefully over the next few years. Potential authors can certainly entertain submitting their work with the assurance that APAQ ranks favorably with a host of other journals in sport science, rehabilitation, and special education.
Internet search engines – fluctuations in document accessibility The Internet retrieval systems investigated: forget documents completely (document fluctuations); miss documents in their result sets (element fluctuations); and are subject to changes in indexing policy (indexing fluctuations).
Mapping the “Worlds” of the World Wide Web Using data derived from the AltaVista search engine, an exploratory analysis of Web hyperlink volume and flows discovered much unevenness in the 77 million hyperlinks among the 6 nonstate domains and 174 country domains.
An Analysis of Journal Use by Structural Biologists with Applications for Journal Collection Development Decisions This conclusion enabled the authors to submit a proposal to their provost for funding for subscriptions to these titles. The conclusion also suggests a strong case for establishing a subscription to Elsevier's ScienceDirect online journal package because many of the important journals are Elsevier titles. Ownership of a core of important journals remains the primary means of supporting research, whether that ownership is accomplished through paper subscriptions or various forms of online access.
Mapping national research profiles in social science disciplines The graphical mapping of national research in broader domains represented by a range of scientific fields provides additional information and perspectives, often concealed by traditional research performance indicators and international rank-ing. This fact makes a strong case for the application of the Tuned Citation Impact Index indicator (TCII), also at national macro-level, in order to avoid countries, with publication profiles similar to that of the applied baseline, becoming favoured when compared and ranked according to relative impact. Common baseline profiles, like those of the world or the EU, should consequently not be regarded as the ideal benchmark.
Web page change and persistence—A four‐year longitudinal study The findings presented here suggest that there is a great deal of as yet unclassified subtlety to the Web. The longevity of a Web page is the complex function of domain type and page purpose. These data suggest that an aging general Web collection will decline at a half-life of about 2 years. Through careful selection, the rate of decline may be moderated.
On the lags between submission and acceptance: are all referees created equal? This note addresses the links between days in refereeing with some basic characteristics of the reviewers. An altruis-tic approach is used, and data from Hamermesh (1994) is augmented to find that (i) long articles, (ii) referees outside the USA and Canada, (iii) lack of academic experience, (iv) relatively less requested referees, and (v) lower income, are linked with delays in response of the referees. There are no differences in gender, type of journal, or prestige of referees in the response time.
Observations concerning the two‐ and three‐year synchronous impact factor, based on the Chinese science citation database In this article we analysed one year of citation data in the CSCD. Several discrepancies with the basic model were observed.
Improving standards in the scientific biomedical community in Romania by using journal ranking to improve journal quality* In order to achieve a healthy scientific environment in the field of biomedicine, the value of the primary sources, biomedical journals, must be constantly monitored.
Evaluation of the usefulness of Internet searches to identify unpublished clinical trials for systematic reviews Information on unpublished and particularly ongoing trials can be found on the Internet. We conclude that carefully designed Internet searches may, in addition to ‘traditional' searches in bibliographic and trial databases, represent an additional source for identifying evidence for systematic reviews, particularly ongoing trials. An 'Open Trial Initiative' is proposed to define a syntax for publishing trials on the web and to ensure interoperability of trial registers, so that special search engines can harvest information on ongoing and complete clinical trials.
How “World Wide” Is the Web? First, the Web did in fact exhibit signs of an ongoing internationalization process, as the geographical distribution of the countries of origin of the Web's content widened, and the share of Web sites provided by sources in the major English-speaking countries decreased.
PUTTING THE BRAKES ON R&amp;D SPENDING The evidence suggests many chemical companies are selectively boosting resources for the development of new products.
MEASURING FIRM-SPECIFIC AND LOCATION-SPECIFIC INFLUENCES ON THE ORGANIZATION OF PHARMACEUTICAL LABORATORIES. The analysis documents significant and systematic correlation between the scientific orientation realized by a focal laboratory and that achieved both by the remainder of its firm (firm effects) and by laboratories in the region geographically proximate to the focal laboratory (location effects).
Monitoring the impact on the international literature of the scientific production of Italian researchers, in the disciplines ‘psychiatry’ and ‘psychology’: 1985-1989 and 1995-1999 Conclusions ---- Citation analysis, concerning relatively short periods of time (five years), appears to be a very helpful tool for monitoring the development of scientific research in specific disciplines and the trend of the scientific production of researchers.
Evolution and scientific literature: towards a decentralized adaptive web It enables a wide choice of approaches for e-print archives to be created wherever they make sense, for example, by discipline, institution, society, country and so on, as well as allowing the free-market system to work among competing service providers.
The effect of the Web on undergraduate citation behavior 1996-1999 Although this study of one undergraduate class at Cornell University cannot be considered representative of college students in general, there has been a remarkable shift in the use of information resources away from books in favor of general web resources.
Putting theory into practice: social sciences needs analysis As for myself, I am glad I took the time to conduct the analysis. I learned about the discipline of social work as it is taught at the University of Oklahoma and about the application of needs analysis. I intend to act upon what I learned, and also to share what I learned with the School of Social Work. I believe it will result in an enhanced relationship with them and better services for them.
Searching the web: The public and their queries We found that a great majority of Web queries posed by the public are short, not much modified, and very simple in structure.
Author inflation leads to a breakdown of Lotka's law We have shown that Lotka's distribution breaks down in the case the dataset includes articles with an "inflated" number of authors.
Authors as citers over time Now that citation identities have been brought forward, perhaps eventually their use will become commonplace.
Indirect-collective referencing (ICR) in the Elite Journal Literature of Physics.: II.: A literature science study on the level of communications No notable statistical correlation was found between the three characteristic variables, either in the total population or in the different special groups of communications. There is no correlation, either statistical or real, i.e., of cause-and-effect, between the documentedness of scientific communications made by their authors and the presence and intensity of the ICR method used by their authors.
National patterns of research output and priorities in renewable energy A comparative analysis of the research priorities, particularly the identification of areas that need to be emphasized or de-emphasized, has important implications for strategic planning in science, especially the allocation of resources to different areas and identification of research areas and countries for transnational cooperation in research. Tracking of trends and priorities in time can provide important insights into the impact of resource allocation decisions taken in the past. On the other hand, the framework and methodology presented in this study for cross-national assessment of priorities does not suffer from any of these limitations, since bibliometric data can be collected rather easily at different levels of breakdown of scientific fields and are also amenable to cross-national comparisons.
JAT's impact factor -: Room for improvement? In conclusion, JAT continues to enjoy a respectable impact factor compared with other scientific journals in the field of forensic science and toxicology (27).
New practices for electronic publishing 2: New forms of the scientific paper Thus we may conclude by saying that electronic media enhance the integration of textual and non-textual knowledge repres- entations, thereby enabling a proper concep- tual segregation between various kinds of knowledge and allowing for more specific refereeing. From the analysis of these experiments we will be able to develop new standards and rules. It is a matter of the highest importance that the scientific community takes this experimentation seriously and neither bows to conservative forces that try to restrict the developments to the known and established practices of the paper world, nor surrenders to the charms and advertising power of soft- ware package manufacturers that do not guarantee interoperability between different computer systems.
A new model that generates Lotka's Law We have shown that the statistics of exceedances provides a process that can generate Lotka's Law with a simple model.
Will this paper ever be cited? If your paper has not yet been cited, do not give up all hope—although you may well get increasingly concerned as time goes on—and, as a last resort, you could try self-citation!
Experience, expertise, or specialty? Uses and misuses of a reference This study demonstrates that misrepresentation of the findings of published studies is not uncommon. More needs to be done to ensure the accuracy of references in scientific publications. Increased scrutiny of references in the peer-review process, although difficult, is most likely the only way to guard against these types of manipulations and misrepresentations.
Self-citation:: comparison between Radiologia, European Radiology and Radiology for 1997-1998 In summary, Radiología, the Spanish official radio- logical journal, although not included in Index Medicus and its database Medline, had a higher self-citation than European Radiology in the period 1997–1998. Radiology has the largest self-citation index. Therefore, European radiological jour- nals may increase their self-citation index, because of the quality of its scientific content, to being comparable to journals in other disciplines.
Biomedical research in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (1982-2000) A steady advancement in biomedical research is observed in the Kingdom mainly in years 1987-1996.
Collusion detection in multiple choice examinations It is possible to detect collusion in multiple choice examinations in a statistical way by examining the patterns of answers between pairs of candidates. In examinations that are delivered on-line, information is often available on the location of the candidates and the timings of their answers, and can be used as additional corroborative evidence.
Scientific biomedical journals in Croatia Many journals had financial problems despite receiving governmental or other support.
Citation analysis of research performer quality A credible citation analysis for determining performer or team quality should have the following components: Multiple technical experts to average out individual bias and subjectivity; A process for comparing performer or team output papers with a normalization base of similar papers; A process for retrieving a substantial fraction of candidate normalization base papers; Manual evaluation of many candidate normalization base papers to obtain high thematic similarity and statistical representation.
Scientific productivity of authors in theoretical population genetics The investigation on the distribution of productivity of authors in the field of theoretical population genetics, using time cross-sectional analysis, has depicted a "snapshot" picture of the field. The study on the nature of regularity in the distribution of productivity of all authors during 1881-1980, using Lotka's law and other statistical models, has shown that Lotka's Law and Cumulative Advantage Distribution best describe such a regularity. It is interesting to see that such a distribution has followed a logistic model, when explored for its goodness-of-fit, through different growth models.
European Union associated university websites In reported sizes of university web sites, there was a clear tendency for the richer countries to have larger university web sites.
Indicators of structural change in the dynamics of science:: Entropy statistics of the SCI Journal Citation Reports Using entropy statistics I have explored whether and how changes in citation patterns can be used as indicators of structural change in the database.
Modeling the growth of world social science literature It was, therefore, concluded that: (i) power model (α > 0, γ > 1) is likely to be fully applicable (as reflected simultaneously in the behavior and trend values of α₁ and α₂) and logistic model is partially applicable (as reflected in its behavior and trend value of only (α₂)) in the case of growth of publications in anthropology, economics and sociology, and (ii) both the models are partially applicable: power model (as reflected in trend values of α₁) and logistic model (as reflected in trend values of α₂) in case of cumulative growth of publications in history, political science and psychology. The growth rate function methodology to some extent supports the results obtained from the actual application of the models.
A scientometric analysis of research output from Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur Now, in the light of the above facts about the performance of various departments seen through individual performance measure, it is observed that the following three departments, namely CH, PH, and EC have overall performed better in terms of quality than other departments. The department of chemistry (CH), have secured first rank in percentage of papers covered in SCI, average normalized impact per paper, percentage of high quality papers produced, and PEI. It is also observed that good performance of these three departments is closely indicated in terms of quality indicators, but unexpectedly collaboration indices do not show the same results.
Sampling and concentration values of incomplete bibliographies In this article we studied different sampling techniques in bibliographies, comprising sampling in items and sampling in sources. So, in the two major sampling methods, we have that the sampled bibliography is more concentrated than the original one. In all cases we can say that the observed concentration is higher than the concentration of the complete bibliography.
Is past academic productivity predictive of radiology resident academic productivity? These selected measures of academic productivity as an undergraduate and during medical school are not helpful for predicting publication during residency. There was no difference in publication potential between those resi-dents who were academically productive in the past and those who were not. In our resident population, there appears to be no significant difference in the research potential between those resi-dents who were academically productive in the past and those who were not.
Advantages and limitations in the use of impact factor measures for the assessment of research performance in a peripheral country Among the main advantages of IF measures we can mention that it is a quasi-qualitative indicator and is more immediately and easily obtained than citations.
Identifying 'highly-rated' journals - an Australian case study The different interpretations applied by the various national bodies to the request for a list of the "20 most highly ranked journals world-wide” in their field was intriguing. Three strategies, described here in their extreme form, were apparent: 1. Selecting journals on the basis of citation impact; 2. Selecting journals on the basis of the number of Australian publications they carried; and 3. Selecting two distinct groups of journals, divided evenly between the above two categories.
Researchers' and users' perceptions of the relative standing of biomedical papers in different journals Journal citation impact factors, which are frequently used as a surrogate measure of research quality, do not correlate well with UK researchers' subjective views of the relative importance of journals as media for communicating important biomedical research results.
Impact measures of interdisciplinary research in physics Re-examination of results of an evaluation of physics research programs in the Netherlands shows that outcomes of relative indicators, applied in a bibliometric analysis, are not biased in case of interdisciplinary research.
Development and application of journal impact measures in the Dutch science system This paper has presented a number of studies using journal impact measures, conducted at CWTS from 1995 onwards.
Subfield problems in applying the Garfield (Impact) Factors in practice It may be stated therefore, that Garfield Factors of journals are appropriate measures for characterizing the relative international eminence of journals within a set of journals appropriately selected.
CHIMIA in comparison - An update Necessary caution about impact factors and statistical information from databases notwithstanding, we do consider these results a tribute to our authors as well as an encouragement to the Editorial Board and the Advisory Board of CHIMIA to continue their work, and a satisfaction for our Society as publisher of CHIMIA.
Journal characteristics, rankings and social acculturation in operations management This article gave some important characteristics of potential publication outlets in the POM field. Knowing more about the editorial philosophies, readership character-istics and the review process of journals can help authors in choosing the most appropriate outlet for their manuscripts.
The epistemic significance of collaborative research In summary, I have developed and defended a functional explanation for the persistence of collaborative research in science.
Measuring China's research performance using the Science Citation Index The main conclusion holds that bibliometric analyses based on the ISI databases in principle provide useful and valid indicators of the international position of Chinese research activities, provided that these analyses deal properly with the relatively large number of national Chinese journals covered by the ISI databases. The central thesis is that bibliometric indicators can be valid and useful tools in the assessment of research performance, provided that they have a sufficiently high level of sophistication, that their pitfalls are taken into account, and last but not least, that they are combined with other, more qualitative types of information. In the assessment of Chinese research activities, it is essential to distinguish between a national and an international point of view.
Productivity ratings of institutions based on publication in Scientometrics, Informetrics, and Bibliometrics, 1981-2000 Summing up the present survey of publication productivity in the field of SIB it can be said that (1) serious and sustained research in the area have been conducted at most of the institutions over the last two decades (Table 1). The first-ranked University of Sheffield with 33.0 articles emerged as the premier institution conducting SIB research as here defined. The findings can provide young researchers of SIB, potential graduate students, and institutional administrators with at least one index of research activity.
The nth-citation distribution and obsolescence Our main purpose has been to see if the particular form of a gamma distribution for the latent rate can reflect, at least in broad terms, reported empirical distributions rather than to provide rigorous methods for fitting the distributions. An admittedly rough-and-ready approach is described in Appendix 2, although it is hoped that more robust procedures can be developed. We would argue that the success of the fitting procedure leads to some confidence in the underlying model making it worthy of further investigation.
Recognition and international collaboration: the Brazilian case The present results suggest a direction towards increasing international recognition of Brazilian science. This collaboration will help to promote the increase in international visibility of the region as a whole as well as the increase in local competencies and skills, essential components for the development of a competitive scientific and technological system.
Authorship and citation patterns in Management Science in comparison with operational research In sum, the analysis demonstrated the intermediate character of MS between the mathematical approach by OR and rather qualitative or conceptual approaches by information systems or organisational research. This may be a wise choice of strategy for MS to compete with various approaches to management. In this way, MS has survived and maintained its independence in the middle of competing approaches to management.
Theory and experimentation on the most-recent-reference distribution We have investigated the most-recent-reference distribution, being motivated by existing studies of the first-citation distribution (which is hard to get) and by the similarity between synchronous and diachronous citation studies. First a model for the most-recent-reference distribution is developed, using a lognormal distribution for the number of references per paper and a (decreasing) exponential distribution for the reference ages. This distribution is then applied to JASIS and JACS to JACS most-recent-reference data, with very good results.
International visibility of Chinese scientific journals It is concluded that even those Chinese journals that are covered by ISI are still rather 'local' and suffer from a low visibility in the world. Yet we are optimistic about the future of Chinese science and its scientific journals.
Motivational factors in departure of young scientists from Croatian science The inclination of young people towards a professional and foreign exodus can be explained less by their sociodemographic, professional or material differentiation and more by dissatisfaction with their own professional and social status, i.e. a subjective perception of their own life and professional position.
The influence of the civil war in Yugoslavia on publishing in peer-reviewed journals The civil war in Yugoslavia has significantly damaged scientific production in B&H, and Serbia.
Methodologies for crawler based Web surveys This experiment has provided evidence that all of the methods of selecting sites cover areas of the Internet which have demonstrably different properties, even when considering the most basic statistic of page counts.
Mining a Web citation database for document clustering In this paper, we have proposed a mining process to extract document cluster knowledge from the Web Citation Database that can be used to support the retrieval of scientific publications over the Web.
Duplicate publication in the field of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery Duplicate publication is an example of inappropriate academic conduct.
What do citation counts count for in the field of addiction? An empirical evaluation of citation counts and their link with peer ratings of quality The number of citations received by papers on addiction appears to reflect the geographical region of study rather than what experts would consider as ‘quality’.
Tuberculosis research in India and China: From bibliometrics to research policy Both China and India need to invest in TB research far more than they do now. Both India and China, with their increasingly better showing in new biology research and drug development in recent years, should get into this consortium. India and China should join hands with NIAID as equal partners in joint research programmes.
Citation analysis of otorhinolaryngology journals Journal impact factors can help direct readers to those journals that have at track record for publishing data that are frequently cited and, thus, considered to be useful and of high information value.
Mining a Web Citation Database for author co-citation analysis In this paper, we have proposed a mining process for ACA from the Web Citation Database.
Visualizing and tracking the growth of competing paradigms: Two case studies In this case study, our citation-based visualization ap- proach has demonstrated its potential for tracking the de- velopment of competing paradigms. Our approach affords tasks such as the identifi- cation and tracking of landmark articles in a knowledge domain and comparing the growth rates between landmark articles. In conclusion, visualizing and tracking the growth of scientific knowledge presents a unique opportunity and a challenge to the information visualization community.
Diabetes research in India and China today: From literature-based mapping to health-care policy There is an enormous mismatch between the disease burden and the share of research performed in both countries. We argue that both India and China need to (i) strengthen their research capabilities in this area, (ii) increase investment in health-care research considerably, (iii) facilitate substantive international collaboration in research, and (iv) support cross-disciplinary research between basic life sciences researchers and medical researchers. As data such as those presented here should form the basis of health policy, India and China should encourage evaluation of research.
Style and substance in psychology: Are influential articles more readable than less influential ones? The results obtained in these four studies show that the extracts from articles cited by fellow authors were no more readable than their matched controls, but that the extracts from articles rated as influential by their readers were in fact more readable than were their less influential controls, as well as having shorter sentences. Articles that colleagues think highly of are, on the whole, significantly more readable than are less influential ones. Finally, why do we think that clear scientific writing is so important? Well, putting it simply, science is an attempt to understand our complicated world and to help people lead more satisfactory lives. By making science accessible, scientists engage in a mutual exchange with those other people (such as taxpayers) who support them. Indeed, they have a professional duty so to do.
Identity-creators and image-makers: Using citation analysis and thick description to put authors in their place This limited exploration of citation-based image and identity creation complements White's pioneering studies and shows how bibliometric techniques can be used to produce "biographical sketches of authors” (Borgman and Furner, 2002).
A proposal to define a core of a scientific subject: A definition using concentration and fuzzy sets In this article an exact definition of a core of a bibliography or a conglomerate has been presented. The main ingredients for this definition are: fuzzy set theory, Lorenz curves and concentration measures. If one prefers a strict delineation, the fuzzy core can easily be defuzzified.
Analysis on dynamics of research sub-domains in interdisciplinary fields: Analysis using personal distribution versus papers The structure of groups of sub-domains in environmental science reflects the classical disciplines and there observed little combination in the knowledge. On the contrary, in biophysics, the sub-domains are not fixed and there observed dynamics in group-structure. These tendencies give us an insight for knowledge integration of type-1 and type-2 research.
A distributional approach to multinationality measures of international scientific collaboration The indicators introduced by de Lange and Glänzel in 1997 and the new measure defined above as the product of two empirical expectations proved valuable tools for the analysis of additional aspects of international scientific collaboration such as the development of bi- and multilateral patterns in collaborative research. The ratio of the number of international links and international papers is roughly proportional to the ratio of full and fractional publication counts. From the viewpoint of citation impact, we can conclude that countries, in general, benefit from participation in multinational projects.
Mapping of S&T issues in the Indian Parliament: A scientometric analysis of questions raised in both Houses of the Parliament The analysis reveals that inter-party co-sponsorship is pre-dominant than intra-party co-sponsorship, which is a natural phenomenon.
Analysis of the fuzzy set literature using phrases This paper demonstrates a methodology for extracting a set of records relevant to a particular topic using phrase analysis.
Visibility and impact of research in Psychiatry for North European countries in EU, US and world contexts The research output worldwide is increasing during the analysed period, as is the amount of citations available for distribution. These facts, together with the weak productivity, are alarming signals to the research policy makers in the countries. In particular because the national research in fields like Psychiatry may function as indicators of the state of affairs as to the North European well fare model and its application.
Development of the Chinese Scientometric Indicators (CSI) We described the CSCD and its derived product: the Chinese Scientometric Indicators. The CSCD and CSI were constructed and designed in order to provide data and share resources with researchers in the fields of scientometrics and bibliometrics, and to provide a useful tool and a set of reference data for research managers and decision-makers. Though both products play already an important reference role in the effective evaluation of domestic S&T activities, we are convinced that their role, now and in the future, will still increase.
Prevalence of honorary and ghost authorship in Cochrane reviews A substantial proportion of reviews had evidence of honorary and ghost authorship.
Problems with indexing and citation of articles with group authorship Indexing systems are not optimally adapted to group authorship.
The hidden research paper A research paper rarely represents the opinions of those scientists whose work it reports.
Effect of written feedback by editors on quality of reviews - Two tandomized trials In study 1, minimal feedback from editors on review quality had no effect on subsequent performance of poor-quality reviewers, and the trend was toward a negative effect. In study 2, feedback to average reviewers was more extensive and supportive but produced no improvement in reviewer performance. Simple written feedback to reviewers seems to be an ineffective educational tool.
Measuring the quality of editorial peer review Until we have properly defined the objectives of peer-review, it will remain almost impossible to assess or improve its effectiveness. The research needed to understand the broader effects of peer review poses many methodologic problems and would require the cooperation of many parts of the scientific community.
Author perception of peer review - Impact of review quality and acceptance on satisfaction Contributor satisfaction with peer review was modest. Author satisfaction is associated with acceptance but not with review quality.
Prodding tardy reviewers - A randomized comparison of telephone, fax, and e-mail Contacting tardy reviewers resulted in a review being received within 7 days in about two thirds of cases, and it made no difference if the contact was made by telephone, fax, or e-mail. Our results indicate that, opinions notwithstanding, the 3 ap-proaches did not differ in effectiveness at one specialty journal.
Association of journal quality indicators with methodological quality of clinical research articles High citation rates, impact factors, and circulation rates, and low manu-script acceptance rates and indexing on Brandon/Hill Library List appear to be predic-tive of higher methodological quality scores for journal articles.
Journal prestige, publication bias, and other characteristics associated with citation of published studies in peer-reviewed journals In this cohort of published research, commonly used measures of study methodology and design did not predict the frequency of citations or the importance of citing journals. Positive outcome bias was not evident. The impact factor of the origi- nal publishing journal was more important than any other variable, suggesting that the journal in which a study is published may be as important as traditional measures of study quality in ensuring dissemination.
Qualitative and quantitative measures of indexed health sciences electronic journals Type 1 e-journals do not have the qualitative or quantitative complex- ity of traditional print journals.
Impact factor of medical journals: Problems in geriatrics In conclusion, it is difficult to use the IF for comparisons between different disciplines, in particular when the one under consideration (geriatrics and gerontology) is spread over a wide range of medical fields. The increase in IF of geriatric journals over time is the most important result of our analysis; this finding will encourage geriatric scientists to submit their papers to geriatric periodicals and will increase the specificity of the gerontological discipline.
A scientometric view of some biological disciplines in Chile In summary, Chile accounted for about 20 percent of South America's output of 1981-1991 papers in the biological sciences -after Brazil (40%) and Argentina (35%), and ahead of Venezuela (6%).
Predictors of short-term and long-term scholarly activity by academic faculty: A departmental case study "As previously noted, research training through advanced degrees or fellowships enhances scholarly activity."
The importance of interpersonal relationship factors in decisions regarding authorship Authors are faced with the difficult task of negotiating interpersonal relationships while allocating authorship according to ICMJE criteria.
Print versus electronic journals: a preliminary investigation into the effect of journal format on research processes This study is an introductory step in examining how electronic journals affect research processes. Our data revealed that there were distinct preferences in format among categories. In addition to collection management implications for libraries, these data also have implications for publishers and educators; current electronic formats do not facilitate all types of uses and thus may be changing learning patterns as well. The findings from this study supported Jones and Cook's conclusion that electronic journals were not fundamentally altering research processes as yet.
Construction of concentration measures for general Lorenz curves using Riemann-Stieltjes integrals This general proof contains the many partial results that are proved before in the literature in the respective special cases.
Domain visualization using VxInsight® for science and technology management "In a larger context, visualization tools, such as VxInsight, are becoming crucial to science and technology management in the context of textual data mining, roadmapping, and forecasting."
Peer review in a small and a big medical journal:: Case study of the Croatian Medical Journal and The Lancet Reviewers of big journals, such as The Lancet, are stricter in their recommendations reviewers of a smaller journal, such as the CMJ.
Coauthorship in physics Since authorship is such an important part of the scientific endeavor, one must ask the question—are there useful ways to standardize the procedure of authorship assignment?
Six domains of research ethics - A heuristic framework for the responsible conduct of research The framework presented here is meant to bring some coherence to the field, to organize the components of research ethics, to highlight some neglected aspects (such as social responsibility), and to clarify some confusing ones (such as data management).
From biomedical research to health improvement In some ways bibliometrics is at the stage of European navigation in the middle ages.
Visualizing cooperation networks of elite institutions in India The cooperation network of these institutions is sparse and 69% of the cells are empty.
Science in Africa:: An overview of mainstream scientific output The less productive the developing country, the greater the dependence on international co-authorship for mainstream publication found in the present study is a tendency already noted for the Latin American countries that form part of the Mercosur alliance (Narváez-Berthelemot et al., 1999). Finally, one of the important goals of mapping science produced by the developing world is to determine if the international databases, such as SCI and PASCAL, are covering publications reporting results that make fundamental contributions to local development or just those that add to the archives of “international” science. The present line of enquiry into African science is continuing with in-depth studies of this nature.
Informetric analysis of a music database This provides evidence to support the hypothesis that traditional text retrieval methods will work for a music database. This discovery supports our earlier assertion that the n-grammed representations of the individual songs in our databases could be considered equivalent to short abstracts, and/or long scientific titles, and/or short keyword lists found in a text database. It will be interesting to see if this analogy holds for larger databases of music.
The relationship between international editorial board composition and citation measures in political science, business, and genetics journals One can not conclude, based on the data gathered for this project, that international composition on a journal’s editorial board is a marker of higher journal quality or impact as indicated by traditional citation measures. International participation on editorial boards may be so pervasive that it does not necessarily distinguish high and low quality journals. Yet one can not reject the possibility that for non-U.S. social science journals the extent of international influence on the editorial board is associated with better quality.
The sources used by bibliometrics-scientometrics as reflected in references The results show that the field relies heavily on itself, on library and information science and on sociology, history and philosophy of science. There is an increase in journal self-citation, the list of core journals remaining stable for both periods. For more conclusive results, studies of longer periods of time should be conducted.
The other side of the coin: The intricacies of author self-citations There is hardly an author who does not make use of his/her own work.
Co-citations and co-sitations: A cautionary view on an analogy The type of semantic interpretation from web co-citation clusters depends primarily on the status of classified objects. In the experiment we have reported, a cautionary interpretation, in terms of topical/institutional proximity, seems legitimate, both on the cited side (co-citation proximity) and the citing side (assignment to co-citation clusters; or direct bibliographic coupling). However, they lose diachrony, one of their distinct advantages over a-chronic methods.
Bibliometric analysis of AIDS literature in Central Africa The production of AIDS literature in Central Africa is mainly focused on Democratic Republic of the Congo (527 documents) and Cameroon (271). Results indicated a high pattern of collaboration through multiple authorship. An in-depth analysis of this situation may lead to the emergence of indicators needed by science policy analysts and researchers in the field.
Using patent statistics as knowledge base indicators in the biotechnology sectors: An application to France, Germany and the UK Indicators of technological competence are useful if they: (i) rank the competitive positions of the agents; (ii) enable comparisons of their internal structure and (iii) are easy to interpret and lead to identification of “catching up” strategies for the followers.
Measuring knowledge transfer between fields of science The analysis of interdisciplinary impact by means of bibliometric methods shows that cross disciplinary citations, together with other indicators, may provide useful insight into relations between fields en subfields of science. Measures of interdisciplinary impact, constructed on the basis of references given by other fields, have to take into account the size, as well as the citation characteristics, of the fields involved. As such they demonstrate part of the relevance of results in a given field to progress in other fields . They may be useful for analyses at other institutional levels like institutes or universities as well.
Benchmarking international scientific excellence: Are highly cited research papers an appropriate frame of reference? These first findings can be construed as evidence-based signs of true excellence, and most likely indicate the presence of some international level CoSEs within the Dutch science system.
Linking science to technology: Using bibliographic references in patents to build linkage schemes The results of our analysis however point towards a skewed and concentrated S&T interaction, the backbone which is constituted by a limited number of S&T fields. The method and the analyses reported in this paper should be regarded as a starting point for disentangling of the S&T interaction. Furthermore, the methodology developed offers the possibility of repetitive application.
Dynamic changes in the chance for citedness In summary, based on the results attained, it may be concluded that an empirical relationship was found which may be used for estimating the number of citations to be received by papers in different journals in different periods by multiplying the respective rate of the Relative Yearly Impact Factors (RYIF) with the Garfield Factor (GF) of the respective journal. By the rate of RYIF-s the aging of information, whereas by the GF the potential frequency of citations may be taken into account. The numbers of citations estimated may be applied as standards for creating relative citedness indicators.
Relation of the title length of a journal article to the length of the article 1. Sciences: Titles of journal articles in the eight science journals studied show for most periods a moderate degree of positive correlation between the length of a paper in pages and number of “significant" words in its title.
Citation analysis using scientific publications on the Web as data source: A case study in the XML research area Results suggest that citation analysis using scientific papers found on the Web as a data source has both advantages and disadvantages when compared with citation analysis of SCI data, but is nonetheless a valid method for evaluating scholarly contributions and for studying the intellectual structure in XML research.
Collaborative patterns and age structures in Chinese publications The findings show a low incidence of collaborations with authors in the same age bracket.
The scientific economy of attention: A novel approach to the collective rationality of science If a mechanism is thus operative in the scientific economy of attention that allocates the attention at service in a way which maximises the advancement of knowledge, science, as a social system, deserves to be called intelligent.
Gender and productivity differentials in science Second, in the period from the beginning to the end of the nineties sex differences in the scientific production of young people have increased.
Scientometrics of laser research in India and China China's output of research in the field of laser S&T is more than twice the Indian output. However, the Activity Index (AI) for India and China for the two years follows almost the same trend.
Multivariate evaluation of Spanish educational research journals This kind of studies can help explain the phenomenon of specialization and diversification in scientific disciplines and/or to enlighten the interests of the invisible college which supports those publications. Furthermore, we are in a position to ascertain that the subject of the scientific publication is approachable by means of scientific inquiry, far from the traditional idiosyncratic method. We have also verified the existence of a few basic journals for a scientific community.
Turkey's output in social science publications:: 1970-1999 To summarize, we have shown that there is considerable increase in the publication output originating from Turkey in the thirty years between 1970 and 1999.
Contribution of Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine to the world's biomedical literature (1988-1997) We summarized the major findings of our research that was based on 1434 biomedical publications of FMHU researchers that were indexed in MEDLINE between 1988-1997.
Research productivity of scientists in consolidated vs. non-consolidated teams:: The case of Spanish university geologists Researchers belonging to consolidated teams are more productive than their colleagues in non-consolidated teams, and these in turn more than individuals without team. Team size does not appear to be as important for scientific productivity as the number of researchers within the team that reached a stable job position. Analysis of the impact factor of journals has not revealed differences among researchers with regard to the visibility of their papers.
An AHP analysis of quality in AI and DSS journals This paper has presented a methodology that objectively rates decision-making support system journals across multiple, and relevant, dimensions. It also has presented an information system to consistently deliver the methodology in a transparent manner to researchers, academic administrators, and practitioners.
Assessing oncological productivity: is one method sufficient? In conclusion, there are no ready recipes for scientometric evaluation: each system has its own validating features. Different evaluation methods can lead to different results, and care needs to be taken in the interpretation of these. Finally, although most of the publications of EU authors in 1995 were submitted to international journals with a good IF, the analysis of each country showed that in some cases journals published in the authors' home country were preferred (e.g. Revista Clinica Espanola for the Spanish, Tumori for the Italians, Irish Medical Journal for the Irish, Onkologie for the Germans, etc.).
Using patent statistics as a measure of 'technological assertiveness': A China-India comparison Our study shows significant increase in patenting activity for both the countries from 1995 onwards, the post-WTO period.
Electrochemical power text mining using bibliometrics and database tomography This paper has presented a number of advantages of using DT and bibliometrics for deriving technical intelligence from the published literature. Large amounts of data can be accessed and analyzed, well beyond what a finite group of expert panels could analyze in a reasonable time period. Based on reading a large number of the retrieved SCI Abstracts, and examining the phrase listings and taxonomy results, there appears to be a large imbalance between theory and experiment.
Total research productivity in a pathology discipline Those working in chemical pathology are active in initiating and conducting research, although at a low level. Priority should be given to encouraging research in training, given the small and ageing profile of international quality research in the profession in the UK.
Gender bias in the refereeing process? This study suggests that the reviewing process for manuscripts is not ‘institutionally sexist’: there are no overall differences in manuscript acceptance or citation rate relative to gender.
Impact factor bias and proposed adjustments for its determination In conclusion the suggested corrections of the IF may provide a fairer and more useful tool for its use to evaluate journals.
Social networks in the virtual science laboratory Physical and virtual science laboratories are social spaces in which scientists interact, organize into groups, develop relationships, and share opinions, ideas, resources, and work.
Duality revisited: Construction of fractional frequency distributions based on two dual Lotka laws The resulting theoretical frequency curve clearly shows several ups and downs that are exactly similar to the ups and downs in the experimental frequency curve; both the curves are so similar that it is difficult to distinguish between each other if they are shown on a single XY-plane. To get the solution for these problems, further investigation is required.
Bibliometric analysis and visualisation of intellectual capital And as we showed in the previous chapter from the BibTchMonTM picture we can easily make a lot of important qualitative interpretations on the scientific relations of Seibersdorf Research. It explicitly shows the scientific part of the “relational capital” of Seibersdorf Research. These can additionally be proven by a set of useful indicators which allow further quantitative analysis and interpretation of the IC Report.
A century of citation classics in otolaryngology-head and neck surgery journals This paper confirms that analysing citation classics reveals a partial insight into advances and historical developments in the specialty during the last century. In conclusion, 80 articles published in OHNS journals during the 20th century have achieved citation classic status. The identification of classic citations reveals a limited insight into seminal advances in OHNS and has helped us to provide a scaffold for the developments in our specialty during the last century.
Journal diffusion factors: a new approach to measuring research influence The journal diffusion factor proposed here can be read as an indication of the extent of the ripples that flow from the publication of a particular journal as it is subsequently cited.
An initial exploration of the link relationship between UK university Web sites The statistical techniques used have pointed to the underlying data structure being determined by both geography and research.
Authorship patterns in agricultural sciences in Egypt Despite differing social, economic, cultural, and academic environments, factors affecting co-authorship trends within a given discipline tend to be the same regardless of country. Co-authorship appears to be a function of the subject field and not of geographical location or social environment.
Bibliometric analysis of biotechnology The profile of research on plant genetic is convergent with studies using other methods. It offers reliable information on some important issues. To obtain a broader and more reliable profile of research on biotechnology, new tools are now available and should be tested in the case of scientific research, for instance, new databases list genetic sequences.
Scientometrics of laser research in India during 1970-1994 India produced about 0.85 per cent of the total world output in laser science and technology during 1970-1994. Therefore, special initiatives are called for strengthening the application-oriented laser research in India. The study indicates the need to develop both domestic as well as international linkages.
Gender differences in publication productivity in psychology in India Males have contributed around three fourth of total papers and they are more prolific than females as evidenced by mean productivity.
Modelling citation age data: Simple graphical methods from reliability theory Our analyses suggest that the lognormal seems to have the greatest general success as a model for retrospective citation distributions, thereby supporting earlier studies such as Egghe and Rao (1998).
Major factors affecting China's inter-regional research collaboration: Regional scientific productivity and geographical proximity The frequency of IRRC varies along with regional scientific productivity. Geographical proximity is one of the most important factor affecting China's IRRC. The quantitative relationship between regional scientific productivity and collaborative strength could be mathematically described by a power function, and that between geographical proximity and collaborative strength could by a negative power function.
The role of eprint archives in the access to, and dissemination of, scientific grey literature: LIZA - a case study by the National Library of Portugal In conclusion it seems possible to consider that, in a general way, the LIZA initiative will address some of the most important aspirations while overcoming some of the difficulties that the Portuguese scientific national community is facing - the facility to search and consult the most up-to-date information, the search for peers working in relevant areas, ease of access to national scientific production and the promotion/intensification of the work in collaboration with colleagues in Portugal and abroad working in complementary areas. Finally, it should be mentioned that one idea was common to the several key informants interviewed in the first part of this study. According to these interviewees, there is a huge need for 'evangelization' within the scientific communities, so that an initiative like LIZA, which can change and enhance the flow of scientific information in the country, is nurtured to develop, flourish and succeed.
Nobel century: a biographical analysis of physics laureates In conclusion, it is difficult to assess how the sciences, the scientific community, and wider society would look today without the Nobel prizes. But what we can say is that success is made more likely by an early interest in science, a good education, hard work, mobility (on occasion), as well as a generous portion of luck.
Contribution of research in basic and clinical sciences in Japan The barriers to boosting high quality clini-cal research in Japan should be determined and accord-ingly appropriate measures should be taken forthwith.
A comparison of foreign authorship distribution in JASIST and the Journal of Documentation The significance of this study is twofold: first, it confirms previous findings about geographic distribution of foreign authorship in JASIST and JDoc through 5 decades, including results of other studies of JASIST authorship (Al-Ghamdi et al., 1998; Lipetz, 1999).
Recent trends in National Institutes of Health funding of surgical research "Surgical grant proposals are less likely to be funded and carry significantly smaller awards compared to nonsurgical proposals."
Effect of structured workshop training on subsequent performance of journal peer reviewers Among invited peer reviewers, voluntary attendance at a highly struc-tured and interactive workshop was low and did not improve the quality of subse-quent reviews, contrary to the predictions of attendees.
The use of dedicated methodology and statistical reviewers for peer review: A content analysis of comments to authors made by methodology and regular reviewers The distributions of comments made by the 2 methodology and statisti-cal reviewers were similar, although reviewer A emphasized presentation and reviewer B stressed statistical issues. The regular reviewers (most of whom were unaware that a dedicated methodology and statistical reviewer would be reviewing the article) paid much less attention to methodology issues. The 2 dedicated method-ology and statistical reviewers created reviews that were similarly focused and emphasized methodology issues that were distinct from the issues raised by regular reviewers.
The effect of dedicated methodology and statistical review on published manuscript quality Methodology reviewers often failed to comment on deficiencies that they had classified as substandard when designing this study.
Mapping the world of analytical chemistry Mapping and relational charting are familiar approaches to evaluation problems in analytical chemistry.
Dr Jekyll and Dr Hyde: author-reader asymmetries in scholarly publishing We have examined a number of asymmetries in the journal system from both a quantitative and qualitative standpoint.
One hundred citation classics in general surgical journals To produce such a "classic" the surgeon and his or her group must come up with a clinical or nonclinical innovation, observation, or discovery that has a long-standing effect on the way we practice—be it operative or nonoperative. Based on our findings, to be well cited such a contribution should be published in the English language in a high-impact journal. Moreover, it is more likely to resonant loudly if it originates from a North American or British "ivory tower."
A profile of regional psychiatry publishing: home and away If Australasian psychiatry is to advance its international presence, a greater representation rate in top-ranking international journals should be set as an objective.
An exploratory study of Malaysian publication productivity in computer science and information technology First of all, information about local contributions is relatively difficult to obtain, and the establishment of a local S&T publications database is very much needed to monitor the output of R&D spending.
Dynamic and evolutionary updates of classificatory schemes in scientific journal structures One can replace taxonomic models with evolutionary designs. However, the evolutionary models do not only affect the methodologies-by changing the perspective to an a posteriori one-but also the theoretical understanding of what one measures with scientometric indicators. Because of this orientation towards the current understanding, the kind of analysis we described above can contribute to the development of scientometric tools with management and policy relevance.
Conceptualizing documentation on the Web: An evaluation of different heuristic-based models for counting links between university Web sites Finally, the results from all models give a clear confirmation of the very strong association between the research productivity of a UK university and the number of incoming links from its peers' Web sites. Based upon the theoretical analysis, the qualitative study of the outliers and the statistics—particularly for the counts of links between pairs of universities—there is now considerable evidence that the both the directory and domain models are better than the default file model from the perspective of counting links between sites.
A fuzzy set approach to the evaluation of journal grades Establishing grades of journals is very important yet a difficult task.
Worldwide research output in probability and statistics: an update As in earlier editions, the interpretation of data is obviously contingent on the choice of journals, time period and counting rules.
A chemistry field in search of applications statistical analysis of US fullerene patents Based on analysis of the U.S. patent database, the following conclusions can be drawn about the discipline of fullerenes.
A relational charting approach to the world of basic research in twelve science fields at the end of the second millennium The journal literature can be used for comparison of the publication activity of countries in a quantitative form, in any scientific field and sub-field if the used sources and methods are characteristic for all the countries investigated and the number of processed items (journal articles, citations) is statistically significant.
Co-citation, bibliographic coupling and a characterization of lattice citation networks In this article we have studied directed, acyclic graphs as concrete realizations of document citation networks. We introduced the head and tail order relations and studied some of their properties. Recalling the notions of generalized bibliographic coupling and generalized co-citation, and introducing a new property, called the 1-property, we came to a characterization of lattices. As lattices do occur in real citation networks this result may be considered as one more building block for a mathematical, graph-based theory of networks in the information sciences. Finally, we introduced a generalization of the Jaccard similarity measure.
Interlinking between Asia-Pacific University Web sites The methodology described allowed links between huge areas of the Web to be counted. It is clear that both Australia and Japan are central in the region in terms of the academic Web, with Australia perhaps exerting the most influence in terms of being the target of most links, although Japan is more balanced in terms of links. Two explanations are possible: either regional collaboration has increased over the past six years or Web information sharing has a different dynamic to formal scholarly collaboration. There is evidence that both of these are true.
The effect of team consolidation on research collaboration and performance of scientists.: Case study of Spanish university researchers in Geology In conclusion, the present results provide support for the hypothesis that consolidation of research teams would result in a greater facility to establish contacts and collaborations with colleagues, that could benefit all members of the team, fostering their participation in funded projects and favouring their potential to publish in international mainstream journals. International collaboration seems to be intimately linked to, or favoured by, the degree of team consolidation, so that the belonging to a consolidated, well-established team, entail an substantial improvement of scientists' capacity or facility for establishing collaborations and participating in international projects. In this sense, the capacities of scientists who belong to a team are harnessed, resulting in a better personal performance.
Scientific and technological development in Brazil. The widening gap In summary, the growth rate of Brazilian scientific production has exceeded the international average, showing a six-fold increase in the last twenty-five years.
Observations on the growth characteristics of the research output of Turkish physicists based on a selective citation analysis The method of concentrating on articles having received at least ten citations has enabled us to show that there has been a significant progress in the dissemination and diversification of physics research in Turkey in the last thirty years.
A citation report for Thai academic journals published during 1996-2000 There were only 6 out of 68 journals, estimated to be 8.8% were continuously cited during the past five years, these being Suranaree Journal of Science and Technology, Lardkrabang Engineering Journal, Chulalongkorn Medical Journal, Entomology and Zoology Gazette, Songklanakarin Journal of Sciences and Technology, and Kasetsart Journal (Natural Science). The overall journal Immediacy Index value of the Thai journals was found to be very low, the average value being 0.063. Journals with older ages tended to have more opportunity to be cited, and greater in impact factor value than those with younger ages.
Strong similarity measures for ordered sets of documents in information retrieval The present work completes it by presenting a more general treatment of OS-measures.
The impact of blinded versus unblinded abstract review on scientific program content Although this study cannot be used to determine the quality of reviews based on blinding versus unblinding, it does not demonstrate any consistent increase in variability between reviewers whether they have been informed of abstract authors and institution. Overall, program composition would have differed substantially if blinded or unblinded reviews alone had been used. Therefore, we have decided to perform blinded abstract review alone for our subsequent meetings.
Overcoming specialization A three-step process has been proposed for ensuring selection of a comprehensive mix of research disciplines to address a research problem.
Self citations and impact factors in otolaryngology journals A high self-citing rate may significantly affect the impact factor of a journal. This does not appear to be as significant in the six otolaryngology journals studied as in other specialty journals. It has been suggested that this problem could be overcome by also calculating a 'corrected' impact factor, which takes into account the effect of self citations.³
Japan's contribution to nuclear medical research In conclusion, Japan's contribution to nuclear medical research is much greater than that in other biomedical fields. Once the factors responsible for the excellence are elucidated, biomedical fields where Japan's contribution is not up to the mark could benefit.
"Getting in" revisited:: An analysis of manuscript characteristics, reviewers' ratings, and acceptance of manuscripts in Psychological Bulletin We found that a three-factor measurement model—including fit for Psychological Bulletin, scientific and technical quality, and strength and clarity of the arguments—was a good representation of the dimensions underlying average reviewer ratings. These dimensions were all strongly related to reviewers’ recommendations to the editor, which in turn was an excellent predictor of the editors’ decision. Thus, authors can best increase their chances of acceptance by submitting manuscripts with clear and compelling arguments for major points that pertain to important conclusions.
Unfounded attribution of the "half-life" index-number of literature obsolescence to Burton and Kebler:: A literature science study "For all these reasons it is unfounded and erroneous to continue to attribute the term and conception of literature "half-life" to Burton and Kebler."
Is the relationship between numbers of references and paper lengths the same for all sciences? "Because papers of average lengths in various sciences have the same number of references, we conclude that the citation counts to them can be inter-compared within that accuracy."
Algorithmic procedure for finding semantically related journals The new algorithmic approach enables one to find the-matically related journals out of a multitude of journals.
Two societies show how to profit by providing free access Journal publishers should realize that if they initiate IFWA sales they are not only tapping a new source of revenues but they are also reducing the incentives that authors now have to use other means to provide IFWA to the final versions of their articles.
A gender gap in the next generation of physician-scientists: Medical student interest and participation in research Three worrisome trends in the research career intentions and participation of the nation's medical students (a decade-long decline for both men and women, a large and persistent gender gap, and a negative effect of the medical school experience for women) presage a further decline in the physician-scientist pipeline unless they are reversed promptly and decisively.
Web document clustering using hyperlink structures The clusters obtained have high similarity within clusters and dissimilarity between clusters.
An instrument for determining the amount of NIH support for clinical investigations at one academic health center Clinical investigation is an important component of AHCs' research portfolios from several per-spectives, not the least of which is financial.
Country-specific characteristics of patent applications in France, Germany and the UK in the biotechnology sectors The objective of this paper was to identify the characteristics of patent applications in the biotechnology sectors, in France, Germany and the UK in order to gain some insight on the impact of their national systems of innovation. All three countries are focused on the dominant technology of genetic engineering, they prefer non-collective applications to collective ones and their firms are the most active patent participants. The UK is the uncontested leader in term in the dominant technology of genetic engineering both in terms of the total number patent applications and in terms of the well developed and strong supporting technology network.
Incidence and nature of unblinding by authors: Our experience at two radiology journals with double-blinded peer review policies Despite explicit instructions to authors, 34% of 880 prospectively evaluated manuscripts submitted to two radiology journals contained information that potentially or definitely unblinded the identities of the authors or their institutions. Authors submitting manuscripts to these journals should take steps to avoid unblinding their identities and their institutions.
Analysis of SciFinder scholar and web of science citation searches Comparison of citation searching in SciFinder Scholar and Web of Science in this study shows that relying on either index alone leads to faulty results when trying to obtain citation totals for individual authors. The bottom line is that at this time neither index is adequate on its own for a comprehensive search. The best strategy is to search both, download the results, and find duplicates.
Banking (on) different forms of symbolic capital The world of citation is the closed world of the clerisy; we trade citations with other scholars, not with the public at large.
Impact of Nephrology publications from Saudi Arabia in the last decade Although KSA is leading the Arab countries in renal research, much improvement is still required especially in basic research.
Government R&D expenditures and US technology advancement in the aerospace industry: a case study While we must again state that correlation is not causation, this case study has shown a strong relation exists between government R&D expenditures for the USAF and the aerospace industry. A strong relationship was also found between DoD/NASA R&D expenditures and the aerospace industry. This relationship between the proxy measures of scientific output and federal government R&D expenditures suggests that recent decreases in federal funding could have a marked impact on national technological advancement.
From first submission to citation: an empirical analysis Additional to various interesting descriptive statistics, it was found that special issues are not treated differently by authors and editors, but that papers in these issues get cited more often.
Research dissemination and invocation on the Web It is recommended that when comparing researchers, projects or teams partially through their Web invocations, the extent to which the research has a natural fit to the Web should be taken into account.
Research and research activities in a University in Eastern Saudi Arabia Most faculty members aspire for a higher quality of biomedical research. The following were identified strategies to improve research goals and quality: Provision of starting seedling packages for new faculty members, simplifying research application processes, establishing efficient and adequate infrastructures, and providing protected research time. From meeting this necessity stems the prosperity and scientific security of not only the individual but also the nation at large.
A tri-citation analysis exploring the citation image of Kurt Lewin This research presents a picture of the citation image or the intellectual "fellow travelers" of Kurt Lewin, as evidenced by an analysis of pairs of authors who are highly cocited with Lewin and each other over a thirty-year period. Although Lewin's work remains largely cited within the general discipline of psychology, there is evidence that he is increasingly cited in work that differs from psychology, especially from social psychology. It appears that in the short space of thirty years the use of Lewin's ideas has shifted a great deal with increasing divergence among the authors with whom he is cocited. The next steps in this research project are to explore the interrelations relationships of Lewin's associates and students by means of Social Network Analysis, and to trace the diffusion of several key Lewinian concepts like "information gatekeeper" and "action research".
Algorithmic citation-linked historiography - Mapping the literature of science In conclusion, we have described a tool which permits the user to manage the voluminous references produced in a comprehensive search of the literature.
Mapping Scientometrics (1981-2001) In this article, we have analyzed and visualized the citation image of Scientometrics over the last 21 years (1981-2001). An animation of the evolution of this 403-article citation image over the 20-year span appears to provide a promising instrument for probing more directly into the changes of the invisible college underlying the field of scientometrics. Our long-term research will continue to pursue visualization-augmented approaches to scientometric studies, experiment with a wider range of source data, and incorporate research findings from the scientometrics community as well as information visualization and other relevant fields of study into the practice of the strong application-oriented discipline.
Locally controlled scholarly publishing via the Internet: The guild model The GPM is a workable and presently working model, taken seriously in computer science, economics, business, and demography among other fields. We believe that this is a mistake; the GPM is an important and significant model that is worth noting, examining, and extending to other fields. The GPM can provide rapid sharing of information, increased comprehensive research access for those in academic departments or research institutes with small libraries, and is an economically feasible model for institutions with basic computing support.
Exploring the pattern of links between Chinese university Web sites In conclusion, it is clear that the top Chinese universities do use the Web extensively, hosting large quantities of information that their academic peers find to be useful to link to. The overall results display a clear trend of the higher ranked universities being more linked to their web sites, although it is not clear whether the underlying cause for this is the related variations in university (faculty) size. From the results we may also infer that scholarly use of the Web is well advanced in mainland China.
Web link counts correlate with ISI impact factors: Evidence from two disciplines The study found a significant correlation between the number of links a journal's Web site receives and its Journal Impact Factor (JIF) for both law and library and information science.
Mapping "A beautiful mind": A comparison of the author cocitation PFNets for John Nash, John Harsanyi, and Reinhard Selten - The three winners of the 1994 Nobel Prize for Economics These "penumbral" authors may be considered diagnostic of the prizewinner's particular focus and contributions.
Relationship between links to journal Web sites and impact factors The JIF was found to correlate with external link counts for both rounds of data collected and regardless of the search engines used. There is insufficient evidence to show that total link counts are correlated with JIF. So it is fair to conclude that the choice of search engine for data collection will affect the results of the study.
Social network analysis: a powerful strategy, also for the information sciences "Social network analysis is a typical example of an idea that can be applied in many fields."
How much information do search engines disclose on the links to a web page? A longitudinal case study of the 'cybermetrics' home page It is impossible to arrive at far-reaching conclusions based on just a single test case, but this test case can and does serve as an alert. At present one cannot utilize the freely available general search engines to compute these indicators reliably. However it may be concluded that before utilizing freely available search engines on the Web for research purposes (e.g. computing scientometric indicators like WIFs), their reliability must be carefully examined.
The top 100 linked-to pages on UK university web sites: high inlink counts are not usually associated with quality scholarly content It is concluded that simple link counts are highly unreliable indicators of the average behaviour of scholars.
Knowledge maps of knowledge management tools -: Information visualization with BibTechMon The bibliometric method BibTechMon was described as a tool for information man- agement.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1997-2001) This study is one in an ongoing series whose goal is to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE. By now, at the end of nine years of conducting the study, we believe we can identify with some confidence those top scholars and institutions. Regarding the relationship of the field with its colle-gial fields of CS and IS, we find enough differences with the field of IS to say that they are clearly quite different fields.
Automatic references: Active support for scientists in digital libraries We suggest incorporating this feature into currently available systems, and are going to implement a prototype in the Journal of Universal Computer Science (J.UCS). We are convinced that scientists working in the area of computer science will consider this unique feature valuable, and hope that other digital library systems will incorporate this feature into their systems.
Term co-occurrence analysis as an interface for digital libraries We believe the system we have built allows us to answer these questions in the affirmative.
Information visualization, human-computer interaction, and cognitive psychology: Domain visualizations Analysis based on dynamic views of the maps indicates that the current overlap between these fields is not substantial. However, the analyses also indicate that there are areas where recent research has occurred, and where future research should be focused to greatly benefit the digital libraries of the future. Collaborative work between researchers in the four fields on the topics of information retrieval, and advanced graphing and automated analysis algorithms seem to be most fruitful at the moment.
The attitude of pharmaceutical industry research scientists to browsing and publishing on Internet preprint and e-print servers In conclusion, researchers like to keep up with the rapid developments of electronic publishing, and utilize these new electronic sources of information, but they take a critical approach to content quality.
Paraphrasing for condensation in journal abstracting A better understanding of paraphrase validity within and across sublanguages could have practical consequences and contribute to a better theory of language as a carrier of information.
Constituencies of journals in production and operations management: Implications on reach and quality The findings reported in this paper reflect the reach of the three journals and the perceptions of various constituencies regarding journal quality.
LIMES - An infrastructure for the benefit of mathematicians in the information society The aim of this article is to describe the offers of Zentralblatt and their integration in EMIS. It will give a status report on LIMES and an idea of future actions for the implementation of the LIMES results in a European network. Hence looking at the current achievements, the LIMES partners are convinced that they can reach all proposed goals within the project period, which will end with April 2004. Commercial exploitation of results beyond European research infrastructure services will be considered.
Gender and scholarly productivity Research on gender and scholarly productivity had neglected analysis of social science departments.
The impact factor as a phantom However, no influence of the published impact factor on the real impact of the journal was observed.
Library and Information Science Schools in Canada and USA: A Webometric Perspective In conclusion, webometric research is fea- sible but needs to be done with great caution.
Assessment of the scientific basis of interdisciplinary, applied research We conclude that our quantitative, bibliometric analysis reveals important research management and policy relevant aspects of scientific performance.
Assessing the quality of academic libraries on the Web This research systematically explored and verified an operative instrument for assessing the quality of academic Libweb sites.
Subject gateway sites and search engine ranking The calculations have shown that the introduction of a gateway site to organise a subject area on the Web, while being a highly desirable thing in itself, can have the long term effect of reducing the link based search engine visibility of the target sites, particularly those with the highest quality.
Reading behaviour and electronic journals Much of the increase in the amount of read- ings in all workfields is probably attributable to the prevalence of electronic journals or electronic sources of articles.
Critical mass in the production of Ph.D.s: a multi-disciplinary study From this we conclude that very small programs are viable, but that to attain critical mass in economics annual output must exceed two or three Ph.D.s per year. Intermediate-sized programs are the dominant size category.
Getting your paper to the right journal: a case study of an academic paper Getting a paper published may depend not only on the intrinsic quality of the paper, but also whether it is submitted to the 'right' academic journal.
The developing role of departments A number of social, economic and political forces are combining to push university science departments into more proactive management of their research programmes.
The training, careers, and work of Ph.D. physical scientists: Not simply academic Most important to job satisfaction are factors such as intellectual challenge and good working conditions. We found little support for such often-used dichotomies such as working “in” or “outside” of science (Tables III and IV). The attitudes of scientists and the work they perform lie on a continuum that defies simple characterization. Improving the training of Ph.D. graduates in the general skills needed for both research and later careers should be an important goal.
Methods for measuring search engine performance over time In this study we introduced a set of measures to evaluate search engine performance over time under the dynamic conditions in the Web. The results of the example query indicate that there is room for improvement in search engine performance over time. Further tests should be carried to monitor the performance of search engines.
The Context of Scientific Achievement: Sex Status, Organizational Environments, and the Timing of Publication on Scholarship Outcomes Organizational contexts, the timing of first publication, and the frequency of successive publications are important explanatory factors in accounting for the emergent sex differentials in the scholarship outcomes of male and female graduates.
The individual success of musicians, like that of physicists, follows a stretched exponential distribution This study shows that, like citation impacts of physicists, the commercial impacts of musicians follow a stretched ex- ponential distribution.
What are the core journals of foot and ankle medicine? These results provide information regarding the citation frequency of journals relevant to foot and ankle medicine that will be useful for individual clinicians when deciding which journals to read regularly, for academic libraries in determining which journals to take out subscriptions to, and for academic staff members to consider when submitting their manuscripts for publication.
Evidence for the existence of geographic trends in university Web site interlinking The evidence presented here is, however, supportive of the hypothesis that geographic distance is a factor in academic Web link creation, but cannot be taken as a definitive result or assigned a statistical level of significance.
Chemistry Journals In conclusion, the cost-effectiveness analysis corroborates both Bensman's major finding (14), “that little relationship exists be- tween scientific value and the prices charged libraries for scientific journals," and Hahn and Faulkner's observation (2e) that "What a pub- lisher charges for a particular journal does not necessarily reveal any- thing about its relative value."
Can Peer Review Be Better Focused? The modifications described here are intended as a starting point for discussion of how recent technological advances could be used to improve the implementation of peer review.
A Comparison of U.S. and European University-Industry Relations in the Life Sciences Our analyses of university-industry interfaces in the United States and Europe emphasize the importance of the division of innovative labor.
Presence of pharmacoepidemiology in three bibliographic databases: Medline, IPA and SCI International research into pharmacoepidemiology presents an exponential growth pattern, in accordance with Price's law.
Gender and Scholarly Productivity: 1970–2000 The results suggest that in disciplines like sociology with a high proportion of women the traditional gendered barriers to scholarly productivity may weaken or even be absent. As anticipated, the results of the present investigation's multiple regression analysis found that gender is unrelated to productivity. Further research is also needed on the issue of fairness to determine to what extent equal performance in scholarly work translates to equality in considerations of salary, tenure, and promotion.
Methods for the Analysis of the Uses of Scientific Information: The Case of the University of Extremadura (1996–7) The study reveals the utility and complementarity of the two techniques.
Research priorites and disciplinary cultures: friends or foes? A cross-national study on doctoral research training in economics in France and Norway When investigating research and education policies affecting doctoral research training in France and Norway, strong coherence in both countries between internationally proposed priority areas and national priorities stands forth, perhaps even more in France than in Norway.
Paper trail reveals references go unread by citing authors Simkin and Roychowdhury conclude that these errors are usually propagated by the reference being copied from someone else's citation list. And they postulate that this is typical of the scientific literature as a whole. Fields points out that failure to consult the original source can also propagate misconceptions about what the source's conclusions actually are. 'It's poor research practice, for sure,' she says.
Indexing aids at corporate websites: the use of robots.txt and META tags Overall an increase in the use of indexing aids, especially Meta tags, represents one way in which web robots could index sites more quickly and thus improve overall index coverage of the web. The majority of the corporate sites in this sample did not provide any guidance for web indexing software. As companies become more sophisticated in setting policies for exploiting electronic media as an integrated part of corporate communications, it is reasonable to expect that the use of Meta tags will rise.
Scientific Collaboratories: Evaluating their Potential The results illustrate the potential of collaboratories, allowing individuals who do not have specialized, state-of-the-art scientific instruments locally to access scientific instruments remotely and conduct scientific experiments in collaboration with other students, faculty and staff at institutions that have the instruments. The evaluation data combine to illustrate the potential of the collaboratory system for adoption by scientists and how this technology mediates collaborative scientific work processes without negatively impacting scientific data collection and analysis task outcomes. Future work includes a longitudinal field study to investigate whether the results reported here hold for professional scientific contexts.
External Descriptions of Web Pages: Their Features and Their Relationships to Web Page Elements Results of this study suggest that people com-posing longer lists of Web page descriptions tend to adopt some degree of formalism, in terms both of specific phrasing and of syntactic structures.
A research and institutional size‐based model for national university Web site interlinking Exploration of the data for university interlinking has lead to the suggestion of a specific model for national university interlinking. The model indicates that size and research quality are both indicators of the propensity to create outlinks and to be the target of inlinks. The purpose of investigating the data and proposing the model is to move forwards understanding of the phenomenon of academic Web links by providing a practical and plausible explanation for a significant part of the variance in the data.
What do we measure by co-authorships? If we sum up the empirical observations, then we must acknowledge that there are many collabora- tions that are not reflected by formal communic a- tion.
The J‐shaped distribution of citedness Findings of the investigation of the correlation between peer reviews reflected in scholarly book reviews and the citation frequencies of the reviewed books designate a J-shaped association.
Evolving research benchmarks Had one relied on the aggregate data from Table 1 (which is similar to the type of aggregate data found in prior research), an incorrect conclusion could have been advanced that 1.53 Class A publications would be adequate at a Ph.D. Granting Institution, whereas the disaggregated data suggest the bar is nearly twice as high (at 2.97 Class A publications).
Evaluation of governments’ scientific output: a bibliometric profile of Canada The data presented in this study show beyond any doubt the major importance of the Federal Govern-ment's contribution to the advancement of Canadian science.
A comparison of sources of links for academic Web impact factor calculations The results show that several WIFs, including the .edu, External, .ac.uk, .uk and .org versions, produce results that correlate significantly with research level across the spectrum of British universities, although the association is reduced or disappears when subsets of similar institutions are compared.
Web Logs as Indices of Electronic Journal Use: Tools for Identifying a “Classic” Article As larger numbers of scholars move to Internet-only publications to distribute their work, new measures will be needed to test the use of these papers over time. The World Wide Web provides rich opportunities to measure the use of scholarship in ways that simply are not possible with traditional print publications, and examples of consistently high performance arti-cles from First Monday illustrate a new model for designation of a classic article.
Collection evaluation through citation analysis techniques: a case study of the Ministry of Education, Singapore Results show a need for a change in acquisition policy with more focus on books, reduction in non-used journals, and development of an efficient ILL. Based on these results, MOE library needs to increase the rate of book purchase and reduce the number of journal titles. This will improve in-house collection usage and reduce the dependency on other libraries particularly on core collections.
Social structures of science and approaches to outcomes-based medical research This paper has considered them in relation to two theories of social relations in science.
Economics as if science mattered: the BioOne business model and the transformation of scholarly publishing The BioOne business model seeks to meet the interlocking goals of providing broad and enduring access, supporting the publishing enterprise of scholarly societies, and assuring that BioOne will keep pace with changes in technology and scientific communication.
Australian University-Industry Research Links: Researcher Involvement, Outputs, Personal Benefits and 'Withholding' Behaviour Overall the results are largely positive for industry funding which is important even to many academics who attract National Competitive Grants. Delaying publication of results and failing to share research results and materials is a matter for concern, and these trends obviously need to be monitored carefully. But it is important to recognise the importance of scientific and personal self-interest as motives in both delaying and withholding behaviour.
Evaluating Academic Journals without Impact Factors for Collection Management Decisions Based on the present case study, a jour-nal that has not been assigned an ISI im-pact factor, and is thus not readily sus-ceptible to ranking, should not be viewed automatically as less worthy than a jour-nal that is ranked by ISI.
Does the Jerome H. Ely <i>Human Factors</i> Article Award Predict Scientific Impact? The results from our research suggest that the ability of the "Jerome H. Ely Human Factors Article Award" to predict scientific impact is, at best, weak and inconsistent, accounting for only 0.2% to 1.3% of the variance in the citation rate of articles. First, our research suggests that professional recognition of scientific impact in the form of awards should consider aggregate objective measures, such as citation rates and authorship productivity, rather than subjective measures, such as review by a panel of experts. Second, our research suggests that the most reliable way to contribute to science is by continually generating new ideas rather than by trying to hone in on scientific impact a priori.
Hyperlink–affiliation network structure of top web sites: Examining affiliates with hyperlink in Korea The major financial Web site appeared as the reason for forming clusters.
Product-Related Emphasis of Skin Disease Information Online Patients are increasingly accessing the growing body of data available through the Internet. Most Web sites contain information related to products. Until standards are enacted to govern the distribution of on-line medical information, consumers are at risk for ob-taining misinformation and buying ineffective products. To better guide patients, physicians must become famil-iar with this ever-changing information.
From e-sex to e-commerce: Web search changes Our results show that Web queries from a major commercial search engine continue to be simple in structure with a minority of queries incorporating advanced search features.
The evolution of research activity in Spain In the last 25 years Spanish research has undergone a remarkable increase in productivity as measured by the number of items recorded in international databases. This stimulus has proved to be a highly efficient, as has been shown by the growth in production rates since 1990. The results in terms of the numbers of pub-lished articles included in the ISI databases show that the policies used by the CNEAI achieved the results they were designed to bring about, namely, increases Spanish science productivity as measured almost ex-clusively by the number of articles from Spain in this bibliometric source.
Where to Spend our E-Journal Money? Defining a University Library's Core Collection Through Citation Analysis This study identifies journals in which Cornell University researchers frequently publish and by extension represent the scientific communities to which our researchers belong.
Accommodating Science to External Demands: The Emergence of Dutch Toxicology We have seen the embedded character of problem choice and institutional as well as reputational control in toxicology.
Collaboration in Iranian Scientific Publications Our study has shown that Iran's publication output in science and technology has increased over the three five-year periods in the Science Citation Index®. This marked increase is noticeable especially from 1991 to 2000. One of the most important and significant factors that caused this dramatic rise seems to be the government's research policies in the last few years.
Europeanisation of science A simple comparison of the number of national collaborations and EU collaborations is misleading as a way to analyse European integration and to assess which countries are most integrated in the European science system. From a policy perspective, the results have shown that although larger countries are better integrated, smaller and peripheral countries tend to have reduced their national orientation over time. Only when there are available sufficiently well-developed explanations for these differences, can more sophisticated science policies be developed that aim at integrating all participating countries.
Comparaison De L'Analyse Structurale Et De L'Analyse Scientometrique Dans L'Etude De La Production Scientifique The two approaches - scientometrics and structural analysis are then shown to be strongly complementary in their results which lead to a better understanding of how a scientific field of research functions and the roles of the different actors.
Citation Patterns of Advanced Undergraduate Students in Biology, 2000-2002 Many of the citation figures agree pretty well with prior research. The students cited journal literature at a much higher rate than books or other sources.
The Italian Authors and papers most cited in the international Journals of Psychiatry and Psychology (2002)
The eScholarship Repository The eScholarship Repository offers an attractive alternative to commercial publishing and commercial working paper services. Posting material to the repository is free to authors, and libraries are not required to purchase the material produced by faculty on their campus or within the UC system.
A Method for Comparison of Biomedical Publication Quality Across ISI Discipline Categories Which of the three methods of article score calculation we have presented may be used for rela- tive comparisons is a personal choice.
TOOLS OR TOYS? THE IMPACT OF HIGH TECHNOLOGY ON SCHOLARLY PRODUCTIVITY Our results suggest that joint research in economics is increasingly conducted by authors who work at long distances.
Rankings of Australian Economics Departments, 1988–2000 In this paper, we calculate the rankings of 27 Australian university economics departments using two different journal-ranking criteria: one based on citations and the other based on perceptions. We found that over time, the rankings of economics departments had changed. Our results do not show that the new DETYA funding formula of has had the effect of making economists substitute quan-tity for quality.
Problematising the construction of journal quality: an engagement with the mainstream The central aim of our research has been to address specific shortcomings in the conventional literature and to begin to construct an alternative view of how we might more appropriately assess journal quality.
Quality versus quantity: Ranking research records of economics departments in New Zealand Comparing these rankings with those in Bairam's (1996, 1997) and Gibson's (2000) studies we can see striking differences across all 3 studies.
In AC Research: In AC Research This can lead to a list of promising candidates for identification. Procedure for Decreasing Uncertainty in the Identification of Chemical Compounds Based on Their Literature Citation and Cocitation. Two Case Studies.
Falling through the cracks: just how much “history” is history? Analysis as presented in this study of American and British history titles in areas outside the official LC classification-based history scope could be used just as well for other disciplines.
How much information do search engines disclose on the links to a web page? A longitudinal case study of the 'cybermetrics' home page Web visibility and WIFs are being considered as scientometric indicators. In theory, they can be excellent indicators, but if the tools used to derive them (the search engines) are as unreliable as exhibited in this case study, then the indicators become worthless. However it may be concluded that before utilizing freely available search engines on the Web for research purposes (e.g. computing scientometric indicators like WIFs), their reliability must be carefully examined.
Economics as if science mattered: the BioOne business model and the transformation of scholarly publishing The BioOne experiment is important because it attempts to take into account the connections between the various agents in the chain of scholarly communication: scholarly societies and their members, the scientists who create and evaluate the scientific literature; libraries and librarians, who organize access to it; technology specialists, who design and create the formatting schemes, storage systems, and search-and-retrieval mech-anisms that make the information usable; and administrative, financial, and marketing professionals, who provide some long-term stability for the venture.
The top 100 linked-to pages on UK university web sites: high inlink counts are not usually associated with quality scholarly content It is concluded that the most highly linked-to pages are those that facilitate access to a wide range of information, rather than providing specific content.
Metric studies of information: An Approach towards a Practical Teaching Method The application of quantitative techniques to the area of information has reached sufficient maturity to be incorporated, under different denominations (bibliometrics, scientometrics, informetrics, user studies, etc.) into university curricula.
Scholarly use of the Web: What are the key inducers of links to journal Web sites? Evidence has been found to indicate that journal Web sites with more content are more visible in that they attract more links and therefore potentially more traffic to the sites.
A bit more to it: Scholarly communication forums as socio-technical interaction networks We have articulated an alternative, STIN-based model that enables us to better understand some of their key aspects.
Empirical evidence of self-organization? "Thus we see that the relationship between region of origin and use of title words is an artifact of the method used with this type of nominal data."
Researcher contributions and fulfillment of ICMJE authorship criteria:: Analysis of author contribution lists in research articles with multiple authors published in Radiology The 68% fulfillment of criteria for authorship was closely related to the large number of researchers contributing to one category or to categories belonging to the same ICMJE criterion.
Open source software development and Lotka's Law: Bibliometric patterns in programming We believe that the analysis presented here demonstrates that the patterns of productivity in the open source software development data are comparable to patterns of productivity found in studies of scholarly or scientific productivity which applied Lotka's Law.
A profile of faculty reading and information-use behaviors on the cusp of the electronic age Thus, better assessments can be made of changes that occur in reading and information behaviors as a result of technological innovations and allow professions supporting faculty and research to project further changes and to target their resources.
No-bells for ambiguous lists of ranked Nobelists as science indicators of national merit in physics, chemistry and medicine, 1901-2001 That's why we consider that the use of the ranking of countries based on the quantification of their Nobelists does not satisfy the criteria of a true „science indicator" to be used for science policy decisions on international competition and priorities.
Patterns in journal citation data revealed by exploratory multivariate analysis Commenting upon the above results we can conclude that: in the studied years there was no structural change in the 'citing-cited' patterns. Indeed, the Euclidian distances between the points-matrices computed by the STATIS method for the 'cited' patterns and by the STATIS dual method for the 'citing' patterns are very small (0.568, 1.047 respectively), hence the points are neighbours, hence the represented structures are similar.
Scientometrics of the international journal Scientometrics The contribution of US papers in the journal Scientometrics is constantly on the decline while the share of the Netherlands, India, France, Spain and Japan is on the rise. The pattern of co-authorship indicates the domination of single authored papers. However, multi-authorship research is gaining momentum. Similar is the case with domestic and international collaboration.
A scientometric study of the research performance of the Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Singapore The IMCB's contribution to research manpower was significant, as it produced 46 PhDs and 14 MScs.
Hypothesis generation guided by co-word clustering It is concluded that co-word clustering is a powerful method for literature-based hypothesis generation and knowledge discovery. Our results show that the "classical" form of co-word analysis employed by us seems to be a powerful method for detection of CBD literature partners and their linking literatures, and major parts of the processes of preselection of intermediate and target terms may be performed automatically. We have successfully adopted the known method of co-word analysis as a tool for SL-based hypothesis generation and are now ready to perform further experiments with respect to the structure of CBD literatures as well as the investigation of other literature candidates being possibly CBD partners.
The influence of cultural factors on scientific production However the classification does produce some immediate results which are rather revealing. I believe the classification brings to light some consequences of the interaction between economic and non-economic factors and in particular, provides in Table 2, a striking illustration of the influence of cultural factors. This is also an indication of the persistence of cultural factors in scientific research.
Monitoring elasticity between science and technology domains and its visualization We have introduced a new technique for quantifying the causal effect the publication of scientific articles has on the filing of patents. The effect was examined in terms of partial and cross elasticities, and the results summarized and visualized as quiver maps. With these maps one can quickly spot the most important science domains by the extent of their causal effects. Finally, these results clearly show that we can indeed analyze the interactions between science and technology, without having to rely on a prior selection of the science- and technology domains done by an expert.
The nature and relationship between the productivity of journals and their citations in semiconductor literature The results of the present study indicates, for journals publishing papers on semiconductors, there is a significant correlation between journal productivity and citation frequency, between journal productivity and impact factor; while there is no significant association between journal productivity and cited half-life and between journal productivity and citing half-life. This suggests that, for journals publishing papers on semiconductors, more productive journals usually publish papers with a higher quality in terms of citation frequency and impact factor. The results of this study clarify the relationship between the productivity of journals and their citations, and help to establish a basis for making decisions for journal subscriptions, discarding, and binding, at least, in the area of semiconductors in a library.
Can scientific impact be judged prospectively? A bibliometric test of Simonton's model of creative productivity The results from our research suggest that the answer is "not very well."
A macro study of self-citation In our analysis of Norwegian science we have found that self-citations contribute to a relatively large share of the citations. In the standard indicators based on a three-year citation window on average more than one third of the citations represent author self-citations. At lower levels of analyses self-citations represent a more serious problem. Here, self-citations should preferably be removed before making comparisons.
Correcting glasses help fair comparisons in international science landscape: Country indicators as a function of ISI database delineation However, adjustment of settings within sensible limits is not likely to alter the major findings of this study.
Explaining Australia's increased share of ISI publications - the effects of a funding formula based on publication counts The conclusion reached is that the driving force behind the Australian trends appears to lie with the increased culture of evaluation faced by the sector.
Research support infrastructure and productivity in US family practice residency programs This study demonstrated a positive association between several elements of research infrastructure and research productivity but that such infrastructure is inconsistent across programs and seemingly insufficient to develop the necessary research culture and socialization.
Predicting early career research productivity: the case of management faculty In industries where competitiveness is linked to developing new knowledge, organizations must locate and hire individuals who generate high research productivity. Specifically, results revealed that future research output can be predicted using: (1) dissertation advisor qualifications, (2) graduate school productivity, (3), academic placement, and (4) academic origin. The finding that advisor qualifications significantly impact protégé productivity can be looked at in two ways.
Research output of a cohort of orthopaedic consultants in Great Britain There was a significant difference in the research output of groups 1 and 2 (teaching hospitals versus DGHs). This possibly reflects the better opportunities and facilities for research in the large centres and teaching hospitals. The BOA must embark on a project of collecting accurate and detailed data on its members' and fellows' publications. However, it will provide a valuable database and help develop and plan future efforts in promoting research activity and for sharing and pooling of experience and knowledge.
The determinants of econometric society fellows elections Our fundamental result is that, conditional on characteristics that we consider to be objective quality measures, other characteristics, including current affiliation and field, significantly influence the probability of election.
Ethics and dementia: mapping the literature by bibliometric analysis During the period 1980-2000 the research literature has been dominated by surveys and studies soliciting views on predefined issues with relatively few in-depth, open-ended qualitative studies.
Declining proportion of publications by American authors in major anesthesiology journals The results of the present study suggest that, absent changes in editorial policies favoring the publication of articles submitted from abroad, the quality of research being conducted in anesthesiology departments abroad has improved greatly between 1980 and 2000, leading to their increased representation in the 3 journals examined.
The reliability of total citation rankings This is why we do not recommend that list (and similar lists) to be used in any decision making process of evaluation of the performance of chemists or scientists working in any science field.
Self-citation and self-reference: Credibility and promotion in academic publication I have argued that self-citation and personal reference are not just stylistic features of research writing but significant means of promoting a scholarly reputation and gaining professional credit for one's research. Self-mention is important because it plays a crucial role in mediating the relationship between writers' arguments and their disciplines. It should also be remembered that these disciplinary conventions are enabling rather than deterministic, and typ- ical patterns of self-mention only provide broad perimeters of choice.
Bibliometric analysis on additionality of Japanese R&D programmes From the analyses of similarities between different terms surrounding the project and the different researchers in a project, the method of forming a project in two Japanese R&D programmes was clarified. In this way, the additionality of public intervention is ensured by expanding national competences in a new technology field from a small number of companies to many other participating companies. Thus, the additionality is restricted, except for the indirect spillover effect of technologies in a project.
A comparison between domestic and international publications in Brazilian psychiatry The present mapping indicates that a considerable proportion of research articles with sophisticated designs (experimental studies) characterized the Brazilian international production during the studied period.
Neo-colonial science by the most industrialised upon the least developed countries in peer-reviewed publishing Raina & Habib (1994) raised the question whether scientists from the advanced countries view some developing countries as a source merely of data-gathering and survey-related research and not as partners. The results of this study seem to answer affirmatively to this question, and worsen the above scenario in safari-research with a neo-colonial one in which local people from developing countries do act as partners and appear to be valued as such, but are totally neglected when it comes to peer-reviewed publishing.
The visibility of Italian journals The most cited Italian journals, even though publishing prevalently in English, showed a rather low influence on the global scientific community when evaluated in terms of citations, thus revealing a disappointing scenario for Italy. Although Italian journals overall did not seem to fare favorably at the international level, an exception was the Journal of High Energy Physics, which performed well in terms of both IF and the other indicators taken into consideration. Finally, even though the question demands a more careful analysis, the findings of this and previous surveys underline the value that a dedicated web site with accessible abstracts or full text articles seems to have in attracting researchers and and, thus, in enhancing a journal's visibility.
A new classification scheme of science fields and subfields designed for scientometric evaluation purposes Beyond the standard use of the classification scheme like the determination of publication profiles for institutions or countries, or the calculation of reference standards for relative citation indicators the profiling of authors and research groups is a further important application. Such profiles are of primary importance in scientometric evaluation, since standards of scientometric indicators can be set only within subfields, therefore it is only the activity profile that can be accompanied by matching profiles of indicators like, e.g., impact measures, citation rates or reference age.
Citation patterns in the Kuwaiti journal Medical Principles and Practice:: The first 12 years, 1989-2000 This study illustrates scholarly communication patterns by studying citation characteristics in the journal MPP, from its inception in 1989 through 2000. The findings from several bibliometric indicators reveal that MPP is a maturing journal and showing healthy signs of scholarship.
Constructing a multi-objective measure of research performance A brief review of the literature on research evaluation, presented in this paper, indicates the inherent contradiction between the multifaceted and multidimensional nature of contemporary R&D activity and unidimensional approaches to its measurement. It is therefore essential that any schema for assessment of research performance should incorporate multiple indicators and scrupulously avoid any arbitrary weighting of different indicators. The performance of a research unit is confounded by the size of the research unit, its disciplinary character and institutional setting.
Exploring a pseudo-regression model of transnational cooperation in science In this paper we have analyzed the effects of three proximity measures geographic distance, thematic distance and socio-economic distance on the network of transnational cooperation of 45 scientifically most advanced countries. All the three proximity measures are negatively related to transnational cooperation, but the unstandardized regression coefficient for socio-economic proximity does not reach the level of statistical significance. The values of regression coefficients indicate that geographic distance is a more important predictor of transnational cooperation than thematic distance, but its effect seems to have decreased over time (Schott, 1998; Nagpaul, 1999).
Linguistic patterns of academic Web use in Western Europe It is clear from the data that English is the dominant language of the Western Europe academic Web and an important language for the aspect of international scholarly communication that Web links represent.
PhD faculty in clinical departments of US medical schools, 1981-1999: Their widening presence and roles in research The burgeoning career opportunities for PhD faculty in clinical departments should be reflected in the course work, mentorship, and potential thesis topics of PhD training programs.
Bridging postdoctoral training and a faculty position: Initial outcomes of the Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Awards in the Biomedical Sciences Conclusion. The CABS program has helped partici- pants to launch careers as active and independent investigators.
Geography of clinical cancer research publications from 1995 to 1999 These results provide information on the geography of clinical cancer research worldwide, which may reflect the human and economic resources involved in this field. In conclusion, we should emphasise that this data is provided by three clinical oncologists who are not experts in scientometrics. Nevertheless, the geography of clinical cancer research derived from our bibliometric analysis may reflect the human and economic resources involved in this field worldwide.
The role of electronic preprints in chemical communication: Analysis of citation, usage, and acceptance in the journal literature The data presented illustrate that that the CPS is becoming a viable component of scholarly communication in chemistry.
Predicting future citation behavior Thus, at this stage the linear regression phenomenon as given by the second part of Theorem 3 must remain a conjecture, as must the less precise hypothesis that the regression function is increasing, and hence, a manifestation of success breeds success. It will be interesting to see to what extent these conjectures are supported or refuted by empirical data. We invite others to undertake and report these empirical investigations.
Why do we need algorithmic historiography? In conclusion, we have demonstrated how HistCite has aided the task of preparing historiographic accounts of topics, especially for the last half of the 20th century. But the process has equal validity in dealing with even more contemporary files and can give the user a snapshot of the key literature of any current topic. The process aids in identifying and correcting the many errors and variations that invariably occur in the literature.
Time line visualization of research fronts As shown in the previous section, the use of document time lines allows the extraction of useful information from a database of scientific journal papers for presentation to subject matter experts for the purpose of technology forecasting.
Pathfinder networks and author cocitation analysis: A remapping of paradigmatic information scientists Two-dimensional PFNETs made with a spring embedder can quickly present up to ca. 200 authors' names for simultaneous viewing.
The rising landscape: A visual exploration of superstring revolutions in physics The string theory study has demonstrated the potential of visual exploration approaches to the study of scientific revolutions and competing paradigms.
Indicator-assisted evaluation and funding of research:: Visualizing the influence of grants on the number and citation counts of research papers The article concludes with a list of recommendations on how to improve the quality of grant-publication maps and a discussion of research challenges for indicator-assisted evaluation and funding of research.
Simultaneous mapping of interactions between scientific and technological knowledge bases: The case of space communications The simultaneous mapping approach developed in this article allowed us to investigate deeply the overall cognitive structure of space communications at the worldwide level and also the organization of the scientific and technologic activities at the country level within the Triad over the last decade.
International comparison of research productivity in hematology In conclusion, the share of published articles from some countries, including Japan, has increased over the past decade in the major hematology journals, but not in IJH.
Use of epidemiology in clinical medical publications, 1983-1999: A citation analysis This analysis suggests an increasing interchange of information between epidemiologists and clinicians specializing in certain fields, uncovering potential research opportunities for epidemiologists. Apparent gaps and declines in the use of epidemiologic information could be interpreted in numerous ways but must be considered as opportunities for growth in the field of epidemiology. The results of this study suggest that, although epidemiologists appear to be effectively recognizing, responding to, and anticipating the information needs of the field's users working in clinical medicine, broadening their focus to include certain additional medical specialties may enhance their contributions.
Web use and peer interconnectivity metrics for academic web sites In summary, then, the results are significant enough to demonstrate that the measures correlate with known patterns and therefore merit further investigation and development.
A multifaceted portrait of a library and information science Journal:: the case of the Journal of Information Science This study is a contribution to an overall portrait of a scientific journal by means of various bibliometric analy-ses, mainly publication and citation analyses, to find and present other indicators than, for example, JCR’s JIF or half-life to characterize a journal, taking Journal of Information Science as an example. The analyses were performed in the ISI citation databases and LISA and cover the last 25 years of publication. Co-citation frequencies as a measure of impact cannot replace JIF; it is less applicable and of a more subtle character, requiring quantitative and qualitative evaluations of co-cited journals.
Motivations for academic web site interlinking: evidence for the Web as a novel source of information on informal scholarly communication It is concluded that academic web link metrics will be dominated by a range of informal types of scholarly communication.
The reorganization of basic science departments in US medical schools, 1980-1999 These just-mentioned changes, taken together, affect both the teaching and research missions of academic medicine. First, basic scientists are becoming increasingly dissociated from the traditional disciplines around which medical students' education is often organized. Second, the organization of biomedical research is in a state of transition that is responding to advances in scientific knowledge, technology, and targets of opportunity.
Israeli participation in periodical transplantation literature The number of published articles from each country reflects both scientific productivity and submission practices. Israel was found to be mid-range, 10th place near Norway and Denmark, and before Italy, France, and Australia.
Biomedical research productivity - Factors across the countries To increase biomedical research output, GNP per capita and R&D expenditure are the most important factors to address. Multiple regression analysis revealed that GNP per capita and R&D expenditure are the significant factors for biomedical research productivity. Based on the best possible estimates, as shown above, GNP per capita and expenditure on R&D are the main factors related to biomedical research productivity.
Evaluation of an experimental chemistry preprint server Bearing in mind all those limitations, is the CPS experi-ment a success so far? Using the Elsevier criteria (the total number of preprints published, geographic spread, the number of people who access CPS, and the number of articles going on to be published) the experiment seems justified.
Three target document range metrics for university Web sites The directory range model, which is based upon summing the number of distinct directories targeted by each other university, produces the most promising results of any link metric yet.
A method for the comparative analysis of concentration of author productivity, giving consideration to the effect of sample size dependency of statistical measures We have explained that two viewpoints, absolute and relative concentration, are important in evaluating the concentration of author productivity, and that the number of authors and Gini's index are desirable for measuring each of the two types of concentration.
Requirements for a cocitation similarity measure, with special reference to Pearson's correlation coefficient "It is concluded that Pearson's r is probably not an optimal choice of a similarity measure in ACA."
Are European IS Journals under-rated? An answer based on citation analysis Our study results suggest that the quality of four European IS journals is quite comparable to that of 11 well-recognized ones.
Japan's share of published research in ophthalmology In conclusion, in the ophthalmology field the num-ber of Japanese clinical research articles with a higher grade of evidence was smaller than for other coun-tries, even though Japan's share of research article output was higher in this field than in other medical categories. Appropriate measures should be taken in the ophthalmology field in Japan to increase the num-ber of clinical research papers with a higher grade of evidence.
Consensus and contention regarding redundant publications in clinical research: cross-sectional survey of editors and authors Editors, authors, and other academic leaders should together develop explicit guidelines that clarify points of contention and ambiguity regarding overlapping manuscripts.
International publishing in anaesthesia - how do different countries contribute? It was concluded that USA is the world leader in anaesthesiology, calculated as the total number of publications. Germany is the country with the greatest increase in scientific production in recent years. In this respect, Finland has the best publication/population ratio.
Radiological research in Europe: a bibliometric study Our study shows that European radiology is growing and its production is increasing over time, thus indicating strong commitment to research from European radiologists; however, European radiological research has not yet reached leadership in the literature, and mean indexes addressing the level of resources allocated to research are lower in Europe than in the U.S.
The connection between the research of a university and counts of links to its web pages: An investigation based upon a classification of the relationships of pages to the research of the host university The results of the categorization process indicate that it is capable of producing small increases in correlations and therefore presumably in the overall reliability of the results.
Type/Token-Taken informetrics We leave open the problem of developing non-Lotkaian Type/Token-Taken informetrics.
Clinical research in family medicine: Quantity and quality of published articles Most clinical family medicine research uses less-rigorous study designs, such as the cross- sectional survey. The majority of papers do not meet established criteria for relevance and validity. There are no standards or comparable studies to compare these results to prior years or to other disciplines.
Is science really a young man's game? In light of the above analyses, I draw the conclusion that young scientists are not especially well positioned to make revolutionary scientific discoveries.
A quantitative analysis of medical publications from Arab countries Normalizing publications by different indicators is important as results may vary when using different normalizing indicators or no normalization at all. In summary, KSA has the highest number of publications over the last 15 years followed by Egypt.
Journal co-citation analysis of semiconductor literature As is indicated from the results, the subject of semiconductors has strong cross-disciplinary nature. The field lacks core co-cited journals. The field consists of several specialties around a weak center.
India's collaboration with People's Republic of China in Science and Technology: A scientometric analysis of coauthored papers during 1994-1999 The study reveals that there has been a growing collaboration between India and China as is evident from the rise in the number of coauthored papers from 21 in 1994 to 74 in 1999. The average impact of all coauthored papers has been found to be 2.77. To ensure healthy development of India-China collaboration in S&T, these countries should evolve more active measures and should establish smooth information exchange channels, and new institutional mechanisms for cooperation for exchange of scientists and technologists and students at the postgraduate and doctorate level.
Defining a core: Theoretical observations on the Egghe-Rousseau proposal We conclude that, without additional empirical support, the approach does not appear to offer real improvement on more established and intuitively appealing schemes.
Bridging citation and reference distributions: Part I - The referencing-structure function and its application to co-citation and co-item studies To conclude, the purpose of thise study was to outline a combined representation of distributions associated with a dual information process, namely the emission/reception of citations, the “referencing-structure" function (RSF).
Developing English-language academic journals of China The results suggest that we must learn the successful experiences from well-known journals. Attracting high-level articles and realizing the internationalization of the journal will help us to develop the journal.
Difficulties and challenges of Chinese scientific journals:: Statistical analysis of Chinese literatures using Chinese Science Bulletin as example The Chinese scientific journals need to continue to make efforts to increase their international effect by attracting international researchers to publish in Chinese journals and by encouraging collaboration of Chinese and foreign researchers and publish their result in Chinese journals. To elevate a journal's influence, to attract international researchers to publish in Chinese journals, and to obtain higher citation rate, we need to attract international authors and editors in Chinese journals. Since the citation rate of CSB was mainly from Chinese journals we should encourage more Chinese journals to enter SCIE in order to produce "synergy effect" to raise influence of Chinese journals.
Citation indexes do not reflect methodological quality in lung cancer randomised trials Journals with higher citation factors do not appear to publish clinical trials with higher levels of methodological quality, at least for trials in the field of lung cancer research.
Overcoming the scientific generation gap in Africa: an urgent priority In the battle for sustainable development in Africa, nothing will replace home grown scientific capacities, and it is high time for the conditions for their renewal to be created. Although the development of Africa does not depend exclusively on its scientists, sustainable science based development will not occur without indigenous scientists. There is an urgent need to preserve and strengthen the scientific capacity currently available in Africa. Young scientists are becoming so scarce that it is increasingly difficult to find a scientist below the age of forty in Africa today.
Science and research in Iran: a scientometric study In the late 1970s and through the 1980s, Iran's publi- cation output in S&T reflected the turmoil and hardship the country was undergoing. There was a sharp decline followed by little or no growth.
Evaluating China's research performance: how do SCI and Chinese indexes compare? It has been seen from the analysis presented above that SCI and the two native Chinese databases, CSCD and CSTPC, have important roles to play in the evaluation of China's research performance. In measuring China's research performance, the number of SCI papers indexed is a more sensitive indicator than numbers of CSCD or CSTPC papers. This seems to imply much greater competition among Chinese regions to produce SCI papers.
A bibliometric analysis of health economics articles in the economics literature: 1991-2000 This research demonstrates the robust state of the field of health economics during the past decade.
Impact factors of forensic science and toxicology journals: what do the numbers really mean? Judging the importance of a scientist's work based on the average or median impact factor of the journals used to publish articles is not recommended.
Achievements of dermatological research in Denmark and Israel: a comparative 10-year study In conclusion, our data demonstrate the superiority, both quantitative and qualitative, of Danish dermatology research achievements over those of Israel, and suggest the large pro- portion of case reports and reviews to be a cause of the low ranking of Israeli dermatology research efforts.
Reference accuracy in the Journal of Hand Surgery These error rates are similar to those found in studies of other biomedical journals. Perhaps the decrease in the quantity of errors present in 1995 versus that of 1985 is related to the implementation of a more stringent, revised set of instructions to submitting authors imposed in 1995.
Japan's share of research output in urology and nephrology Japan's contribution to urology and nephrology research is within the range of its contribution to other biomedical fields.
Gender, publication and citation in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology: The construction of a scholarly canon "Our work suggests the importance of considering both sociological and epistemological factors to discover whether and how a discipline welcomes women and work on gender, feminism, and women. In conclusion, this research suggests how far language and gender studies have come in sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology – and how far they have yet to go. We also recommend that all authors carefully review their own citation patterns and, where they display marked gender disparities, ask themselves why this is the case, and if it is desirable and feasible to change their practice."
Problems of accessing scholarly publications by Nigerian scientists: a study of the University of Ibadan The findings of this study show that Nigerian academics appreciate the value of using ICT for teaching, research and publications.
Using the Mann-Whitney test on informetric data The Mann-Whitney test can compare two informetric or scientometric samples and calculate the probability that they come from different distributions.
BRS-compactness in networks: Theoretical considerations related to cohesion in citation graphs, collaboration networks and the Internet We hope that the structural measure of cohesion, namely BRS-compactness, studied in this article will prove to be a useful element for their description.
Size-frequency and rank-frequency relations, power laws and exponentials: a unified approach It is shown how a unified approach, including size-frequency and rank-frequency distributions, relates power laws and exponential relations occurring in all fields of science.
One step further in the production of bibliometric indicators at the micro level:: Differences by gender and professional category of scientists In summary, the results obtained up to now show that the situation of female scientists at CSIC varies according to the areas.
Tracing technological change over long periods in Germany in chemicals using patent statistics Our findings enhance institutional and historical contributions about technological change in the chemical sector and suggest new research questions for innovation studies. The research agenda is still open for further cliometric work since the historical patent documentation is available for other patent offices in the same databases used in this contribution.
The decline of Swedish neuroscience:: Decomposing a bibliometric national science indicator "Any statement attributing the decline of Swedish neuroscience to possible structural changes in the SCI database do not hold."
Study the brain drain: Can bibliometric methods help? The delineation of specialties has been identified as the crucial problem in studying elite mobility on the micro- level. The results of my test study of the biomedical specialty Angiotensin confirmed the supposed brain drain towards the United States. The use of bibliographic databases is an alternative that can overcome these shortcomings.
The relationship between the WIFs or inlinks of Computer Science Departments in UK and their RAE ratings or research productivities in 2001 Despite of all the problems mentioned above, the correlation coefficient between the numbers of inlinks and the research productivities, and the WIFs with staff numbers as denominators and the RAE ratings are statistically significant. Through the comparison of different versions of WIFs, staff number is confirmed to be a better choice of denominator than the number of Web pages.
Holy Grail of science policy: Exploring and combining bibliometric tools in search of scientific excellence It is argued that one needs to combine the various types of indicators in order to offer policy makers and evaluators valid and useful assessment tools. The diversity of the explored and tested indicators suggests that one or two indicators are probably not sufficient to provide reliable information that fits the multiple goals of research performance assessment procedures, aimed at gaining insight in various aspects of the research performance of researchers, research groups, institutions, or even countries. In order to prevent one indicator to be chosen as the only indicative means to express (some of) these aspects, we need to stress the variety and expressiveness of a combination of indicators.
Potential science-technology spillovers in regions: An insight on geographic co-location of knowledge activities in the EU The question of geographic coincidence of science and technology activities was addressed at the European level, using a fine-grain breakdown into 463 regions and the classic proxy measures of publications and patents. Geographic coincidence is a necessary condition for emergence of local spillovers or other S&T transfers. In the science-oriented family, the scientific level is a better predictor of technology than the economic level is.
A cast of thousands: Coauthorship and subauthorship collaboration in the 20th century as manifested in the scholarly journal literature of psychology and philosophy Psychological research (as reflected in the discipline’s publication practices) had become much more of a collective activity, while philosophers were more inclined to “bowl alone.”
Social background of the discovery and the reception of the periodic law of the elements - Recognizing the contributions of Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev and Julius Lothar Meyer The favorable and relatively rapid reception of Mendeleev's periodic table of the elements can be attributed, in part at least, to his social connections.
Effects of reviewers' gender on assessments of a gender-related standardized manuscript Although no evidence of reviewers' gender bias was found in this study, alternative explanations of the findings suggest that further empirical research is needed.
Has the changing nature of vascular surgery adversely affected scholarly activity? Academic productivity was maintained for individual members who published across both eras, but a smaller proportion of the SVS membership published in era 2.
An emerging view of scientific collaboration: Scientists' perspectives on collaboration and factors that impact collaboration These results may inform the specification of social and organizational practices, which are needed to establish collaboration in distributed, multi-disciplinary research centers. Ultimately, it is hoped that the results of this study will serve as a foundation to help inform similar organizations of the factors, which at times facilitate and at other times inhibit collaboration in distributed, multi-disciplinary research centers.
Evolution of National Institutes of Health options for rehabilitation research It is likely that having a line item budget and a fixed appropriation would enhance both accountability and the setting of priorities.
Canadian Association of Gastroenterology - Canadian Institutes of Health Research - pharmaceutical partner postdoctoral operating fellowship programme: An outstanding success that continues to excel! The synopsis of the data presented herein is testimony to the truly outstanding success of the fellowship programme. The fellowship programme continues to be an outstanding success and the flagship of CAG research activities. Laudable progress has been made and we must now strive to sustain the momentum that has been generated in the CAG Operating Fellowship Programme and create complementary means to highlight the value of, and need for, continued investment in gastroenterological research in Canada.
Real-time author co-citation mapping for online searching "Author searching was important in the past for libraries and bibliographical systems. It will remain important in future document retrieval systems and the Web."
Age-specific citation rates and the Egghe-Rao function One of the features of the graphical approach advocated by Burrell (2003) and pursued here is that it is able to highlight systematic, rather than random, deviations from an assumed model.
Research contributions in ophthalmology: Australia's productivity This paper, one of a series on the literature of the vision sciences, provides some initial benchmarks on Australia's standing and contribution to the field of ophthalmology research.
Tribal regimes in academia: a comparative analysis of market structure across disciplines Neither the phenomena observed nor the sentiments expressed in the frontispiece quotations are novel, for the prestige principle organizes the academic marketplace, mediating the transactions that constitute and reproduce the markets.
Bibliometric navigation tools for users of subject portals Based on the feedback received from the team of collaborators at both universities, faculty members and librarians, one can conclude the following. It can be agreed that there is a need to increase the competence of Ph.D. students and young researchers in searching and navigating the electronic information environ-ment.
Role of technical literature in science and technology development and exploitation All five conditions have severe limitations today. These limitations are described, and recommendations for overcoming them are presented. In the near term, a workshop of leading international information technologists and technology development managers should address the proper role of the technical literature in the full S&T development cycle, and ways to overcome the deficiencies in both the content and deployment of the technical literature.
Science from the periphery: Collaboration, networks and 'Periphery Effects' in the citation of New Zealand Crown Research Institutes articles, 1995-2000 We conclude that scientists working on the periphery looking to increase the visibility of their research should strive to link their research to the international research community, particularly through co-publication with international authors.
The contribution of women in Brazilian science: A case study in astronomy, immunology and oceanography The analysis of the scientific production of Brazilian men and women in astronomy, oceanography and immunology in the period 1997–2001 shows that there is effectively no difference between them in potential impact, see Figure 4. Although the data clearly show that Brazilian women published as much as men, in terms of both quantity and quality, and were at least as likely to be research group leaders (Figure 4), we found some evidence that Brazilian women tend to receive fewer "productivity fellowships”. This may possibly indicate that there is some discrimination against women within the CNPq that bears further investigation.
Assessing stem cell research productivity Based on the finding of our study on the development of stem cell research in the Asian Four Dragons, we would like to suggest that South Korea, Hong Kong, and Taiwan have followed the world's trend in scientific research.
The effect of statistical methods and study reporting characteristics on the number of citations: A study of four general psychiatric journals The effect of statistical methodology on citations was low compared to the effect of the country of the corresponding author or number of authors.
Abstracts, introductions and discussions: How far do they differ in style? Computer-based technology has allowed us to extend the findings of previous research by showing that there are measurable differences between the stylistic features of different sections of journal articles. Thus it does not seem wise to talk anymore about the readability (or any other stylistic measures) of journal articles taken as a whole. Thus further research is required on the single and multiple authoring of the different sections of journal articles in a variety of disciplines in order to qualify the findings reported here.
Neuroscience output of China: A MEDLINE-based bibliometric study The results demonstrated that the research activity in Chinese neuroscience changed remarkably and described the growth pattern of Chinese neuroscientific output in international journals over the past 18 years.
Biomedical publication - global profile and trend The imbalance between developed and developing countries in terms of biomedical research is significant. Pragmatic policies should be adopted by the World Bank, World Health Organization, other United Nations bodies, and respective governments to encourage biomedical research in the less-developed parts of the world. In conclusion, our study showed that the amount of biomedical research is meager in the developing countries and that the gap between the developed and the developing countries has widened somewhat in recent years.
The impact of Solid State Communications in view of the ISI Citation data We have presented a rather exhaustive bibliometric analysis of Solid State Communications. The results contain considerable information concerning the ranking of the journal and its evolution with time since its inception in 1963. Many of the results obtained are not limited to the journal: they can be carried over to most journals in the field of condensed matter and also, in some cases, to the general field of physics and even beyond.
Publication rejection among ecologists Although our respondents are undoubtedly successful in their field, the evidence suggests that a thick skin is as useful for a scientist as it is for an artist.
Evaluation of a program supporting scholarly productivity for new investigators The findings document the Foundation's investment in new investigators to promote scholarly productivity and career development and validate the criteria and process used to select successful applicants.
Quality control in scholarly publishing: A new proposal This paper describes an electronic scholarly journal capable of a kind of quality control which is not based on peer review but on reader's judgments.
An IP-level analysis of usage statistics for electronic journals in chemistry: Making inferences about user behavior This study illustrates that for ACS titles, the vast major- ity of users download few articles and consult few journals.
A proposal for topic-based impact factors and their application to occupational health literature In conclusion, uncritical acceptance of JIFs as a means of judging the quality of individual papers should be avoided as far as possible.
The importance of fine-grained cue phrases in scientific citations Our analysis of 24 scholarly science articles indicates that these cues do exist in citation contexts, and that their frequency is comparable to that in the full text. The interesting question then becomes: can we extend textual coherence/rhetorical relations signalled by cue phrases to extra-textual coherence relations linking citing and cited papers?
Bilateral asymmetry prediction This is the first known study to generate cancer lateral incidence asymmetries from the Medline database.
How do statisticians perceive statistics journals? The results of this survey shed some light on the perceptions of statistics journals worldwide.
Measuring and assessing relative disciplinary openness in university research units In this study, by analysing the organisational obstacles that can influence the development of interdisciplinary collaborations, we show that a more complex university environment of research needs a deeper understanding of the distribution mechanisms of researchers among research units, which will be useful for developing adequate policies to promote interdisciplinary research.
Modifying publication practices in response to funding formulas Both the similar trends found in university output in all fields of research, and the lack of similar trends in other research sectors, support our hypothesis that the increased university output, and the pattern of its distribution across impact quartiles, is a direct result of the introduction of the DEST funding formulas. Only when these and other questions have been answered, is it valid to propose alternatives to those measures already in use.
Developing science indicators for basic science offices within mission agencies Finally, a bottom-up approach to the selection of S&T indicators serves to educate program managers about the range of options available to them in the construction and selection of indicators, and is ex-pected to increase the level of cooperation they pro-vide when subsequent requests are made for the raw data from which agency-level S&T indicators will be constructed. Spanning both approaches, the Office is supporting exploratory work on the construction of new S&T indicators that extend beyond the mainstream set of S&T indicators it already collects, with particular emphasis on measuring more of the variegated sci-ence activities, outputs and outcome of its programs.
Interdisciplinary information input and output of a nano-technology project As a whole, the project was found to be interdisciplinary but centring around physics and extending to chemistry and material technology and further to biology and instrumental technology. Under the understanding that the national project is at least partly purposed for establishing a model of interdisciplinary activities in an inter-institutional research mode, it may be judged that the purpose was fairly accomplished. The project published many papers in the major journals in basic science. This provides an example of information flow from technology project to basic science, which is contrary to the common idea of science-pushed technology with the knowledge transfer from science to technology.
Changing trends in publishing behaviour among university faculty, 1980-2000 The reported changes in publishing behaviour, which have taken place during the last two decades, merit however some further comments. This particularly relates to the increase in co-authorship and the enhancement of the scientific article in an English-language journal as the dominating type of publication. The change in publishing behaviour among social scientists is remarkable.
Age effects in scientific productivity - The case of the Italian National Research Council (CNR) Based on detailed evidence at the micro level on research institutes we demonstrated that scientific productivity declines with the average age of researchers of the institute.
Seismology as a dynamic, distributed area of scientific research While the latter exhibits an established network with a hierarchy, the formation of a field in terms of new partnership relations is ongoing in seismology.
Interdisciplinarity and knowledge inflow/outflow structure among science and engineering research in Korea This paper analyzed the degree of interdisciplinarity and knowledge inflow/outflow among research disciplines in science and engineering in Korea. On the basis of present results, three policy implications for encouraging interdisciplinary research can be considered. Therefore, enforcing and extending the far-reaching role of Natural science and encouraging the direct link between Life science and Engineering could be effective policies for boosting interdisciplinary researches.
Age profile, personnel costs and scientific productivity at the University of Vienna This study documents that the age demography at the University of Vienna can be divided into two categories: Category one shows an increased number of scientific researchers at younger age classes (CATH, LAW, EISc, MED), category two shows an increased number of scientists within older classes (SSC, HUM, Sc).
Disciplinary and linguistic considerations for academic Web linking: An exploratory hyperlink mediated study with Mainland China and Taiwan University Web link metrics produce results that associate with research productivity in Taiwan, although not with the rankings used in the Mainland, possibly due to scoring inadequacies. This is encouraging new evidence that the scholarly relationship with link counts extends from the English speaking countries for which this relationship had already been found. No real evidence was found that English was the language of choice of communication between the two places.
A quantitative view on the coming of age of interdisciplinarity in the sciences 1980-1999 As compared to the doubling time for the science journals³ (15-20 years) the growth rate found out here for inter/multidisciplinarity has to be taken seriously. All these results are heavily showing that interdisciplinarity and multidisciplinarity are increasingly diffusing and expanding within the sciences and that the way of using of and thinking according to them seems to become one of the main directions science and research strives to in the near future.
IS journal review process: a survey on IS research practices and journal review issues The study provides insights into research and pub-lication practices of IS researchers.
Longitudinal patent analysis for nanoscale science and engineering: Country, institution and technology field The results demonstrate potential of information-based discovery and visualization technologies to capture knowledge regarding nanotechnology performance, transfer of knowledge and trends of development through analyzing the patent documents. Based on observations of the analysis results, certain levels of knowledge regarding technology performances transfer of knowledge and development trends have been captured. The paper represents the first step toward a generic framework of patent analysis for scientific domains.
Predictors of academic productivity in emergency medicine In this study, faculty size and geographic location were associated with an increased number of pub-lications per institution from 1995 through 2001.
Citation networks in high energy physics We have considered the citation distribution for 257 022 papers in the SPIRES database and demonstrated the homogeneity of topologies in the categories of theory, experiment, and phenomenology.
Overlap in bibliographic databases The first conclusion that we can draw from these results is that for the topic examined (Fuzzy Set Theory), about 63% of the records relevant to this topic are unique to only one database. Many of the databases searched have a significant number of records that cannot be obtained using any other database. The remaining 37% of records have an overlap between 2-12 databases.
Changing use patterns of print journals in the digital age: Impacts of electronic equivalents on print chemistry journal use The diminished use of the print collection has important implications for collection management in sci-tech libraries. Libraries cannot sustain a model involving purchasing print and licensing electronic copies of scholarly journals, particularly if they are expected to license multiple versions of the same journal title at ever increasing costs. This study suggests that two years is not a sufficient period for print and online use to come into equilibrium.
Linking of errata: Current practices in Online physical sciences journals While links were present for over half of the observed journals, it was difficult to evaluate their usefulness.
Japan's contribution to clinical research in gastroenterology and hepatology In conclusion, Japan's contribution to research in gastroenterology and hepatology is, in general, acceptable compared with that of other countries, and is satisfactory compared with that of other specialty fields in the past decade. However, appropriate steps should be taken to gear up high-quality clinical studies, such as RCTs, in this field.
Oncological research overview in the European Union. A 5-year survey In conclusion, a descriptive analysis that compares the specific performance of nations in terms of research productivity is both an essential step in the under-standing of science policies and a source of useful information. The assessment of scientific output enables a country to define its position with respect to its com-petitors, and can be utilised to identify strategies to adopt in order to improve the distribution of resources and, in turn, the quality of its research. Variety in the use of keywords should be avoided, and journal editors should encourage their standardisation.
Developing and evaluating criteria to help reviewers of biomedical informatics manuscripts This is not surprising in that reviewers with different expertise and different experiences will view "relevant" aspects of a paper from unique perspectives.
Trends in transforming scholarly communication and their implications Understanding these trends would help us design more effective electronic scholarly publishing systems and digital libraries, and serve the needs of scholars more responsively.
The byline: Thoughts on the distribution of author ranks in multiauthored papers We have analyzed the multiauthorship matrix, explaining different relations and statistical distributions that can be derived from such a matrix representation.
Internationalization of the American journal of roentgenology: 1980-2002 The contents of the AJR reflect a continually increasing number of international articles during the past two decades. Because this trend is likely to continue, international research may become dominant in the next decade. Indeed, at the AJR, in the not-too-distant future, publications from international authors are likely to surpass publications from authors in the United States.
Bibliometric analysis of biomedical publications on SSRIs during 1980-2000 The results of the present study, together with the clinical studies on which they are based, show that the SSRIs are not solely antidepressant drugs.
The growing competition in Brazilian science: rites of passage, stress and burnout However, the discrepancy between the scarcity of funds and the need for publications is leading to the "publish or perish" condition experi- enced in the USA during the seventies, with the difference that in the USA this occurred at a time when science was well established, while in Brazil it is taking place at an early stage of its scientific development.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1998-2002) This study is one in an ongoing series whose goal is to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE. By now, at the end of ten years of conducting the study, we believe we can identify with some confidence those top scholars and institutions. Regarding the relationship of the field with its collegial fields of CS and IS, we find a few similarities with CS in the list of top institutions, but still enough differences to be able to say that SSE is a different field from CS; enough differences with the field of IS to say that they are clearly quite different fields.
Beyond outputs: new measures of biomedical research impact Traditional bibliometrics has yielded indicators of the impact of biomedical research, but these have been relevant to only a small part of the complex pattern of routes by which it will influence health.
Modelling the diffusion of specialised knowledge The freedom of academics to reflect and write is enabled by forms of labour (agricultural, industrial, and commercial) which are immediately essential to communal survival or at least command a more direct exchange-value. There would, then, be an implied responsibility or virtual contract to return the products of the intellectual activity enabled to exoteric labour, for instance, to inform policy (which might also have indirect rewards in support for research).
Interdisciplinarity in science:: A tentative typology of disciplines and research areas Interdisciplinary indicators based on ISI multi-assignation of journals to categories has proved useful in providing a deeper understanding of the relations between disciplines. Interarea differences in the degree of interdisciplinarity are observed, with Biomedicine and Technology at the upper range of the scale and Humanities at the lower one. New emerging disciplines are highly interdisciplinary, and show a predominance of the "big interdisciplinarity."
Author cocitation analysis and Pearson's r Thus, r performs well enough for the purposes of ACA. Accordingly, I argue that qualitative information revealing why authors are cocited is more important than the cautions proposed in the AJ&R critique.
"Type/Token-Taken" informetrics: Some comments and further examples Our current view is that the T/TT construction adds little new to the theoretical framework of informetrics, and that any real value must be judged through its practical application.
A multilevel cross-classified modelling approach to peer review of grant proposals: the effects of assessor and researcher attributes on assessor ratings Estimates of reliability for the evaluations of grant proposals in the ARC scheme were disappointingly low.
Detecting research trends in digital library readership We detected a specific research trend pointing to an increased interest in climatology and atmospheric science at LANL relating to recent programmatic efforts in space research, most specifically mapping of hydrogen distribution on Mars.
Reference directed indexing: Redeeming relevance for subject search in citation indexes In this paper we describe preliminary work on an indexing and retrieval technique called RDI that promises to enhance the effectiveness of subject search in citation indexes. Though the results are preliminary, they do suggest that RDI not only outperforms weak methods of relevance such as those currently employed by citations indexes, but that it actually performs favorably compared to one of the most widely used and well-established techniques for relevance ranking in retrieval systems. In future work we plan to further demonstrate the effectiveness of this technique and explore other ways in which we might leverage the precision of referential text.
Organization and technology for the recording of science ICT has generated many opportunities for more effective scientific communication and for the keeping of the scientific record.
Science cited in patents: A geographic "flow" analysis of bibliographic citation patterns in patents Our analyses show that in general, EU scientific publications are highly relevant and thus utilized in technology development, both in terms of patents by EU-inventors and US-inventors.
Large firms and the science-technology interface - Patents, patent citations, and scientific output of multinational corporations in thin films This study explored the extent to which patenting and publication activity can be related to each other and to patterns of science-technology linkage as observed through patent citations.
Characterizing intellectual spaces between science and technology Interesting and important insights in the nature of science-technology interactions are uncovered on applying the proposed methodology in ‘thin films' in this study. It is apparent from the citation analysis that the various techniques for preparing thin films are prominently cited indicating the influence of science in this domain. Future research would involve methodological improvement and further empirical studies in other fields.
Mapping communication and collaboration in heterogeneous research networks In this paper we proposed a strategy for researching the complex communication network that characterizes the triple helix of university-industry-government relations.
Patents cited in the scientific literature:: An exploratory study of 'reverse' citation relations The paper concludes with the suggestions for future research. We have presented a new approach to study the science-technology linkage. Naturally there are many limitations future research could address.
A Vector Space Model as a methodological approach to the Triple Helix dimensionality: A comparative study of Biology and Biomedicine Centres of two European National Research Councils from a Webometric view It may be concluded that these results could become a qualitative_indicator of a scientific and technical reality. The use of a vector space model has allowed the webometric data analysis from a different point of view. In this way, it is desired that this new methodologic proposal helps to support the webometry as a emergent research field, at the same time that it makes it possible to look deeply into the study of the Triple Helix Model.
Publications in epidemiology journals: Japanese perspectives Our analysis revealed that Japan's contribution to epidemiology journals is not up to expectation. Ranking in 14th place and showing no significant positive trend over time implies that a major initiative from leading epidemiologists and government agencies is needed to create positive change in this sector. More researches are necessary to elucidate the factors responsible for the meager number of publications on epidemiology from these two countries.
Mining networks and central entities in digital libraries. A graph theoretic approach applied to co-author networks Based on graph theoretic concepts, we introduced the notion of a social network for data mining purposes, here the detection of central actors in co-author networks in order to find human experts for a particular field.
Scoreboards of research excellence Scoreboards will be most effective when combined with an evolving and integrated system for evaluating the effectiveness of organizational policies and management practices. In conclusion, interactive scoreboards provide an empirical framework for expert-based informed debate and customized quantitative analysis.
RoMEO studies 2: how academics want to protect their open-access research papers The paper concludes that most academic authors are primarily interested in preserving their moral rights, and that the protection offered research papers by copyright law is way in excess of that required by most academics.
Re-engineering the scientific knowledge management process:: the SciX project Current methods for accessing scientific results are highly inefficient in view of the technical potential offered by the Internet. The objectives of the SciX project described in this paper are to explore business models and techniques which speed up the process from submission to final publication, allow a more rich content (multi-media), provide readers with more efficient mechanisms for retrieving publications of interest, and increase readership through the abolition of barriers such as subscriptions.
Objective quality ranking of computing journals Based on the average ranking scores derived for each journal across all seven citation-based indices, the top five computing journals are MISQ, ISR, CACM, JACM, and IEEESE.
Peer review time: How late is late in a small medical journal? Peer review time in a small general medical journal may be comparable to review times in larger and more prestigious journals.
Network influences on scholarly communication in developmental dyslexia: A longitudinal follow-up Considered together, the two studies lead to the following major findings:
Bibliographic index coverage of a multidisciplinary field "Surprisingly, four of the five multidisciplinary databases shown in Table 4 provide better index coverage than any single-subject database."
Bibliographic and web citations: What is the difference? From this study, it is fair to conclude that Web citations parallel or confirm analyses of bibliographic cita- tions reported by ISI. However, Web citation practices are far from uniform, and it is difficult to distinguish what Garfield (2002, online) called “research citations” from “mere mentions of names.” Thus, Web citation analysis is not, or not yet, a replacement for the study of bibliographic citations, especially in assessing academic impact in pro- motion and tenure deliberations.
Materials research in Poland Despite all the odds, obvious in the situation of a country struggling to catch-up with the developed world after years of stagnation under a centrally planned economy, the Polish materials science community is doing reasonably well.
The publication of cancer research papers in high impact journals The results presented above have provided several important findings: The negative effect of numbers of addresses on the impact category of journals in which research papers are published, which was found for gastroenterology, also applies to the larger field of cancer research. International collaboration (except with the USA) also has a negative impact on journal impact category, mainly because the apparently positive effect is actually attributable to the additional funding, which more than counters the negative effect of collaboration across frontiers. It is possible to compare the outputs of research from different cities (read, universities) on a fair basis and to identify those whose work is of a superior standard and those whose work appears to be of lower potential impact.
Constructing a patent citation map using bibliographic coupling: A study of Taiwan's high-tech companies The results from cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling can construct a patent citation map.
Author co-citation analysis of semiconductor literature As is indicated from the results, the field of semiconductors has a strong interdisciplinary nature.
Scientific cooperation between Chile and Spain: Joint mainstream publications (1991-2000) Although the number of combined publications between Chile and Spain has increased during the 1991–2000 period, product of the joint collaboration work, they still represent a low percentage with regard to the total amount of publications; this should be strengthened with a greater knowledge of their mutual activities and exchange between the research institutions of both countries. The main areas of combined publications are chemistry, astronomy and astrophysics, biology, technology, and medical sciences, which have taken place in a natural way and according to mutual interests and strengths. The former information allows to state that the scientific collaboration between a developed country as Spain and a developing nation as Chile, is possible.
Internationalization of mathematical research This indicates that during the past 16 years, the international cooperation of Chinese mathematical research has developed quickly. This developing trend will certainly be helpful to China's entering frontiers of more fields, and will be helpful in improving our mathematical research level, as well as our ability to compete with the international scientific frontiers. This indicates the trend toward cooperation and the great mathematics countries' attention to international cooperation.
Better late than never?: On the chance to become highly cited only beyond the standard bibliometric time horizon The statement that bibliometric indicators might lack validity because of necessary technical and methodological restrictions through limited citation windows does only hold for exceptional cases. The individual analysis of selected delayed reception papers has shown that these publications have presented fundamental results or are related to important discoveries. The high citation rates reflect reception by the community in an adequate manner.
OLAP and bibliographic databases The OLAP methodology has been implemented on Biomedicina Slovenica, the Slovenian national bibliographic database from the field of biomedicine and life sciences.
Data mining in a closed Web environment We have confirmed that, with the techniques applied in the present work, it is possible to discover the co-linking relationships that establish themselves in a closed web environment. The picture of the behaviour of the Extremadura web spaces given by the MDS and SOM representations led us to draw three main conclusions.
A method for identifying clusters in sets of interlinking Web spaces The results obtained support the belief that the transformation has made the opaque data of Figure 1 more transparent. Clusters found have had an intuitive interpretation mainly in terms of geographical proximity. The main conclusion of this paper is, therefore, that the standardisation method developed is appropriate for the statistical analysis of Web link data for collections of countries.
Mathematical model of delay in the secondary literature publishing process In this research, we illuminate the immanent law of the secondary literature publishing process, and discuss similarity and difference to the periodical literature publishing process. Using the methodology in the study of the periodical literature publishing process, we deduce the particular solution of the mathematical model, then simulate the process, and get the satisfactory simulation results.
Relations of relative scientometric indicators The author hopes that the present short communication would contribute to clear the scientometric background of relative impact indicators (Relative Citation Rate, Relative Subfield Citedness, Relative Publication Strategy) and this way it would advance their appropriate application.
Publishing productivity in sport psychology 1970-2000: An exploratory examination of the Lotka-Price Law The notion that advancement of knowledge in science is driven by a small elite group of researchers is supported in this study.
Smoothing the waters: Observations on the process of cross-disciplinary research collaboration The first point we would make is that genuine collaboration between the disciplines has utility in its own right.
Federal funding of endoscopic research in the United States: 1972-2002 This study demonstrates that there has been an increase, especially in the past 10 years, in NIH funding for endoscopically oriented research.
Dealing with plagiarism in the information systems research community: A look at factors that drive plagiarism and ways to address them We have made what we believe is a strong case for at least a serious debate regarding the creation of community-wide mechanisms to address acts of unethical behavior such as plagiarism. Those mechanisms involve educational and enforcement approaches, and gravitate around an IS research ethics committee, the recently created AIS committee on member misconduct. We hope that this article will contribute to a community-wide dialogue that will prevent that from happening.
Social sciences literature and electronic information First, as is evident from the dispersion of cited items (that is, the formats of the nearly 15,000 cited works), social science scholars are catholic in their use of secondary materials.
Impact of the Journal of Child Neurology:: 2002 data Although citation statistics are impressive, it is important never to lose sight of the raison d'être of clinical journals: to disseminate information to clinicians, many of whom will never produce a citing publication. Fortunately, JCN seems to be reaching this goal with its good circulation numbers and accolades from readers, while also achieving success in the citation rankings.
Link information as a similarity measure in web classification Experiments show that, in order to have sufficient information for expressive results, pages external to the test collection must be used.
Web information retrieval with result set clustering This paper presented the clustering functionality under development for tumba!. Detailed analysis and interpretation of results is our next step, as well as further experimenting with different settings in the presentation interface.
A new approach for scientific citation classification using cue phrases This paper presented our system KAFTAN (Knowledge Acquisition Framework for Tasks in Natural language).
Why do web sites from different academic subjects interlink? The results suggest that mapping disciplinary collaboration on the Web should be feasible but that this process and topic identification in academic Webs would both be helped by the prior removal of key higher education teaching and popular general pages from the data set. The conclusions are of a qualitative rather than quantitative nature because of the small effective sample size, so an initial set of thousands of links would be required to remedy this.
Do Impact Factors change with a change of medium? A comparison of Impact Factors when publication is by paper and through parallel publishing For the combination journals, there is a statistically significant difference in the IF between pre- and post-electronic journal periods, while paper journals do not show any change in the IF.
Which academic subjects have most online impact? A pilot study and a new classification process The classification process overall, found, as expected, that computing was heavily represented on the Web, but that the rest of science was less dominant over social sciences and humanities than previous studies would have suggested.
The "information divide"' in the climate sciences Perhaps the most important recommendation is that, as we restructure the model of scientific communication in the information age, we ensure that it benefits the maximum number of people.
The ombudsman: Reaping benefits from management research: Lessons from the forecasting principles project Researchers are slowly obtaining useful findings even though research on important problems is not well rewarded.
Web mining for identifying research trends In this paper, we have proposed an approach to detect research trends and determine emerging trends using web mining techniques. The Temporal Document Clustering technique, Journal Co-Citation Clustering technique and Multi-Clustering technique have been proposed to mine the Web Citation Database to support trend detection from user specified areas. The performance results are good and high recall, precision and F-measure values have been obtained.
The inevitable future of electronic theses and dissertations within Malaysia context Thus, in our paper, we outline the infrastructure that can be applied to develop the ETD system in a heterogeneous compute environment.
Effect of two Howard Hughes Medical Institute research training programs for medical students on the likelihood of pursuing research careers The one-year intensive research training supported by the HHMI training programs appears to provide an effective imprinting experience on medical students' research careers and to be an attractive strategy for training physician-scientists.
The social act of citing: Towards new horizons in citation theory The paper concludes with a preliminary outline of a general theory of citing and suggestions for further developments.
Knowledge management for computational problem solving In this paper we have proposed a problem-centred collaborative knowledge management architecture that differs greatly from publication-centred approaches [Lawrence et al. 99] [Morris 03] [Willinsky 00] [White 03].
Citation counts and the Research Assessment Exercise V The citation study undertaken here demonstrates that a high correlation exists between the 2001 RAE scores obtained by archaeology departments and a citation count of the academics in those departments.
Impartial judgment by the "gatekeepers" of science: fallibility and accountability in the peer review process. Because it is almost impossible to separate cognition and emotion in the human mind, the peer review system can never be based on total neutrality.
The research-impact cycle1 The maximization of research impact is in the interest not only of researchers and research progress, but of their institutions and their research grant funders, hence also of tax-paying citizens.
Principals, agents and contracts The concluding hypothesis is that the research award system is as a set of interdependent relation-ships brought about by different sets of actors pursu-ing their interests in ways that combine to bring about the system of science (Coleman, 1990).
Can networks of journal‐journal citations be used as indicators of change in the social sciences? The use of aggregate statistics based on the Science Citation Index is ill-advised in the case of the social sciences because of structural differences in the underlying dynamics. The conclusion is that various structures operate as subdynamics which can be distinguished in operational terms. In summary, the Social Science Citation Index can be considered as less codified, more volatile, internally developing, etc., compared with the Science Citation Index.
Copied citations give impact factors a boost Given that citation patterns are similar in other sciences besides physics, the outcome of the model should be similar for biology or engineering papers, he argues. Ben Martin, director of the Science Policy Research Unit at the University of Sussex in Brighton, UK, points out that the new model is important, even if it only partially reflects reality. "Citations are a surrogate for quality," he says.
Diffusion of News about Research "Overall, this study suggests an association between newspaper coverage of new scholarly research and scientists' subsequent citations of that research." "However, media coverage is far from a complete explanation of sci-entists' citation behaviors; the regression analysis explained a very low pro-portion of variance in citation rates, so other factors are clearly at play as well." "Nevertheless, the results of the present study raise important policy and research issues regarding the transmission of scientific findings through the popular media."
New measurements for search engine evaluation proposed and tested The experiment results show that these measurements are able to distinguish search engine performance and Google performed best.
Institutionalized biases in the award of research grants: a preliminary analysis revisiting the principle of accumulative advantage Differential access to these may contribute to the observed biases in the number of grants won against women and non-white groups.
Collaboration and the quality of economics research The empirical results found that, after controlling for article length, journal and author quality, and subject area, collaboration does not result in significantly higher quality research as measured by the number of citations or the value of the citations an article receives in the 10 years subsequent to publication.
A multifaceted portrait of a library and information science journal: the case of the Journal of Information Science This study is a contribution to an overall portrait of a sci- entific journal by means of various bibliometric analy- ses, mainly publication and citation analyses, to find and present other indicators than, for example, JCR's JIF or half-life to characterize a journal, taking Journal of Information Science as an example.
Editorial Favoritism in Economics? The empirical results show that articles authored by those with editorial connections, particularly serving on the publishing journal's editorial board, are both statistically and numerically of higher quality. Furthermore, this quality differential does not decrease over time. The empirical results support the proposition that journal editors, in order to reduce the search costs involved in identifying high-quality manuscripts, use personal ties and institutional connections to persuade high-quality authors to submit their papers to them.
From separate systems to a hybrid order: accumulative advantage across public and private science at Research One universities One lasting effect of increased research commercialization at universities has been a profound change in the relationship between public and private science systems for the dissemination and use of new scientific knowledge.
The Relationship Between Department Rank and College Rank in Engineering Graduate Program Rankings Conducted by <i>U.S. News and World Report</i> This study provides statistical insight into the collective perceptions of the engineering academic community nationally regarding the relationships between college and departmental rankings. The top-five analysis demonstrated that there are statistically significant discrepancies between college rankings and department rankings for engineering graduate program rankings conducted by U.S. News and World Report. The transition probability analysis demonstrated that college rank is more closely related to department rank for some disciplines than others, providing additional resolution beyond our earlier work.
Identifying the Role of Multidisciplinary Journals in Scientific Research This study supports the notion that articles in multidisciplinary journals are exposed to a broad audience, thus facilitating the transfer of ideas across disciplines. However, there is little evidence to demonstrate the transfer of methodology across disciplines. Further studies that focus on intradisciplinary citation in multidisciplinary journals are needed.
Librarians and Link Rot: A Comparative Analysis with Some Methodological Considerations Upon review of the data, we are inclined to concur with authors Taylor and Hudson that well-prepared paper-based bibliographies of websites and pages are likely to remain useful over a fairly long period of time despite the ephemeral accuracy of URLs: A large per-centage of the URLs in our study remained valid or semi-valid over several years, and a large percentage of the listed sites with dead or inaccurate URLs remain locatable as well, well after the initial publication of web bibliographies. We also congratulate the profession, for it would seem that bibliographies prepared by librarians for C&RL News performed as well as or better than both the randomly assembled lists and the web bibliographies prepared either commercially or by practi-tioners and students in other disciplines. Because of this, we are unlikely to have an accurate picture of the long-term utility of web bibliographies until either a large number of comparable synchronic ex-aminations are performed or until easily employable and reliable diachronic methods are developed.
The Geography of Scientific Citation I consider there are important implications from these findings for national educational policy, and the distribution of research resources, especially during a period when governments and institutions are competing ever more intensely to gain and retain the best, and to build critical mass.
Think local, search global? Comparing search engines for searching geographically specific information The result of this study shows that, at least for New Zealand information, local search engines do not offer a significant advantage over global search engines. However, there is a low level of overlap between the results of different search engines, and no search engine achieved more than 42 percent recall. This means that for a search to be as comprehensive as possible, it must include several search engines.
Evaluating UK research in speech and language therapy The state of British speech and language research appears to be satisfactory, with an above average output in both quantity and quality. However, it is not attracting funding from some types of sponsors and is not being published in general medical journals where it might have a wider influence on general clinical practice. This suggests that an appropriate goal for researchers in the discipline during the next decade is to engage in more multidisciplinary, multicentre, studies, which can be expected to lead to work of wider appeal in general medical journals.
Disciplinary Differences in Academic Web Presence – A Statistical Study of the UK The results show that there are clear differences in Web use by subject area, although not entirely of the kind previously suggested.
"Of course it's true; I saw it on the Internet!" Clearly, students consider the Internet a primary source of information.
Citation Analysis and Research Assessment in the United Kingdom The resolution of the dispute must be acknowledged by future work in citation analysis, if it is to retain its relevance to wider public discourse.
Search engine coverage bias: evidence and possible causes The biased coverage in favour of US sites appears to be caused by technical reasons. The results of the study re-emphasise the importance of Web visibility for businesses. Further research involving more search engines and countries are warranted and may lead to different conclusions.
Master's and Doctoral Thesis Citations: Analysis and Trends of a Longitudinal Study The evidence from this study suggests that graduate students writing theses favor cur-rent research.
Local versus global link information in the Web Our results showed that combining content-based and link-based sources of evidence yields better retrieval results than using any of them separately.
Perceived Quality and Methodology in Graduate Department Ratings: Sociology, Political Science, and Economics Our results demonstrate the necessity for other studies explicitly to incorporate the systematic-error component in any models of these ratings.
Research Collaboration Among University Scientists What we have argued, on the basis of the New Zealand evidence, is that there are in fact two processes involved: vertical collaboration of junior staff with professors, as implied in the sociologist's hierarchical model; and horizontal collaboration, mainly with peers, driven by the economics of contemporary publication practice.
The decay and failures of web references Approximately 28% of the URLs referenced in Com-puter and CACM articles between 1995 and 1999 were no longer accessible in 2000; the figure increased to 41% in 2002.
Post‐publication filtering and evaluation: Faculty of 1000 Faculty of 1000 is already widely acclaimed by the scientific community as a rapid and effective post-publication literature filtering and evaluation service, so much so that, in response to popular demand, this service is already planning to add three new Faculties (Pharmacology, Physiology and Ecology), as well as a separate service for Medicine (com- prising 16 Faculties).
The validity of publication and citation counts for Sociology and other selected disciplines Our findings, using two different ways of assessing the research productivity of fields – in one instance the AUI list and in the other departmental affiliation are interesting. Although these two patterns of measurement were different they produced results that were broadly similar, suggesting that they tap a similar underlying set of figures. There is little doubt that the move to find objective indicators of research performance, in the form of measuring publications and citations, will continue.
Variations in use of meta tag descriptions by Web pages in different languages Results showed significant differences in proportion of pages with descriptions depending on language; specifically, pages in major Western European languages showed higher proportions with descriptions, while pages in Chinese showed the lowest proportions. The provision of English-language descriptions, however, might sometimes assist in selection, say in deciding whether to have a page translated. Creators of Web pages should be advised to construct their descriptions in the appropriate character set for the language, rather than using some other scheme.
Dry Holes in Economic Research This generates our major
An international peer‐review system for a Chinese scientific journal Our experience showed that such an international peer-review system plays an important part in ensuring the high quality of a journal's contents and in helping it achieve an international reputation.
The explosion of knowledge, references, and citations: Psychology's unique response to a crisis. Analysis of the pattern and extent of referencing and citations within published psychological research over nearly three decades has revealed extensive changes.
The use and usability of SFX: context‐sensitive reference linking The SFX button, if used alone in the source document, will require Washington State University Libraries to maintain a continual instruction campaign because the brand name SFX has no meaning in the minds of library users, unless they have been informed or have learned what functions it can perform. The rapid expansion of SFX use with the activation of FirstSearch as a source demonstrates a great potential for the product, and with more time more users will learn about SFX.
Authorship Practices and Institutional Contexts in Sociology: Elements for a Comparison of the United States and France This statistical analysis reveals that French and American articles were singularly different in their forms and their contents. On one hand, most French articles were single authored, whatever kind of contribution they were. Some articles were coauthored (particularly statistical analyses in RFS), but their argumentation conformed to the IMRAD format in only a very few cases. On the other hand, a large number of American articles pre- sented a specific form: they were coauthored, their arguments were mostly based on statistical analysis, and the structure of their argumentation corre- sponded to the IMRAD format.
RoMEO studies 1: the impact of copyright ownership on academic author self‐archiving The paper concludes that self-archiving is not best supported by copyright transfer to publishers. It recommends that universities assert their interest in copyright ownership in the long term, that academics retain rights in the short term, and that publishers consider new ways of protecting the value they add through journal publishing.
Lasting tensions in research policy-making - a delegation problem I have endeavoured in this article to give an over-view of the different ways we find in the history of funding policy to deal with the problem of the func-tional differentiation of science and the connected problem of delegation.
Graph structure in three national academic Webs: Power laws with anomalies It follows that attempts to track average Web linking behavior would benefit from using techniques to minimize or eliminate the impact of such anomalies.
Academic researchers as ‘agents’ of science policy Using the principal-agent model as a way of better understanding the agency role of scientists and the possible implications for research and policy proves to be not entirely straightforward.
U.S. academic departmental Web-site interlinking in the United States Disciplinary differences The findings in this study have implications for applications of Web links in comparing departments and groups of departments.
Single Authors Are Not Alone: Colleagues Often Help Broadly speaking, the results showed that individual authors acknowl-edged the help of colleagues more than did pairs or larger groups of authors, but that there were no differences in the numbers of ac-knowledgements to referees.
A Notice on Content of Library and Information Science (LIS) Schools Web Sites To identify the predominant design features and content elements, the elements (e.g. calendar, distance/continuing education) that appear with more that a 20% frequency are considered pre-dominant elements. This study found that a Web site is a tool for presenting five major LIS School functions: 1) information about the school, 2) programs, 3) courses, 4) people and 5) resources. Thus, this model LIS School Web site can only be used for any school with some addition and changes according to the aims and objectives of those schools and their parent bodies.
EqRank To summarize, we suggested a new method of hierarchical clustering of directed graphs.
Information‐seeking behavior of chemists: A transaction log analysis of referral URLs This study demonstrates that scientists follow a number of different pathways to scholarly information, but individuals depend on very few and consistent methods. These findings suggest that the library should create redundancy in the tools that guide its patrons to the literature.
Bibliometric Analysis of <i>Psychotherapy Research</i>: Performance Assessment and Position in the Journal Landscape Using Psychotherapy Research as an example, we discussed a set of advanced bibliometric indicators for assessment of journal performance in an international, field-specific perspective.
Do the Web sites of higher rated scholars have significantly more online impact? Universities with higher RAE quality staff produce significantly more (domain-name-based) Web sites, but those sites are only marginally higher in online impact, as measured in (domain ADM) inlink counts, if at all. There is an important implication for those wishing to use links to assess the quality of small groups of researchers by counting links to their Web output: it should not be done. Previous Webometric results will also need to be reinterpreted in the light of these new findings.
Fitting users' needs into Web‐based area studies resources: A study of the Latin American Network Information Center (LANIC) This study successfully identified a number of problems related to LANIC, some of which staff members had already suspected.
Characteristics of highly cited papers In conclusion we find a complex pattern in which both quality dynamics and visibility dynamics con-tribute to the citation counts of highly cited papers.
Three Decades of Psychological Research in the Journal Cognitive Psychology (1979–1999) Based on the above analyses the journal Cognitive Psychology contrib-uted a large number of works to cognitive psychology.
“Sitation” distributions and Bradford's law in a closed Web space The present experiment focused on the distribution of citations in a closed but heterogeneous environment of thematically related Web spaces, using two sets of data.
Can Google's PageRank be used to find the most important academic Web pages? It is concluded that PageRank is not useful for identifying the top pages in a site and that it must be combined with a powerful text matching techniques in order to get the quality of information retrieval results provided by Google. In conclusion, PageRank is not an effective method for identifying the "best" Web pages in a university system because of its domination by internal links, an argument that would still apply even if all mirror sites had been removed from the data. A promising future direction for bibliometric research is to develop a variant of PageRank that can harness the potential of its system for transferring rank iteratively through links in a way that would not be dominated by internal site links.
How Useful are `Key Words' in Scientific Journals? As noted above, key words are valuable for authors, readers, indexers, abstractors, and for people who search for related information on the Web and in research databases. Undoubtedly, there would be greater consistency between authors and journals within different disciplines if standard terms were used within various categories, and there would probably be more uniform information retrieval across different disciplines if searchers used standardized terms and categories.
Web Citation Availability: Analysis and Implications for Scholarship The results suggest that au-thors, editorial staff, and publishers need to work together to improve existing ci-tation conventions, promote their use, and ensure that cited resources are acces-sible to future researchers. The following suggestions are based on the researchers' experiences in collecting data for this study and the study's findings: The instructions for article authors, reviewers, and referees should include in-formation on how to evaluate an Internet site in terms of both the quality of its content and its availability over the long run.
The use and misuse of the "impact factor" as a parameter for evaluation of scientific publication quality: a proposal to rationalize its application The procedure to be used for evaluation of the merit of papers belonging to the same area would be straightforward: the propor-tion of publications above or below the me-dian (original "impact factor"), taken as the reference value. To compare scientific pro-duction among different areas of knowledge, the adjusted "impact factor” should be used. It is expected that this article can contri-bute to the discussion of the “impact factor”, raising questions and motivating different viewpoints to be expressed with the inten-tion of rationalizing its use in the complex process of evaluating scientific production quality.
Citation Searching: A New Feature in Psycinfo These new search capabilities should be welcomed by the scholar seeking author citations as well as those compiling comprehensive bibliographies on a topic of interest from the premiere database in psychology.
Counting on citations: a flawed way to measure quality We invite editors, publishers and authors to consider trying our experiment. The implications are clear: successful authors will be able to cite articles that have made it to the "top" when documenting their academic track record, whatever the purpose (eg, applying for research grants). Depending on a measure devoid of any rational link to the appraisal of academic worth will be but a hazy memory.
University Research Evaluation and Funding: An International Comparison Our analysis suggests that, while initial benefits may outweigh the costs, over time such a system seems to produce diminishing returns. This raises important questions about its continued use.
Commentary on Arthur Bedeian’s “The Manuscript Review Process: The Proper Roles of Authors, Referees, and Editors” I have tried here to build on the excellent argument that Bedeian presents for some type of restructuring of our manuscript review systems; then, going beyond what Bedeian attempted, to make some firm propos-als for change.
Quality and Knowledge Contributions of MISQ: A Citation Analysis Results of the citation analysis conducted in this study provide a strong argument that IS research contributes to advancing the body of knowledge. IS research published in MISQ is frequently cited by other disciplines. Its quality and prestige are commensurate with its intended role as a general journal of the specialty IS area.
Who Cites What?* Areas within economics differ substantially in their citation practices. In finance, for example, journal articles form the dominant reference material and books are much less important. In labour economics, the reliance on material published within Australia is high. The pattern of reciprocal citations among univer-sities reveals that there is surprisingly little com-munication between the major institutions in the Koala Triangle of Melbourne/Canberra/Sydney. There is a substantial ‘home institution bias’, with students consistently citing the work of authors located at their own institution, especially their supervisors.
Diversity in Economics: An Analysis of Journal Quality Perceptions "In the present article we examined the journal quality perceptions of more than 2,000 AEA economists and demonstrated that opinions about journal quality can vary significantly across economists that belong in different subgroups."
Journal of Information Science 29(2) Abstracts The results show that, while there is a correlation between the number of contacts maintained by the scientists and their productivity, the Internet contributes little to increasing those contacts or improving productivity.
Local heroes For all these apparent attempts at exclusion on the very morning following this parliamentary debate, Van Riet Lowe had already lumped together Van Hoepen and Frobenius it remains that Afrikaans/Afrikaner prehistory could still constitute a viable discipline.
Changes in the value chain of scientific information: economic consequences for academic institutions The conceptual integration of information for education and research has been seen to be key in the development of the value chain for scientific information provision. The developments in the value chain will inevitably lead to changes in the positions of the stakeholders in this value chain, at the institution and library level, and the industry. It is the future position in the value chain of the academic institution that will in the end determine the institution's potential for creating value in research and education.
Deciphering impact factors Properly interpreted, citation data can be a valuable tool for evaluating journals, papers, authors and perhaps even editors.
Editorial Favoritism in Economics? The empirical results show that articles authored by those with editorial connections, particularly serving on the publishing journal's editorial board, are both statistically and numerically of higher quality. Furthermore, this quality differential does not decrease over time. The empirical results support the proposition that journal editors, in order to reduce the search costs involved in identifying high-quality manuscripts, use personal ties and institutional connections to persuade high-quality authors to submit their papers to them.
Web use and peer interconnectivity metrics for academic web sites In summary, then, the results are significant enough to demonstrate that the measures correlate with known patterns and therefore merit further investigation and development.
Literature growth, journal characteristics, and author productivity in subject indexing, 1977 to 2000 By applying bibliometric techniques, this study investigated literature growth, journal characteristics, and author productivity in subject indexing from 1977 to 2000, based on the subject search of a descriptor field in the LISA database.
Does citation reflect social structure? Longitudinal evidence from the "Globenet" interdisciplinary research group Our results permit both "Yes” and “No” answers to our title question. Who you know pays off only if the people you know have something worth knowing—something plainly relevant to your own claims. Our findings suggest that both prior reputation (here measured by early cocitation) and facilitative social venues (the Globenetters’ frequent conferences) can lead individuals to meet, communicate, socialize, and exchange information and knowledge, one mark of which is intercitation.
The real stakes of virtual publishing: The transformation of E-biomed into PubMed central scientific societies and the individual scientists they represent do not always have identical interests in regard to scientific e-publishing; stakeholder politics and personal interests reign supreme in e-publishing debates, even in a supposedly status-free online forum; and multiple communication forums must be considered in examinations of e-publishing deliberations.
Visible, less visible, and invisible work: Patterns of collaboration in 20th century chemistry Our JACS data suggest that individual agency is, indeed, a fading phenomenon in the world of chemical research.
Methods for reporting on the targets of links from national systems of university Web sites The task of objectively assessing the average targets of links from universities is clearly a problematic one. The domain model performed the best overall in the tests to assess which link counting methodology was internally the most consistent. Future work could also involve applying the techniques to groups of large sites outside the academic domain.
How international is Medical Education? Medical Education is justified in calling itself an international journal to the extent that the majority of papers it publishes are from countries other than the UK, and it is more likely than other journals in the field to publish papers which cite work in journals published outside the UK. Nevertheless, there is some evidence of publication bias in the journal and more work is needed to dis-cover why this is the case. All of the 6 journals we studied showed citation bias in favour of their own countries, despite their claims to be international journals.
What we research: survey of American Association of Neurological Surgeons and Congress of Neurological Surgeons member publications The majority of AANS/CNS member manuscripts are authored by non-US members despite their small AANS/CNS representation. Most research is clinical, based on retrospective data, and includes a large number of case reports. A disparity exists between what neurosurgeons do clinically and both the quantity and subject of their research.
Ocean Science & Technology research across the countries: A global scenario The present study is a temporal snapshot of the activity dynamics of the knowledge enterprise in Ocean sector. It unravels the structural complexity of the subject. Though the activity dynamics may always be in a changing state, it does show a pattern, particularly in respect to the major players in the field.
Self-linking and self-linked rates of academic institutions on the Web To summarize our findings: the self-linked rate seems to be the more meaningful measure, however further studies are needed in order to try to draw some correspondence between classical measures and the measures introduced in this paper. The measure self-linked seems to be the more promising metric. This measure, like the Web Impact Factor (WIF), assesses the visibility of a site and can be used as an additional measure for the evaluation of the Web presence of domains or institutions.
Modelling the characteristics of Web page outlinks For the outlink distribution of top-level Web pages, a GIGP provided the best fits for three of the data sets, providing non-significant departures from the observed data sets at the .05 significance level. Applications of the findings extend to the development of models for simulating Web page linkage structure, both across domains and within individual websites.
A bibliometric approach to the role of author self-citations in scientific communication The large-scale analysis of author self-citations gives interesting insight into the mechanism of scientific communication.
The motivation for citing specific references by social scientists in Korea: The phenomenon of co-existing references The phenomenon of co-existing references proved that despite the particularity and limitations of the social sciences, Korean researchers have a universal non-Korean orientation and have adopted non-Korean knowledge as conceptual knowledge and a bibliographic, persuasive context to explain a number of important social and behavioral phenomena in Korea.
Bibliometric overview of the utilization of artificial neural networks in medicine and biology "This study provides a large view of scientific productivity in the field of neural network application in medicine and biology." "To conclude, this quantitative study can be viewed as a complementary approach of the various qualitative reviews previously published to provide the reader an overview of interest brought by clinicians and biologists for ANN." "It also shows that ANN has largely and fruitfully integrated the landscape of the highly performing data processing tools used in the field of medicine and biology."
Citation classics in anesthetic journals The list of the top-cited anesthetic articles (Table 2) identifies authors and topics that reflect major ad-vances in anesthesia during the last 50 years, although some articles have been subjected to retrospective crit-icism for inaccuracies or unwarranted conclusions. Nevertheless, this list provides a fascinating insight into the history and development of anesthetic prac-tice. Truly classic articles will withstand the test of time by having a prolonged frequency of citations over decades. A ci-tation index is not a measure of quality or importance but a measure of recognition (23) and the number of citations an article receives over the years tells us something about the impact of that article on the scientific community (2).
The costs and benefits of library site licenses to academic journals Our models suggest that university libraries, acting in their collective interest, should agree to purchase a journal site license only if the subscription price is close to the publisher's average cost. For nonprofit journals, the problem disappears: the incentives to the academic community at large, and those of individual university libraries, operate in the same direction. The scientific community benefits, and individual universities benefit, if libraries purchase site licenses and make access freely available to their faculty and students.
Transatlantic innovation infrastructure networks: public-private, EU-US R&D partnerships In view of the differences in the behavior of US and EU firms in both their choice of partners and disciplines of focus for transatlantic research collaborations, we can see that firm involvement in these collaborations is national in nature (US firms utilize these collaborations differently than European firms). However, the research process in industry is becoming global, as US and European firms are clearly accessing foreign pools of human and intellectual capital through their research activities. Our study is currently focused on analysing 'clusters' of transatlantic research collaboration, where specific organizations show a pattern of continuing collaboration over time.
The implicit use of business concepts in the UK Research Assessment Exercise Some similarities and differences have been observed between management methods and trends in business, and in particular in R&D and technology management, and the progressive use of the UK research assessment exercise (RAE) to manage research in universities.
Japan's contribution to clinical pediatrics research in the last decade In conclusion, Japan's contribution to pediatrics research was less than that in other biomedical fields and the number of high quality clinical research articles from Japan was as meager as that in other clinical fields.
Referencing and quotation accuracy in four manual therapy journals Poor citation and quotation is a reflection on the scholarly work of the authors and the journal. The trend for errors in quotation is more worrying than citation errors as it reflects poor diligence on the part of the investigators. The manual therapy professions are not immune to errors of referencing and quotation in the peer-reviewed literature.
Trends in research support and productivity in the changing environment of academic surgery Support for basic surgical research has been static. Despite static grant support, basic research productivity has increased for Departments of Surgery. Basic surgical research remains an integral part of academic surgery department activity.
Analytical chemistry in Balkan and East Mediterranean countries during 1994-2001 This study gives an overview of the development of analytical chemistry in the Balkans and East Mediterranean region during 1994–2001, as appeared in the Analytical Abstracts database. The most productive countries on the basis of total number of publications were Egypt, Greece and Turkey. Slovenia appears to be the most productive country in relation to the country's population, and similar to the productivity of EU countries.
Different patterns of duplicate publication -: An analysis of articles used in systematic reviews Duplication goes beyond simple copying. Six distinct duplication patterns were identified after comparing study samples and outcomes of duplicates and corresponding main articles. The proposed classification distinguishes mutually exclusive patterns of dupli- cate publication and may become a use- ful tool for those who have to deal with duplication (ie, editors, peer review- ers, and authors) in systematic re- views.
Characterization of the impact of sets of scientific papers: The Garfield (Impact) Factor From the results presented herein it follows that the Garfield (Impact) Factor (GF) should not be assumed as the mean citedness of papers of a given journal.
Time-tracking of the research profile of a drug using bibliometric tools This study shows the usefulness of bibliometric techniques for the long-term follow-up and tracking of drugs. The wider therapeutic profile of Aspirin as years pass on is one of the most relevant findings. The smooth evolution obtained for the drug research profile over the years—illustrated through the Guttman curve—suggests the cumulative advancement of science, while the decreasing length of the periods over time could be interpreted as a sign of the ever increasing rate of scientific progress.
Bibliometric analysis of the automatic indexing literature:: 1956-2000 Automating the task of indexing has been a theme of constant interest for researchers from the 1950s until the present day, as this study of more than 800 research works published between 1956 and 2000 has shown.
Characterizing and Mining the Citation Graph of the Computer Science Literature The citation graph retained a large well-connected component, point-ing to the need for the application of more sophisticated balanced graph partitioning algorithms.
Tracing knowledge diffusion We have discussed some of the issues concerning knowledge diffusion and how to trace the process of knowledge diffusion by utilizing patent citation networks. We have illustrated a potentially useful approach, combining statistical mechanics of complex networks, network visualization, and citation analysis. This is the beginning of a longer-term research program which aims to improve our understanding of large-scale complex networks by developing and deploying increasingly powerful progressive and explanatory visualization techniques.
The effect of highly cited papers on national citation indicators We conclude that an analysis of the underlying data for national indicators may be useful in creating awareness towards the occurrence of particular articles with great influence on what is normally considered an indicator of "national performance", and that the common interpretation of the indicator on research policy level needs to be informed by this fact. Our study suggests that observed variations in the citation indicator should lead to a closer attention to particular problems or events in specific research environments (the reasons for the variations).
Solution of a problem of Buckland on the influence of obsolescence on scattering This can be considered as the answer to the problem that was (implicitely) formulated by Buckland in 1972.
How to measure own-group preference? A novel approach to a sociometric problem We think we have now, finally, precisely pin-pointed the concepts of own-group preference, and its opposite own-group aversion.
Using a bibliometric approach to support research policy making:: The case of the Flemish BOF-key More specifically, we hypothesize that the allocation method now developed and under further improvement will become more criticized if it turns out that it (1) also starts influencing intra-university research allocation decisions and, as a consequence (2) introduces adverse publication and citation behaviors at the universities involved.
World flash on basic research -: the influence of author self-citations on bibliometric macro indicators This leads to the conclusion that at the macro level – there is no need for excluding self-citations in evaluative bibliometrics.
James Bond and citations to his books This paper has attempted to apply the normal bibliometric methodology of citation analysis to books in natural history. It is possible to produce rankings of the impact of these books, and hence of their authors' importance to the field, but new techniques are needed to count citations because of the relative lack of consistency with which these are indexed. Seen in this light, Birds of the West Indies has proved to be of enduring scientific interest and to have established its author as an ornithologist of distinction.
Identification of information sources and citation patterns in the field of reciprocating internal combustion engines In conclusion, it has been proven that in the area of ICE the importance of a particular journal is not adequately quantified with the impact factor, and that the papers presented at conferences organised by the Society of Automotive Engineers are the most cited sources in this field. This study has made it possible to identify journals indexed in the SCI that publish articles on ICE, as well as to determine the specific and most cited publications and the relations existing among citing journals and cited publications. In spite of their relatively low impact factor, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers Part D: Journal of Automobile Engineering, and Journal of Engineering for Gas Turbines and Power – Transactions of the ASME, should be regarded as the main core journals in the field of ICE.
Likelihood of inbound/outbound access to co-authorship In this paper, we proposed a pair of indices for international scientific co-authorship (i.e., LIA and LOA), which are based on a simple model of domestic and international co-authorships.
A microscopic link analysis of academic institutions within a country - the case of Israel This detailed analysis of the links between universities in a county is a first step toward understanding how the academic world utilizes hypertext links on the Web to interconnect. The findings show, that at least for the case of Israel, links between universities are inserted as "Web conventions” or indicate reputation more than research appreciation or research collaboration.
South African research in selected scientific areas: Status 1981-2000 The present investigation has demonstrated that South African research in some of the ten selected standard and supplementary scientific areas posed problems concerning article production, world share developments, and received citations, also after 1993/1994.
Multidisciplinarity, interdisciplinarity, and patterns of research collaboration in nanoscience and nanotechnology Both the disciplinary and the cultural diversity of the notion of nanoscale research do not provide any conceptual integration of the different disciplines and thus do not foster but hinder research collaboration.
Sleeping Beauties in science Formulated in daily language, we find on the basis of the above observations the following general characteristics of Sleeping Beauties in scientific literature: The probability of awakening after a deep sleep is smaller for longer sleeping periods; For a less deep sleep, the length of the sleeping period matters less for the probability of awakening; The probability for higher awakening intensities decreases extremely rapidly in all cases (the very steep slope indicated in Fig. 1 for all four cases [a], [b], [c], and [d]).
Macromolecule mass spectrometry:: Citation mining of user documents Citation Mining produced very different patterns for Fenn and Tanaka from the Bibliometrics component of the analysis. Such an analysis was beyond the scope of the present study, but the Bibliometrics has served as an agent to flag the anomaly. If an abbreviated text mining methodology is desired to identify major technical thrusts and approximate levels of effort devoted to each thrust, the document clustering methodology could provide a reasonable first approximation.
The clinical influence of the JAAD In conclusion, we have attempted to develop a more clinically relevant measure of journal influence than the Impact Factor. The Clinical Influence Factor represents a different approach to journal grading. We suspected that we would come out first, and we did.
Publication and rejection among successful ecologists Rejection is a fact of life for scientists (Cassey and Black- burn 2003). Thus, rejection does not seem to have hampered career advancement among our respondents or to have deterred them from their career path. We imagine that this finding, like our finding that rejection is not incompatible with success, will be of great com- fort to a number of ecologists early in their careers.
Science on the rise in developing countries The positive trends in scientific productivity in Latin America should not be misinterpreted as a reason to be unconcerned about the existing gap highlighted by Mr. Annan. Although the evidence presented here demonstrates that there is a long way to go before developing countries contribute a more equitable share to the international scientific community, there are also reasons to be optimistic. The extremely high scientific productivity of many developing nations, corrected for and despite the rather limited availability of funds, suggests that increased funding to the sciences will be an excellent investment by developing nations in terms of publications as a measure of scientific output, particularly if these publications can target the journals that have the greatest impact. Although there may still be a long road to travel, we feel optimistic that the bridges mentioned by Mr. Annan are slowly being built.
RoMEO studies 6: rights metadata for open archiving In addition to considering how to express rights over resources (in this case, research papers) via the OAI-PMH, project RoMEO has also developed a means of expressing rights over metadata.
A classification of author co-citations: Definitions and search strategies The term author co-citation has been defined more precisely than was previously done, and classified according to four distinct forms: the pure first-author co-citation, the pure author co-citation, the general author co-citation, and the special co-author/co-citation. We argue that an author’s contribution to a selected field of study should not be limited to first authorship, but should be based on his/her complete list of publications, regardless of author ranking. When special co-author co-citations are included in the thematic structure of a research field, the intellectual similarities between paired authors are recognized further because similarity is now seen as a function of co-authorship.
Long-term influences of interventions in the normal development of science: China and the cultural revolution Government policies can play a key role in reshaping such an abnormal situation by encouraging the young to enter the S&T system.
Bowling alone together: Academic writing as distributed cognition I may be center stage, in the sense that it is my name that is up in lights and it is I who will be the author of record, but this publication emerged from a series of (essentially unplanned) interactions distributed over space and time. I may have bowled alone on this occasion as far as the scorekeepers (in the academic reward system) are concerned, but I was materially aided and abetted by a largely unwitting and unseen team.
Journal diffusion factors - a measure of diffusion? This paper has demonstrated that the JDF measure introduced by Rowlands (2002) is highly correlated with the number of citations, leading to highly cited journals getting a low JDF whereas less cited journals get a high JDF. Still the new JDF can be used as an evaluation tool. When evaluating journals, the new JDF can be employed to ensure an evaluation based on more than one aspect of journal influence when assessing journal influence of journals with similar JIF values.
Publication of European Union research on infectious diseases (1991-2001):: A bibliometric evaluation Overall, the scientific production and repercussion index of European Union research on infectious diseases experienced a notable rise during the last decade of the 20th century.
Managing academic e-journals Our eight-factor model provides a systematic frame-work for thinking about managing academic e-jour-nals. Some changes, such as reduced cycle time and publication costs, are clearly beneficial. Perhaps the most challenging task ahead for e-jour-nals is the management of academic social acceptance and perceptions.
Does activity in research correlate with visibility? If academic activity is to survive then individuals must stay active in research; this requires a continuing commitment to a tradition of support for individuals at all stages of their careers engaging in research.
The reliability of peer reviews of papers on information systems "The unreliability of the peer review process in the two conferences we studied means that the process is little better than chance from the point of view of recommending acceptance or rejection of papers."
PERSPECTIVE: Ranking the technology innovation management journals Technology innovation management is an interdisciplinary field.
Mapping knowledge domains: Characterizing PNAS Impact and funding indicators and citation-based maps have been used to provide a characterization of publication in PNAS from 1982 to 2001. The types of maps and analysis shown here can be applied at many levels: single journal, single discipline, groups of disciplines, etc., given appropriate data. The ultimate goal is to provide an interactive means of exploring and evaluating scientific and technical information (publications, grants, etc.) to help us obtain answers to questions of strategic importance and aid the innovation process.
Coauthorship networks and patterns of scientific collaboration In this paper, we have discussed the structure of three networks of scientific collaborations, as deduced from the pattern of coauthorships of papers. The results reported here represent only a small portion of what could be done with these data. Coauthorship data represent a superb resource for the pursuit of questions such as these, and I look forward to future developments with interest.
The simultaneous evolution of author and paper networks The incorporation of topics and recency bias was instrumental in achieving the qualitative violations of a power law distribution. These model assumptions account for the observed citation distribution and suggest an interesting interplay between citation practices that lead to egalitarian versus lopsided distributions of citations.
Mapping topics and topic bursts in PNAS Here we have demonstrated an objective computational ap- proach to analyzing the structure and evolution of a research domain.
Crossmaps: Visualization of overlapping relationships in collections of journal papers The crossmapping technique shown here provides an easily understood method for exploring relations in a collection of papers.
User-controlled mapping of significant literatures The present article attests to the quick adaptability of the CONCEPTLINK/AUTHORLINK software to the authors, journals, and MeSH terms in the PNAS data.
Searching for intellectual turning points: Progressive knowledge domain visualization The progressive KDViz method simplifies the tasks of tracking significant changes of a knowledge domain's cocitation network over time. Cognitively demanding tasks of comparing complex networks back and forth are simplified to tasks of locating pivot points and cluster centers in visualized networks. Further studies and in-depth case studies of progressive KDViz should be encouraged.
The measurement of intellectual influence Our purpose in this paper is not to claim that any given ranking method based on citations is the correct way of measuring impact, much less quality. Citation analysis, however sophisticated it may be, cannot be a substitute for critical reading and expert judgment.
Citation classics in critical care medicine Our analysis gives a historical perspective on the scientific progress of critical care medicine and allows for recognition of important advances in this specialty. The lists of classic papers in Tables 2 and 6, therefore, represent an index related to how often a specific article has been used.
Peer reviews and bibliometric indicators: a comparative study at a Norwegian university We find that shortcomings of the peers' assessments, of the bibliometric indicators, as well as lack of comparability, can explain why the correlation was not stronger.
Bibliometric analysis of presence and impact of ethnic minority researchers on science in the UK The analysis of the presence and impact of ethnic minorities in UK science yielded some interesting results. It revealed which groups are the most represented and what is their volume of output, what type of research they favour and what is the potential impact of their publications. Despite these limitations, the surname analysis showed potential for further use.
Redundant publications in scientific ophthalmologic journals - The tip of the iceberg? Because of the restrictive selection process, the impracticability of detecting all redundant publications, and the estimated amount of duplicates increases with lower matching scores, we regard our estimate to be the tip of the iceberg. Duplicate publications have several negative impacts, but neither peer reviewers nor editors can protect their journal from them completely. Nevertheless, it is the responsibility of all those who care about objective research and evidence-based medicine to address this problem-not only in ophthalmology.
Finding similar academic Web sites with links, bibliometric couplings and colinks Colinks and bibliometric couplings between domains can yield some useful information about similarity but their primary use is in casting a wider net than direct links, which are relatively much scarcer. They do have the potential to be used in algorithms to find related sites, therefore, and threshold values can be set to adapt an algorithm to the required balance of similarity likelihood (precision) and category size (recall), based upon the degree of colinking or coupling, but this is likely to have only a marginal effect. A follow-up paper will investigate this phenomenon in an attempt to provide an explanation.
Historiographic mapping of knowledge domains literature Ideally the system will be used to help the searcher quickly identify the most significant work on a topic and trace its year-by-year historical development.
What is Mertonian sociology of science? Thus, the answer to the question "What is MSOS?" given by the above analysis is that it is a collection of writings with such broad scope that a wide range of researchers can use it to advantageously frame their own scholarship. His fame as one of the preeminent sociologists of the twentieth century has been an invaluable resource to sociologists of science because it has enabled us to include his name in our reference lists, thereby making the implicit claim that our own work is significant because it touches on issues discussed by a preeminent sociologist.
On the shoulders of Robert Merton: Towards a normative theory of citation While such a mechanical scheme may seem remote from the elegance of Merton's thought, it builds on the foundation he has provided, and when we get down to populating this citation cube with actual cases, I believe that we will again reaffirm the power of his norms in regulating citation behavior.
Robert K. Merton's perspective on priority and the provision of the public good knowledge An underlying theme in much of Merton's work is the importance of priority in science. Here we have focused on but one aspect of priority, an aspect that resonates particularly well with economists trained to think that the provision of public goods faces special challenges. The cost is that overproduction, in the form of multiple discoveries, occurs in certain scientific contests.
Reward, persuasion, and the Sokal Hoax: A study in citation identities The Mertonian account of citation fits the data better than dark persuasion does. Mertonian reward explains citation simply and consistently, whereas dark persuasion requires a tangle of motives. Rather, all citers in this study appear to be governed by universalism in Merton's sense, and this holds not only for the constructivists themselves but even for Sokal as he worked up his hoax.
Kenneth O. May and information retrieval in mathematics His conceptual design and his goal and methodology, are useful examples in information retrieval.
Bibliometric analysis of patent ductus arteriosus treatments Though the study showed that both the treatments were not the focus of PDA research, we still obtained some significant points that could contribute further studies to decrease the mortality of the disease.
The universal expression of periodical average publication delay at steady state The indicator can be used as a quantitative tool for editors to inspect and supervise the publication process of their periodicals.
Publication and citation patterns of the Mexican contribution to a "Big Science" discipline: Elementary particle physics Our results show an increasing preference, in quantitative terms, of the MEPP community for publishing and distributing e-prints and their use as cited and citing documents, together with a gradual decline in journal articles in these roles.
The classification of biomedical journals by research level The new method has the limitation that it can only be applied to biomedical journals, or biomedical papers in a “mixed” journal, but many bibliometric studies, including almost all those of our group, are concerned exclusively with such research. Apart from that, it has the great advantages of transparency and reproducibility, and that it provides a continuous variable rather than a simple category, which can moreover be calculated afresh each year if needed, although a mean value for a period of years is probably sufficient. We expect to use the new method of assignment of RL values in our future bibliometric work.
Top-down decomposition of the Journal Citation Report of the Social Science Citation Index:: Graph- and factor-analytical approaches The organization of scientific journal literature in the social sciences falls into two main patterns.
A robust formula to credit authors for their publications Our results demonstrate that our formula, or any other that satisfies several objective and quantitative criteria, can and often should be used as an additional criterion in the processes of evaluating relative scientific productivity, detecting experts in a given discipline, etc.
A modified method for calculating the Impact Factors of journals in ISI Journal Citation Reports: Polymer Science Category in 1997-2001 Taking all the presented results into account, it is our opinion that the CHAL method was more suitable for calculating the impact factor of the journals than the existing ISI method.
Exploring scholarly reputation: It's more than just productivity This paper examined the effect of various dimensions of scholarly activity on reputation among a sample of management scholars.
Further analysis of the impact factors and submission information for the Journal of Child Neurology Despite these impressive journal statistics, it is impor-tant to reflect on the quotations of Jean Baudrillard ("Like dreams, statistics are a form of wish fulfillment.") and Evan Esar ("Statistics: The only science that enables different experts using the same figures to draw different conclu-sions.") and not lose sight of the importance of producing a medical journal with information useful for today's busy clinician caring for the child or adolescent with a neurologic problem.
A formalised model of the scientific publication process The initial experiences have been very positive. The model in its current shape is not yet validated in its details, but has been discussed with a number of domain experts (publishers, librarians) with encouraging feedback. In addition to the cost modelling the model could also prove useful in providing a road map pointing out the position of a number of different initiatives for increasing access to scientific publications, within the overall system of scholarly communication.
Can the Web give useful information about commercial uses of scientific research? The results of the classification exercise suggest that the Web is not going to be a source of high quality macro level information about university-industry knowledge transfer, although there is some potential for gaining numerical evidence of the interest in academic journals by non-educational organisations.
Fractals text mining using bibliometrics and database tomography The author bibliometrics comparison of 2001- 2002 and 1991-1993 showed a substantial regional shift from Europe to Asia over the past decade, and a more moderate shift from universities to research institutes. For all practical purposes, applicability of Frac- tals to the "softer" sciences remains unexplored.
Scientific production and impact of nuclear medicine in Europe: how do we publish? This occasional survey shows that the nuclear medicine production of European countries is of great scientific value and that more than 50% of articles are published in journals of non-nuclear medicine interest, suggesting the importance of our discipline in clinical medicine and basic sciences.
Representation of authors and editors from countries with different human development indexes in the leading literature on tropical medicine: Survey of current evidence Current collaborations should be transformed into research partnerships, with the goals of mutual learning and institutional capacity strengthening in the developing world.
An assessment system for rating scientific journals in the field of ergonomics and human factors The proposed journal rating system is a first attempt to select and assess the relevant journals in the field of ergonomics/human factors, and can be the first step towards a generally acceptable rating system. While more studies with different methods are needed before a consensus on this issue can be reached within the ergonomics community, the proposed evaluation frame-work allows a longitudinal insight into the current state of development of journals in the ergonomics and human factors discipline. With this paper, we hope that we have started a discussion on ergonomics journal quality.
The frequency of hedging cues in citation contexts in scientific writing In this paper we show that the hedging cues proposed in Hyland’s extensive study of the rhetorical use of hedging in scientific writing occur more frequently in citation contexts than in the text as a whole.
Extracting citation metadata from online publication lists using BLAST It is flexible for a template-based system to deal with citations.
Impact of astronomical research from different countries 61% of the citations are to papers with first authors at institutions in the USA, 11% in the UK, 5% in Germany, 4% in Canada, 3% in Italy and 3% in France. 17% are to papers with first authors at institutions in (then) ESO countries. Language and other biases favour relative over-citation of papers from the large north-American and UK communities. For most countries, citation fraction is similar to the frac-tion of all astronomy papers published by that country, i.e. the latter is a useful proxy for scientific impact. It will therefore be interesting to re-peat this study once there are enough citations to papers from the new 8-m telescopes to permit statistical analysis.
Study design, originality and overall consistency influence acceptance or rejection of manuscripts submitted to the Journal "Although articles are judged on many criteria, authors need to be aware that some aspects of a manuscript, namely the relationship between experimental design, results, and conclusions, the originality, and the use of an appropriate study design, are the most important features with regard to its acceptance or rejection."
Global estimates of high-level brain drain and deficit Scientific deficit is only likely to help perpetuate these adverse conditions.
Author self-citation in the diabetes literature Nearly one-fifth of all citations to articles about diabetes mellitus in clinical journals in the year 2000 were author self-citations. The frequency of self-citation was not associated with the quality of publications.
Scientific production and international collaboration in occupational health, 1992-2001 The high absolute and relative Scandinavian production is suggestive of the great importance of occupational health in these countries.
Authorship criteria and disclosure of contributions - Comparison of 3 general medical journals with different author contribution forms In conclusion, after several years of contribution disclosure practices in 3 general medical journals, the number of authors with published contributions that did not meet authorship criteria differs among these journals.
Growth dynamics of German university enrolments and of scientific disciplines in the 19th century:: Scaling behaviour under weak competitive pressure We demonstrated that the same apparently universal statistical behaviour of growth rates is yielded for the growth dynamics of student enrolments and of scientific activity in the 19th century as in the works of Stanley et al. regarding university research at the end of the 20th century.
In basic science the percentage of 'authoritative' references decreases as bibliographies become shorter In terms of this model, our analysis suggests that in basic science papers the percentage of 'authoritative' references decreases as bibliographies become shorter. In other words, when basic science authors are selective in referencing behavior, references to 'authoritative' documents are dropped more readily than other types. In this sense, persuasion is not the major motivation to cite.
Why authors think their papers are highly cited These self-perceptions provide clues to the factors that lead to high citation rate, and the importance of the interaction between internal and external factors.
Measuring the citation impact of research journals in clinical neurology: A structural equation modelling analysis In conclusion, interrelationships among journal citation impact and the four external factors have been successfully explored. Our conceptual model of journal evaluation shows that both normative and constructivist perspectives have positions in citation practice. We suggest that future research be extended to other disciplines and to more journal sets.
Citation database for Japanese papers: A new bibliometric tool for Japanese academic society In this paper, the construction and functions of the Citation Database for Japanese Papers (CJP) for Japanese academic society journals and the Impact Factors of the journals were described. Based on the citation data extracted from the CJP, we analyzed the relationship among Japanese academic societies, which suggested the potentiality of applying CJP database for further bibliometric research. No doubt, CJP should become a very useful and indispensable bibliometric tool for Japanese scholarly community, and is expected to play important role in research evaluation and science policy making in Japan as well.
The US-EU race for leadership of science and technology: Qualitative and quantitative indicators While no single nation rivals the U.S. for the lead, it is becoming clear that the European Union as a whole is mounting a serious challenge. The 15-nation EU already leads the US in important metrics, and the EU's addition of ten more countries in 2004 will strengthen its position. And that performance is likely to lead that of the U.S. by any reasonable composite of measures, unless U.S. policies toward science change.
Research in non-metropolitan universities as a new stage of science development in Russia "This paper provides an overview of an assessment of R&D activity in the Russian provinces."
China Scientific and Technical Papers and Citations (CSTPC): History, impact and outlook "Obviously, in order to appropriately evaluate research performance of Chinese scientists, we have to build our own SCI equivalent."
Does collaborative research have greater epistemic authority? Both philosophically and scientometrically, there are many good, strong, and persuasive arguments that collaborative research possesses greater epistemic authority than research produced by single researchers.
Author productivity and geodesic distance in bibliographic co-authorship networks, and visibility on the Web Thus, the complete structure of clusters indicates the high degree of connectivity in the scientific work as well as the special role of high-productive authors.
Inflationary bibliometric values:: The role of scientific collaboration and the need for relative indicators in evaluative studies The analysis of trends in co-authorship links, publication activity, number of references and citation frequency at the level of individual papers results in the assumption that the density of co-publication and citation networks has increased. First, the most important consequence of the sometimes almost inflationary growth of the value of the basic indicators is the need for relative and strictly normalised indicators in bibliometric trend analyses and medium-term or long-term studies. A proper normalisation of standard measures and the use of relative indicators are, therefore, indispensable for trends analyses or medium- or long-term studies to guarantee the validity of conclusions drawn from bibliometric results.
Comparative analysis of coauthorship networks of different domains: The growth and change of networks This article compared the coauthorship networks of the four different domains from the viewpoint of the development of personal collaboration networks according to the increase in the number of published papers. The differences among the domains shown in this article seem to be caused by the differences in subject matter or research style, basically. In future studies, we will take into consideration authors' affiliation, and analyze coauthorship networks in greater detail.
An analysis of backlink counts and Web Impact Factors for Chinese university websites This confirms the assertions (INGWERSEN, 1998; HARTER & FORD, 2000; THELWALL, 2001) that external backlinks may represent a useful measure. The total backlink counts and external backlink counts are highly correlated with general ratings and research ratings of Chinese universities, especially with the latter. Results from different search engines (Alta Vista and AllTheWeb) are consistent and stable in the study. With the largest web index on the Internet today, AllTheWeb returned more comprehensive set of search results than Alta Vista. However, the stability and reliability of Alta Vista seems better than AllTheWeb.
Patterns of national and international Web inlinks to US academic departments: An analysis of disciplinary variations The results provided significant evidence of an association between traditional research productivity and online visibility, measured by international inlinks to the US university departments. This is reassuring evidence that the study of such links may be of value to those interested in the behaviour of researchers: links are not created completely at random. The main conclusion from the analysis of gTLD sources of inlinks was that the results from different sources correlated very significantly with each other, showing that for the set of departments chosen, there was no trend for groups of specializations that would be particularly attractive for one constituency, e.g. commercial or educational.
Links to commercial websites as a source of business information For the IT companies in the study, the inlink count to the company website was found to correlate positively with the company's business performance measures of revenue, profit, and R&D expenses.
Positive reinforcement and 3-dimensional informetrics This theory solves part of the problem of the determination of a third IPP from two given ones (so-called three-dimensional informetrics).
Towards a model for diachronous and synchronous citation analyses From the empirical viewpoint, the diachronous (prospective) approach is the appropriate method to characterise citation processes.
Is there a correlation between investment in an academic library and a higher education institution's ratings in the Research Assessment Exercise? Nonetheless, we have found a statistically significant correlation between library spending and RAE ratings at an institutional level, for all higher education institutions as well as for the Russell Group and 94 Group. However, the reason for this correlation was probably not due to the RAE scores affecting the amount spent in the libraries or the library spend affecting the RAE scores, but rather that the best institutions have both the best RAE scores and the best libraries. In short, the methods used by libraries to allocate budgets is too opaque to draw clear conclusions as to whether higher spending on libraries leads to higher RAE ratings.
Can personal web pages that link to universities yield information about the wider dissemination of research? The results indicate that at present global counts of links from personal home pages can be used for (a) triangulation purposes to confirm patterns found in inter-university links and (b) to assess the embedding of academics (but not their research) in the wider community.
Producing a scientific journal in a small scientific community: an author-helpful policy If, despite the controversies surrounding the true meaning and importance of impact factor [3], we consider the inclusion of the CMJ into the prestigious bibliographic databases and the steady growth of its impact factor to be signs of success, then our editorial policy and work may hold a clue for breaking out of the confines of inadequacy. We believe that, in countries less fortunate, it is journal editors who must take on the role of educators in order to change the scientific level in their environment and to make their journals internationally significant [15].
The scientific impact of nations Clearly these metrics do not distinguish between public sector and business outputs.
One in 13 'original' articles in the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery are duplicate or fragmented publications The prevalence of duplicate publications in the orthopaedic literature appears to be less than that in other surgical specialties but it is still a matter of concern. It is the author's responsibility to notify the editor of any duality when submitting a paper for publication.
An examination of leading mental health journals for evidence to inform evidence-based practice Our findings suggest that data needed for evidence-based practice is not sufficient available in leading mental health journals. Only a minority of the studies we examined evaluated interventions, and a majority of the intervention studies focused on pharmacologic rather than psychosocial or psychotherapeutic treatments. Researchers, funders, and journals can work collaboratively to simultaneously maintain high scientific standards and to increase the number of intervention studies and the generalizability of the evidence published in leading journals.
A review of methodological characteristics of research published in key journals in higher education: Implications for graduate research training Our results support prior research (Goodwin and Goodwin, 1985), which has concluded that professionals require at least intermediate-level statistics to ade- quately comprehend most of the published research.
Sponsored-research funding by newly recruited assistant professors: Can it be modeled as a sequential series of uncertain events? Sponsored-research funding by newly recruited assistant professors can be modeled as a sequential series of uncertain events and used to predict consequences of imminent changes in federal funding for biomedical research.
Measuring semantic relations of web sites by clustering of local context This paper describes and evaluates the concept of the local context (LC).
Why do some countries publish more than others? An international comparison of research funding, English proficiency and publication output in highly ranked general medical journals Research spending and English proficiency were strongly associated with publication output in the highest ranked general medical journals. Although these data should be interpreted cautiously (due to the observational nature of this study), these data suggest that a nation’s English proficiency and funding are important determinants of publication in English-based, highly ranked medical journals.
Impact of FUTON and NAA bias on visibility of research FUTON bias is the tendency to peruse what is more readily available.
Hubble Space Telescope science metrics The creation of effective links between the STSCI and ADS databases containing information about all HST programs and all HST refereed papers and their citations provides us with a powerful and versatile way to obtain metrics for describing the efficiency, productivity, and scientific impact of the Hubble Space Telescope project. This may certainly help the funding agencies and the various governing committees in the shaping of future of HST time allocation by making educated decisions.
Name order patterns of graduate candidates and supervisors in Chinese publications: A case study of three major Chinese universities Based on the data and case analyses of three Chinese productive universities of different type we found some characteristics in the pattern of name order between graduate candidates and supervisors in Chinese publications. The fact that the doctoral g-ratios of all three universities are as high as 80% reflects a universal regularity in the structure of scientific collaboration between doctoral candidates and their supervisors in China. Many interesting research problems emerge from our study. In this project we intend to find out the reason of this particular name order pattern.
Social origin and gender of doctoral degree holders - Impact of particularistic attributes in access to and in later career attainment after achieving the doctoral degree in Germany Most of our findings about the impact of social origin and gender on educational and occupational career success are not statistically significant and many relationships are very weak.
Scientometric analysis of synchronous references in the Physics Nobel lectures, 1981-1985: A pilot study Nobel lectures are excellent documents of scholarly communications. Through the analysis of synchronous references one can trace the origin and development of the ideas related to the topic of research. Variations in the development and growth pattern of the Nobel Prize-winning ideas have been visualized through the chronological analysis of synchronous references.
Bibliometric analysis of severe acute respiratory syndrome-related research in the beginning stage The SARS publication pattern in the first few months of its outbreak suggests immediate citation, low collaboration rate, and English and mainstream country domination in production, may be the features of this new topic which sets foot for future patterns.
Bibliometric study on food science and technology:: Scientific production in Iberian-American countries (1991-2000) Eight IA countries (Spain, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Portugal, Cuba, Chile and Venezuela) cover 97.5% of the total food research output of IA in FSTA.
The source-item coverage of the Lotka function This gives a complete characterization of Lotkaian informetrics, its coverage and also its limitations.
An examination of the contributions of young scientists in new fields I argue that in order to make significant discoveries scientists need to work their way into the center of the social network of a scientific research community.
A new technique for building maps of large scientific domains based on the cocitation of classes and categories We have shown that the cocitation of classes or categories can be used to build maps of large geographic domains. In our view, domain analysis is best organized as a hierarchy that would begin with maps of classes, followed by category maps, and then by neighbor maps. While it is true that we present off-line maps here, we are also testing a set of tools that would allow the automatic generation of schematic representations for a domain the size of Spain.
Evolution, continuity, and disappearance of documents on a specific topic on the web: A longitudinal study of "informetrics" Our results show that modifications and disappearance cannot be ignored; these are significant processes on the Web.
The university-industry knowledge relationship: Analyzing patents and the science base of technologies The conclusion is that “biotechnology” has historically generated a model for theorizing about university-industry relations that cannot easily be generalized to other sectors and disciplines.
Recent trends in the funding and utilization of NIH career development awards by surgical faculty Surgeons are less likely to apply for career development awards, and those who do are less likely to be successful compared with their nonsurgical peers. Innovative strategies are needed to increase the number and success of career development proposals submitted by surgical faculty.
Scandinavian research in anaesthesiology 1981-2000: visibility and impact in EU and world context The main findings of our study can be summarized as follows: 1. The annual number of publications from Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, the UK, the EU, and the world has increased significantly since the late eighties as opposed to the net stagnation seen in Denmark during the same period.
Authorship in a small medical journal: A study of contributorship statements by corresponding authors The results of our study showed that the adherence to the ICMJE authorship criteria was poor in a small medical journal outside of the mainstream science. Authorship and contributorship in biomedical journals, as well as editorial ethical responsibilities towards authorship criteria need critical redefinition and education of both editors and authors. We believe that the best approach to this problem is education of both authors and editors about the importance of authorship and criteria for awarding authorship credit to researchers.
Publications by radiation oncologists from India: A brief survey Collaborative studies, inter-institutional trials and randomized clinical trials relating to key oncological problems in India need to be carried out to establish consensus and guidelines at a national level. In conclusion, in view of the number of patients treated by radiation therapy in India, Indian radiation oncologists need to publish more than they do.
Academic vs. practitioner systems planning and analysis Our findings suggest that integrating academic and practitioner efforts, attitudes, and incentives can help minimize the historical disconnect between theory and practice.
A resident research director can improve internal medicine resident research productivity Our analysis suggests that an RRD can enhance resident scholarly productivity. Our data suggest that an RRD can lead to a signifi-cant increase in resident research productivity, as mea-sured by resident presentations and publications. Our findings suggest that Internal Medicine residency di-rectors should consider appointing an RRD to increase resident presentations and publications and to help meet the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requirements for resident scholarly activity.
Relation between online "hit counts" and subsequent citations:: prospective study of research papers in the BMJ Papers that attracted the most hits on the BMJ website in the first week after publication were subsequently cited more often than less frequently accessed papers. Thus early hit counts capture at least to some extent the qualities that eventually lead to citation in the scientific literature. The number of early hits is a potentially useful measure of the scientific value of published medical research papers. Publication of hit counts by online journals should be encouraged.
What British psychiatrists read - Questionnaire survey of journal usage among clinicians The results could lead to reconsideration of the importance of some journals.
Bibliometric analysis of original molecular biology research in anaesthesia The present literature analysis shows that molecular biology research in the field of anaesthesia is increasing and is dominated by the USA. If we wish to decrease this gap between Europe and the USA, European anaesthetic institutions must teach the A-C-T-Gs of the genetic code to their young aspiring academic anaes- thetists and make investments in microarray and high throughput technologies, ultracentrifuges, sequence analysers and even nanotechnology, since the future of anaesthetic research will certainly include genomics and proteomics [27]. Otherwise, as stated by the former Editor-in-Chief of this journal, the lights of academic anaesthesia will be turned out [19] and the doors of our laboratories may close.
Highly cited old papers and the reasons why they continue to be cited. Part II. The 1953 Watson and Crick article on the structure of DNA Our first conclusion is that the Watson and Crick article continues to be heavily cited to this day, and indeed is getting more quoted than ever.
Global knowledge management research: A bibliometric analysis It is observed that a few developed OECD countries have centralized the global KM publication productivity, exactly fitting the 80/20 rule (TRUESWELL, 1969). The current bibliometric study indicates that the field of KM has not yet developed its own body of literature and this situation has undermined its reputation as a legitimate academic field. The results of analysis objectively suggest that KM might have been evolving an interdisciplinary theory that is developing at the boundaries of scientific disciplines. Further quantitative studies need to be carried out to ascertain deeply the special and distinctive features and characteristics of KM as an emerged interdiscipline.
The Nobel prize in physics - regularities and tendencies The Nobel prize in physics is highly recognized due to its objective and well-grounded prize-awarding system (though some subjective factors manifested, especially at the beginning of the 20th century). Thus the distributions of the awards and laureates give a valuable information on the main trends of the modern physics. This quantity averaged over a decade tends to increase thus the probability that the author of the discovery will die before the recognition increases.
Concentration of science in Brazilian governmental universities Therefore, it is quite clear that the different types of university (private × governmental) have a different profile, not only with regard to the field of knowledge focused by them, but also due to the fact that scientific research is the realm of governmental institutions.
Croatian scientific publications in top journals according to the Science Citation Index for the 1980-2000 period 1. The total scientific output of the Croatian scientists affiliated with research institutions within the Republic of Croatia, in the period from 1980 to 2000, was 13,021 papers in journals covered by the Science Citation Index (SCI), giving an average productivity of 0.100 papers per research-year, which is about 55% of the average world productivity.
Disciplinary determinants of bibliometric impact in Danish industrial research: Collaboration and visibility The overall findings suggest a publication pattern for Danish industrial research that, to a certain extent, looks like the pattern for Danish research in general.
Dermatological scientific production from European Union authors (1987-2000) In conclusions: the scientific production of European Union research on dermatology is highest in northern countries.
Did a rising tide lift all boats? The NIH budget and pediatric research portfolio We conclude with a set of recommendations for implementing existing commitments to strengthen the NIH pediatric research portfolio and to protect the gains of the doubling period.
Multi-level exploration of citation graphs Multi-level outline tree seems well suited to browse and organize citation graphs.
A bibliometric analysis of the research utilization literature in nursing According to the analysis, tremendous growth has occurred in the field of research utilization. However, the limited amount of collaborative research and the repeated citation of a few references indicate that the field is under-developed. The research utilization field would benefit from more substantive conceptual and empirical work, and more collaboration among emerging scholars.
Impact of JAT publications 1981-2003:: the most prolific authors and the most highly cited articles E.J. Cone was the most prolific author of JAT papers, with 22 more than his closest rival (P. Kintz).
Citation and quotation accuracy in three anatomy journals A high proportion of major citation errors, a very high proportion of major quotation errors, and the substantial number of indirect quotations call for serious editorial action in anatomy journals.
Evaluating the quality of research publications: A pilot study of school librarianship What emerges most clearly from this study is that even people who have considerable experience and expertise in the evaluation of research reports (whether or not they have subject expertise in the particular subject area) will disagree in their rankings of research reports.
Impact and relevance of LIS journals: A scientometric analysis of international and German-language LIS journals - Citation analysis versus reader survey It can be concluded that Scanlan’s claims cannot be veri-fied for the German-speaking LIS community because of two main reasons.
Information management or knowledge management? An informetric view of the dynamics of Academia The results of analysis, which relies solely on the data covered in the ISI Web of Science and may be changed in further studies by means of different bibliography sources, indicate that, after entering the 21st century, the development of KM research is much more remarkable than that of IM. KM has been leading IM in both publication productivity and academic population and the tendency is overwhelmingly growing. Externally, the priority of scholarly publication would be transferred to KM contributions, accompanied by more various channels of scientific communication.
A comparative study of research performance in computer science Optimistically, the changes that have occurred in recent years on the Chinese computer science research are having noticeable effects on world's research output profile.
Mapping inventive activity and technological change through patent analysis: A case study of India and China The study brings out the major differences as well as similarities of patenting activity of India and China. An important policy implication is indicated by the technological composition of not-nationally assigned patents, particularly for Indian case. Further research is required to bring forth the other dimensions of their technological activity, and causality issues.
Does co-authorship inflate the share of self-citations? Indeed, multi-authorship goes with increasing self-citation rates, but the increase is much weaker than that of foreign citations.
Visibility of collaboration on the Web In summary it can be stated that bibliographic multi-authored publications which were investigated in the pilot study are visible to a high percentage in the Web and that it follows, therefore, that collaboration between scientists is well reflected in the Web.
Commonalities and differences between scholarly and technical collaboration - An exploration of co-invention and co-authorship analyses Co-invention analysis may share the basic concept with co-authorship analysis but co-invention data exhibits different characteristics. The level of collaboration in technology has not reached the level of science. Comparing co-authorship and co-inventing may contribute to a better understanding of why knowledge transfer between science and technology is not a straightforward but highly complex process.
Assessing internationality of scholarly journals through foreign authorship patterns: the case of major journals in information science, and scientometrics We have found for two of the major journals; Information Processing & Management, and Scientometrics that, after two decades of constant foreign-authored contributions, those contributions increased to more than 90%. All measures indicate that journal publications in information science, and scientometrics as represented by a set of five journals becoming more international in recent times. Finally, it should be noted that our study provides merely a snapshot, and a more complete picture may emerge if one considers a larger set of journals over longer periods.
Exploring website features for business information The number of inlinks to a company website correlates significantly with the company's business performance measure revenue.
A group decision support approach to evaluating journals The GDSS proposed here can be very useful for making difficult and controversial decisions regarding the value of academic journals.
The one fixed point in a changing age.: An analysis of half-secular trends among original papers published in The Lancet 1945-95 Multiauthorship, internationalisation of research, and (over) confidence into statistical analysis are becoming leading characteristics, some rather positive others not, of the corporate feeling within medical edition.
Hyperlinks as a data source for science mapping As a consequence, we argue that interpretations of web science maps covering multiple disciplines will need to be sensitive to the contexts of the links mapped.
Does Bradford-Zipf apply to business and management journals in the 2001 Research Assessment Exercise? It is therefore perhaps surprising that this data set obeys the Bradford-Zipf distribution.
Perspective: Ranking business schools on the management of technology This system results in Georgia Tech, MIT, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Rutgers, and Stanford all ranked in the first tier (each placing first in at least two of the 21 metrics).
Toward a basic framework for webometrics We have demonstrated the relationships between the various metrics associated with library and information science in the framework of its established subfield informetrics.
Web-crawling reliability It is concluded that the reliability of Web crawling as a data collection technique is improved by fuller reporting of relevant crawling policies.
Characteristics of scientific web publications:: Preliminary data gathering and analysis Language is an important discriminating at-tribute, because most researchers tend to publish their re-search in English, whereas, for example, teaching materials often are published in the local language.
Formally citing the web The results clearly indicate that there are relevant differences between the roles of hyperlinks, references, and citations. The share of hyperlinking references in the total number of references cannot be taken as an indicator of the hyperlinking actions of authors alone. The hyperlinking references are apparently the result of both author and publisher activity.
Transposition of the cocitation method with a view to classifying web pages The results observed for quality, performance, and ratio of processed pages are encouraging.
Influential publications in ecological economics: a citation analysis Our analysis of influential publications in ecological economics has revealed some interesting patterns and provided the basis for further discussion and analysis.
Citation patterns in tropical medicine journals The core journals of the JCR tropical medicine category are cited some 30% less than they cite.
Peer review at the American Journal of Roentgenology: How reviewer and manuscript characteristics affected editorial decisions on 196 major papers At the AJR, manuscript acceptance was most strongly associated with reviewer scoring of the science and import of a major paper and also with the country of origin.
Mapping collaborative work and innovation in biomedicine: A computer-assisted analysis of antibody reagent workshops The analysis presented in the present paper is a contribution in this broad direction. This collaborative undertaking can be analyzed by combining traditional and computer-assisted methods that do justice to its figurational complexity and heterogeneous nature. As argued in the present contribution, we strongly favor the opposite heuristic stance, namely the mapping and analysis of heterogeneous networks.
Communication regimes in competition: The current transition in scholarly communication seen through the lens of the sociology of technology This paper describes the unstable balance between competing systems of scholarly communication. Indeed, one of the conclusions of the analysis presented here is that, over and above being well placed to witness the shift under way, academics belong to its key actors.
Analysis of New Zealand's research productivity in ophthalmology and vision science: 1993-2002 Despite a relatively small and geographically isolated population, New Zealand ophthalmology and vision science research is highly active and collaborative, with significantly increased research productivity during the period 1993–2002.
Duplicate publication in the journal of hand surgery We conclude that although duplicate publication of articles in the Journals of Hand Surgery (American and British/ European Volumes) does occur, the incidence in the sample studied is lower than some other surgical journals.
Bibliometric analysis of research published in Tropical Medicine and International Health 1996-2003 The results of the study of geographical distribution of authors demonstrate that the journal reflects fairly the research and views of scientists from all regions of the world. TMIH is embracing these challenges by providing a fair and unbiased forum for authors from the developing world to publish their research.
Estimating research productivity and quality in assistive technology: A bibliometric analysis spanning four decades This study has shown that there is a clearly identified core of journals indexed in MEDLINE containing a significant portion of research findings on AT. The quality of this research varies, however, 61% of the journals carrying AT papers in this study had IFs above the median. It is hoped that this paper will stimulate further study of MEDLINE and other databases containing papers about AT.
The false 'Ortega Hypothesis':: a literature science case study The well-known ‘Ortega Hypothesis' is a false hypoth-esis, constructed by two science sociologists through the falsification of the text and doctrine of the eminent elitist Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset.
Dermatological publications in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries - An analysis of 1966-2004 Medline papers Though the GCC countries have seen a relatively small period in the history of development of medical research, data show that they are trying to keep pace with the rest of the developed world. What remains to be exploited is their good economy that should be directed to provide better infrastructure and improve the quality of training programs. Professional societies within the region must play an active role in ensuring optimum and judicious use of funds.
Who gets acknowledged: Measuring scientific contributions through automatic acknowledgment indexing Our results show that individual scientists may be more widely acknowledged than popular corporate funding sources. Additionally, our work supports prior studies showing that acknowledgment trends for individuals do not correlate well with citation trends, perhaps indicating a need to reward highly acknowledged researchers with the deserved recognition of significant intellectual debt. Combined with access to all published documents and other measures such as funding levels, we speculate that these measures could be used to evaluate the efficacy of funding agencies and programs both at the national and international level.
The lack of public health research output from India "Good-quality public health research output from India is grossly inadequate, and strategic planning to improve it is necessary if substantial enhancement of population health were to be made possible." "There is inordinately low relative research output in several diseases/conditions that cause major disease burden in India." "Evolving such frameworks would require building up a critical momentum for this effort through perseverance and wisdom."
The construction of the Taiwan Humanities Citation Index The THCI project has been under way since January 2000. Although various problems and difficulties have occurred, we have solved them one by one and completed the following tasks: constructing THCI's working environment; setting up THCI's construction procedures; drawing up THCI's policies and rules; implementing THCI's framework systems; and fulfilling various search features. Since most indexed journals of A&HCI are English journals, THCI could be an auxiliary citation index for Taiwanese researchers to gain an overall picture of Taiwanese research in the arts and humanities.
Citation searching The only fly in the delicious soup of citation searching, even in the best citation-based search systems, is the incredible level of inconsistency and inaccuracy in the cited references.
Journal impact factors do not equitably reflect academic staff performance in different medical subspecialties "The distribution of IFs exhibits degrees of skew, numeric average, and spread that differ significantly between journal specialty subsets. It is concluded that a dominant emphasis on IFs in academic recruitment and pro-motion may select for long-term faculty characteristics other than academic quality alone."
Publish or perish? -: Publications and citations of Italian political scientists in international political science journals, 1990-2002 Our data suggest that international publication typical of Italian political scientists is on Italian politics.
E-commerce: the emergence of a field and its knowledge network This paper has made notable contributions to the emerging field of e-commerce and its knowledge generating system with certain implications for scholars and practitioners as follows:
PaSE: Locating online copy of scientific documents effectively We have developed PaSE to find online copies of scientific papers more effectively, and studied the heuristic-based crawling and distance-based title matching algorithms. Our preliminary experiments show that PaSE can deliver better accuracy than conventional approaches. First, more thorough study on the effects of different crawling and citation matching algorithms (and their interplay with other factors such as domain) are needed. Second, by extending the PaSE with web services based interface, machine programs can communicate and retrieve online copies of target documents, making PaSE available for more applications.
What is originality in the humanities and the social sciences? In this paper, we take a “new approach” to the study of originality by analyzing inductively the criteria that individuals serving on funding panels used to evaluate proposals and by examining the various meaning they gave to originality. This enriched understanding complements the standard sociological definition of originality as the production of new theories and new findings. Acknowledging the diverse forms that originality takes is an important corrective that can have implications for the practice of research and peer evaluation.
Spanish research in knowledge organization (1992-2001) In view of the results presented here, we may con- clude that a small nucleus of authors is largely re- sponsible for the development of this discipline in Spain, whereas the pool of other contributors has a testimonial presence. The international presence of Spanish research is very scarce, and its influence limited, given that only five publications out of the 17 identified are ever cited. In short, it can be said that Knowledge Organiza- tion is taking shape as a research area in our country, and exhibits a positive, rising trend. Still, in general terms, above all considering the lack of visibility on the international forefront, we need to publish more, and branch out more.
Some international benchmarks for evaluating Australian health and medical research The current study revealed something of a paradox about benchmarking the performance of Australian HMRD.
Bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Structural Chemistry While the dominant publications are those dealing with the crystal and molecular structure of chemical compounds, the journal is not limited to these topics and cannot be regarded as the Russian counterpart of Acta Crystallographica, Journal of Chemical Crystallography, Journal of Applied Crystallography, etc. At the same time, it follows from Table 10 that judging from its qualitative indices, JSC is quite competitive among the journals of the same category. Increased publication of reviews will also make the journal more prestigious and will raise its impact factor because reviews are generally cited more widely than articles.
CEJ -: An environment for flexible definition and execution of scientific publication processes In this paper we presented CEJ, an infrastructure for generating configurable and extensible electronic journals. We hope this work can contribute to experimenting with new emerging academic models, to discovering new roles and possibly new actors for the publication process, and also to opening new perspectives in studying knowledge infrastructures, in that it emphasizes the power of the electronic medium and the open, standards-based computer technology. In the near future, we also plan to support: (1) versioning... (2) more interactive forms of publication; (3) translation to PDF format using Apache FOP engine [17], another open source tool.
The scientometric world of Keith Pavitt This paper aimed at exploring the impact Keith Pavitt has had on research in science, technology and innovation.
A fair history of the Web? Examining country balance in the Internet Archive The unbalanced representation of different countries in the Internet Archive, although not intentional, remains a problem in providing an effective historical archive of the Web.
Regional planning of R&amp;D and science–technology interactions in Andalucia: a bibliometric analysis of patent documents The results obtained, which are summarized later, have provided possible answers to the five basic questions made at the beginning:. From the R&D planning viewpoint, these results basically have a bearing on the relationship between the priority scientific-technical areas of the Plan and the structure and potential of the productive system; it seems that more attention should be paid to those scientific activities with a clear technological application, or to fostering scientific research in areas of knowledge related directly to the productive sectors in which Andalucia is more specialized.
and know best Nevertheless, it is difficult to argue that the subsequent benefits received by those who publish in Nature and Science are undeserved. It would seem that such papers are good indicators of productive scientists, and that funding bodies and universities are justified in holding those papers, and their authors, in high regard. The rest of us (just over two thirds of researchers in this sample who have yet to publish in Nature or Science) can at least console ourselves with the fact that we are in the majority.
Quantitative deconstruction of citation impact indicators It is evident that both JCSm and FCSm scores are determined by many factors.
Introduction to bibliometrics for construction and maintenance of thesauri The proposed approach is substantially different from the traditional automatic algorithmic term co-occurrence methods to thesaurus construction; because term class construction in the bibliometric approach is based on citations and references.
As Open Access Is Public Access, Can Journals Help Policymakers Read Research? Based on the contributions of this small sample of policy officials, we have some distance to go in improving the basic design of the RST.
Delayed impact: ISI's citation tracking choices are keeping scientists in the dark The official impact factor, which is expected to arrive in mid-2005, may be significantly higher or lower, but it seems clear that it will be respectable. With luck, this competition may give ISI just the spur it needs. By doing this, ISI would provide a valuable impartial service to the scientific community.
Japan Ponders Starting a Global Journal Supporters argued that publishing a top-tier international journal in English would benefit efforts to disseminate the country's scientific achievements and strengthen Japanese scientists' ability to evaluate and communicate research results. If Japan decides to start such a journal, he suggested that it be electronic. As an added boost, Omi also proposed that granting agencies give greater weight to domestic publications when deciding which scientists to fund.
A citation analysis of the quantitative/qualitative methods debate's reflection in sociology research In conclusion, this study gives preliminary support to the initial suppositions of differences between quantitative and qualitative sociologists' citation patterns; further research is needed to examine the extent and nature of these differences within the sociology discipline as well as the other social sciences.
Rank‐normalized impact factor: A way to compare journal performance across subject categories Using three IF values (the standard one, the global rnIF, the specialty rnIF) provide a more complete characterization of the citation rank of a journal. For the evaluation of an individual scientist's or a research collective's contribution, we would recommend using JCR IF values in combination with rank-normalized ones. Evidently, the efficiency of the suggested normalization depends on the quality of the journal categorization provided by the JCR.
Creating a core journal collection for agricultural research in Tanzania: citation analysis and user opinion techniques Effective access to information is an essential requirement for the success of any research system.
Knowing where they're going: statistics for online government document access through the OPAC As a result of this study, we can conclude that federal document URLs in the OPAC are worthwhile: users are finding documents they otherwise would not have found. Moreover, users are using the additional URLs we have added through our aggressive URL-adding projects.
Presence of taiwan on the world wide web in south korea: dynamics of digital and geographical presence on cyberspace This research found that the international informa-tion network from South Korea to Taiwan was very sparsely connected in terms of the number of South Korean Web pages hyperlinking to Web pages hosted in the other country.
Content analysis of the homepages of academic psychologists European psychologists mainly offer (study 1) and claim to offer (study 2) in their homepages information about result-oriented research activities and publications. The expectation voiced by Begg and Berlin (1988) that the WWW might serve to overcome the publication bias is not borne out by the homepages of European academic psychologists. With certainty, our investigation led to more questions than answers. However, we think that these questions could initiate future studies in order to gain a better understanding of the meaning of personal homepages within the academic context.
Evolution of the interdisciplinary characteristics of information and library science The study produced a rich set of results relevant to the evolutionary mapping of the interdisciplinary breadth of the ILS field. With a total of 34 extradisciplines citing ILS publications sampled in six years of four decades, the data appear to support the assertion that ILS has reached its scholarship maturity and that it is highly interdisciplinary field that attracts learned interests from a variety of disciplines from the domains of science, social science, and the humanities. Future studies on subject categories of references of each of the 150 publications, matched with the citation data covered in this paper, would help to establish a much well-rounded assessment of the ILS interdisciplinary structure.
A Multiyear Citation Analysis of Three Rehabilitation Journals Perhaps the most important finding was the dramatic increase in impact factor scores for RCB from 1980 to 2002. As an absolute measure of citation frequency and, hence, scholarly usefulness, this suggests an increasing importance of journals in disseminating rehabilitation counseling literature. To summarize, for the 4-year period of 1999 through 2002, both JR and RCB impact factor scores were at about the median of those rehabilitation journals tracked by ISI, but RP's impact factor score was twice that of RCB.
The “Green” and “Gold” Roads to Open Access: The Case for Mixing and Matching The vision presented here is nondogmatic. It leaves plenty of room for revisions, critiques, and reevaluations. It tries to present a constructive evolutionary scenario where the "green" and "gold" roads can find their proper place without feeling in competition with one another.
Impact and Publication Patterns: A Model for Examining Resources in an International Context McGill’s journal collection in the field of parasitology is comprehensive. All significant journals are being collected. The gathered data could also be used to advise faculty of publishing trends and citation frequency of peers to determine the scholarly accomplishments of McGill faculty in parasitology.
Statistical variability of top ranking economics journals impact First, it is validated that, although past information is used, the speculative procedure of Liebowitz and Palmer (1984) is a good pre- dictor of an average papers impact. Second, an estimator is calibrated that makes it possible to quantify the quality (impact) of a single paper. Third, it is quantified that the variability of a journal's impact on a year scale is very considerable. Fourth, it is computed that the journals aver- age impact varies considerably from one year to another but the long term 'tendency' does not change to any great extent. The hypothesis Ho is rejected only for the Quarterly Journal of Economics and Econometrica which improved their citation impact.
The role of China's English‐language scientific journals in scientific communication One may say that China's English scien-tific journals, even those covered in the SCI, play a small role in international and even national scientific communication.
Methods for Analysing Web Citations: A Study of Web-Coupling in a Closed Environment We have confirmed that, with the techniques applied in the present work, it is possible to reveal the relationships that are established between the Web spaces of a closed thematic environment through the study of their shared links (Web-coupling). With the PCA, we were able to find the principal factors involved in the Web-coupling of Extremadura Web spaces, with the MDS to visualize the relationships between these factors, and with the SOM to organize topologically the Region's Web spaces including the labelling of each factor's winning zone. Hence, the picture of the behaviour of the Extremadura Web spaces given by the MDS and SOM representations led us to draw three main conclusions.
Accessing Academic Research through an E-Database: Issues of Journal Quality and Knowledge Use The download figures discussed here provide another quantitative measure of knowledge use.
Outputs and expenditures on health research in eight disease areas using a bibliometric approach, 1996-2001 This analysis has mapped out the major spending patterns for research in eight disease areas and has identified the largest supporters of such work.
The cultural shaping of scholarly communication: Explaining e‐journal use within and across academic fields In using Whitley to map and predict patterns of information seeking across scientific fields, we are attempting to move away from the trend in comparative research that uses the physical science communication model as the 'gold standard,' and compares the applied sciences, social sciences, and humanities to that model-showing them to be 'second cousins' who will, given time, adopt a more rational approach and attitude towards information seeking and the use of e-journals. Using an explanatory tool such as Whitley, which allows both epistemological and social considerations to be taken into account, we can develop a richer understanding of the cultural shaping of scholarly communication in the digital realm across all scholarly fields, and will not have to implicitly rely on the physical sciences model of communication as an analytical framework in comparative studies.
The Influence of Peer Review on the Research Assessment Exercise The paper concludes that because of the many criticisms of peer review, it is unwise to base funding decisions on second level peer review of articles that have already undergone peer review.
Psychology citations revisited: behavioral research in the age of electronic resources The current study suggests that, as a discipline, psychology lies between the other social sciences and the sciences in its emphasis on journal citations.
The Use of Online Supplementary Material in High-Impact Scientific Journals This study identifies several trends that will continue to influence sci- entists' reliance on supplementary material.
Commentary I - The bibliographic ?impact factor?, the total number of citations and related bibliometric indicators: the need to focus on journals of public health and preventive medicine The present brief overview suggests that an assessment of ISI's figures from 'within' (or with a focus on) epidemiology, public health and preventive medicine: a) it could help unveil errors or inappropriate decisions on the part of ISI; b) it could allow more valid and 'finely tuned' comparisons among journals; and c) it should be compatible with a wider perspective on the bibliometric performance of other relevant journals in the health and life sciences.
Quantifying Web‐site visits using Web statistics: an extended cybermetrics study Nevertheless the usefulness of this study lies in the fact that Web developers and content providers have been provided with a guideline whether the content what they provide is at all useful or not. This kind of study also helps an organisation judge their Web site. Thus there are a number of areas to be developed to have a more accurate study.
Japanese research grants for young researchers We should enlarge research grants for young scientists and support them to be independent researchers.
The “Green” and “Gold” Roads to Open Access: The Case for Mixing and Matching The 'green' and 'gold' roads toward Open Access will thus merge while helping each other. Finally, because an even playing field will be estab-lished between toll-gated publications and open access articles, be they “gold” or “green,” the impact advantage of genuine Open Access will have a much better chance of asserting itself unambiguously. In the end, Open Access is the sine qua non condition for the optimal deployment of scientific research worldwide, as well as for its widest applic-ability in the general population.
An integrated approach for the analysis of factors affecting journal citation impact in clinical neurology In conclusion, inter-relationships among journal citation impact and four external journal factors have been successfully explored.
A study of missing Web-cites in scholarly articles: towards an evaluation framework The results of this study add further to the growing evidence that scholarly discourse is being impacted and eroded by the instability associated with citations to Web-located resources.
Patterns of co-authorship among economics departments in the USA A majority of US universities and colleges produces more co-authored than single-authored papers in top journals, resulting in a co-authorship ratio larger than 0.5.
The Dynamics of Agriculture Subject Guide Access at Kansas State University Libraries The overall dynamics of subject guide access at K-State Libraries indicated periods of peak, moderate and low hits. The above finding might help subject librarians, webmasters, and systems administrators plan and schedule subject guide content and Web maintenance at the appropriate periods of the year. This suggests opportunities for further study of the factors that affect subject guide access.
There's more than one way to have an impact We have also established that JMH research is indeed being discussed and used by policy-makers, service providers and the public.
Can web citations be a measure of impact? An investigation of journals in the life sciences This analysis and comparison of traditional and Web citations in biology and genetics has produced some evidence of different cultures—the more established and English-language-focused world of print-based scholarly communication contrasts with the apparently more intellectually diverse and geographically distributed world of the Web. Most findings of the study confirm our original hypothesis, i.e. Web citation correlates with ISI citation and the average Web citation count of a journal correlates with the Journal's Impact Factor. A further study extending the scope of the investigation to other science disciplines has been carried out subsequent to this study and we hope to report the results in future papers.
Factor de impacto de las revistas médicas españolas This work has permitted to obtain the IF of 87 Spanish medical journals. Already detected in previous works, the leadership of the journal MEDICINA CLÍNICA in Spanish medicine is confirmed. Spanish medical journals published in English have received a small number of cites from the ones published in Spanish. A low impact factor is not necessarily related to lack of quality, merit or relevance.
Applying informetric methods to empirically assess the authoritativeness of Health Canada electronic documents This preliminary study revealed that, in general, a majority of Health Canada publications are subjected to a fairly rigorous publication standard.
Research on the Relationships between Chinese Journal Impact Factors and External Web Link Counts and Web Impact Factors The Spearman correlation test results support the hypothesis presented in the Introduction that the WIF, rather than Web link counts, is preferred if journal Web sites are to be measured in a scientific and meaningful way to determine a measure of journal Web sites to be compared with the JIF.
The Last 30 Years of Public Choice: An Analysis of Author and Institution Rankings Our analysis suggests that there have been some substantial changes in Public Choice over the past 30 years. Finally, we find that George Mason University is clearly the leading institution making a large share of the new contributions in the journal, and that this dominance is not simply due to the in-house editorship of the journal. In addition, the data in this section should be of substantial help in pointing students toward those graduate programs which offer the best training in the field.
Replicating Web Structure in Small-Scale Test Collections In this paper we have presented the results of experiments into linkage-based web retrieval using both the TREC test collections and our own densely linked subset of a TREC test collection.
Are webliographies still in use? "Our main question was Are webliographies still in use? The analysis of findings of this research provides an answer to this question that Yes, webliographies are still in use."
Web‐based and print journal‐based scholarly communication in the XML research field: A look at the intellectual structure Findings from this study clearly show that citation analysis using either one of the two data sources alone would not reveal the complete communication structure of the XML research field.
Citation Autobiography: An Investigation of ISI Database Coverage in Determining Author Citedness It is suggested that librarians and faculty should not rely solely on ISI author citation counts, especially when demonstration of international impact is important.
Fitting Lotka's law: Some cautionary observations on a recent paper by Newby et al. (2003) I would argue that the entire section, Goodness of Fit With Lotka's Law and certain consequent statements in the Conclusions are fundamentally flawed and therefore misleading to the reader. The final point I wish to make—reluctantly but necessarily—is that the highlighted errors and deficiencies are serious but at the same time elementary and it is unfortunate that these were not picked up prior to publication. It would be doubly unfortunate if, now that the paper is in the mainstream and given the authors' upbeat advocacy of their approach, other researchers repeat the errors outlined above.
Using a compound approach based on elaborated neural network for Webometrics: An example issued from the EICSTES project We have presented in this paper a compound approach for Webometrics based on an extension the self-organizing multimap MultiSOM model.
New versions of PageRank employing alternative Web document models Although the study did not succeed in providing a definite answer to the research questions examined, it provided some evidence that the alternative PageRank algorithms proposed could have the potential to improve the standard PageRank model.
Information sources in biomedical science and medical journalism: methodological approaches and assessment "The journalist and his source enjoy a delicate relationship: freedom and independence of information depend on the in- dependence and truthfulness of the sources."
Changes in authorship patterns in prestigious US medical journals These findings suggest that the number of authors per manuscript continues to grow. The growth in the number of authors on bylines and the proportion of group-authored manuscripts is likely to reflect the increasing complexity of medical research. Despite these limitations, our study suggests that multiple-authorship is increasing in prestigious US general medical journals, sole authorship is obsolete, and research groups are increasingly adhering to authorship guidelines by using group authorship, with the writing group on the byline.
Measuring the Impact of Electronic Publishing on Citation Indicators of Education Journals Citation indicators based on citation analyses are very useful to identify trends in scholarly journal usage.
What do universities want from publishing? Universities want publishing to support and further their research and teaching activities.
Measurement of the presence of keywords and description meta‐tags on a selected number of Iranian Web sites The paper concludes that the Iranian Web sites are lower than non-Iranian Web sites in terms of the use of meta-tags. If you have a look at two hypotheses of this research, you can find out that they are confirmed according to the findings of the survey. More research is needed in this field to evaluate Iranian Web sites from other technical, graphical and aesthetics perspectives.
Extracting knowledge from the World Wide Web The web offers both great opportunity and great challenge in the quest for improving our understanding of the world.
Full Publication of Papers Presented at the 1995 through 1999 European Association of Plastic Surgeons Annual Scientific Meetings: A Systemic Bibliometric Analysis A greater than average number of papers presented at the 1995 through 1999 annual EURAPS meetings went on to full publication in peer-reviewed journals. Among these journals, Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery was the best source for information presented at the meetings. Given the high publication rate and the high average normalized impact factor of the journals in which the presentations appeared, the five studied EURAPS meetings overall had high scientific value.
The determinants of research output in academic biomedical laboratories Although amount of funding is a critical determinant of publications, there are diminishing returns. Importantly, we found that industry funding has no effect on publication rates, but has a negative impact on citation rates. We found that external collaboration enhances both publications and citations.
Scan It and They Will Come … But Will They Cite It? "The usage data in Figure 1 do show that, ‘if you scan it, they will come.’"
Do Open-Access Articles Have a Greater Research Impact? This study indicates that, across a variety of disciplines, open-access articles have a greater research impact than articles that are not freely available.
From doctoral dissertation to publication The major finding showed that this activity is quite limited. The annual output of LIS graduates and their dissertations should be a very important source of quality research literature. Therefore, there is a need to review this phenomenon and devise means that lead to enhanced publishing activity from this source.
The Access/Impact Problem and the Green and Gold Roads to Open Access To reach 100% OA, self-archiving needs to be mandated by researchers' employers and funders, as the United Kingdom and the United States have recently recommended, and universities need to implement that mandate. It is now time for more of the research community to take them up on it. Let us hope that the mounting evidence of the powerful impact-generating effects of OA, plus incentives from their employers and funders, will at last induce the 61% of authors who have not yet done so to take to the green road so that we can all enjoy the benefits of 100% OA at last.
Variations in use of meta tag descriptions by Web pages in different subject areas Results of this study suggest that tools to assist in the construction of descriptions might be of more interest to creators of pages in some subject areas than creators of pages in other areas. Specifically, somewhat greater potential interest might be present in the health field than elsewhere. Although the results of these studies may help in the design of appropriate assistance tools, it should not be assumed that all description authors will wish to employ all such tools.
Mapping the Literature of Food Science Using Co-Citation Analysis This study found that food science journals could reflect either a research science orientation or one of applied science and technology. Journals from this discipline also tend to be either industry-specific or more generalized in their food science focus. These results are consistent with those of earlier studies, which show the impact of other disciplines, such as chemistry, microbiology and engineering, upon food science.
Does research organization influence academic production? All methodologies used underline that the most publishing labs are also patenting.
Changes in the scientific output of Russia from 1980 to 2000, as reflected in the Science Citation Index, in relation to national politico-economic changes On balance, and overlooking the benefits of collaboration and openness, the politico-economic changes in Russia from 1990 to 2000 have not been beneficial for science, either nationally, or, given the international prominence of Russian science, globally.
The Unintended and Unanticipated Consequences of Robert K. Merton That Bob Merton was one of the most-cited scholars of the 20th century is a truism. His influence in sociology is obvious, but his impact outside that domain is less obvious but also quite significant as the data illustrate.
New classification quality estimators for analysis of documentary information: Application to patent analysis and web mapping In this paper we have proposed new original measures of Recall/Precision for estimating the quality of classification.
Variations in Use of Meta Tag Keywords by Web Pages in Different Languages Results showed significant differences in proportion of pages with keywords depending on language; specifically, pages in Western European languages showed higher proportions with keywords, while pages in Chinese showed the lowest proportions.
Perspective factor: a novel indicator for the assessment of journal quality In conclusion, PF provides a new way of evaluat- ing journal quality as 'perspective'.
A National Research Council-Style Study Graduate urban planning education in the United States now involves the effort of 844 full-time faculty working at eighty-four schools.
International nanotechnology development in 2003: Country, institution, and technology field analysis based on USPTO patent database By comparing the 2003 results with the results for the interval 1976–2002, we have identified new trends of NSE developments, which are summarized by countries, institutions, and technology fields.
Intraorganisational evaluation: are there ‘least evaluable units’? Thus, our conclusion is that while an evaluation of programs was possible without significant diffi- culties in applying or interpreting our indicators, an evaluation of groups would have led to major diffi- culties due to problems of small numbers and prob- lems of (non-) scale invariance.
The level of non-citation of articles within a journal as a measure of quality: a comparison to the impact factor Ranking journals by impact factor and non-citation produces similar results.
A fair history of the Web? Examining country balance in the Internet Archive "The unbalanced representation of different countries in the Internet Archive, although not intentional, remains a problem in providing an effective historical archive of the Web."
The Matthew Effect of the Annual Reviews series and the flow of scientific communication through the World Wide Web The results of this study illustrate that authors of the venerable Annual Reviews series are using websites in both the text and reference sections of their articles. Unfortunately, the viability of the websites listed is not as reliable as the venerable series itself. Yet, if access to information presented in the articles becomes unreliable, the halo effect of Matthew is likely to diminish.
A citation analysis of the quantitative/qualitative methods debate's reflection in sociology research: Implications for library collection development In conclusion, this study gives preliminary support to the initial suppositions of differences between quantitative and qualitative sociologists' citation patterns; further research is needed to examine the extent and nature of these differences within the sociology discipline as well as the other social sciences.
Keith Pavitt and the Invisible College of the Economics of Technology and Innovation First, the network of scholars in this field may be characterized as a scale-free network, which suggests that the main factor in the evolution of the network is preferential attachment in a growing network context.
Trends and shifts in institutional productivity: natural products chemistry research in Sri Lanka Overall there has been a clearly visible rise and decline in the productivity and impact of research on natural products chemistry in Sri Lanka during the period 1975 to 1998.
An editor's view of telemedicine On balance, the evidence seems to indicate that telemedicine research is in a healthy state.
Citation Analysis of Dissertation, Thesis, and Research Paper References in Workforce Education and Development The results of this citation analysis will be used in three ways: (1) shared with a national audience of WED researchers and academic librarians, (2) utilized by Morris Library staff members to make serial acquisition and maintenance deci-sions, and (3) given to future WED grad-uate students as a standard list of important journals in the field.
What determines the citation frequency of ecological papers? These results cast doubt on the validity of using citation counts as an objective and unbiased tool for academic evaluation in ecology.
Challenges and Opportunities for Bibliometrics in the Electronic Environment The examples just discussed highlight the potential for using the tools of the digital age to conduct research on the growing body of scholarship available in electronic format.
A Ranking of International Tourism and Hospitality Journals In this article, based on an e-mail survey, a ranking of 22 tourism and hospitality journals was presented. The top 3 journals could clearly be identi- fied: Annals of Tourism Research, Journal of Travel Research, and Tourism Management. It is interesting to note that practical relevance has a higher impact on overall journal reputation than does scien- tific relevance.
Mine Water Literature in ISI’s Science Citation Index Expanded™ Though the Science Citation Index lists 3,860 mine water related papers in 934 journals between 1945 and 2004, only 14% of all authors ever having published in Mine Water and the Environment or The International Mine Water Association Journal are also included in the SCI.
Blasts from the past It is obviously important to stay up to date with the latest research, but not at the expense of all the papers that have gone before. One possible explanation is that the number of papers published every year in the natural sciences has increased by a factor of between two and four since 1974, which means that there are more new pa-pers to read - and even less time than before to reread older papers.
Web Site Demise and Graduate Research At what point does the unavailability of supporting documentation render a research conclusion suspect or fit only for publication in the Journal of Irreproducible Results? Many of the Web sites cited were many months or even years old be- fore the thesis was submitted. Failing the availability of the data in print form, Lawrence et al. sug- gest that citers "provide enough context information so that readers can pose adequate... queries to track down invalid links," such as full title and author information, instead of using, for instance, "et al.”
Literature Use by U.S. Economists Published in 1999 While the scholarly periodical was the leading format used by the economists, it accounted for only slightly more than half of all the references. Given the importance of data, statistical series, and analysis produced by government agencies, the quite limited use of government publications and documents was unexpected. A similar study with a greater range of titles and examining literature use over time is needed.
Mapping the Chinese Science Citation Database While the Science Citation Index and the Social Science Citation Index exhibit the prevailing differentiation among journal groupings in terms of specialties and disciplines, the Chinese Science Citation Database is additionally integrated by a maze of university-based journals. In summary, one could say that the Chinese Science Citation Database exhibits the characteristics of "Mode 2" in the production of scientific knowledge more than its western counterparts.
The Access/Impact Problem and the Green and Gold Roads to Open Access To reach 100% OA, self-archiving needs to be mandated by researchers' employers and funders, as the United Kingdom and the United States have recently recommended, and universities need to implement that mandate. Let us hope that the mounting evidence of the powerful impact-generating effects of OA, plus incentives from their employers and funders, will at last induce the 61% of authors who have not yet done so to take to the green road so that we can all enjoy the benefits of 100% OA at last.
Author Impact Measure (AIM): An Author Publication Statistic for the Who's Who in Fluorescence Volume We hope you find this new author publication statistic informative and we look forward to any suggestions you may have.
Presence of taiwan on the world wide web in south korea: dynamics of digital and geographical presence on cyberspace This research found that the international information network from South Korea to Taiwan was very sparsely connected in terms of the number of South Korean Web pages hyperlinking to Web pages hosted in the other country.
Human capital heterogeneity, collaborative relationships, and publication patterns in a multidisciplinary scientific alliance: a comparative case study of two scientific teams The Alliance seems to have been beneficial for both teams of scientists, but for different reasons that parallel their unique configurations of human capital.
Scholarly Journal Publication: Conflicting Agendas for Scholars, Publishers, and Institutions The current situation in scholarly scien- tific journal publications cannot be sustained; therefore, it is necessary for all the parties to collaborate in creating an environment of mutual respect, sharing ownership of the problems, and encouraging efforts to move toward a sustainable system. Because society is best served when research scientists focus on producing new knowledge and not on operating publishing en- deavours, all would be best served if the existing publishing system would embrace the needed changes, become more efficient, universally offer electronic access and archival services, and hold the line on price increases.
A new perspective to automatically rank scientific conferences using digital libraries Therefore, we introduced four new metrics in order to cure this deficiency, which are suitable for considering both journal and conference publications.
Self-organizing maps of Web spaces based on formal characteristics The formal characteristics of Web spaces constitute an objective evaluation tool.
A modeling approach to uncover hyperlink patterns: the case of Canadian universities The two most important factors that determine the number of inlinks, in the order of importance, were faculty quality and the language of the university.
Firm-like behavior of journals?: Scaling properties of their output and impact growth dynamics In summary, we observe a statistical behavior of annual growth of journals' size measured by numbers of papers and short-time citations, respectively, which resembles the results obtained by Stanley et al. in the cases of firms, national economies, and universities.
Worldwide use and impact of the NASA astrophysics data system digital library With respect to the astronomical technical literature, the close collaboration of the data centers, the journals, and the ADS has created URANIA, a fully integrated system of enormous power; within just a few years it has become universally used. The ADS and the electronic astronomical library have succeeded in increasing the total readership and use of the technical astronomical literature by a factor of at least 3 within a very short time; this represents a massive change in the research behavior of working astronomers today. These technologies have changed, and continue to change, the practice of scientific research in a fundamental way.
Article impact calculated over arbitrary periods An impact factor measures the impact of articles by received citations over a certain period of time and is calculated on the basis of a pool of documents.
PageRank and interaction information retrieval After describing the PageRank and I2R methods (the principles on which they are based, the formal models they use, and the equations they are built on) it was shown that the PageRank method can be formally conceived as a particular interpretation of the I2R
Scatter of journals and literature obsolescence reflected in document delivery requests Our findings seem to indicate that the Bradford Law is equally applicable to article delivery requests placed for journal titles representing heterogeneous subject fields, al-though further research replicating our findings is needed to make firm generalizations.
Research outputs in respiratory medicine The availability of data is an important starting point for future strategic planning. In some countries the burden of disease—for example, lung cancer in the UK—would suggest that a greater effort is needed into research in that area. It is also important for the sponsors of research (both governmental and private-non-profit) to be aware that “new” areas such as sleep related breathing disorders and those without the likelihood of attracting pharmaceutical company funding should not be overlooked.
Productivity and impact of optical telescopes Quite generally, expensive telescopes produce more papers and more frequently cited papers than less expensive telescopes.
Examining differences across journal rankings The composite journal rankings smooth out differences in the methods used to rank journals and differences in the methods used to include journals in the rankings. We have provided a comprehensive overview of journal ranking studies over a 12-year period and a composite ranking of the top 50. However, our ranking is not the last word as future ranking studies will certainly change these rankings.
Pharmacoepidemiology and the "Impact Factor" "Pharmacoepidemiology and drug utilization studies form an epistemologically well-defined field of research."
Power source roadmaps using bibliometrics and database tomography Advantages of using DT and bibliometrics for deriving technical intelligence from the published literature include: Large amounts of data can be accessed and analyzed, well beyond what a finite group of expert panels could analyze in a reasonable time period; Preconceived biases tend to be minimized in generating roadmaps; Compared to standard co-word analysis, DT uses full text, not index words, and can make more use of the rich semantic relationships among the words.
The bibliometric properties of article readership information Perhaps the most important new information to become available for bibliometric studies is the per article reader-ship information.
Urquhart and probability: The transition from librarianship to library and information science The third-and concluding section-discusses how Urquhart's Law forces a probabilistic reconceptualization of the functioning of the scientific journal system as well as the law's practical implications for journal sales, collection evaluation and management, resource sharing, and the transition from the paper to the electronic format.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (1999-2003) This study is one in an ongoing series whose goal is to identify the top scholars and institutions in the field of SSE.
Is citation normalization realistic? This suggests that a meaningful 'discipline' citation average may not exist, and the mainstream large-scale mass production semi-automated citation analysis comparisons may provide questionable results.
Single-authored publications in the sciences at Israeli universities Clearly, it is impossible to conclude from the large number of authors of some articles in physics that single-authored papers would be rarer there than in other scientific disciplines.
Analysis of original contributions in three dermatology journals Collaboration with different institutions on a national (41.5%) and international basis (15.5%) indicates the steadily increasing importance of a global network, compared to 43% of articles from authors who worked together in a single institution. The need for money also is reflected within the journals themselves, where between 10% and 30% of space is dedicated to advertisements. This may be inevitable and, from an economic point of view, justified, but on the other hand it makes us aware of our dependence on funding in scientific research.
Trends in otolaryngology research during the period 1995-2000: A bibliometric approach Bibliometric findings are useful to follow research trends. Our data show high scientific production of relatively small countries. Dispersion of key words should be avoided and journal editors should promote their standardization.
Submission to multiple journals: a method of reducing time to publication? This would lead to greater competition among journals and shorten publication delay, which would benefit both patients and authors.
Instruments of cognition: Use of citations and web links in Online teaching materials "Not many students used citations and links, but those who did reveal that citations are cognitive instruments and that both links and citations must be organized and presented better for their full potential in learning to be realized."
Six case studies of international collaboration in science The intellectual organisation within disciplines of science appears not to be a consistent factor explaining the growth in international collaboration in science.
Generational similarities and differences in researchers' professional ethics: An empirical comparison In conclusion, the findings about implementing cognitive and social norms in the scientific profession are as expected. Thus it is difficult to avoid the generalisation that research ethos rests on a set of common, cognitive and social standards that distinguish the scientific profession from other forms of intellectual production. In short, researchers' cognitive and social values and norms are important professional benchmarks in the scientific profession, not only a façade turned to the public, but they are by no means omnipotent regulators of everyday behaviour and professional practice in research and development.
Recent internationalization of global environmental change research in Germany and the US The results clearly indicate recent internationalization in both samples, with an INI that almost doubles in only ten years.
The scientific specialisation of the Italian regions "Now, it is possible to argue that the Italian regions work as well identifiable scientific systems and, in general, each Italian region not only shows a precise higher education and scientific system, but also evident industrial structures come out from the scientific profile."
Fatal attraction: Conceptual and methodological problems in the ranking of universities by bibliometric methods From the above considerations we conclude that the Shanghai ranking should not be used for evaluation purposes, even not for benchmarking.
The system of research and development indicators:: Entry points for information agents The purpose of the scheme parts of which I discussed is to stimulate an integrated view of the working of information infrastructures and personnel and a debate how to include this in a systematic manner, of course with concern to all statistical information which is available (and which is not available, but desirable) on that infrastructure.
Using ISI data in the analysis of German national and institutional research output Nevertheless, it is hoped that this paper has provided some interesting statistics and rankings, and some useful examples of the many ways in which the ISI data can be used for evaluating research.
Bibliometric analysis and private research funding My conclusion is fairly simple: an ex-ante bibliometric or indicator-based approach towards decision making is firstly an instrument to ensure continuity, stability, and control.
The role of publications in the new programme oriented funding of the Hermann von Helmholtz Association of National Research Centres (HGF) The HGF libraries have critically observed the attempt to introduce a mostly number oriented bibliometry into the evaluation proceedings. They all agree that with the help of their publication data bases a by far more differentiated bibliometric basis could be created, taking into account especially the networking of the individual centres.
In vivo studies of transdisciplinary scientific collaboration - Lessons learned and implications for active living research We believe that these find-ings have important implications for the organization of interdisciplinary initiatives in the field of active living research and beyond.
Scientific collaboration in China as reflected in co-authorship Scientific collaboration is high in China and has received a lot of attention in recent times. Different regions have different collaborative patterns corresponding to economic, technological and scientific development levels. Differences in collaborative patterns in terms of subjects are explained by different characteristics of the subjects themselves. It is expected that scientific globalization and the increased participation of China in international projects will lead to an increase in the DC indicator (i.e. collaborations involving Chinese and foreign scientists).
CAB: Citation-assisted background A method for systematically and objectively determining seminal references for inclusion in literature surveys or Background sections of research documents has been described.
An assessment of the impact and visibility of South African journals The South African journals are identified as performing better without government interference imposed by the constraints attached to financial support offered to them.
The evolution of the knowledge structure of fuel cells This article has examined the evolution of the knowledge structure of the field of fuel cells during the nineties.
Scientific output of Iran at the threshold of the 21st century The present article discusses that Iran has had an increasing growth in presenting articles after the Iraq-Iran war, which marks the period of stability and development. Iran's output in sciences although still comparatively small, has rocketed upward in the last decade30 and it is hoped that this process would continue to proceed and increase.
Basic research in biochemistry and molecular biology in China: A bibliometric analysis During 1999-2002, the annual rate of increase for publications in biochemistry and molecular biology in China has been over 10%. The major research output activities are in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong. The collaboration and communication for Chinese scientists both internally and internationally are continuously increasing.
Nobel laureates: Their publication productivity, collaboration and authorship status Nobel laureates are an altogether different class of scientific elites and their works can not be compared among each other because each piece of research is unique by itself and each Nobel laureate is distinguishable by themselves. Studying the scientific career of eminent scientists and documenting ones' observations may become a source of inspiration for the younger generation to emulate. It will be quite an interesting study if one attempts the sociological aspects of collaboration, authorships, citation pattern, productivity of Nobel laureates.
The measurement of scientific activity: Research directions in linking philosophy of science and metrics of science and technology outputs The paper suggests research directions for a much needed link between theories of science and knowledge, and the application of metrics used to measure them.
Citation classics in trauma This study has identified important trends and areas of interest within the specialty of trauma in the last 42 years.
A unified classification system for research in the computing disciplines While the majority of existing classification systems focus on topics, it is clear that a much richer, multi-faceted classification system is necessary to capture the character-istics of interest to the three disciplines. Hence, the multi-faceted nature of the classification system presented here facilitates far richer access to content than is possible with current systems. We encourage future studies on computing to address, at a minimum, the characteristics identified in this classification system.
Prevalence of plagiarism among medical students Plagiarism in writing essays is common among medical students. An explicit warning is not enough to deter students from plagiarism. Detection software can be used to trace and evaluate the rate of plagiarism in written student assays.
A theoretical, practical, predictive model of faculty and department research productivity The characteristics and groupings (individual, institutional, and leadership) in the Bland et al. (2002) model predict faculty research productivity. Research productivity is influenced by the interaction of the three broad groupings, and it is the dynamic interplay of individual and institutional characteristics, supplemented with effective leadership, that determines the productivity of individuals and departments.
What do we know about links and linking? A framework for studying links in academic environments Such classification provides an insight into the diverse uses of hypertext links on the Web, and has implications for browsing and ranking in IR systems by differentiating between different types of links.
Personal knowledge publishing:: Fostering interdisciplinary communication As our survey and case studies indicate, PKP fosters interdisciplinary knowledge sharing in several ways: By acting as a radically open conversational medium with low entry barriers, PKP allows for the easy exchange of ideas and feedback—unconstrained by disciplinary boundaries—even when those ideas are not fully worked out or break with tradition.
Accuracy of references in five biomedical informatics journals The study identified a considerable error rate in the references of five biomedical informatics journals. Authors are responsible for the accuracy of references and should more carefully check them, possibly using informatics-based assistance. Authors should review and validate the accuracy of references included in submitted manuscripts through verification with the original article.
International presence and impact of the UK biomedical research, 1989-2000 Practical implications – Bibliometric analyses can provide reliable tools in mapping the development of scholarly disciplines which can be of use, as demonstrated in this paper, in research policy, as well as in domain analysis in information science, library collection development or publishing. This paper aimed to show the current state of biomedical research in the UK: what is its international position (in terms of volume of published outputs), who funds it, what are the characteristics of biomedical research in the UK (major players, type of research performed and its impact and levels of national and international collaboration). Major findings from this survey indicate that the UK's place as the second largest producer of biomedical research is threatened by Japan and Germany which have had average annual percentage growth of 4 and 4.6 per cent respectively as opposed to 2.1 per cent from the UK and 2.3 per cent for the world.
The counting of core journal gatekeepers as science indicators really counts.: The scientific scope of action and strength of nations We have confirmed our previous results that journal editorial gatekeeping and the counting of national gatekeepers can work as an indicator of national scientific power and scope of action.
Modelling citation age data with right censoring If we rely on the criterion of the average RMSE for the set of journals, our conclusion is that the Log-logistic model is the best fit for this particular set of data and that the Log-normal model shows the worst behaviour.
Klaus Fuchs - The enduring contribution to physics from his British period His continuing citedness in the field of solid state physics adds further to the colourful mosaic of the life and work of Klaus Fuchs; an enigmatic and outstanding scientific personality of the 20th Century.
Trends in the core literature on tropical medicine: A bibliometric analysis from 1952-2002 Concluding, current roadblocks should be identified and programmes designed and implemented to enhance equity of publishing in tropical medicine. This in turn might be an important step forward to substantially reduce the current burden of tropical diseases, so that social and economic development in the tropics and subtropics can be advanced and poverty alleviated. Sustained efforts are required to further support these initiatives to reduce the gap between developing and developed countries within tropical medicine and international research, so that some of the grand challenges in global health can be addressed and solved.
Stochastic modeling of citation slips We propose a stochastic model of citation process, which explains these findings, and leads to the conclusion that about 70-90% of scientific citations are copied from the lists of references used in other papers.
Visualizing the intellectual structure in urban studies: A journal co-citation analysis (1992-2002) In sum, the study supports the following findings: The horizontal axis of the multidimensional map has more interpretative power than the vertical one. The results of the research project will contribute to the understanding of scholarly communication in the field. Future studies may explore the scholarly communication of the field by putting it in a broader context, which incorporates more general and broad-based journals from other fields – economics, geography, public administration, and sociology, to name only a few.
The peripheral terrorism literature: Bringing it closer to the core The present study shows that most terrorism literature is published in the periphery of the field; that is, in journals that belong to other disciplines and that once in a while publish an article or several articles on terrorism.
Comparing partial and truncated conglomerates from a concentration theoretic point of view We have shown, in the case of first-order comparisons, that truncated vectors may be incomparable, while partial ones are always completely comparable.
Text characteristics of English language university Web sites One overarching finding can be drawn from all of the results: that academic Webs exhibit instances of anomalous behavior, seemingly from every perspective from which they can be measured.
Funding the way to open access This study convinced the Trust that the best way forward to improve access to research findings would be through open access to scientific research articles. For a funder, having all its research in one format, "under one roof", and searchable will improve the efficiency of strategy setting—for example, setting funding priorities—assessing the outputs of the funded research, and even gaining an insight into the impact of the work. However, the Trust considers that the development of a PubMed Central portal in the UK offers the best next step in the transition towards a situation where all high-quality peer-reviewed research is available for free via the Internet, whilst leaving all publishers room for manoeuvre in this changing market.
Time trends in the impact factor of Public Health journals -: art. no. 24 In view of the delay between the publication of IFs and that of any given paper, knowing the trend in IF is essential in order to make a correct choice of journal. Our results suggest that it would be of interest to add the index of annual change to the criteria used for selecting a journal for publication.
Taxonomy of inlinked Web entities: What does it imply for webometric research? The identification of reasons for hyperlinking can perhaps reveal the validity of using link counts as data source for evaluative link analysis.
Perceptions of open access publishing: interviews with journal authors Authors consider perceived journal quality as more important than open access when deciding where to submit papers.
Worldwide trends in quantity and quality of published articles in the field of infectious diseases USA and Western Europe make up a striking 80% of the world's research production in Infectious Diseases in terms of both quantity and quality.
Group-based Yule model for bipartite author-paper networks This paper proposes a very simple model for author-paper networks by introducing the concept of preferential attachment of group authoring of papers.
Impact factors, citations, and GEOPHYSICS In conclusion, the impact factor and citation statistics pre-sented in this paper demonstrate that GEOPHYSICS has man-aged to maintain its prominent position among geophysical journals. We all know that many im-portant contributions are not singled out by the type of sur-vey used in this study.
How do journal quality, co-authorship, and author order affect agricultural economists' salaries? Overall, our results suggest that agricultural economics departments provide significant positive returns to sole authored articles over co- and multi-authored, to articles to pub-lished in top agricultural economics, regional agricultural economics, and top thirty-six eco-nomics journals over other agricultural and economics journals, and to alphabetic over non-alphabetic articles, ceteris paribus. Important questions remain. For one, why do agricultural economists seem to place higher importance on author order than eco-nomists? Secondly, why do so few multi-authored articles (less than 2%) have more than three authors?
Gender, family characteristics, and publication productivity among scientists In summary, gender, productivity, and family characteristics are complex considerations that go beyond being married or not married, and the presence or absence of children.
Bibliometric analysis of homeopathy research during the period of 1991 to 2003 More document types and languages, and fewer pages have appeared in homeopathy research compared with other research fields.
A simulation study of the periodicals' publication delay control process Finally it is demonstrated that the periodical publishing process is a strong inertia system and it is found that reducing the quantity of deposited contributions can shorten the publication delay.
When do scientists "adopt" the Internet? Dimensions of connectivity in developing Our results show that different aspects of Internet adoption come into play in influencing productivity depending on location. The digital divide that has direct bearing on scientific output is the divide that pertains to practice and experience, not access and use. Although the Internet has altered communicative conditions to allow information interchange among spatially dispersed actors in real time, developing world scientists do not have the luxury of personal time and space for gaining the sophistication that might transform Internet connectivity into a collaborative research tool, and thereby make science a truly global enterprise.
Geographical concentration - The case of economics journals Bearing the above reservations in mind the results of the paper clearly indicate that a concentration index may be used for analyses of geographic dispersion.
Exploring size and agglomeration effects on public research productivity We found no support at all for size effects and no strong support for agglomeration effects. Unfortunately, the causal mechanism implicitly assumed in these policies do not hold from an empirical point of view. These policies should always be pursued with a clear view to the need to promote scientific excellence, whatever the size and location involved.
Implementing relevant disciplinary evaluations in the social sciences - National vs international interactions in scientific communities This work stems from a positive vision of research. It was generated because in the social sciences, the situation of evaluation is far from being satisfactory in terms of relevancy. The methodology we propose – always keeping in mind the relevancy criteria – represents the major step towards other evaluations involving mappings of discipline, evaluations of research teams, of scientists, of laboratories as well a strong basis for science studies. The next step forward could be the building up of a reliable and relevant Global Citation Index.
Combining full-text analysis and bibliometric indicators.: A pilot study As a conclusion, we believe that hybrid methodologies combining data-mining techniques and bibliometric methods such as proposed above are valuable tools to facilitate endeavours in mapping fields of science. Moreover, these techniques might also be used to improve the otherwise difficult subject delineation in interdisciplinary research fields thus opening new perspectives in the evaluation of research, too.
Savvy searching -: Browsing indexes of cited references This paper is valuable to those who want to identify a good browsable cited reference index.
Studying the emerging global brain: Analyzing and visualizing the impact of co-authorship teams This article presented a novel weighted graph representation of coupled networks that can be applied to study the local and global properties of co-authorship networks and to dynamically visualize the changing impact of co-authorship relations.
Dissemination of Spanish social sciences and humanities journals The scientific disciplines in the areas under study with the largest number of journals indexed in the data bases consulted are: history, psychology, education and legal studies. Psychology journals are the most widely disseminated in international data bases. Only 16 journals (1.55% of the total) circulate in five or more bibliographical data bases simultaneously.
Refereeing and the single author Although previous research has suggested that co-authored papers might have higher citation rates than do single-authored ones [5-7], the present results do not suggest that there is any advantage to co-authoring as far as speed of refereeing is concerned. Indeed, rather the reverse. These particular results, of course, are specific to the pooled data from three journals in one discipline – psychology – and, as rejection rates vary according to discipline and to the journals within them [6], it might be of interest to repeat this enquiry with other journals in other disciplines.
Relations between the continuous and the discrete Lotka power function This is important to know in applying theoretical results (from the continuous model), derived from practical data.
The power of power laws and an interpretation of lotkaian informetric systems as self-similar fractals In this article the importance of power laws and their applicability in informetrics (including social networks such as the Internet) has been shown.
Making an equality of ISI impact factors for different subject fields The Impact Factor Point Average (IFPA) index proposed in this article is very simple and can be used with equality as a suitable tool for assessing the research quality of researchers and research institutions in different subject fields through the use of the existing ISI journal impact factors.
Measuring informetric similarity of concentration between different distributions: Two new approaches We have introduced two new measures of the similarity of concentration of two informetric distributions, both derived from the Gini (comparative) ratio.
Similarity measures, author cocitation analysis, and information theory The information-theoretical approach does not only take the nonzero values into account like the cosine, but it also includes the information about the redundancy provided by the zeros in the matrix.
The citation impact of research collaborations:: the case of European biotechnology and applied microbiology (1988-2002) Our study started from the premise that research collaboration enhances the quality of research, and hereby, the extent knowledge is diffused as indicated by the citation impact of a paper.
Estimates of global research productivity in virology This study shows that USA and Western Europe produced the majority of the world's research in terms of both quantity and quality in the field of Virology. On the other hand, it is disappointing to see that the production of research in the field of Virology is extremely low by the developing regions of the world. In summary, this study shows that developing areas of the world need urgently more help by the developed regions to enhance their research infrastructure. This is of vital importance because the research efforts performed by investigators from developing areas add considerable information for several basic science and clinical aspects of viral diseases.
Team assembly mechanisms determine collaboration network structure and team performance We have shown that team size evolves with time, probably up to an optimal size as in the case of the BMI.
Estimates of global production in cardiovascular diseases research The data suggest a promising trend: developing world regions, with the important exception of Africa, achieved a higher rate of increase in the number of published articles in the studied period.
Bibliometrics of a controversial scientific literature: Polywater research, 1962-1974 These findings suggest a strong reliance on the foundational knowledge by researchers when faced by a new, controversial discovery, which is reflected in its literature by a high P for books. The effect of the number author self-citations and uncited publications on the impact of journal publications (both Cj and CPPj) are negligible in controversial literatures. More work is needed in this area as well.
Bibliometric laws:: Empirical flaws of fit The above results clearly lead to the conclusion that it is vital to find a model that adequately fits the empirical values. This implies a revision of the fundamentals of the fractal model, since, as shown, the inverse power equations (of the Zipf–Mandelbrot type) are not adequate, as they need to include exponential terms.
The unified scientometric model.: Fractality and transfractality The Unified Scientometric Model presented in this work represents the quantification of the Actor-Network Theory and Translation Theory, as well as their integration with the Fractal and Accumulated-Advantages Models. Similarly, it expands the Fractal Model paradigm through the concepts of the Index of Fractality and Transfractality. Future works will show that the model proposed is capable even of explaining simultaneously the Mateo Effect, the advantage of the “elite", the Ortega hypothesis, and the advantage of the “mediocre". Furthermore, it will be shown that it is an effective tool for making predictions, thanks to an innovative combination of relational indicators of activity.
Analysis of the field of physical chemistry of surfactants with the Unified Scienctometric Model.: Fit of relational and activity indicators In conclusion, the Unified Scientometric Model is, for its flexibility and its integrating capacity, an appropriate model for representing Science, joining non-relational with relational Scientometrics under the same paradigm.
An explanation of disproportionate growth using linear 3-dimensional informetrics and its relation with the fractal dimension Applying the mathematical theory of Lotkaian 3-dimensional informetrics, as developed in EGGHE (2003, 2004a), yields a formula of the growth rate of items in function of the growth rate of sources, involving a parameter that is determined by the growth of super sources. This parameter explains both types of disproportionate growth and even proportionate growth.
Selection of research fellowship recipients by committee peer review. Reliability, fairness and predictive validity of Board of Trustees' decisions All in all, the results show that the selection procedure implemented by the Boehringer Ingelheim Fonds is highly valid, meaning that it achieves its objective to select the best junior scientists to receive fellowships. However, our study found some evidence that three potential sources of bias (institutional affiliation, major field of study and gender) may influence the decisions of the Board of Trustees.
Korean science and international collaboration, 1995-2000 The findings show that the number of publications by Korean researchers increased more than 80% between the years 1995–1997 and 1998–2000. Nevertheless, the data show a clear decrease of Korea's international collaboration level after the economic change. The U.S.A. has been the most significant collaborating country with Korea, especially in clinical medicine, earth and space science, and mathematics.
What's in a title? Numbers of words and the presence of colons The main findings of this paper are common to both Studies 1 and 2. It appears that: 1. Titles have been increasing in length over time. 2. The average number of authors per paper has been increasing over time. These results suggest that research in the sciences is now so international in its language that national differences in the titles of articles are no longer noticeable.
Characteristics of Journal Impact Factors: The effects of uncitedness and citation distribution on the understanding of journal impact factors The research conducted for this study clearly indicates that Impact Factors are multi-faceted bibliometric indicators.
Relativity of citation performance and excellence measures: From cross-field to cross-scale effects of field-normalisation The instability of impact measures should not be interpreted in terms of lack of robustness but rather as the co-existence of various perspectives each having their own form of legitimacy.
Median and percentile impact factors: A set of new indicators "As is Garfield's impact factor (GARFIELD & SHER, 1963) so is also the Median Impact Factor an ad hoc proposal."
The anthrax scare and the Web: A content analysis of Web pages linking to resources on anthrax The methods presented here can be utilized in order to characterize pages and linking patterns of Web pages linking to a set of predefined pages, and the findings of this specific study can serve as a basis for comparison. The facets introduced can be applied to other topics as well. Future characterization using the same or similar methodology will enable comparison of page characteristics and linking patterns of pages linking to a predefined set of pages on different topics on the Web.
Application of scientometric methods to chemical research in Iran: Reflections on Iran's current science policy We believe the answer to the last question and many of the others that may have arisen from scrutinizing the results presented here, lies in the simple belief by all involved in the superficially positive results represented by the data in Figure 1 of this paper. The Achilles heel of the policy was, however, the incentive of a secure faculty position for the candidate and various post salary remunerations, including substantial per publication bonuses for his/her supervisor. What is to be done? In short, now that our initial dire need for university science teachers has diminished and perhaps we will soon be facing an overproduction of such graduates, we should decrease the financial support for non-directed research, prepare a policy to promote dedicated, long drawn out research projects, and especially, begin a program of promoting and remunerating those would-be technologists, who manage to create and transfer a reverse-engineered, home-made, technology into a viable production unit.
Reference-based publication networks with episodic memories Thus, we conclude that the topological changes reported in this paper are indeed due to time-dependent effects.
Early citation counts correlate with accumulated impact The relationships between initial, later and total citation counts analysed in this paper indicate that across reasonably large samples of research publications (not individual papers) it is possible to use initial citation counts predictively to index emerging quality relative to the field.
Biotechnology research profile of India After achieving global recognition in the software sector, India's potential in Biotechnology has been touted upon by the Indian industry. The present study profiles the emerging Biotechnology research of India and throws light on the various facets of its Biotechnology research output. The study shows that the publication in Biotechnology has reached all time high in the recent years.
The Life Sciences - the relative contribution of the University of Sao Paulo to the highest impact factor journals and to those with the largest number of articles, 1980 to 1999 This result suggests that although USP is responsible for approximately 30% of Brazilian scientific output, its scientific production has a peculiar feature, as it seems to be more focused on traditional fields where research is mainly oriented toward international interests.
Are the contributions of China and Korea upsetting the world system of science? A completely different dynamics can be perceived at the margins of the system.
Does scientific collaboration increase the impact of ecological articles? Overall, our study has shown that scientific collaboration in ecology has a fairly minor, and not always positive, effect on the citation rates of the resulting publications. Future studies should examine the impact of scientific collaboration in ecology on these aspects as well. Until evidence of such an impact is found, however, decisionmakers should be cau- tious about assigning too much importance to the presence of scientific collaboration in the allocation of research funds.
Comparative analysis of webometric measurements in thematic environments We have used a thematic Web environment to analyze the relationships between several webometric measures belong-ing to two groups of indicators (one based on the formal characteristics of Web spaces and the other on their link structure).
Relying on electronic journals: Reading patterns of astronomers When compared to other scientific disciplines, astronomers are on the high end of use of electronic journals and e-print services. Nearly 80% of their readings come from electronic alternatives.
Gatekeeping indicators exemplified by the main players in the international gatekeeping orchestration of analytical chemistry journals There have been some spectacular dropping outs and ascensions in the structure of the top 10 decision-making coun-tries in analytical chemistry during the last about 30 years.
The clustering power of low frequency words in academic webs We have shown that low frequency words are useful for academic domain clustering.
Open access and openly accessible: a study of scientific publications shared via the internet Decentralised sharing of scientific reprints through the internet creates a degree of de facto open access that, though highly incomplete in its coverage, is none the less biased towards publications of higher popular demand. More studies will need to be done, however, before motivations for sharing scientific publications are better understood.
Finding hidden semantics behind reference linkages: An ontological approach for scientific digital libraries In this paper we investigate the usage of a domain-specific ontology to improve semantic linking of scientific literature via reference indices among different scientific papers.
Where does research occur in geriatrics and gerontology? One of the keys to stimulating research in less wealthy countries would seem to be precisely through collaboration.
Self plagiarism in computer science It is our belief that self-plagiarism is detrimental to scientific progress.
The exact rank-frequency function and size-frequency function of N-grams and N-word phrases with applications The paper closes with the calculation of type/token averages μN and type/token-taken averages μ*N for N-grams and N-word phrases, where we also verify the theoretically proved result μ*N ≥ μN but where we also give estimates for the differences μ*N - μN.
The open research system: a web-based metadata and data repository for collaborative research We conclude with a discussion of possible improvements that will be made to the system in the coming years, with an emphasis on the emerging phenomenon of “open content" (OC) collaboration that is being modeled after Internet-based collaboration in “open source" (OS) programming. Systems like ORS, with improved development and enhancement, could contribute significantly toward new forms of scientific collaboration.
The most cited authors and papers in tobacco control Both lists of highly cited authors are heavily dominated by "big" epidemiology papers, often being multiple risk factor studies where tobacco was one (important) variable being examined. These studies have often been the bedrock on which tobacco control policy rests and so are deservedly important. There are several reasons to limit interpretations of the results presented.
Citation statistics from 110 years of Physical Review The PR citation data provide a unique window for studying the development of citations, and the work I have described can be extended and applied in many ways. A practical, if more controversial, use of citation data would be to construct retrospective journals that include only highly cited papers. A repository for all papers would still be necessary, though, as sleeping beauties do emerge long after publication.
National Institutes of Health Grant Awards for pain, nausea, and dyspnea research: An assessment of funding patterns in 2003 The interactive database and classification system for pain, nausea, and dyspnea research funded by the NIH reported on in this article represents an objective and verifiable resource for health policy makers and others interested in NIH funding decisions.
Tracking publication outcomes of National Institutes of Health grants The findings support the feasibility and potential utility of efforts to study the link between grant funding and research findings, an early step in the process by which funded science leads to improved clinical and public health.
Bibliometric analysis of global trends for research productivity in microbiology The results of our analyses indicate that Western Europe ranked first in the combined estimation of quantity and quality of microbiology articles published in microbiology journals between 1995 and 2003. Although the contribu-tion of other world regions is less significant, some regions made substantial progress in terms of research productivity during the period studied.
The modest but growing Brazilian presence in psychiatric, psychobiological and mental health research: assessment of the 1998-2002 period Despite the substantial barri- ers faced by the Brazilian scientific community (mainly financial and writing difficulties), Brazil's scientific mental health production is on the rise.
The journal gatekeepers of major publishing houses of core science journals The results as seen in Table 1, have confirmed our previous ones on the worldwide dominance of the gatekeepers from the US in science and in all subfields of science. However, it seems that in the preference of the major publishing houses for gatekeepers from different countries the US dominance is not that strong. In the case of some European publishing houses it seems that a certain preference for gatekeepers from Europe can be noticed.
Scientometrics of computer science research in India and China Chinese researchers prefer to publish their research results in domestic journals, while Indian researchers prefer to publish their research results in journals published in the west. Indian research output is significantly higher than Chinese research output. However, China may catch India in due course of time as in the later period its output has increased significantly. Indian researchers do more team research, as compared to Chinese researchers as seen from the proportion of two, multi-and mega-author papers.
Data envelopment analysis of OR/MS journals "In this paper a DEA-based study has been presented to analyze the relative performance of OR/MS journals on two accounts." "The results obtained show that most journals can make some improvements at reducing both types of delay." "According to the results obtained, only one journal is efficient on both accounts, some journals have to improve in only one of the two issues but the majority need to improve on both aspects."
National and international university departmental Web site interlinking. Part 1: Validation of departmental link analysis The significant correlations together with the categorization of target pages validate departmental interlinking as a useful data source to illustrate informal scholarly communication. This suggests that departmental interlinking is predominantly academic-related, and thus can be used to illustrate a type of informal scholarly communication on the Web. It is therefore desirable to use the ADMs in future departmental link investigations.
National and international university departmental Web site interlinking. Part 2: Link patterns With regard to the research question, differing link patterns have been identified along both country and disciplinary lines. Departments with better research performances tend to make more Web publications and create more links. With regard to international peer interlinking, countries having more formal scholarly communication tend to interlink more with each other.
Signals in science - On the importance of signaling in gaining attention in science First, the reputation of authors plays a role in gaining attention whether attention is measured by the cumulative impact of an idea or the speed with which an idea assimilates in the scientific community.
The influence of publication delays on impact factors This influence of publication delays on impact factors is serious.
Text mining the global abrupt-wing-stall literature The open literature references were almost disjoint with the contractor-report oriented references.
Hypothetical influence of non-indexed Spanish journals on the impact factor of radiological journals Differences between the 2001 original and modified impact factor were small, but larger in the American journals.
Effects of funding family physicians for advanced research training Fewer than half of awardees submitted reports at the end of the project to report on their achievements.
Google Scholar:: the pros and the cons "As Garfield pointed out, traditional indexing has serious limits, and adding more indexers would not be a panacea." "Unfortunately, G-S gives a bad name to autonomous citation indexing. It shows lack of competence, and understanding of basic issues of citation indexing." "Current developments validate his vision big time."
Scaling phenomena in the growth dynamics of scientific output It is indeed remarkable that for all levels of aggregation, i.e., from countries to research institutes to authors, the scaling parameter of growth as a function of size remains statistically comparable.
Zipfian and Lotkaian continuous concentration theory We have indicated how Zipf's law relates to the one of Lotka: For a > 1 they are equivalent provided that Equation 12 is valid.
Factor matrix text filtering and clustering Factor matrix filtering is an effective method for identifying the major themes in a text database, identifying the critical words that define the theme, selecting these critical words in context for clustering, and identifying which variants of these words can be conflated within the context of the specific database examined.
The relationship of records in multiple databases to their usage or citedness It is clear from Tables 3 and 4 that there is some relationship between high overlap and high citation. The results for this dataset would seem to support our conjecture that highly overlapping papers are also more highly cited. To demonstrate some causality will require further work.
Science, religion and economic development It can be concluded that [...] A minimum threshold of economic development (around GDP per capita of 1000US$) is required for sci-ence and the economy to in-teract. After that threshold, a positive interaction between economic development, scien-tific development and tolerant moral-religious attitude, seems to take place. The way these interac-tions occur remains to be uncovered.
Use of bibliometric modelling for policy making The study of the research performance of the three Australian geoscience research centres has revealed a number of anomalies in the generalisations made when one uses ISI indices on which to base policy decisions.
Trends in animal behaviour research (1968-2002):: ethoinformatics and the mining of library databases This study confirms that the study of animal behaviour is active, healthy, and growing.
A bibliometric study of differential item functioning In sum, the present article has offered an overview of scientific output in the field of DIF.
Journals of general & internal medicine and surgery: An analysis and comparison of citation The results of Pearson correlation test reveal that the frequently published journals are cited more frequently and also with high impact factor and immediacy index, in addition, they are usually accompanied with short citing half-life (usually cite current literature).
Core technologies and key industries in Taiwan from 1978 to 2002: A perspective from patent analysis Our analysis of patent classification indicates the major patent technologies in Taiwan are mostly related to electrical, electronic, optical and information technologies, including Semiconductor device manufacturing: process, Electrical connectors, Active solid-state devices, Electrical systems and devices, Static information storage and retrieval, Radiation imagery chemistry: process, composition, or product thereof, Computer graphics processing, operating interface processing, and selective visual display systems, and Miscellaneous active electrical nonlinear devices, circuits, and systems, etc., among which Semiconductor device manufacturing: process is the most important focus.
Counting methods are decisive for rankings based on publication and citation studies The results show that rankings based on publications per mill. inhabitants are influenced strongly by the use of Total or Fractional Counting.
Comparison of scientific impact expressed by the number of citations in different fields of science It seems that the law of the constant ratio, described in this brief note, gives reasonable results and can be used in average as a macro criterion for comparing the scientific impact of research institutions belonging to different fields of science. At micro level, it can be used (with care) for comparing scientists with low or average scientific impact from the viewpoint of citations of their works. The approach suggested in this article can bring mathematicians, engineers, and other “less visible” scientists to the multidisciplinary lists of high-impact scientists, thus correcting the approach used in Ref. 6 and other similar lists.7
Mapping the contemporary terrorism research domain: Researchers, publications, and institutions analysis The mapping of contemporary terrorism research provides a perspective that heretofore has not been afforded.
Worldwide research productivity in critical care medicine Significant scientific progress in critical care research took place during the period of study (1995-2003).
Personometrics:: Mapping and visualizing communication patterns in R&D projects Personometrics, as put forward in this study, intends to advance our understanding of people as information objects by mapping and visualizing the intellectual structures embedded in interpersonal communication patterns.
Query refinement through lexical clustering of scientific textual databases BLR strategy is shown to improve on the best performance in an experimental information retrieval system. There are interesting future research directions based on this work. BLRs may be used to produce a graph where vertices are BLR arguments. Such structure may be useful for applications like text categorization and summarization. In IR, this graph assumes both index and thesaurus characteristics.
R-sequences: Relative indicators for the rhythm of science The sequence of rhythm indicators R_i = O_i/E_i(R = O/E) satisfies the requirements set out in the introduction.
Web citation data for impact assessment: A comparison of four science disciplines On the individual article level, there is a significant cor-relation between ISI and Web citations.
Statistical relationships between downloads and citations at the level of individual documents within a single journal Findings suggest that initial downloads and citations relate to distinct phases in the process of collecting and processing relevant scientific information that eventually leads to the publication of a journal article.
How international are leading general paediatric journals? Therefore, the numbers for leading general paediatric journals are the worst.
European Union scientific production on alcohol and drug misuse (1976-2000) PsycINFO is useful for making comparisons between countries, because it includes the name and country of the institution. The number of publications in the EU on alcohol and drug misuse increased over the quarter-century analysed. The difficulties experienced in identifying the authors who participated in the articles lead to the recommendation that authors should be more consistent in the use of their forenames and initials.
Research articles published in clinical radiology journals: Trend of contribution from different countries In conclusion, our analysis elicits 20 top-ranking coun-tries for research output in the field of clinical radiology and reveals that the shares of the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada have decreased, whereas that of Japan, France, Germany, Italy, South Korea, Spain, Swit-zerland, Turkey, Austria, and China have increased in the last decade.
Publication success in Nature and Science is not gender dependent Collectively, these results suggest that publication success in Science and Nature is not related to gender. Understanding and addressing the causes of the "productivity puzzle" remains an elusive key to redressing the gender differences that persist in science.
The 75th Anniversary of Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport:: An analysis of status and contributions RQ/RQES is the most enduring journal in the field.
Comparison of amount of biomedical research originating from the European Union and the United States The newest EU members and the EU candidate countries need further help and resources to increase their productivity, thereby improving the productivity of the EU as a whole.
Scientific Web intelligence: Finding relationships in university Webs The potential exists, however, for data min-ing approaches along the lines of those based upon citation analysis, such as discovering previously unidentified connections between different lines of research [6].
The relative ineffectiveness of bibliographic search engines The results just described, however, show that this essential tool is far from perfect. Given the ineffectiveness of search engines, their use in making such important personal and institutional decisions needs careful consideration. While appreciating the essential function of these engines, it seems salutary to be aware of the imperfec-tion of the data records they produce, and take measures to supplement their use with more traditional methods for bib-liographic searches.
The use of the generalized Waring process in modelling informetric data The GWP is advocated as a possible alternative to the more familiar GP (gamma-Poisson) process for modelling informetric data sets, particularly in bivariate cases where there is evidence of linearity of the regression function between one time period and the next. In all cases, the point of seeking to model informetric data through a counting process, rather than simply a probability distribution or even a static mathematical function, is that it allows predictions regarding future developments to be made. In other words we can extrapolate beyond the data to hand.
Competition for funding as an indicator of research competitiveness In this work, we have carried out a pilot exercise in constructing indicators, using information on the results of competition for public research funding with award procedures using peer review, for measuring the research competitiveness of Spanish research institutions, addressing mainly three dimensions of the research activity: capabilities, effort and success. The construction of indicators using project funding data may be extended to other competitive funding instruments used by governments, as long as the conditions mentioned earlier are present. Important tasks still remain for another occasion, such as a causal analysis of the variables that may determine research effort and scientific excellence, or a large-scale study of the correlation between the indicators resulting from competitive research funding subjected to peer review and the scientific production and impact indicators that are customarily used in bibliometric techniques, in order to advance towards more complex indicators.
The scholarly transition of female academics at the University of Granada (1975-1990) The means used by women teachers at the University of Granada during the 1975-1990 period to disseminate the results of their research are the following: first, scholarly journal articles occupying 59.4% of the total of publications analysed, doctoral theses come second with 23% and in third place, monographs which represent 17.6% of the total output. Changes occurring during the Spanish political Transition set the foundations for more women to join research activity. It also provides the groundwork for quality participation, but not to centres of power and decision-making within the academic structure.
Mapping the backbone of science This paper presents a novel map of the global structure of all of science. The map was generated from the combined SCI and SSCI files for the year 2000, includes 7,121 journals that appeared as both citing and cited journals, and shows the relation of these journals based on their citation interlinkages. We believe that these global maps of science will enable researchers and practitioners to search for and benefit from results and expertise across scientific boundaries, counterbalancing the increasing fragmentation of science and the resulting duplication of work.
Ten years Matthew effect for countries I am convinced it will not lose its fascination and importance in the years to come.
Scientific journal publications:: On the role of electronic preprint exchange in the distribution of scientific literature The arXiv case demonstrates how validity of research is granted on two levels, first in the open exchange of unrefereed papers and later by way of scientific publications that lend the vital token value to the work. The effects will be felt in wider social-cultural contexts and journals are prone to change.
Symmetry and other transformation features of Lorenz/Leimkuhler representations of informetric data Although the development is purely theoretical, the aim is to provide additional and more incisive analytic tools for the practising informetrician.
Continuous, weighted Lorenz theory and applications to the study of fractional relative impact factors In this paper we introduced impact Lorenz curves yielding all fractional (according to citations or to publications) relative impact factors which have the advantage not to be dependent on field or journal size and also one is not limited to a fixed time period for the calculation of the impact factor. These impact Lorenz curves are examples of weighted Lorenz curves of a continuous variable which are introduced in this paper. Since, as is clear from (102), the parameter ln c / ln p is crucial in this theory, we present 4 methods to calculate this parameter, given practical data. Examples are presented.
Conglomerates as a general framework for informetric research In this article we presented a general framework for bibliometric-scientometric-informetric-webometric-cybermetric studies.
Production and use of information. Characterization of informetric distributions using effort function and density function - Exponential informetric process This characterization cla- rifies, without using the powerful result of Price on the cumulative advantages process, the principle of least effort, which is expressed by the properties of the logarithmic function. This property, with that of invari- ance of scale, (Egghe, in press) gives Lotkaian informetrics all its force.
The effect of use and access on citations Taken together these figures suggest that, in astronomy, there is a strong EA effect and a strong SB effect; there is also no indication of any OA effect. We suggest that the basic reason why there seems no OA effect in astronomy is that for a person to be in the position to write an article for a core astronomy journal that person must already be in a position to read those journals, and must also be in a position to perform astronomical research. We believe that the claims that the citation rate ratio of papers openly available on the internet (via ArXiv or some other mechanism) vs those not available through those means is caused by the increased readership of the open articles (Brody et al., 2004; Lawrence, 2001) this is sometimes called the Lawrence Effect, or the OA advantage) are somewhat overstated, especially for well funded disciplines with high barriers to entry.
Challenges of scholarly publications on the Web to the evaluation of science - A comparison of author visibility on the Web and in print journals The present study has explored these through a citation analysis of author visibility in one particular research field—the XML research field. It has revealed different scholarly communication patterns in this field on the Web and in print journals in terms of author visibility, has challenged the common practice of using the ISI's databases exclusively to obtain citation counts as scientific performance indicators, and has found evidence for an emerging "two tier" scholarly communication system. We hope that the present study motivates further research in this area to contribute to the transition of the scholarly communication system from one that has evolved with print journals as the center to one that works best for the networked digital environment.
Toward alternative metrics of journal impact: A comparison of download and citation data We believe the results represent a unique aspect of general journal impact that is not captured by the ISI IF.
Revisiting 'obsolescence' and journal article 'decay' through usage data: an analysis of digital journal use by year of publication While we did find that use dropped off less than might have been expected from our review of the literature we found little evidence to support Odlyzko (2000) observation that use actually increased with age.
Co-authorship networks in the digital library research community Our analysis paints the picture of a domain that is in many ways still evolving the rich networks of collaboration common in other areas of the scientific enterprise.
New indicators for gender studies in Web networks It may well be that, with webometric methods and new indicators for gender studies, there is a real continuation of gender equality in COLLNET over time.
Mathematical models for academic webs: Linear relationship or non-linear power law? Following linear regression, analysis of the logarithmic graphs showed that the linear power 1 fell within the 95% confidence interval for the following graphs: Number of unique source pages vs. staff number * RAE rating. Number of target pages vs. staff number * RAE rating. Number of unique source directories vs. staff number * RAE rating. Number of target directories vs. staff number * RAE rating.
Domain analysis and information retrieval through the construction of heliocentric maps based on ISI-JCR category cocitation These reflections serve to highlight the value of the methodology used, as they show that great domains can be represented even under somewhat unfavorable conditions.
Bibliometric maps of field of science Co-citation procedure provide its greater differentiating as compared to use of keywords.
Combining full text and bibliometric information in mapping scientific disciplines The results of this study have much deepened the findings of the pilot study.
An informetric investigation of the relatedness of opportunistic infections to HIV/AIDS Finally, this study strongly demonstrates the use of informetrics techniques in assessing the relatedness of a disease to the pathogens that are associated with it.
On publication rates in earthquake engineering The principal finding of this study is that the publication rates of senior professors in earthquake engineering are close to the national average publication rates in engineering and the sciences in the United States. Therefore, the publication productivity rate alone cannot be the reason for the absence of earthquake engineers from the HighlyCited. com list of most cited and influential researchers in engineering.
Mapping interdisciplinarity in demography: a journal network analysis By and large, our findings in this study advance the understanding of the interrelationships among demography-related journals in significant ways.
The analysis and evaluation of knowledge efficiency in research groups Finally, we provide some management suggestions for research groups to improve their knowledge creation efficiency.
The publication and citation output of German Faculties of Economics and Social Sciences - a comparison of faculties and disciplines based upon SSCI data For most disciplines, for which comparative studies of publication output have been carried out, the findings presented here confirm the results of those studies. Only an evaluation which uses a broad range of publication and citation measures can do justice to the large heterogeneity of social sciences disciplines represented at a faculty of economics and social sciences. In the view of the authors, there is no alternative to long-term quality assurance of research, including through permanent evaluation of publication output at dean and university president level.
Dynamics of the modern Venezuelan research community profile It has been shown that although from 1983 onwards there were no extraordinary inputs to the system, the national S&T system was capable to produce more (articles) towards the end of the century. This conclusion points to a community that for the last two decades of the twentieth century has been asphyxiated, using its reserves at maximum and rapidly consuming itself.
The use of bibliometric and Knowledge Elicitation techniques to map a knowledge domain: Software Engineering in the 1990s Together, classical Author Cocitation Analysis, PFNet Analysis, and Knowledge Elicitation methods (specifically card sorting) provide complementary views of a knowledge domain.
The White Bull effect: abusive coauthorship and publication parasitism This article introduces a new entity in scientific fraud, the White Bull. This is more than just a new premeditated way to avoid the accusation of gift authorship. More research is required on the personality and psychological aspects of scientific misconduct, and the sociology of scientific fraud. Methods such as psychological profiling may assist in the education of new researchers and perhaps raise institutional awareness of such possibilities of personality based scientific fraud.
Top-25-business-school professors rate journals in operations management and related fields I surveyed faculty at top US business schools rather than members of professional organizations, targeting respondents who are likely to be academic leaders of operations management and those likely to serve as references for promotion and tenure decisions.
Balance between education- and research-oriented publications from a Brazilian University Hospital The methodology described here to analyze the scientific production of a university hospital can be used as a tool to better understand the evolution of medical research in Brazil and also to help formulate public policies and new strategies to include research among the major objectives of University Hospitals.
A symbolic approach to automatic multiword term structuring Structuring multiword terms using symbolic criteria is a promising research concern as it enables us to discover automatically meaningful associations between domain concepts which are useful for several tasks.
Cuban scientific articles in ISI citation indexes and CubaCiencias databases (1988-2003) We can see that the CubaCiencias-DB and ISI-DBs are not perfectly suitable to study the productivity of Cuban authors.
The capital cities of the ten new European Union countries in selected bibliographic databases The comparison of the results among the cities shows that in many scientific disciplines non-ISI databases exhibit similar trends and may therefore, to some extent, serve as indicative of authorship patterns.
Some considerations on the use of the impact factor of scientific journals as a tool to evaluate research in psychology "The study showed that psychology journals were ranked in different positions in the different ISI categories they were listed under, and a high ranking journal in one category may not be included in another category, confirming yet again the complexity in evaluating the outcome of scientific research. Significant differences in citing and publishing habits among different research areas are well known, but significant differences between researchers within the same discipline must also be taken into account."
Engineering research in ocean sector: An international profile The present study is a temporal snapshot of the activity dynamics of the research strcuture in Ocean Engineering Research. Though the knowledge enterprise is always in a changing state, over a temporal and spatial dimension, it does show a pattern, particularly in respect to major players in the field. Study of this kind at a regular time interval will throw more light on the changing pattern of the research dynamics and its linkages with socio-economic indicators.
Comparison and evaluation of domestic and international outputs in Information Science & Technology research of China The output of the key projects during 1994–2001, as covered by the SCI and the CSTPC databases, amounts to a total of 2,252 papers.
A comparison of two bibliometric methods for mapping of the research front Conclusively, the results in this study would support a further comparative study of these methods on a detailed level and on a more qualitative ground.
Analysis and visualization of the DX community with information extracted from the web In this paper, two important conclusions can be highlighted. First, the resources available on the Internet can be exploited automatically when an adequate architecture is developed. The second conclusions, is the existence of uses for the visual analysis techniques in the development of interactive applications, thereby facilitating the tasks of the final user and the exploration of the research community.
Equity, accountability, transparency: Implementation of the contributorship concept in a multi-site study The ICMJE has agreed that the reward system for assigning authorship in publications deserves discussion and improvement. We feel any method that promotes collaboration among participants, while adher- ing to standards of equity, accountability, and trans- parency constitutes advancement in the field.
Financial anatomy of biomedical research Enhancing research productivity and evaluation of benefit are press- ing challenges, requiring (1) more effective translation of basic scientific knowledge to clinical application; (2) critical appraisal of rapidly moving scientific areas to guide investment where clinical need is greatest, not only where commercial opportunity is currently perceived; and (3) more specific information about sources and uses of re- search funds than is generally available to allow informed investment decisions.
The physician-scientist career pipeline in 2005 - Build it, and they will come Although it is too early to assess the impact of these indicators on the long-term career pathway, the recent growth in activity in the physician-scientist ca-reer pipeline is an encouraging development.
Manifestation of emerging specialties in journal literature: A growth model of papers, references, exemplars, bibliographic coupling, cocitation, and clustering coefficient distribution The model is especially insightful in its demonstration of the contribution of exemplar references to the clustering properties of both papers and references.
Ranking the research productivity of library and information science faculty and schools: An evaluation of data sources and research methods Because no database provides comprehensive coverage of the LIS literature, researchers must rely on a wide range of disciplinary and multidisciplinary databases for ranking and other research purposes.
Web hyperlink profiles of news sites - A comparison of newspapers of USA, Canada, and China The study shows that link analysis is a novel and useful method that journalists and information professionals can use to gauge online readership and potential impact of news sites. This kind of analysis complements but does not replace other web user studies such as web server log analysis.
Authorship ignorance: views of researchers in French clinical settings The ICMJE criteria were ignored by clinicians at a university hospital. Ghost and gift authorship were frequent among them. There is a need for French guidelines for authorship to be prepared and implemented. It could take a generation to improve authorship practice in France.
What makes the best medical ethics journal? A North American perspective A series of factors that medical ethics journals should strive to employ to encourage reviewing and submission of articles are recommended.
Searching association networks for nurturers Studying the evolution of association networks offers insights that researchers can be used for developing new forms of information retrieval and for improving searches. We expect new insights when applying these techniques to other data sets and expect this work to yield useful applications in information retrieval, Web search, targeted recommendations, human re-source management, and social network anal-ysis.
The share of items of highly productive sources as a function of the size of the system All these results are not only valid in the papers-citations relationships but in any informetric source-item relationship.
An evaluation of research performance for different subject categories using Impact Factor Point Average (IFPA) index: Thailand case study It was found that PN and PC indicators cannot be used for comparison between fields or countries because of the strong field-dependence. The Impact Factor Point Average (IFPA) index was found to be able to be used with equality, as compared to the PN and PC indexes, for assessing the research performance of Thai researchers in various subject categories during the five years from 1998 to 2002. Chemistry was shown to be the most improved subject category.
Domesticity and internationality in co-authorship, references and citations Neither of the indicators reported in this study has direct qualifying power, but each of them has definite science policy relevance if considered in narrower or wider context (i.e., together with other indicators reported in this study or with other bibliometric or even non-bibliometric indicators).
An exploratory study on collaboration profiles of Chinese publications in Molecular Biology The results indicate that foreign collaboration does contribute a lot to the improvement of the mainstream connectivity and international visibility.
Using categorisations of citations when assessing the outcomes from health research The results from this study contribute to methodological development for the large-scale project by indicating that: only for a small minority of citing papers is the cited paper of considerable importance; the number of times a paper is cited can not be used to indicate the importance of that paper to the articles that cite it; and self-citations could play an important role in facilitating the eventual outcomes achieved from a body of research.
Are "sleeping beauties" to be expected? Firstly, that moderately aroused Sleeping Beauties might very well be expected, assuming that the basic model and suggested parameter values are appropriate in the context of the application. On the other hand, we have failed to demonstrate that "outrageous" Sleeping Beauties – those lying dormant for a long period but then bursting into hyperactive life! – might be expected. Thus we would argue that informetrics/scientometrics is not just a matter of mathematical/statistical modelling (or analysis) but should always be directly addressed at a particular problem by taking full account of its context.
Does the h-index for ranking of scientists really work? All in all, the results suggest that the h-index is a promising rough measurement of the quality of a young scientist's work as it is judged by internationally renowned scientists in the field of biomedical sciences.
Who benefits from peer review?: An analysis of the outcome of 100 requests for review by Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery The peer-review system of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, in general, is beneficial. (Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 116: 1461, 2005.) The major drawback of the process, the implicit delay of publication, is very limited and may well be balanced by the improvement of the manuscript by the review. On the basis of the above, we conclude that the peer-review system of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery in general is beneficial and that peer review should be seen not as an obligatory process that bullies authors but as a shared system to improve science.
Do citation classics in rhinology reflect utility rather than quality? In conclusion citation rates when considered as an individual measure, reflect utility rather than quality.
Asthma in children: mapping the literature by bibliometric analysis There were several findings of the study. Publications on asthma in children in the world indexed in the SCI increased over the decade from the period of 1991-2002. On this topic, the US was the world leader and dominated most of the publications, followed by the UK.
The impact of research collaboration on scientific productivity When publishing productivity is measured by 'normal count' (a scientist's total number of publications), collaboration is a strong predictor of publishing productivity. When publishing productivity is measured by 'fractional count' (dividing credit by the number of co-authors), collaboration and publishing productivity are not significantly related, at least not in a model controlling for moderating variables. These findings suggest the need for more extensive research on the impact of collaboration, in all its forms, on research productivity, in all its meanings.
Collaborative research across disciplinary and organizational boundaries The multi-university projects we studied were less successful, on average, than projects located at a single university.
Reagency of the Internet, or, how I became a guest for science The main argument of this essay is that all initiatives are reagentive since they transmit streams of projects by means of identities into the scientific systems of ‘developing' areas. Only the connectivity initiative has the potential to change the structure of science.
Collaboration paradox: Scientific productivity, the Internet, and problems of research in developing areas Most important, the results above suggest a paradox that raises a number of questions for future studies: the very conditions that make the relationship between collaboration and productivity problematic in developing areas also undermine the collaborative benefits of new information and communication technologies. While collaboration may enhance productivity in the developed world, this study, as well as Shrum (2005), suggests that no such relationship should be expected where collaborations are introduced by donors from afar.
Essential tensions: Identity, control, and risk in research Research groups face an array of systemic tensions that must be navigated for the group to remain viable, and at every turn leaders face a question of balance: Allow autonomy or assert control?
Entomological website usage patterns "The patterns described above suggest that increased usage of Internet search engines has selectively increased the rates of viewing of specific FES and CMAVE web pages."
Assessing the relative influence of journals in a citation network This article examined the citing and cited patterns of 27 journals in IS and other areas of computing in order to assess their relative influence.
Research centers and institutes in US medical schools: A descriptive analysis Our data indicate that research centers and institutes are organizational units with many different purposes, forms, sizes, and scope.
Citation characteristics of basic science research publications in general surgical journals We found that BSR publications in the U.S. GS journals studied had significant citation frequencies. BSR rele- vant to surgical practice when published in GS jour- nals may be readily available to a large number of surgeons and surgical residents. This may facilitate easy translation and in some circumstances may stimulate surgeons and surgical residents to develop applicative aspect of that particular research.
Open access and academic journal quality In Section II, we highlighted some effects that would lead low-quality journals to adopt open access more readily than high-quality journals.
Mapping the global structure of Antarctic research vis-a-vis Antarctic Treaty System The present analysis throws light on the research structure of Antarctic science that is being practised by the nations under the ATS. Bibliometric analysis of Antarctic science on a regular basis will help visualize the functioning of the ATS, where science is occupying a central place.
Factors associated with academic radiology research productivity NIH funding, resident program size, and fellow characteristics are significantly associated with academic research output.
An index to quantify an individual's scientific research output In summary, I have proposed an easily computable index, h, which gives an estimate of the importance, significance, and broad impact of a scientist’s cumulative research contributions.
Mapping the Chinese Science Citation Database in terms of aggregated journal-journal citation relations The Chinese Science Citation Database thus exhibits the characteristics of "Mode 2” or transdisciplinary science in the production of scientific knowledge more than its Western counterpart does.
Relationship between journal impact factor and levels of evidence in anaesthesia The overall level of evidence published in anaesthesia journals was high. Journal rank according to impact factor is related to the number of publications, but not the proportion of publications that are evidence-based medicine level 1 or 2. Our study found no correlation between the EBM level of publication in a journal and the impact factor of that journal, suggesting that the impact factor does not reflect a journal's quality if EBM is considered to be a measure of scientific quality.
Tracking knowledge diffusion through citations We have sought to show that biomedical research in one subject area diffuses progressively into other sub-fields, and that it also diffuses geographically, through successive generations of citing papers.
Committee peer review at an international research foundation: predictive validity and fairness of selection decisions on post-graduate fellowship applications Our bibliometric analysis showed that this is indeed the case and that the selection procedure is thus highly valid. Whereas the influence of the applicant's last name on rejection or adjourning an application is statistically significant, the effect size is small; thus, a small amount of explained variation is real, not due to sampling error. Given this contrast between our finding and Cohen's (1991) reported observation and as to our knowledge after conducting a search of the literature — no other results are available on effects of order of reviewing the peer review process, we find that there is a need for further investigation of this issue in the research on committee peer review.
Is external research funding a valid indicator for research performance? Thus, the current widespread simple use of external funding as performance indicators is not justified.
Why do academic scientists engage in interdisciplinary research? We find some specific evidence of no or negative incentives provided by the academic reward systems toward performing interdisciplinary research.
Job advertisements as an indicator for mobility of researchers:: Naturejobs as a case study This case study shows that information from job advertisements could be used to assess some aspects of the international orientation of research organisations and countries' human resources policy. However, to analyze strengths and weaknesses of data on job ads as a tool to study the openness of the selec-tion procedures and researchers' mobility and to complement them, this pilot study should be further developed along two axes. On the other hand, to fully exploit their potential, information about selection process itself must be added to the data on job ads.
Analysis of Spanish scientific output following the joint action program (Acciones Integradas) of the ministry of science and technology (MCYT) Results from this study allow us to con-clude that the Joint Action Program of the Spanish MCYT efficiently promotes the ex-change of scientific and technical knowledge and the mobility of researchers.
Key labs and open labs in the Chinese scientific research system: qualitative and quantitative evaluation indicators The above analysis shows that bibliometric indica-tors must be used carefully for the performance of evaluation at the level of research labs (micro level).
Bibliometric indicators at the micro-level: Some results in the area of natural resources at the Spanish CSIC Our study indicates that obtaining bibliometric indicators at the individual level is a complex endeavour due to different methodological problems but, once it is achieved, it provides an interesting overview of the research performance of scientists in a given area. Micro-level studies can give support to committees and experts in their decisions concerning scientific management of centres and areas or in the assessment of the research performance of individual scientists, if combined with other types of indicators. It is strongly recommended not to take decisions relying only on bibliometric indicators, but in combination with other input and output data it can be very fruitful.
Regionalisation of science and technology data in Spain In summary, a low technology output is found in Spain as a whole and it appears that science and technology development goes hand in hand in most cases. Important differences in the involvement of the Spanish regions in scientific and techno-logical activities are observed. Madrid shows a unique profile, quite different from all the other Spanish regions.
German medical faculties in the 1990s: on-line bibliometric analysis During the 1990s, Germany's public medical univer-sity faculties have considerably increased their citation performance and simultaneously reduced the differences of their citation rates.
Cross-disciplinary research: co-evaluation and co-publication practices of the CNRS laboratories In the present paper, we have studied inter-disciplinary links between sub-disciplines through the common evaluation of laboratories, completed with their co-publications practices. For the CNRS, which has put the 'development of inter-disciplinarity' as one of its science policy priorities, we can say that, overall, the cross-disciplinary practices are largely widespread through CNRS laboratories and their researchers. Moreover, a deeper bibliometric analysis on journals of cross-disciplinary CNRS co-publications would allow a better comparison of cross-disciplinarity with other bibliometrics works on the same topics (Rinia et al, 2002; Bourke and Butler, 1998).
Citation analysis of database publications We note that the two main database conferences SIGMOD and VLDB have a substantially higher citation impact than the database journals TODS, VLDBJ and Sigmod Record, not only in terms of the total number of citations but also with respect to the two-year and five-year citation impact.
A citation-based system to assist prize awarding In this report we proposed and experimentally examined SCEAS Rank, a new alternative method for scientific publications evaluation, besides the known algorithms of PageRank and HITS. This might be helpful to short-list candidate authors for awarding during the next few years.
Automatic detection of survey articles In this paper, we proposed a method for detecting survey articles from a multilingual research paper database.
A comparison of on-line computer science citation databases We showed that autonomous acquisition by web crawling, (CiteSeer), introduces a significant bias against papers with low number of authors (less than 4).
Evaluation of Laboratory Directed Research and Development investment areas at Sandia We find that these tools and techniques hold great promise for aiding the future direction of the science and technology enterprise. The current approach of applying information visualization tools to the analysis of the LDRD portfolio enables a comprehensive assessment of the technological development trends occurring within our IAs. In the near future, we plan to expand our scope to include not only the LDRD information from DOE laboratories, but also much data from industry and academia.
Evolution of Spanish scientific production in international obstetrics and gynecology journals during the period 1986-2002 Spanish productivity in the field of obstetrics and gynecology increased considerably in the period 1986–2002. To conclude this bibliometric analysis and despite the limitations of this type of study, it can be stated that the material studied fulfils Price's Law of the growth scientific literature and that Spanish productivity in the field of obstetrics and gynecology experienced a significant increase during the period 1986-2002, both in total number of documents and in the relative participation in the interna-tional context. The contribution of reproductive medicine was a determining factor to this regard.
Interactions in knowledge production - A comparative case study of immunology research groups in Colombia and Brazil The study revealed that the research output of the Brazilian groups in immunology tends to be published in journals of low impact in comparison with the Colombian groups analysed.
Human resources and scientific output in Brazilian science - Mapping astronomy, immunology and oceanography In the present study, data on human resources in S&T activities in Brazil as well as data on scientific outputs were used to map the state of the art of three fields: astronomy, immunology and oceanography. It is clear from the data presented here that there is a close correlation between scientific outputs and the numbers of qualified researchers, although traditions also play a part. Brazilian public universities are the institutions that contribute most to the scientific production of the country (Table V).
Going beyond journal classification for evaluation of research outputs - A case study of global astronomy and astrophysics research Practical implications – Use of title words in addition to journal lists is essential to sub-field definition in order to have high precision and recall.
Acknowledged: analysing the bibliometric presence of the multiple sclerosis society To conclude, the evidence on the bibliometric presence of the MSS establishes that it has high visibility, a distinct research orientation and high and leading impact factor. Inverting some of the logic of the argument, we see that the funding of research also generates in-house institutional competence that enables the society to engage in policy and regulatory forums. As leading funding agencies in their biomedical sub-fields, patient groups like the MSS will have an indirect, mediated and reciprocal relationship with corporate research agenda. These complex interactions may largely occur through funding of scientists that are directly or indirectly connected to the corporate sector. This is a line of inquiry to be pursued in the future.
Does collaborating with academia improve industry science? Evidence from the UK biotechnology sector, 1988-2001 Data from 1988-2001 of UK biotechnology's research output were used to investigate the impact of public-private collaboration on research quality.
Scholarly communication in the digital environment - The 2005 survey of journal author behaviour and attitudes In determining where to publish, the author population as a whole did not attach much importance to the issues of being able to retain their copyright in the article, nor to gaining permission to place a pre- or post-print on the web or in some kind of repository.
A bibliometric analysis of global research production in respiratory medicine The data suggest that there was a significant research activity in the field of respiratory medicine during the studied period.
An analysis of the most cited articles in software engineering journals - 1999 It is concluded that more journals are represented on the top list of 1999 than in 1994. No major differences could be identified when it comes to changes in topics. However, it is identified that more empirical articles are on the top list in 1999 than in 1994.
Analysis of the 96 most often cited articles published in veterinary journals in 2002 and 2003 It can be concluded from Table 1, that more than half of the highly cited articles (56 out of 96 = 58%) were published in only 7 out of the 123 (6%) journals. Forty-nine of the 96 articles (51%) originated from only two of the countries being England (15x) and USA (34x) (Table 2).
Accuracy of referencing in the ophthalmic literature Citation and quotation errors are rela- tively common within the ophthalmic literature.
The feature of papers and citation analysis of eleven journals in tropical medicine indexed by Science Citation Index Expanded The conclusion is that these journals covered most research done in these countries or regions.
Scientific genealogies of physical and mechanistic organic chemists The reader is invited to explore these trees in a self-discovery approach and verify for themselves the previous points through their own personal experiences.
Publication specific impact of articles published by rheological journals It therefore seems that referees and editors (if not the authors) did a very good job in taking care about 'appropriate lengths' of articles.
The reliability of peer review in anthrozoology Our first research question was, to what extent did independent experts agree in their evaluations of proposals submitted to IAHAIO 2004? The answer is, not much—particularly for presentations in the research and in the applied programs categories.
Comparison and analysis of the citedness scores in web of science And Google Scholar WoS identifies far more citing sources per source documents than GS.
Bibliometric analysis of Human Factors (1970-2000):: A quantitative description of scientific impact The bibliometric analyses reported here show that Human Factors has substantial influence on scientific progress in the field of human factors and ergonomics, as measured by impact, immediacy, and half-life. Making the full text of all Human Factors papers available on line would likely increase the impact, immediacy, and half-life of the journal. This paper presents one set of bibliometric analyses. Many others could provide useful insights into the field, such as analysis of the citation history and relative impact of various topic areas.
Coauthorship dynamics and knowledge capital: The patterns of cross-disciplinary collaboration in information systems research The author network reveals, at the individual level, who is connected with whom in terms of research collaboration.
How to measure the meanings of words?: Amour in Corneille's work One must bear in mind that, since it is impossible to measure a phenomenon whose observations are made without precision, all these calculations require careful standardisation of word spelling and, for French, tagging (“lemmatisation") of each token in the texts. These calculations enable quick and simple explorations of large series of texts, such as literary corpora, and they can provide much more information in a com-parison of two authors. At the very least, with the help of these methods, it seems possible to answer some of the interesting questions posed by H. Craig concerning authorship attri-bution studies: " If you can tell authors apart, have you learned anything about them?" (Craig, 1999).
The structure of international internet hyperlinks and bilateral bandwidth The article has demonstrated that a single interconnected network, the www, exists among the advanced nations of the world.
The librarian's role in institutional repositories Our conclusion is that the growth in literature demonstrates that IRs are gaining in momentum throughout academia.
Leading roles for reference librarians in institutional repositories At HSLIC, reference librarians are uniquely qualified and poised to incorporate institutional repository duties into daily responsibilities. The leading role requires a willingness to be a change agent and to continually assess changing roles and service impacts.
Flink: Semantic Web technology for the extraction and analysis of social networks In this article, we have shown how advanced technologies from the Semantic Web domain (applied information extraction, knowledge representation, ontology mapping) can help in this process.
The Evolution of the UK’s Research Assessment Exercise: Publications, Performance and Perceptions As has been shown, rules imposed by the RAE have led to the ‘measurement' of quality, in a large part by the role ascribed to journals, in the process itself.
Mapping the network of global science: comparing international co-authorships from 1990 to 2000 Overall, the data supports our expectation that the science system is further developing into a network structure operating at the global level, one that is taking on dynamic characteristics.
Comparing rankings of search results on the Web The findings of this study clearly show that search engines employ very different ranking algorithms.
The Journal of medical genetics and open access publishing: to choose or not to choose? If this experiment with open access is successful, we anticipate a gradual transition in which author publication fees will allow subscription rates to be reduced as the journal becomes increasingly open access.
Web visibility of online newspapers The analysis of the links to the four newspaper Websites provides information on their relative Web visibility.
Intellectual structure and subject themes in information systems research: A journal cocitation study The results of this study provide a picture of the content and structure of IS research during the decade of the 1990s. These results demonstrate that IS is an identifiable discipline composed of a number of interrelated fields. The IS discipline would benefit from future research that tracks changes in the discipline over time, particularly as new outlets for scholarly communication arise.
Web Citation by Graduate Students: A Comparison of Print and Electronic Theses This research suggests that Web citations are a small—but increasing—percentage of citations in graduate student theses.
The effect of journal title changes on impact factors The results of this study indicate that after the change of title, a journal’s impact factor is affected for longer than originally thought.
The web as a free source for scientific information: a comparison with fee‐based databases This study shows that the web has reached a certain level of maturity in regard to scientific and qualitative content and can be considered a worthwhile source of scientific information.
Quantifying Publication Impact This alternative parameter c would be a much better measure of current research impact.
Assessing the authoritativeness of Canadian and American health documents: a comparative analysis using informetric methodologies This study reveals that, in general, health publications from both countries are subjected to a fairly rigorous publication standard.
The Research Productivity of Black Economists: Ranking by Individuals and Doctoral Alma Mater—Comment The analysis here suggests that it is, indeed, the very least that could be done, if productivity is to be correctly measured. It would, indeed, be useful to observe how the authors' results would be affected by the above necessary adjustment, involving at least the conservative use of 1/n as the adjustment weight.
Reflexivity in e-science The structures of power in scientific virtual communities are problematized by their continuing enmeshment into the institutional structures of late capitalism, such as the entrepreneurial university, the engineering firm, and the information systems that they inhabit.
Impact of SciELO and MEDLINE indexing on submissions to Jornal de Pediatria In conclusion, we have shown that the indexing of Jornal de Pediatria in SciELO and MEDLINE increased its worldwide visibility, as well as an overall perception of attributed quality, thus stimulating researchers to submit their manuscripts for publication.
Measurement of Central Aspects of Scientific Research: Performance, Interdisciplinarity, Structure I presented an overview of advanced bibliometric methods for the objective and transparent assessment of strengths and weaknesses in research performance and for monitoring scientific, particularly interdisciplinary, developments.
The basis for bibliomining: Frameworks for bringing together usage-based data mining and bibliometrics through data warehousing in digital library services Integrating bibliomining into current research and evaluation efforts will allow library managers and researchers a more complete idea of the resources contained in their library and how they are being accessed by users. This combination of a built-in data warehouse, interactive reporting module, standards for report description, and modular design will make it much easier for library decision-makers to get involved with bibliomining. The final and most long-lasting area of research that bibliomining can inspire is improving understanding of digital libraries at a generalized, and perhaps even conceptual, level.
An annotation paradigm: The social hyperlink This poster characterizes the reasons for linking using existing taxonomies coupled with the direct approach of interviewing web page authors and their readers.
Gender and Commercial Science: Women’s Patenting in the Life Sciences Our results suggest that the nature of commercial gender disparity is complicated: not easily depicted by a single measure or patent count, and further- more requires consideration of locational variables such as employment sector.
Scientists and Self-Doubt Across Strata of Academic Science This work has investigated physicists' perspectives on attainment across strata of science. It has examined these perspectives via physicists' self-doubts in their roles.
Is Science A Case of Wasteful Competition? Contrary to the messages brought across by citation and publication statistics, science is not a clear-cut case of wasteful competition.
Developing a predictive model of editor selectivity in a current awareness service of a large digital library This article provides quantitative evidence that a setup like NEP, in which each individual editor acts autonomously as to what papers to include in a report, is not likely to achieve 100% coverage. There is quantitative evidence that editors also filter for quality of papers.
Factors determining subscription prices of scholarly journals in business discipline: Themes and variations The findings of this study show that the average subscription price per year for business journals puts business journals among the high-cost disciplines, closely behind the top 10 high-cost group identified by Van Orsdel and Born [11, pp. 5-6]. Future studies should continue to explore these themes and variations in order to have a better understanding of factors affecting subscription prices of scholar journals in different disciplines.
Using digital data and bibliometric analysis for researching doctoral education This is in contrast to the more familiar use of data based on student load or completion rates, and complements that data by focusing on research output as opposed to student throughput.
Journal interaction "The analysis indicates several underlying factors within citation patterns in economics that should be accounted for when doing citation analysis for evaluation purposes."
Scale-Independent Bibliometric Indicators Conventional CPP measures can be supplemented with scale-independent measures that are corrected for the scaling correlation between C and P. Scale-independent indicators might increase our confidence in the indicators that we are using to evaluate research performance.
Citations and Links as a Measure of Effectiveness of Online LIS Journals First, e-journals in LIS are becoming a significant body of literature, as evidenced by the fact that they appear in significant numbers in ISI's citation count, if not yet in the formal Journal Citation Reports. Second, analysis of links made to e-journals indicates that a majority are to article content, indicating that links are performing some of the functions of conventional citations. Third, e-journal publishers need to be aware of different measures of effectiveness.
Analysis and Visualization of Scientific Communities with Information Extracted from the Web Como conclusiones destacar dos, la primera, es que los recursos disponibles en Internet se encuentran aún poco explotados.
Peering inside research networks: Some observations on the effect of the intensity of collaboration on the variability of research quality The conclusion is therefore drawn that collaboration at the level of the research network acts upon research quality qua peer review and that this peer review effect is inherent throughout the research process.
The Use of Double Anonymity in Peer Review: A Decision Whose Time Has Come? The current system of peer review, whilst working in the large majority of cases, in not perfect or always fully transparent and could be improved upon. The invitation is open to scientific journals to consider instigating "double anonymity" in peer review. To those who care most about fairness of judgement and the supremacy of scientific rigour in journals and periodicals, there can be no drawbacks, only benefits.
How advanced is the strategy paradigm? The role of particularism and universalism in shaping research outcomes Our results indicate that strategy has the attributes of both an early stage and mature field: while overall research norms are low relative to other fields, they are driven far more by merit-based than non-merit factors.
Publications as a measure of scientific advancement and of scientists' productivity The review of the research literature concludes that journal peer review is valid and does in fact function as a quality filter.
Web authoring tools and meta tagging of page descriptions and keywords Broadly, there appears to be no correlation between use of identifiable authoring tools and inclusion or length of meta tagged descriptions or keywords in web pages.
Comparing and evaluating public research organisations: a unique, participatory mechanism in place in France These three examples underscore the need to involve institutions themselves directly and cooperatively in the process of building the indicators, even if doing so increases the workload of the operator.
The Impact of Gender on Citations: An Analysis of &lt;i&gt;College &amp; Research Libraries, Journal of Academic Librarianship,&lt;/i&gt; and &lt;i&gt;Library Quarterly&lt;/i&gt; The three LIS core journals seem to be affected by gender bias in the referring process and in the shares of citations authors receive between 1980 and 2000. This conclusion is based on findings that support the assertion that female and male authors appear to have gendered preferences regarding the research they use. More research of gender impact on citations is needed, on the one hand, to eliminate the reasonable supposition that the differences depend on variables other than gender and, on the other hand, to explore what the tendency means to LIS research.
Data structuring and classification in newly‐emerging scientific fields A more accurate classification should improve thesauri and consequently enhance retrieval in international databases.
A comparison of the knowledge-based innovation systems in the economies of South Korea and the Netherlands using Triple Helix indicators The conclusion was that South Korea has a strong patent portfolio in the USPTO database, but that a relation with the knowledge base of this portfolio is not visible in terms of publication patterns of Korean scholars.
Business Faculty Research: Satisfaction with the Web versus Library Databases Thus despite the Web's clear edge in ease of use and similarity to databases in timeliness, databases received a higher score in overall satisfaction among those who used them than did the Web. Librarians serving faculty in business need to be aware not only of the various sub-scription databases in the field but also the many sources of valuable free business information on the Web. Librarians can offer training in subscription databases in order to increase faculty members' comfort with database interfaces that are often less user-friendly than free Web search engines.
Taxonomy for science and engineering indicators: a reassessment Ultimately, users will find data that further disaggregate S&E fields more useful than the current S&E field taxonomy.
Going beyond counting first authors in author co‐citation analysis A comparison between first-author and all-author co-citation analyses of the XML research field has indicated that an all-author co-citation analysis, which takes into account more links between related authors, results in a considerably clearer picture of the intellectual structure of a research field than the classic first-author co-citation analysis.
Culture and the Structure of the International Hyperlink Network The results indicated that national culture is significantly related to network centrality and its overall structure.
Open access journal publishing: the views of some of the world's senior authors Perhaps the biggest finding to emerge from the study is the general ignorance of OA publishing on the part of relatively senior scholarly authors. Undoubtedly, therefore, our main recommendation is that there should be an educational campaign to bridge the knowledge gap between the publishers and the authors. The second most interesting finding was the diversity of opinion and practice amongst authors, with real differences emerging between the authors of different disciplines and countries.
Why is it difficult to find comprehensive information? Implications of information scatter for search and design Furthermore, the results helped to make explicit the knowledge needed by searchers to find comprehensive healthcare information, and suggested the motivation to explore distribution-conscious approaches for the development of future search systems, search interfaces, Web page designs, and training.
Metadata characteristics as predictors for editor selectivity in a current awareness service The most important conclusion of our work is that the quality theory about editor behavior cannot be dismissed. That is, despite their assertion to the contrary, the subject editors appear to take quality criteria into account.
A RESEARCHER'S RESEARCH AGENDA FOR SCHOLARLY COMMUNICATION IN CANADA The results of this study also clearly support the creation of a more holistic and integrated knowledge ecosystem for scholarly communication.
Urquhart's Law Part 2 resolves the controversy in favor of the Urquhart position.
Quality assessment of Spanish universities’ web sites focused on the European Research Area As final words, it can be said that the research project assessed, both from the quantitative and the qualitative point of view, the availability of information of the results and management of research in a sample of nineteen Spanish universities. In fact, we have found that these two dimensions are not often correlated, which shows the need for establishing mechanisms of improvement which will permit the optimization of visibility and access to the information on research carried out in Spanish universities. This requires special attention on the part of those responsible for the area of university research.
Google Scholar: The New Generation of Citation Indexes Regardless of its limitations, the two unique advantages of Google Scholar are its use of citation indexing and its multidisciplinary coverage. In comparison to commercial databases, it complements the researcher's needs by providing access to resources not covered by traditional citation indexes. In the future, the data available on Google Scholar may enable us to study the epidemiology of knowledge on the Web and may be the basis for bibliometric studies.
Are library and information science journals becoming more internationalized? — A longitudinal study of authors' geographical affiliations in 20 LIS journals from 1981 to 2003 The findings of this study suggest that, at the moment of the writing, there is still room for the LIS field to be more internationalized. The findings of this study suggest that there was some increase in internationality of LIS research. Further research is needed to identify the barriers in international scholarly communication and to explore the implications of such a communication pattern on scientific development and global equality.
How to Fix Peer Review: Separating Its Two Functions—Improving Manuscripts and Judging Their Scientific Merit—Would Help Peer review is broken.
Academic ranking of world universities using scientometrics - A comment to the “Fatal Attraction” They will continue their ranking efforts, improve their ranking methodologies and provide more choices on the ranking lists.
Transforming Access to Research Literature for Developing Countries While it is clear that the benefits from these initiatives will have the greatest impact on the poorest countries, it is a widely accepted consequence that all academic life will be immeasurably enriched from the widest possible access to publicly funded research output. The establishment of OA Archives emerges as a faster, cheaper, and simpler route to reach the ultimate goal of universal Open Access. A united global development could lead to a monumental impact on scientific progress in all regions of the world and, in turn, lead to major improvements in health and the control of infectious diseases, in agriculture and monitoring the environment, and so to the relief of poverty.
The impact of impermanent Web‐located citations: A study of 123 scholarly conference publications The study investigated the permanency of Web-located references in 123 articles that were drawn from the Educa-tion and Training stream of the AusWeb conference.
Research classics and citation analysis The word classic used by our participants holds the connotations of "seminal paper," "founder," "pioneer," "the first attempt," "revolutionized," "standard reference," "the most important," and "well-known."
Scientists’ Participation in University Research Centers: What are the Gender Differences? The results of this research yield some positive news: university-based science centers could potentially serve as a leveling field for male and female academic researchers.
What’s on the Web—And What’s Not The World Wide Web holds a position of growing importance in providing access to information, but little systematic research has been done on its limitations. The results of this study confirm the recommendation that scholars and students should not become too dependent on the web. Further theoretical work in this research area should be directed at (a) defining additional dimensions upon which web information differs in quantity; (b) investigating additional predictors of the quantity of web information relating to particular dimensions; and (c) exploring the causes of the backward L-shaped distribution.
What Are We Measuring When We Evaluate Journals? The results of this study suggest that journal rankings between studies are similar when considered in totality, but that there appear to be discrepancies in evaluations as one moves outside the top-ranked journals.
The Governance of Social Science and Everyday Epistemology The governance of science includes the governance of social science, and the aim of this paper has been to make the case that while there is research into the governance of science, there is a need for separate research into the gov-ernance of social science.
The retrieval of highly scattered facts and architectural images: Strategies for search and design These results suggest the need for the development of systems and training that are "distribution conscious", to assist users in finding comprehensive information about topics across information domains. The two studies also reveal the difficulties that users face when trying to find comprehensive information in an unfamiliar domain. The results of our study suggest a “distribution-conscious" approach to the development of search systems, webpages and sites, and training.
Assessing the science–society relation: The case of the US National Science Foundation's second merit review criterion What is necessary, then, is to begin to address those fundamental philosophical issues. Fundamentally, it seems to me, these issues surrounding Criterion 2 are ramifications of the larger issue of the relation between science and society, issues of scientific autonomy and responsibility. I believe that the case of the NSF's Second Criterion presents us (not only us philosophers, but also you members of the NSB, you members of Congress, you policy scientists and political scientists and all you scientists and engineers) with a unique opportunity to address the relation between science and society.
Political Hyperlinking in South Korea: Technical Indicators of Ideology and Content Our results suggest that there are no substantial differences in the use of websites amongst Assembly members of different party affiliations, winning status, and constituency.
Rédaction des adresses sur les publications Authors' lack of care in listing their affiliations and address and the absence of a standardized official name for the university may explain the poor visibility of French universities. Recommendations about this topic might help to promote the reputation and work of French researchers internationally.
Latent Class Analysis of 1997 NSF Survey Data on Science PHDs There are many large, significant differences in limitations when searching for a job, work activities, and family and career status. Latent class analysis (LCA) identified a subgroup of women in each field who have many job search limitations and another subgroup that does not. Future work will consider mixing variables on different topics together, variable selection for key work activity and other variables, and the issue of validating or confirming the stability of clusters found through latent class analysis.
Urquhart's Law Part 3 concludes by reviewing various studies done in France, Turkey, and the United States that validate Urquhart's Law of Supralibrary Use. Urquhart's Law forces a probabilistic re-conceptualization of the functioning of the sci/tech journal system. Urquhart was correct-his law is “one of the most useful laws of library science.”
How Much Better Are the Most-Prestigious Journals? The Statistics of Academic Publication Although higher-prestige journals publish more high-value articles, editorial selection involves considerable randomness.
Engaging the inventor: exploring licensing strategies for university inventions and the role of latent knowledge The results reported in this study support the hypothesis that strategies that involve engaging the inventor favorably influence the likelihood and degree of commercialization success.
Dollars, disease, and democracy: Has the Director's Council of Public Representatives improved the National Institutes of Health? Thus far, COPR has not fulfilled its intended mission to provide stronger and more formal public input into NIH funding-allocation decisions. COPR has inherent weaknesses and true vulnerabilities; the negative entries in its ledger are undeniable. On the other hand, COPR has inherent strengths and real promise. Given the significance of NIH allocation decisions, I urge scholars and policy makers to keep COPR in mind and under study.
Transforming Access to Research Literature for Developing Countries It is clear that the benefits from these initiatives will have the greatest impact on the poorest countries, it is a widely accepted consequence that all academic life will be immeasurably enriched from the widest possible access to publicly funded research output. Acceptance of Open Access is the most fundamental strategy for the progress of scientific exchange, which will lay the groundwork for future innovations.
Author Order and Research Quality In conclusion, our research provides one plausible conceptualization of the mechanism underlying the assignment of intellectual property rights in academic markets.
Author Impact Measure (AIM): An Author Publication Statistic for the Who’s Who in Fluorescence Volume We hope you find this new author publication statistic informative and we look forward to any suggestions you may have.
Paying to Free Science: Costs of Publication as Costs of Research PLoS does not suggest, then, that an institution like Cornell should assume the full costs of its faculty's open-access life sciences publications—or base calcu- lations of the cost of a wholesale conversion to open- access publishing on that assumption. The motivation behind PLoS' founding actually had little to do with concerns about library budgets or the spiraling costs of scientific serials. It was predicated instead on the idea that science—and particularly publicly funded science—is most appropriately viewed as a public resource.
Nanotechnology patent landscape 2006 Our review of the IP landscape suggest that a simplistic grouping of nanotechnology as a sin- gle field or sector may lead to obfuscated inter- pretation of aggregated data.
Normal misbehavior: Scientists talk about the ethics of research Normal Misbehavior
Concentration of the Most-Cited Papers in the Scientific Literature: Analysis of Journal Ecosystems Despite a plethora of available journals, the most influential papers are extremely concentrated in few journals, especially in fields with high citation density.
Gender Differences in Publication Output: Towards an Unbiased Metric of Research Performance While we believe that our new metric provides a more equitable measure of research performance, it is susceptible in a detrimental way to the addition of just a handful of poorly cited papers.
What Should I Be Doing, and Where Are They Doing It? Scholarly Productivity of Academic Psychologists It is high time for scholarly productivity standards to be placed on an empirical footing, so that clear and realistic expectations are available both for individual academics and for departments or schools seeking to make informed decisions. They should assist in decisions about job seeking, initial hiring, promotion, and tenure at various types of schools.
Comparison of citation databases SCOPUS and Web of Science: Czech and Slovak agricultural and related disciplines According to our research, the two examined citation databases can be consider as more or less equal sources of information. Both WOS and SCOPUS omit some articles and therefore the best solution for evaluation and research purposes is probably their combination.
The developing world in The New England Journal of Medicine The medical information gap between rich and poor countries as judged by publications in the NEJM appears to be larger than the gap in the funding for research. Under-representation of developing world health issues in the medical literature is a global phenomenon. International medical journals cannot rectify global inequities, but they have an important role in educating their constituencies about the global divide.
Are national communication journals still necessary? A case study and some suggestions What has been typically German about the German-language communi-cation journal Publizistik?
Classical retrieval and overlap measures satisfy the requirements for rankings based on a Lorenz curve We have shown that classical measures used in information retrieval, studies of indexer consistency and overlap studies can be characterized by Lorenz similarity curves.
Scholarly research and information practices: a domain analytic approach Though Whitley does not extend his explanatory model to scholarly communication in the digital realm, the research presented in this paper indicates that there is a connection.
Trend of laser research developments in global level The concluding remarks concern three important issues related to this report.
Research publication trends and topics in Computing in Civil Engineering Contributions to the JCCE are increasing. Both author and topical diversity are present.
Some predictors of SMJ article impact Overall, the findings provide new insights into the determinants of impact and its temporal qualities and help explain some of the differences between high and average impact articles.
Relationships among the academic business disciplines: a multi-method citation analysis This study provides a novel and interesting look at business journals and discipline interdependencies using analytical techniques not previously used for this purpose.
Productivity in the Internet mailing lists: A bibliometric analysis "This, to our knowledge, is the first approach to theoretical models and casual mechanisms of productivity in Internet mailing lists. These results confirmed our tentative hypothesis that with the barrier of competitive acceptance lowered or nonexistent in IMLs, the event of publication ceases to be a distinctive achievement such as producing a scholarly paper, or a patented invention. Comparative study of research variables, such as the quality control, length, and intensity of functioning, and rate of participation, needs to be carried out to reach definitive conclusions regarding the bibliometric patterns of intellectual output in IMLs."
Interpreting social science link analysis research: A theoretical framework Finally, it is claimed that although theoretical frameworks are appro-priate for guiding research, a Theory of Link Analysis is not possible. Finally, for the reasons indicated, a theory of linking, at least in the sense of one that provides a definitive explana-tion that can be used to interpret link analysis research find-ings, is not a realistic research goal.
Differences between experts and novices in the review of engineering journal papers The present study investigates the quality of reviews produced by a group of 17 novices, and compares the results and recommendations with those of a group of three experts. The evidence obtained from this study helps to identify the critical areas in which novices fail to perform a good review, and may serve to develop strategies to overcome such limitations. This leads to the idea (provided by one of the reviewers of this paper) that it would be worthwhile to train all reviewers and not just new reviewers.
Anesthesiology physician scientists in academic medicine - A wake-up call This article, while seeking to inform and educate, is above all a passionate call for decisive action.
Modeling the invisible college Invisible colleges have been examined frequently in past years and despite a lack of consensus regarding an invisible college definition, this phenomenon definitely exists and will continue to exist in our increasingly global society.
Citation rates and perceptions of scientific contribution In the study the citation counts of the publications corresponded moderately well with the authors’ own assessments of scientific contribution.
A bibliometric model for journal discarding policy at academic libraries As a result of applying our new model, a librarian knows beforehand the future behavior of the serials library as far as its growth and size are concerned.
Link-based similarity measures for the classification of Web documents Experiments performed on two collections of Web directory pages allow us to conclude that links are indeed a valuable source of information for Web classification. Of the tested link-based similarity measures, cocitation yielded the best results, with values of about 87% and 86% in precision, in the Cade12 and Cade188 collections, respectively. Thus, similarity measures that make use of in-link information are expected to be the most appropriate.
Identifying a better measure of relatedness for mapping science We have provided a methodology for comparing relatedness measures on a quantitative basis.
Co-author inclusion: A novel recursive algorithmic method for dealing with homonyms in bibliometric analysis We have developed a novel technique that allows researchers' papers to be distinguished from those of their namesakes, even if the papers are outside the researchers' main field of work.
Scientometric portrait of Prof. Peter John Wyllie We conclude that scientometrics plays an important role in the dissemination of a particular scientist whose interest lies in the number of important papers he or she have published. In the above case study, Prof. Wyllie has truly advanced our understanding in subjects dealing with geosciences and earth sciences. Citing the number of publications, authourship details gives us the enormous interest the author has taken to reach his work to common man's understanding of geosciences.
The influence of author self-citations on bibliometric meso-indicators.: The case of European universities The results of the institutional analysis partially deviate both, from each other, from their field standard and the corresponding national standard. This reflects a quite complex situation: Research at the meso level is, on one hand, more characterised by specific profiles than the national level is. Given the utmost interesting macro and meso figures presented in Tables 1, 3 and above all, in Table 5 we would like to conclude that at the meso level, the share of self-citation, the corresponding citation-based indicators both including and excluding self-citations should be presented along with their national and subject standards to better understand the complexity of scientific communication as reflected citation impact of universities and research institutes. The extension of this analysis to a broader set of research institutions is the task of later studies.
Analysis of the Spanish scientific and technological output in the ICT sector In our study we have seen how Spain occupies the sixth position as to the number of publications from EU-15 countries in the ICT sector during the period 1990-2002, producing 5% of the EU total.
Comparative analysis of journals on social sciences and humanities in Ukraine and the world The findings of the study allow to conclude that in Ukraine the system of scientific journals on social sciences and humanities is still at the first (formation) phase, which at the early 90s numbered only 20 journals, but by now has grown up to 186. Besides that, its comparison with the system of worldwide international journals covered by SSCI and A&HCI databases shows that in Ukraine the borders between individual scientific disciplines are too blurred. This appears most explicitly in humanitarian journals, of which many do not have a clear-cut subject area, thereby being incapable to ultimately fulfill their scientific function, e.g. to serve as channels of information transfer and a means of communications in science, since scientific results on a particular field expounded therein may be lost in the bulk of heterogeneous journals.
The application of bibliometric analyses in the evaluation of social science research. Who benefits from it, and why it is still feasible The main purpose of this study is to provide more knowledge of the workings of publication and citation cultures within the social sciences, if one decides to use bibliometric data in the evaluation of social sciences research.
User science indicators in the Web context and co-usage analysis In this article, we presented a Web statistical tool, the Miri@d server, for quantitative analysis of the scientific information. We showed that the system is conceived as a server of statistical data which are carried out beforehand, and as an interactive server for personal online statistical work. It is the existence of log-files that provides the technical opportunity for introducing the analysis of user behaviour and proposing then the co-usage analysis.
Is it better or just the same?: Article identification strategies impact bibliometric assessments In conclusion, our results show that the choice of search strategy for article identification has an impact on evaluation and policy analysis of research areas. Each search strategy has its own recall and precision. As a consequence, uncritical analysis based on rudimentary article identification strategies may lead to misinterpretation of the development of research areas, and thus provide incorrect data for decision-making.
Productivity, impact and publication habits by gender in the area of Materials Science This study shows that the under-representation of women in the upper categories of the CSIC in the Materials Science area can not be explained only by their later entrance in science. The feminization of the area of MAT started in the lower professional category and it should evolve to the upper category in the future; factors that could hinder women research performance should be identified and overcome.
Measuring international research collaboration of peripheral countries: Taking the context into consideration This result let us conclude carefully that a change in the types of international research collaboration among Korean physicists has taken place during the last 30 years. The result of this paper implies indirectly that the symmetrical type of international research collaboration has intensified, while the dominance of asymmetrical type has declined.
"New"countries in Europe -: Research, development and innovation strategies vs bibliometric data R&D priorities should be set up realistically as opposed to adopting the policy framework and organizational system of policy delivery of developed countries which is unlikely to lead to an instant reward. As basic research is a basis for applied research and innovation, bibliometric data should be considered very seriously as one of the indicators in the setting up of various R&D policy documents while at the same time it should be deemed compulsory to combine the various types of indicators. However as new member countries should become competitive within the global arena it is vital that they select and focus their efforts, financial as well as intellectual, on solitary fields rather than a broad spread.
Assessing the socio-economic returns of biomedical research (I):: How can we measure the relationship between research and health care? The measurement of societal impacts of biomedical R&D is an exciting challenge but, at the same time, a difficult task due to the many possibilities of interaction between scientific knowledge and health care.
Web networks of the science system:: Weighted hubs and authorities The pattern of the networks combined with the calculated weight like hubs and authorities widens the perception and gives new ideas of connections. BibTechMon works with not directed graphs. So you need several networks to explain the whole graph of a considered dataset. Today the different algorithms such as PageRank, Kleinberg, WebQuery are controversial because they might be outdated as the World Wide Web is changing so quickly.
Scientific capabilities and technological performance of national innovation systems: An exploration of emerging industrial relevant research domains As such, our findings seem to suggest beneficial effects of scientific capabilities shouldered by a multitude of organizations. Our findings suggest the relevancy for the performance of national innovation systems of R&D strategies on the company level implying a minimum level of in-house research and engagement in scientific cooperation with public sector research organizations, public-private joint research ventures or technology development centers. Extending the analyses towards other sub-domains and hot topics seems relevant and may allow further documentation of technology life cycle dynamics and their impact on the relationships found.
Structural similarities between science growth dynamics in China and in western countries The same conclusion as for university funds is valid for Chinese journals, when compared to international journals filed in ISI's Journal Citation Reports.
Extending citation analysis to non-source items This paper presents the first results from an extensive empirical study of performance indicators. Our study has shown that, even for an extensive analysis covering many institutions and thousands of publications, it is possible to extract citation data for non-source items. The analysis at the field level suggests that an extended analysis will not necessarily be equally 'beneficial'.
How to identify research groups using publication analysis:: an example in the field of nanotechnology The method presented here should be considered only as the starting point toward a complete methodology for identifying research groups and potential research partners in scientific fields.
Combining concept maps and bibliometric maps: First explorations "A supportive observation from the first user study is the increased level of scrutiny after having drawn a qualitative map of the field."
Methods for journal evaluation: Journal Citation Identity, Journal Citation Image and Internationalisation The Journal Citation Identity, the Journal Citation Image and the Internationalisation have been tested as methods of portraying the Journal of Documentation (JDOC), compared to JASIS(T) and the Journal of Information Science (JIS). According to this, JDOC is characterized by a relatively wide horizon among authors, by high impact and visibility, and it reaches far into the scientific community. The overall results of these analyses give multifaceted pictures of JDOC and the two LIS journals JASIS(T) and JIS, as supplements to other indicators, e.g. the Journal Impact Factor.
Measuring science-technology interaction in the knowledge-driven economy: The case of a small economy The findings suggest that patent citations and researcher patents relate fields of science and technology in different ways.
Exploring the relationship between impact factor and manuscript rejection rates in radiologic journals In summary, this study demonstrates poor linear agreement between IF and RR for manuscripts submitted to peer-reviewed radiology journals. This suggests that journal IF is a poor predictor of RR, and vice versa. This finding may be of interest to institutional committees who have adopted the IF as an indicator of merit in reviewing publication curric-ulum vitae, and may encourage rethinking of currently practiced candidate assessment approaches.
Differences in review quality and recommendations for publication between peer reviewers suggested by authors or by editors Author- and editor-suggested reviewers did not differ in the quality of their reviews, but author-suggested reviewers tended to make more favorable recommendations for publication.
Using citation data to improve retrieval from MEDLINE Algorithms that have proved successful on the World Wide Web can be applied to biomedical information retrieval. Citation-based algorithms can help identify important articles within large sets of relevant results. Further studies are needed to determine whether citation-based algorithms can effectively meet actual user information needs.
A multidimensional analysis of the epistemic origins of nursing theories, models, and frameworks We believe that this schema and resulting taxonomy will prove useful for furthering our understanding of the relationships among nursing theories and theories in other fields of science.
Database coverage for research in management information systems Results show that indexing of both types of materials is fairly extensive. The findings also indicate that two databases, ABI/INFORM Global and Business Source Premier, provide the most comprehensive coverage for each. In addition, Business Source Premier offers full text for the greatest number of MIS journals and provides the greatest amount of full text for journal articles referenced by MIS researchers.
Identifying the impact of diabetes research Understanding the impact of research requires multiple approaches.
The diffusion of theories: A functional approach The theory functions model developed here represents a new framework for the investigation of scientific communica- tion.
Reflections on the age distribution of Japanese scientists The group of scientific researchers outside academia is clearly dominated by the young: those less than 35 years old.
CiteSpace II: Detecting and visualizing emerging trends and transient patterns in scientific literature In conclusion, the new features introduced to CiteSpace II for detecting and visualizing emerging trends and abrupt changes in a field of research have produced promising and encouraging results. The major findings are that the surge of interest is an informative indicator for a new research front; using heterogeneous networks of terms and articles provides a comprehensive representation of the dynamics of a specialty; research-front terms are informative cluster labels; citation tree-ring visualizations are visually appealing and semantically interpretable; betweenness centrality metrics identify semantically valid pivotal points.
Statistical properties of Bibliometric indicators: Research group indicator distributions and correlations The results of our study underline the importance of the idea of "group oeuvre," that is, the role of sets of related publications as a unit of analysis.
Creating an infrastructure for training in the responsible conduct of research: The university of Pittsburgh's experience Data withholding had demonstrated negative effects on trainees.
Law of cumulative advantages in the evolution of scientific fields Our results show that the correspondence of co-occurrences generated by our algorithm with those present in reality is in most cases satisfactory, the correspondence of Figures 2 and 4 is almost perfect. In our opinion, this proves the logical hypothesis that the law of cumulative advantages is present in the development of scientific fields. Another question is, if this knowledge could be used for predictions of scientific fields development.
Indicators of failed information epidemics in the scientific journal literature: A publication analysis of Polywater and Cold Nuclear Fusion It appears then that only indicators 1-4 are distinctive of failed information epidemics.
The impact of impact factor on small specialties: A case study of family medicine in Taiwan Although the publication trend and patterns corresponded with the time of implementing the SCI- and IF-oriented performance assessment, the effect of SCI and IF was not explicit so that one should be cautious of coming to a conclusion. Obviously, the demand for internationality from the academia and the limitations of locality within specialty journals would continue to challenge academic family physicians in Taiwan. We hoped that the report of our case could arouse echoes in those researchers worldwide who faced a similar destiny in academic performance assessment.
Scientific evaluations of citation quality of international research articles in the SCI database: Thailand case study For quantitative evaluation, the results suggested that the highest article number and number of times cited were given by Thai researchers in Clinical Medicine, the lowest being for Material Sciences.
Proof of a conjecture of Moed and Garfield on authoritative references and extension to non-authoritative references This proves the Statement of Moed and Garfield.
Science and technology policy in Turkey. National strategies for innovation and change during the 1983-2003 period and beyond In summary, over the past two decades, there have been substantial developments in the Turkish S & T policy along with those in the economy, namely; Turkish economy rose to upper echelons of (intermediate) technology producing countries, after a long period of manufacturing under license. It is hoped that efforts to increase R & D activity in the strategic technology areas as listed in the Vision 2023 project would help Turkey integrate with the European Research Area.
Bibliometric analysis - A new business area for information professionals in libraries? An extension of the portfolio of library products by including bibliometric analysis represents a valuable addition reflected in lively interest on the part of library users.
Towards a European economics of economics:: Monitoring a decade of top research and providing some explanation Our top 200 departmental rankings confirm our prior belief that high-quality research output by European departments is not a static phenomenon.
Another ISI idiosyncrasy We warn colleagues, especially in Mainland China and Taiwan, that when counting publications on country or regional level then Mainland China's total is slightly too high, while Taiwan's is slightly too low, for the reason mentioned above.
Individual and collective determinants of academic scientists' productivity In the paper, we have tested for the individual and the collective determinants of publication score of more than a thousand permanent researchers at a large European university.
Outcomes of national institutes of health peer review of clinical grant applications These data do not support the hypothesis that the less favorable review outcomes for clinical applications are related to these review factors. We suggest that peer review outcomes for clinical research will benefit from the recent refinement of NIH review criteria, emphasizing the unique contributions of clinical investigation, and from increased training opportunities for clinical investigators. In summary, peer review outcomes for clinical grant applications to the NIH continue to be less favorable than review outcomes for nonclinical applications.
The impact of appointment type on the productivity and commitment of full-time faculty in research and doctoral institutions Our findings indicate that whether one looks at all full-time faculty or just at newly hired full-time faculty in Research and Doctoral institutions, compared to their non-tenure colleagues, faculty on tenure appointments are significantly more productive in research, more pro-ductive in education, more committed to their positions, and work about four more hours each week (the equivalent of one additional month of work each year).
Discouraging verification: Citation practices across the disciplines The best expedient would be for editors from all journals in these fields to coalesce and collectively demand this datum. Success will require that editors demand of authors, and authors demand of themselves, that they provide this information as a matter of course when in doubt, be precise. It is a systemic defect that can easily be remedied and, in the remedying, demonstrate and legitimize the principle that all argument and all use of evidence deserves to be optimally (=maximally in this case) accessible.
What's in a number? Issues in providing evidence of impact and quality of research(ers) Our experience demonstrates that even supposed objective metrics such as citation rates and journal impact factors are influenced by assumptions both philosophical and technical that are not necessarily related to the scientific quality of articles. The trend toward using tools such as the Web of Science for purposes for which they were never intended is disturbing. The qualitative research community must become aware of how to use these biblio-metric indicators to demonstrate impact and quality of research when necessary, but also to be cognizant of their limitations.
What does it take to be successful? "First, the adjectives themselves are a finding, both in terms of what they are substantively and in their number—they are decidedly finite and nonrandom."
The shift in academic quality control In the past, quality control was integrated into a scientific system aimed at ensuring true knowledge.
Evaluating China's University library Web sites using correspondence analysis This paper gives suggestions as to how to construct university library Web sites based on analysis and summary of evaluation results, in a bid to strengthen the construction of university library Web sites.
Web presence and impact factors for Middle-Eastern countries A comparison of Middle-Eastern countries' sites raises interesting questions about the place of different countries, cultures, and languages on the Web. It appears that Middle-Eastern Web sites may achieve a lower visibility on the Web because their language and culture are different from the current mainstream of the Web, dominated by English-speaking countries. Further research is needed to gain a better understanding of the nature of Web links, and further research may be necessary to find reasons for the limited number of Middle-Eastern Web pages.
The international rank order of publications in major clinical orthopaedic journals from 2000 to 2004 However, it is obvious that, as in all other fields of science, the United States is the most productive country in terms of absolute number of publications (47.4%) in the selected clinical orthopaedic journals. When corrected for population size, the smaller European countries with a high proficiency in the English language were most successful.
The impact factor of seven orthopaedic journals - Factors influencing it The significant correlation between the self-citation rate and the impact factors of the seven orthopaedic journals indicates a significant influence of self-citation on their impact factors.
English-language academic journals from China: a great opportunity The foundation and growth of academic journals is obviously dependent on the state of science and technology in a country. Those three conditions are now widely available in China and we must seize the opportunity we now have. The English-language journals will certainly prosper.
Learned society business models and open access: overview of a recent JISC-funded study The OA business model is attractive in principle to each of the publishers who participated in the study because it is aligned with their mission and provides increased visibility to their journal and the authors and research they publish. There was deep concern expressed over the financial sustainability of a switch to this model across the board. There is no universal answer to the issues faced in funding publication of the research literature but alternatives need to be explored collaboratively and based on sound information.
The changing scholarly communication landscape: an international survey of senior researchers The crucial importance of peer review to the health and welfare of scholarly pub-lishing is re-emphasized.
Documentation for institutional repositories These included the importance of developing documentation in collaboration with academics, departments and senior management. Policies should be formulated only when the aims of the IR have been clearly defined and the documentation itself should be concise and understandable, with the rights and responsibilities of stakeholders clearly presented. It is hoped, however, that the recommendations presented in this paper will act as a basis from which IR policies, procedures and guidelines can be successfully formulated.
Rankings methodology for international comparisons of institutions and individuals: An application to economics in Australia and New Zealand The paper is one of the most comprehensive and thorough studies of rankings in the literature. There are a number of distinguishing features of this study. First, all previous international studies rank institutions, rather than depart-ments. This is clearly unacceptable as it distorts the rankings. We provide rankings for departments on total and per capita bases. Finally, we establish a Hall of Fame for individual economists in Australia and New Zealand.
The emergence of China as a leading nation in science China has become a major player in the production of scientific papers. Its contribution to world science shows exponential growth (Figs. 1 and 2), which is unique in the world.
Disseminating research in management of technology: journals and authors The importance of the study is not only as an historical record but also to act as a guide to practicing R&D managers on which journals would best meet their needs. The extent to which this pattern of qualification has polarized the thinking of the most prolific authors in the field remains a subject of debate. Had economics featured much more strongly among the first degrees, would the development of MoT be substantially different?
Assessing prevention research impact - A bibliometric analysis Conventional bibliometric analysis to assess the scientific impact of public health prevention research is feasible, but of limited utility because of omissions from ISI's databases, and because citation benchmarks for prevention research have not been established: these problems can and should be addressed. Assessment of impact on public health practice, policy, or on the health of populations, will require more than a bibliometric approach. The most challenging shortcoming of any bibliometric approach to assessing a prevention research program is that it is inherently insufficient for measuring the actual impact on public health practice or population health.
Importance of free access to research articles on decision to submit to the BMJ:: survey of authors Authors value free access to research articles and consider this an important factor in deciding whether to submit to the BMJ.
Declining randomized clinical trials from Canadian anesthesia departments? Although overall numbers in anesthesia publications do not suggest a significant decline, the number of RCTs decreased during the years 2000-2004.
Who's who in venture capital research We began this research with the intent of discovering as much as possible about research in venture capital.
Perceptions of professional social work journals: Findings from a national survey Several intriguing implications emerged from the study. First, studies similar to the one reported here may form an explicit hierarchy of desirable publication outlets. We suggest the sharing of this knowledge through social work journals is an important means for accomplishing this important goal.
Can scientific journals be classified in terms of aggregated journal-journal citation relations using the Journal Citation Reports? The overall conclusion seems to be that one cannot develop a conclusive classification on the basis of analytical arguments.
Open access publishing and author-pays business models: a survey of authors' knowledge and perceptions The survey yielded useful information about respondents' knowledge and perceptions of these publishing models. Authors have limited familiarity with the concept of open-access publishing and surrounding issues. Currently, open access policies have little impact on authors' decision of where to submit papers. Publishers should be cautious about introducing open access publishing funded through author charges in the current climate. Since familiarity with these publishing models remains limited, it is premature to draw conclusions about whether authors will ultimately accept them.
Key Labs and Open Labs in the Chinese scientific research system: Their role in the national and international scientific arena We conclude that when it comes to impact on the international scene, these labs have not yet led to a big step forward for Chinese science as a whole.
Research contribution of different world regions in the top 50 biomedical journals (1995-2002) In conclusion, we evaluated the contribution of different world regions in the top 50 biomedical journals during an 8-year study period.
Beyond rankings: Using cognitive mapping to understand what health care journals represent The results show that there is a well-defined structure that represents how health care management scholars from North America perceive journals in the field.
On the relation between the maximum entropy principle and the principle of least effort This completes the proof of (ii) and (iii) and hence of the proposition.
A connectionist and multivariate approach to science maps:: the SOM, clustering and MDS applied to library science research and information In summary, the methodologies used allow us to confirm that the subject domains identified in the White and McCain studies are, as well, present in our study for the corresponding period.
A scientometric assessment of the information loss caused by the delays in publication of Chinese science journals The publication delays for Chinese scientific journals are rather serious, especially mathemat- ics journals, and should engage the attention of editors and researchers.
Journal citation identity and journal citation image:: a portrait of the Journal of Documentation Journal citation identity and journal citation image have been proposed as contributions in portraying a library and information science journal, the Journal of Documentation.
Diffusion factors This paper has offered a more formal and comprehensive description of diffusion factors than previously attempted by the authors.
Management of technology: themes, concepts and relationships This paper has investigated technology management using citation and co-citation data published in Technovation between 1996 and 2004. A factor analysis of the co-citations suggested that the field is organized along seven different concentrations of interest: strategy and technology, national systems and differences, sources of competitive strategies, manufacturing/operations/NPD, knowledge management and inventors, patents, and life-cycles/change/discontinuity. Perhaps if we learn more about the factors in this structure, how they relate, and what they stand for, TM conferences and publication outlets will gain the popularity and prestige that is required to establish a serious academic discipline.
World dental research production: an ISI database approach (1999-2003) In conclusion, the USA, UK, Japan and Scandinavia were found to be the most productive countries in terms of number of publications. Publications from Scandinavian countries were also of high quality as measured by Impact Factor and Citation Rate, while the UK had one of the highest productivity rates (number of documents per researcher).
'Rotterdam econometrics': an analysis of publications of the Econometric Institute 1956-2004 There is a change in the distribution of journal publications. Members of the Econo- metric Institute publish, in recent years, less in high-quality journals from learned societies and more in high-quality journals of professional publishers.
A bibliometric analysis of research productivity in Parasitology by different world regions during a 9-year period (1995-2003) Our data suggest that more help should be provided by the developed nations to developing areas for improvement of the infrastructure of research.
Creation of a grant support service within a women's health center of excellence: Experiences and lessons learned As a result of this experience, the RSC was expanded and moved to the institution's Office of Research as a resource to all faculty.
A multidimensional ranking of Australian economics departments We contend that a partial ranking better reflects the re- search accomplishments of the departments than does a complete ranking, which is likely to mislead by its precision.
What's in a surname? The effects of surname initials on academic success A surname with a first letter that is earlier in the alphabet is correlated with several proxies for professional success in the economics labor market.
A discipline's composition: A citation analysis of composition studies Academic librarians can now see that composition studies scholars provide a unique opportunity for them to reassess and improve their approach to the teaching of information literacy, both by example and in direct collaboration.
Evaluation of NHMRC funded research completed in 1992, 1997 and 2003: gains in knowledge, health and wealth This process will improve accountability to the community and to government, and refine current funding mechanisms to most efficiently deliver health and economic returns for Australia.
A systematic approach for evaluating and upgrading academic science journal collections A systematic approach lent itself to efficient upgrading of journal collections for the science departments at Brigham Young University. Tables that included data such as subscription cost, cost per use, an impact factor, and a normalized rank within subject were key to the approach. The librarians now feel they have a more up-to-date journal collection with some key additions they could not previously afford, the faculty are pleased with the outcome, and early statistics indicate increased usage of the new resources.
Academic advancement of authors receiving tutoring from a medical journal Editorial tutoring of journal authors can positively influence their long-term academic advancement. Journals may have an important teaching role in local academic communities.
The convergence of digital libraries and the peer-review process A full-scale implementation of this system can provide the author with the benefits of a semi-open community review process, the referees with the benefits of a review-once publish-anywhere environ-ment, and finally, can greatly reduce the responsibili-ties of the journal editor.
Economics:: An emerging small world In this paper we have found substantial evidence that the world of economists is becoming smaller. Our findings also raise questions about the impact of social interaction on scientific dis-covery and the diffusion of knowledge. We hope to explore these issues in future work.
Unraveling the academic productivity of economists: The opportunity costs of teaching and service The purpose of this study was to empirically investigate the relations among research productivity, human capital, and workplace variables, particularly the opportunity costs associated with teaching and service.
The dependence of the height of a Lorenz curve of a Zipf function on the size of the system The main result of this paper is that, in Lotkaian informetrics, “the smaller the field, the smaller the share of the items that come from an equal share of the sources”.
An examination of sources of peer-review bias The findings in this study warrant further exploration of potential changes to the peer-review process.
The scientific network of surfactants:: Structural analysis Most of the areas, and those that have the greatest relative weight by number of documents, are aspects of physics and chemistry. Biochemistry and cell biology, medicine (pediatrics and pul-monary physiology), and, to a lesser extent, veterinary med-icine and food science and technology are also noteworthy specialties of the field of surfactants, which presents a markedly multidisciplinary profile.
Productivity and impact of space-based astronomical facilities The patterns of paper and citation numbers for astronomical data gathered from space-based missions (planetary, X-ray and gamma-ray, ultraviolet, infrared, and all) are similar in many ways to optical and radio patterns, particularly in which subdisciplines yield many papers and many citations per paper. Important differences in numbers of papers and citations per observing facility surely arise from the relatively short lifetimes of many orbiting telescopes.
Self-archiving practice and the influence of publisher policies in the social sciences This study finds that social scientists are self-archiving at a significant rate and that publisher self-archiving policies do not influence their self-archiving practices.
Chinese academic journals: quality, issues and solutions It is concluded that the quality of Chinese journals is generally low and has remained so despite recent government measures aimed to improvement.
The past, present and future of scientific and technical journals of China The early history of Chinese scientific and technical journals was one of steady growth followed by two serious setbacks. After the economic reform and opening-up of China, journals have grown in number and quality, but now is time for further adjustments. The proportion of English-language journals should be increased and all journals should be opened up internationally both in respect of authorship and in respect of the improvement of editorial and marketing skills that can come from competition and collaboration with foreign publishers.
The state of scholarly journal publishing: 1981-2000 A review of the data on the 1317 journals in our sample revealed no reduction in the number of journals or the number of papers published by these journals between 1981 and 2000.
Is information systems a reference discipline? Results from this study provide strong evidence that the IS discipline has become a reference discipline for others. The frequent citations made from other disciplines to IS research also suggest that IS research contributes to advancing the body of scientific knowledge—as the intended purpose of publications in academic journals is to impart knowledge to others, furthering the advancement of scientific achievements [11]. We believe that further investigation of IS knowledge contributions is warranted since the results of this study are an “average” across target articles published in six selected IS journals during four-year period 1995–1998.
TIES that BIND: An introduction to domain mapping as a visualization tool for virtual rehabilitation "Concept maps, used in conjunction with co-word analysis mapping, are a powerful methodology that help us define and organize our knowledge in a given domain, either at a particular point in time or as it changes over time."
The structure and infrastructure of Finnish research literature The main objective of this study was to assess the technical core competencies of Finland. This was accomplished using partitional clustering and bibliometrics on articles retrieved from the SCI.
The depth and breadth of Google Scholar: An empirical study The idiosyncrasies of Google Scholar that were exposed as a result of this study should be considered with the acknowledgment that this database is still in a beta test mode. Google Scholar will be a database to monitor, to study, and with which to reckon.
Determinants of agricultural economic faculty salaries: A quarter of a century later Overall, the evidence suggests that our profession values the development of knowledge more than its conveyance.
The 'quality myth': Promoting and hindering conditions for acquiring research funds Although the quality of a researcher and the researcher's proposal were found to be important conditions for external funding success, other factors were only partly quality-related or independent from the quality at all. The 'quality myth' that dominates recent science policy was proven wrong. Rejecting the quality-only assumption, casts doubt on external funding per se as a useful performance indicator. The results presented here suggest three lines of further research.
Changes in the american interventional radiology literature: Comparison over a 10-year time period Articles published in the American radiologic literature have changed significantly over the past 10 years.
Remarks concerning the Liberman-Wolf bonding number Because of the contradictory results shown in the previous sections we think that the L-W bonding number is not suited to measure what it is supposed to measure, namely bonding between scientists. Stating precise requirements for the measurement of ‘bonding' could avoid the problems shown in this note. Such a study has been initiated in (AJIFERUKE et al., 1988) and ENGLISCH (1991).
Fluctuation analysis of discipline development based on impact factor The methodology of this article can be used in the fluctuation phenomenon of published articles, cited articles, and increase of articles from different countries, institutes and disciplines. If the studied time is longer, the calculation will be better, showing clearly the advantage of comprehensively using quantitative and qualitative analysis.
Should top universities be led by top researchers and are they? A citations analysis This study, which seems to be the first of its kind, finds a correlation between the citations of presidents and the positions of their universities in a world league table.
Publication patterns of US academic librarians from 1998 to 2002 The present study found that between 1998 and 2002 in the thirty-two journals analyzed, academic librarians produced roughly 40 percent of the refereed articles. Libraries in research extensive universities continue to dominate the ranks of the most productive institutions. Numbers of articles published, rates of publication by individuals, productivity by different institutions, and contributions of different groups of authors are important for the evaluation of individual academic librarians and the assessment of particular academic libraries. They also are measures of the health and strength of LIS.
Faculty publishing productivity: Comparisons over time Although the form of journal literature has been altered somewhat (traditional print journals also are available online through a number of sources), faculty at universities continue to publish in substantial numbers.
The benefits and challenges of research centers and institutes in academic medicine: Findings from six universities and their medical schools Institutional leaders might capitalize on the strengths of centers through three strategies: (1) reward leaders who embrace a collaborative point of view and develop a culture that frowns upon empire building; (2) distinguish among the many entities that share the "center" or "institute" labels; and (3) acknowledge that departments must maintain their place in the organizational milieu.
The financial management of research centers and institutes at US medical schools: Findings from six institutions The ways in which deans, administrators, department chairs, and center directors attend to, decide upon, and carry out financial decisions can influence how people throughout the medical school think about interdisciplinary and collaborative activities marshaled though centers and institutes.
Evaluating research training outcomes: Experience from the Cancer Prevention Fellowship Program at the National Cancer Institute Training programs facing the challenge of evaluating research outcomes will require new evaluation methods that take into account program goals. This easily adaptable, longitudinal evaluation strategy allows for diversity in research disciplines and research experience and can inform programmatic needs and individual progress.
Citation advantage of open access articles We found strong evidence that, even in a journal that is widely available in research libraries, OA articles are more immediately recognized and cited by peers than non-OA articles published in the same journal. OA is likely to benefit science by accelerating dissemination and uptake of research findings. This study suggests that publishing papers as OA articles on the journal site facilitates knowledge dissemination to a greater degree than self-archiving, presumably because few scientists search the Internet or Google for articles if they have encountered an access problem on the journal Web site.
The other side of the coin for open access publishing - A developing country view It is clear that the experience of developing coun-try researchers with Open Access publishing is somewhat different to that of researchers from in-stitutions in developed countries. Limited techno-logical infrastructure restricts researchers' access to the free information. Page charges certainly de-ter the less well-funded researcher from publish-ing in Open Access Journals.
The place of serials in referencing practices:: Comparing natural sciences and engineering with social sciences and humanities Considered as a whole, there is a trend in SSH whereby journals play an increasingly important role in knowledge building as opposed to other means of scientific diffusion.
Arts and humanities literature: Bibliometric characteristics of contributions by Turkish authors Our findings indicate that the characteristics of the arts and humanities literature are rather different than those of the sciences and social sciences.
Earlier web usage statistics as predictors of later citation impact We accordingly conclude that downloads can be used as early predictors of citation impact.
Multiple authorship in a small medical journal:: A case study of the Croatian Medical Journal The results of the study imply that authors' adherence to the Interna- tional Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) authorship criteria depends on the size of the scientific community and that adherence is poor among domestic authors publishing in a small, national medical journal outside of mainstream science.
Learning and knowledge networks in interdisciplinary collaborations The data show that overall, most pairs involved in doing research together are also learning from each other.
Scientific collaboration results in higher citation rates of published articles A correlation exists between the number of authors and the number of times an article is cited in other articles.
The biological metaphor of a second-order observer and the sociological discourse I have argued that a biological flaw in social systems theory has blocked its heuristic value in empirical research.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (2000-2004) We can see that only three of the top 15 institutions housed a top scholar during the study period and, further, that no institution housed more than one.
Emergency medicine research directors and research programs: Characteristics and factors associated with productivity Research productivity of EM residency programs is associated with the presence of dedicated research faculty and staff and with reduced clinical demands for research faculty.
Patterns of international scientific co-operation in Puerto Rico One of the most immediate findings that can be deduced from the above results is that researchers affiliated with Puerto Rican institutions are strongly prone to publish papers in conjunction with others.
Web links and gender in science: An exploratory analysis As a consequence, it is argued that hyperlinks are not a promising source of quantitative information about gender differences in communication strategies or online visibility, at least for senior researchers or research groups.
A snapshot of EU publications in sleep research: A scientometric survey The results of this study reveal the importance and the diversity of the scientific EU production in sleep research.
The science network in Italian population research: An analysis according to the social network perspective These are the first results of the study on the structural properties of the science network population in Italy.
Research evaluation of research-oriented universities in Taiwan from 1993 to 2003 This paper finds that each of these research-oriented universities has its strengths in various specific fields.
Indirect patent citations The index developed in this paper can be useful in many circumstances. It can be seen as a complementary measure of patent quality, to be used in conjunction with the other measures developed in the literature to give a more complete picture. From the point of view of more specific evaluations of patents, the index can be used to assess the quality of any individual patent or portfolio of patents of an innovator or a firm, and compare it with a relevant benchmark.
Trends in synthetic organic chemistry research. Cross-country comparison of Activity Index The study spanning two time periods 1989-1993 and 1998–2003 has shown similar ranking order for the total quantity of research publications. The top 4 countries namely USA, Japan, UK and France presented a declining trend in the research output. Thus the interest of industrialised nations is perhaps shifting to other innovative areas of research and other emerging disciplines while Asian countries and other smaller nations are still consolidating their research efforts in the traditional sciences.
Bibliometric study of bioinformatics literature The salient features that emerged were that the bioinformatics literature is growing at an exponential rate and recorded an all time high in the year 2004.
Comparison of the Hirsch-index with standard bibliometric indicators and with peer judgment for 147 chemistry research groups The first conclusion is that the h-index and the crown indicator both relate in a quite comparable way with peer judgments.
The weight of author self-citations.: A fractional approach to self-citation counting The most striking feature of fractional self-citation counting is the extremely fast ageing.
Who's who in Conservation biology -: an authorship analysis Measured here through an authorship analysis of research papers in Conservation Biology, the applied scientific discipline of conservation biology has both diversified and become increasingly collaborative over the past 20 years. The maturing of conservation biology as a discipline, the complex geographic and multidisciplinary nature of conservation questions, and the increased ease of communication in a technologically connected world contribute to the increasingly diverse and collaborative Conservation Biology authorship.
Scatter and obsolescence of journals cited in theses and dissertations of librarianship Findings obtained in this study reinforce the findings of previous ones. Journal articles get cited more often than monographs and the percentage of citations to electronic publications is on the rise.
A new clinical collective for French cancer genetics - A heterogeneous mapping analysis A combination of fieldwork and computer-based analysis has allowed us to map and account for the development of the GGC. We have thus documented the making of a hybrid collective space corresponding to the creation of a densely interconnected collaborative network encompassing laboratory, clinical, and regulatory activities. As a next step, the analysis presented in this article should be expanded to include the activities of international networks and consortia that, as we have seen, maintain mutually constitutive links with national collectives.
The value of peripatetic economists: A sesqui-difference evaluation of Bob Gregory The evidence from this analysis of one specific, albeit quite large visitors program demonstrates that academic visits do more than this — they generate additional research that is directly relevant to the distant land that funds part of the cost of the visit.
Co-authorship in management and organizational studies: An empirical and network analysis The present study is one of the first to analyse collaboration in the field of management, using co-authorships in scientific journals as an indicator.
Issues and opinions - Publication opportunities in premier business outlets: How level is the playing field? The implications of these findings for IS researchers, for institutions and administrators of IS programs, and for the IS academic discipline are examined.
Properties of the n-overlap vector and n-overlap similarity theory In this article we studied n-overlap, i.e., given n databases (sets, libraries,...), we study the vector φ= (φ(1), ..., φ(n)), where φ(i)(i = 1, . . ., n) denotes the fraction of objects (documents) that belong to exactly i databases.
Visualizing linguistic and cultural differences using web co-link data Results from the study showed that Web co-linking is not a random phenomenon but rather it reflects social relationships.
eJournal interface can influence usage statistics: Implications for libraries, publishers, and project COUNTER The results of this research suggest that this may not be possible. One solution may be to modify publisher numbers with "adjustment factors" that represent the benefit or disadvan-tage from its interface. Further study needs to be devoted to how these ratios can be used to provide optimal adjustment factors that reflect the value of the content as accurately as possible.
Information systems citation patterns from international conference on information systems articles We have used citations from a 3-year set of ICIS articles to provide rankings of journals and conferences.
Using the h-index to rank influential information scientists The strong positive correlation between the h-index and citation counts suggests that the total number of citations (with or without self-citations) is, indeed, a reliable indicator of scholarly impact and influence.
Women and academic science: Gender, status, and careers By implication, this means that improvement in women's attainments in careers—their status and performance—will not depend merely upon the detection, cultivation, and enhancement of individuals’ ability, skill, and background. Improvement in women's advancement means attention to organizational and environmental factors such as allocation of resources, access to interaction and collaboration, and the operation of evaluative schemes—in departments, colleges, and institutions of academe. However, certain organizational practices and policies can be shaped to support more equitable advancement of women in academia:
Productivity and impact of radio telescopes With all due reservations, one can nevertheless conclude several things. First, telescopes on well-supported sites, maintained by countries with a long tradition of radio astronomy, tend to do best. Second, the VLA dominated world radio astronomy early in this century by an even wider margin than HST dominated optical astronomy.
Scientific status of disciplines, individuals, and ideas: Empirical analyses of the potential impact of theory I have just scrutinized the relation between theory and impact using three distinct levels of analysis. At the level of disciplines I showed that the status of a science can be ranked to a large extent according to the prominence of theory.
Authorship of research papers: ethical and professional issues for short-term researchers These guidelines, which were developed at the instigation of our researchers and supported by senior academic staff, have now become part of our research policy, but were initially introduced on a voluntary basis.
How should financial support for research be distributed to Universities? The Research Assessment Exercise (RAE) in England and Wales The experience has been a new one, not only for our- selves but for our colleagues. There is an undoubted sub- jective element in the procedure, especially since our assessments depended upon or judgment of papers not yet written, and certainly not yet accepted by Editors.
Information resources for evaluating the development of research direction - 'Fullerenes' As a result of comparatively small finances committed by State, Russian scientists are conducting research on the wide front of fullerene science, and have implemented a number of world-class developments (superhard and ultrahard fullerites, fullerene-oxygen-iodine laser, ferromagnetic polymerized C60, fullerene-based vaccines, etc.).
The role of the Matthew effect in science Then the Matthew effect may be seen as helping to maximise science’s contribution to society.
Research productivity of the medical faculty at the American University of Beirut This is one of the first studies that analyse the research productivity of the medical faculty in a university setting in a developing country.
Environmental and ecological economics: A citation analysis We conclude that ecological economics is somewhat more interdisciplinary than environmental economics but that there is a broad overlap at the disciplinary level between the two fields. However, the emphasis given to different topics is very different in the two fields and there is even more difference at the level of the specific papers and authors who are most cited. Specific findings on the articles that have been most influential on environmental and resource economics are contained in the body of this paper, and so here we focus on the comparison between the two fields.
Author, contributor or just a signer? A quantitative analysis of authorship trends in the field of bioethics In the nine peer reviewed journals from the field of bioethics, we observed a clear increase in the multi- author article and in the average number of authors. This is mainly due to the increase in the number of publications with an empirical design. This growing trend is a challenge for the editors of journals in the field of bioethics to enhance awareness about the value and definition of authorship.
Document delivery as a source for bibliometric analyses: the case of Subito Though our ‘data pool’ was rather restricted, the outcomes of our study suggest that document delivery data are a rich source for bibliometric analyses.
How influential is Brooks' law?: A longitudinal citation context analysis of Frederick!Brooks' The Mythical Man-Month The findings contribute to our understanding of the diffusion of ideas in scholarly communication, and the diversity that can underlie the creation of a reference in a scholarly publication. It is clear from the data shown in Figure 1 that Brooks' The Mythical Man-Month has 'legs'. It may be the variety as well as the centrality of the many issues and lessons learned in MMM that have kept it visible and cited more than 25 years after its initial publication.
How the structure of contribution disclosure statements affects validity of authorship: a randomized study in a general medical journal "The structure of the contribution disclosure form significantly influenced the number of contributions reported by authors of submitted manuscripts and their compliance with the ICMJE authorship criteria. Journal editors should be aware of the cognitive aspects of survey methodology when they construct for their authors self-reports about behaviour, such as contribution disclosure forms. This study uncovered important aspects of communications between the editors and authors."
Measures of international collaboration in scientific literature: Part I By depending on an explicit model, this approach ensures a consistency and coherence among our measures, and helps us tease out those aspects of the process that are important from those that are irrelevant.
Measures of international collaboration in scientific literature: Part II The v-measure provides a measure similar in concept to the μ-measure of the companion paper, with a number of satisfying properties.
Systems without low-productive sources In this article we studied IPPs without low-productive sources. An extension of the positive reinforcement model explains all the essential properties. Using this approach we have shown that, when time increases in mature systems the alpha exponent of the Lotka size-frequency function decreases, while, moreover, the minimum source size increases. Examples related to country sizes, city sizes and databases illustrate the concepts and results discussed in this article.
An interpretation of the effort function through the mathematical formalism of Exponential Informetric Process Given that it is justified to approach an IPP by the effort function, we here propose replacing the concept of Lotkaian distribution by the logarithmic effort function.
Modeling citation behavior in Management Science journals This paper has considered the stochastic behavior of citations for papers published in the management science literature.
A distribution of impact factors of journals in the area of software: An empirical study It has been observed that a gamma distribution (α as mean and β as 1) fits the empirical distribution very well. The researchers are now publishing their articles in high impact factor journals in the field of software studies. In gamma distribution, α is the mean of the distribution and thus to a great extent, we can treat it as an "index", to identify a set of quality journals.
Automated Web issue analysis: A nurse prescribing case study These demonstrate that automated Web issue analysis is capable of quickly delivering new insights into a problem.
Binary Pathfinder:: An improvement to the Pathfinder algorithm As a result, one succeeds in reducing the space complexity as well as the time complexity, achieving very significant differences in execution time for medium- and large-sized networks, and greatly reducing the limitations for the pruning procedure.
Delineating complex scientific fields by an hybrid lexical-citation method: An application to nanosciences Applied to the field of Nanoscience and technology, the method proved efficient when using a prudent combination of parameters, aiming at a moderate addition to the seed and based on a rather secure combination of parameters: high specificity ratio, and no less than four references to the cited set.
An ego-centric citation analysis of the works of Michael O. Rabin based on multiple citation indexes In this study we have carried out an ego-centric citation analysis of Michael Rabin. We characterized his most cited works, his citation identity, coauthor list and citation image makers.
Journal self-citation study for semiconductor literature: Synchronous and diachronous approach High self-citing journals tend to be older than low self-citing journals. Journals with a short time interval of publication are more possible with high self-citing and self-cited rates. A journal with a higher self-citing rate tends to be cited more by itself. There is a significant mean difference between self-citing and self-cited rates within the same set of journals. The mean self-cited rate (15.03%) is 5.4% greater than the mean self-citing rate (9.59%). However, further investigations are needed to confirm this point.
Towards all-author co-citation analysis A comparison between first-author and all-author co-citation analyses of the XML research field has indi-cated that an all-author co-citation analysis, which takes into account more links between related authors, results in a considerably clearer picture of the intellectual structure of a research field than the classic first-author co-citation analysis.
Scientific collaboration of new 10 EU countries in the field of social sciences On the whole bibliometric map of scientific cooperation (Fig. 1) shows slight collaboration of 10 countries both with 15 EU countries and their mutual collaboration in social science.
Connection and stratification in research collaboration: An analysis of the COLLNET network Although COLLNET is not a large-scale network, the results are useful to provide an illustration of the main approaches to measuring structural characters, and identify nodes who are the most important hub nodes and who have the most influence in the network.
Towards mapping library and information science In the present paper, we have analysed the concept structure of five journals representing a broad spectrum of topics in the field of Library and Information Science (LIS).
Gatekeeping in the international journal literature of chemistry The national distribution of the gatekeepers seems to be a determining factor in influencing the state of health of chemistry in the world nations.
Bias in peer review of organic farming grant applications In conclusion, this study showed that reviewers affil-iated with different farming systems may exercise sys-tematic biases when reviewing organic grant applications.
The imprecise science of evaluating scholarly performance - Utilizing broad quality categories for an assessment of business and management journals On the basis of the evidence presented, the hypothesis was rejected.
How accurate are the references in Emergency Medical Journal? There is a sizeable rate of citation errors (19%) in the EMJ.
Publication trends in the Journal of Teaching in Physical Education from 1981 to 2005 Overall results suggest that female scholars have achieved parity in terms of editorial leadership and editorial board membership for the JTPE, something that many other journals have not yet achieved.
Benchmarking scientific output in the social sciences and humanities:: The limits of existing databases This paper concludes that because of this bias, Thomson Scientific databases cannot be used in isolation to benchmark the output of countries in the SSH. Thus, these data clearly show that Thomson Scientific's SSH journal selection favours English. It is essential to factor the bias into any international comparative analysis of the SSH since any benchmarking based on SSCI and AHCI will overestimate the production of English speaking countries such as the U.S., the UK and Canada and underestimate that of Germany, Spain, France and other non-English-speaking countries, and this bias will affect both publication counts and citation analyses.
Research productivity in the internet era The present analysis investigated the relationship between internet use and research productivity in the context of other influences.
Using ISI's 'Highly Cited Researchers' to obtain a country level indicator of citation excellence Our results are based on ISI Thompson Scientific data on 'highly cited researchers' (HCRs) in the 20 year period 1981–1999. While highly cited researchers appear to provide a good indicator of research performance of a country, there are certain other considerations that need to be taken into account if one is to make valid international comparisons. This may be a reflection of selection effects or an indication that centres of excellence attract together individuals with high levels of performance.
Mapping research topics using word-reference co-occurrences: A method and an exploratory case study We introduced a method based on a combined use of title words and cited references, and this seems promising.
'Mini small worlds' of shortest link paths crossing domain boundaries in an academic Web space This webometric study has developed a five-step methodology to identify Web links, pages, and sites that function as small-world connectors across an academic Web space.
Mapping the diffusion of scholarly knowledge among major US research institutions The presented analysis introduces a novel approach to analyzing the dual role of institutions as producers and consumers of scholarly knowledge and to study the diffusion of scholarly knowledge among them. We hope this paper inspires similar studies on, e.g., the dual role of authors as knowledge producers and consumers or the diffusion of knowledge among companies via publication and patent citations, email exchanges, etc. We believe advanced information analysis and visualization techniques will be critical to understand the dynamics of scholarly knowledge diffusion.
Selecting scientific excellence through committee peer review - A citation analysis of publications previously published to approval or rejection of post-doctoral research fellowship applicants The findings confirm that the foundation is not only achieving its goal of selecting the best junior scientists for fellowship awards, but also successfully attracting highly talented young scientists to apply for B.I.F. fellowships. Our bibliometric analyses show that the committee peer review of the B.I.F. indeed achieved the foundation's goal of selecting the "best" junior scientists with the highest impact of scientific research for fellowships. This means that not only does the foundation achieve the fellowship program goal of providing financial support to scientifically excellent researchers, but it also is successfully attracting an applicant pool of highly talented junior scientists – the latter being a prerequisite for the former.
Measuring concentration within and co-concentration between informetric distributions: An empirical study We have tried to illustrate several different but related approaches to measuring the similarity, or otherwise, of concentration between different informetric data sets. The results reported here are certainly not definitive but we would hope to have encouraged others to make use of the methods to increase understanding of the appropriate interpretation of the measures.
Proceedings literature as additional data source for bibliometric analysis The results of the first part of the paper of the study characterise the ISI Proceedings especially in the applied and technical sciences, but also in the social sciences and humanities as valuable supplement to the Web of Science database. Tasks of future research will include the comparison of the present findings with those observed in co-publication studies, the analysis of the extent of international collaboration in proceedings and the role of the organising countries in collaboration as well as the comparison of national conference, research and publication profiles.
Quantitative evaluation of large maps of science Using VxOrd for graph layout, the best overall maps are obtained using the modified cosine similarity measure and setting the cutting parameter to create "aggregated" maps. This combination gives the best combination of high accuracy at full coverage, and low disciplinary bias for both current paper and reference paper maps. We invite others to test their algorithms on literature data sets of similar scale so that the results can be compared.
Motivations for URL citations to open access library and information science articles One interesting issue is related to the difference between the proportions of URL citation creation motivations for LIS open access and LIS journal Web sites indexed by the ISI. The results indicate that LIS OA journals receiving many URL citations also receive high numbers of ISI citations. In fact, text URLs, especially in non-HTML sources, are more influential than hyperlinks for creating citation network on the Web for this study.
Canadian collaboration networks:: A comparative analysis of the natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities The collaborative activities of Canadian scholars, as measured by the number of joint publications, are increasing in both the NSE and the SSH.
A rhythm indicator for science and the rhythm of Science The rhythm of science (and of journals such as Science) may be compared to the rhythm of a music piece. The R-indicator studied in this article tries to reflect one element of this rhythm. In this way the R-sequence can be used to describe the evolutionary rhythm of science from a novel point of view.
Exploring the analytical potential of comparing citing and cited source items Comparing citing and cited source items can yield a wide variety of analysis and interesting information about a field of research. One attractive outcome of having full bibliographic information on both citing and cited papers is that we have closer control of self-citations, or for that matter, citations within and between groups, institutions and countries. Several of the examples given in this paper need further exploration. At this stage it is enough to conclude that there are a number of interesting openings for future research in comparing the properties and time order of citing and cited papers.
Concept symbols revisited: Naming clusters by parsing and filtering of noun phrases from citation contexts of concept symbols The present study has briefly introduced a semi-automatic method for parsing and filtering of noun phrases from citation contexts.
Tracking and predicting growth areas in science Thus, currency has some limited value as a short term predictor of year to year growth.
Comparing business competition positions based on Web co-link data: The global market vs. the Chinese market The study shows that co-link data can be used to map market segments to which the companies belong. We propose that regular data collection and analysis based on this method can be used to monitor the business competitive environment and trigger early warnings on the change of the competitive landscape. Incorporating inlink data, which were proven to correlate with business performance measures in earlier studies (VAUGHAN & WU, 2004; VAUGHAN, 2004b), into the co-link analysis gives a more complete depiction of the competitive positions.
Composite scientometric indicators for evaluating publications of research institutes The aim of this study was to obtain comparable aggregated indexes for the evaluation of publications of research institutes.
Comparative analysis of co-authorship networks considering authors' roles in collaboration: Differences between the theoretical and application areas This study has compared the co-authorship networks of the two subdomains in computer science, that is, the theoretical and application areas, from two viewpoints giving attention to the roles in collaboration networks.
Price and value of electronic journals: A survey at the Indian Institute of Science This study of the top thirty journals used at the Indian Institute of Science shows that the journals with a high impact factor in the Journal Citation Re-port® are attractive for researchers in India as well as all over the world. Comparison between publishers of the top journals shows that there is a consider-able difference between the prices that for-profit/commercial publishers charge to libraries for scholarly journals and the prices that professional societies and university presses charge. This suggests that it might be useful to spend more on subscrip-tions to scholarly journals from professional soci-eties.
Accuracy of cited references: The role of citation databases Overall, the average percent of all database mapping errors in three chemistry journals was 3.5 percent in SCIE and 1.7 percent in SFS.
Behavioral citation analysis: Toward collection enhancement for users The results of this behavioral citation analysis study suggest that the UT Libraries might market existing research resources more effectively, as well as extend collections to meet the demands of users. As demonstrated in this study, librarians can engage in collection evaluation using a number of data-gathering techniques to profile the efficacy of a collection as well as its perceived utility, and thus determine how best to respond to user needs. An integrated analysis, using a combination of data-gathering techniques, can help diminish the likelihood of drawing conclusions falsely.
Print versus electronic journal use in three sci/tech disciplines: The cultural shift in process Between the two studies, we have caught a cultural shift in process.
The impact of centers and institutes on faculty life: Findings from a study of basic science and internal medicine faculty at research-intensive medical schools "Findings indicate that faculty from different departments and with different ranks and backgrounds interact with centers and institutes in multiple ways."
Deflated, inflated and phantom citation counts The combination of the inflated citation count values dispensed by Google Scholar (GS) with the ignorance and shallowness of some GS enthusiasts can be a real mix for real scholars. GS is good for locating relevant items, leading users some of the time to an open access version of a document, but it is not an appropriate tool for bibliometric studies. My answer is that, if they come from GS, whose results cannot be corroborated, they do not count.
On the tips of their tongues: authors and their views on scholarly publishing The analysis of the authors' comments shows that the authors chose to highlight peer review (34%), faster publishing (9%), free or better access to scholarly journals (8.8%), and journal prices (6.2%).
Open archives and their impact on journal cancellations At present the picture seems to be that this impact on usage does not lead to journal cancellations for the reasons given above: that is, the faculty still want 'the real jour-nal', librarians want to maintain holdings, a postprint is not seen as an adequate substi-tute for the publisher's final version, and so on.
Comparing academic hyperlink structures with journal publishing in Korea - A social network analysis Analysis confirmed that hyperlink creation and reception correlate with authorship, indicating that expanding one's research identity via hyperlinks might be an indicator of the productiveness of researchers and research institutes. More specifically, the analysis provided evidence showing that journal article publication might have affected the overall configuration of in- and out-links among the sample universities. Second, the relationship between journal article publication and linking behavior was distinctively dyadic.
Academic electronic journals: Past, present, and future In this chapter, we described the development of academic publishing as a means of knowledge building and dissemination, communication among scholars and as an instrument to measure scholarly productivity and to grant rewards.
References to literature in patent documents: A case study of CSIR in India There is a scope of improvement in making relevant prior art search, particularly, for patent literature by R&D scientists in CSIR. In terms of information support, the efforts should thus be made to provide relevant support to non-patent literature from the identified disciplines and sub-disciplines and patent literature from identified countries, effectively and on priority basis.
Performance measures for the socio-economic impact of government spending on R&D This paper has briefly summarized technology policy, Canadian programs directed at R&D, commercialization, academic research, education, and the analysis of such programs. In the previous section I proposed some preliminary methods for the evaluation of eleven of Canada's technology programs. Therefore, before any substantive empirical work could begin, consultations with government, industry and academia must take place.
A comparative study of communal practice: Assessing the effects of taken-for-granted-ness on citation practice in scientific communities To recapitulate, the data support the propositions I offered, and therefore the idea that there are substantive differences between the natural and social sciences in terms of the level of taken-for-granted-ness enacted. Most importantly, this paper makes a contribution to the comparative study of practice across communities. I discuss the implications of the study for our understanding of communities of practice, for our beliefs about differences between the branches of science, and about science as a productive enterprise.
Assessing the knowledge base for biotechnology in South Africa - A bibliometric analysis of South African microbiology and molecular biology and genetics research The decreasing share of world articles in molecular biology and genetics in the last period under review is cause for concern while the microbiology field seems to be fairing better. We suggest that these low numbers could pose a threat to the success of government programmes in biotechnology. Interventions of government biotechnology policies and funding and the recent indications of increases in research investment should benefit from a good quality, albeit small base, in microbiology and molecular biology and genetics.
A first approach to the classification of the top 500 world universities by their disciplinary characteristics using scientometrics In this study, a tentative method of classifying top 500 world universities by their disciplinary characteristics in five disciplinary groups has been established using scientometrics.
Scientometric profile of Indian agricultural research as seen through Science Citation Index Expanded The study indicates that like the decline in Indian scientific output during the last two decades, there appears to be a decline in the agricultural research output also during the later period i.e. after 1997. Most papers in agricultural research are published in Indian and low NIF journals. Highly productive institutions contribute about half of the research output. However, the work published by them is not often quoted.
Is it possible to compare researchers with different scientific interests? The index h₁ is complementary to h and indicates the number of papers a researcher would have written alone along his/her carrier with at least h₁ citations if he/she has worked alone.
Retractions in the research literature: misconduct or mistakes? Retractions in the biomedical literature were more than twice as likely to result from unintentional mistakes than from scientific misconduct. The different characteristics of articles retracted for misconduct and for mistakes reflect distinct causes and, potentially, distinct solutions. Ultimately, research mistakes, like all human errors, must be seen not as sources of embarrassment or failure, but rather as opportunities for learning and improvement.
Increased expenditure on Australian health and medical research and changes in numbers of publications determined using PubMed There is an association between increased funding for HMR and increased publications, as determined using PubMed, in the past 10 years.
On prejudice If evaluators possess prejudice, an individual's performance in the earlier stage of his career becomes more important, at least in the short run, thus creating an incentive to work harder in the earlier stage than in the later stage.
Financial support of graduate programs in Brazil:: quo vadis? To reverse this trend, we propose the development of sectorial funding for Brazilian graduate programs to guarantee the availability and continuity of financial support for this strategic activity.
Visualizing the scientific world and its evolution In this paper, we have presented an approach to con-structing an MST and a two-dimensional map of scientific journals. This approach can be applied to various levels of knowledge domains. Our results suggest that a two-dimensional map of science can be constructed to help comprehend various knowledge domains and to capture the structure and evolution of mankind's scientific endeavor at a glance.
Classification and powerlaws: The logarithmic transformation We recommend against the logarithmic transformation when sets cannot be defined unambiguously.
Author cocitation analysis is to intellectual structure as web colink analysis is to ... ? This study focuses on the relationship between ACA and WCA as sister techniques, and shows that WCA is clearly the more complex technique of the two.
Gender differences in research patterns among PhD economists Despite large gender differences in the mean number of several types of publications, once major factors were controlled, gender was generally not a significant predictor of publishing activity. This finding, in and of itself, might represent some improvement in women's research productivity relative to men and a concomitant improvement in access to senior positions.
International business research: Trends and school rankings Our findings have a variety of implications. The evidence indicates there are publishing opportunities for scholars around the globe in IB research as well as upward trends in the total number of publications among Asia-Pacific and European institutions in the last 10 years. Our results confirm findings in other disciplines that show the growing importance of co-authorship.
An anomalous journal impact factor I conclude that the large jump in the IF for ApJS was due to the inclusion of a set of 13 papers that had 28 times the normal average citations per paper.
A bibliometric study of dermatology in central Europe 1991-2002 "Central Europe's contribution to the dermatologic world literature is gradually increasing."
Brazilian medical publications: citation patterns for Brazilian-edited and non-Brazilian literature Therefore, we conclude that Brazilian medical scientists cite the international non-Brazilian periodicals more than the national journals, and most of the cited papers are indexed by ISI-Thompson. The results of the present study show that authors publishing in Brazilian Medical Journals preferentially cite the foreign scientific literature. The language used in the text of Brazilian-edited journals (Portuguese or English), as well as the database in which the journals are indexed, have little influence on the pattern of citations of Brazilian authors.
Duplicate publication and 'paper inflation' in the fractals literature The prediction approaches examined in this paper (and the subsequent manual evaluation of full texts) have identified a small number of redundant Fractals publications in a much larger sample of publications in SCI-accessed journals.
An analytic hierarchy process model to apportion co-author responsibility Thus, co-author 1 is responsible for 0.228 of the project, co-author 2 is responsible for 0.299, and co-author 3 is responsible for 0.473.
Student perceptions of the effectiveness of education in the responsible conduct of research The two principal findings of this multi-institutional study are that respondents reported: (1) a wide variety of positive outcomes for research ethics courses, but that (2) the impact on knowledge was greater than that for changes in skills or attitudes.
Changes in the research stream by standardization:: A content analysis of the Archives of General Psychiatry during the establishment of operational diagnostic criteria From these results, we can observe increases in the use of both standardized diagnostic criteria and standardized screening methods from 1978 to 1990. These results suggest that the widespread adoption of operational diagnostic criteria partly shaped the changes in the stream of research, particularly the decrease in the use of descriptive methods, the increase in the variety of target diseases, and the increase in research using mental states as independent variables. Content analysis and other methods of scientometrics are clearly useful for discussions on the stream of research.
Restructuring the Japanese national research system and its effect on performance This paper analysed the transition of the Japanese research system and its performance over a period of 20 years. Japan is the second largest producer of academic publications, but it still shows the characteristics of a "catching-up country", in which the percent of low-cited publications is high. The effects of the new policy need to be continuously monitored using the quantitative indicators presented in this study.
Patterns of scientific collaboration between Japan and France: Inter-sectoral analysis using Probabilistic Partnership Index (PPI) Our hope is that PPI will prove to be a useful and complementary tool for the analysis of international collaboration.
Gender and science in developing areas: Has the Internet reduced inequality? This finding casts doubt on the presumption that the removal of communication constraints will soon reduce career differentials resulting from the mobility constraints on women professionals.
Web-science communication in the age of globalization The degree centralities showed that the European countries' universities dominate the overall networks, in terms of being the largest sources and targets of links.
Repositories for research: Southampton's evolving role in the knowledge cycle Originality/value – The TARDis project was one of the first IRs to achieve central university funding in the UK. Combined with increased visibility and citation, the research assessment exercise route has become the "hook" on which a number of IRs are basing their business models. This established it as a central part of its research infrastructure, managed by the university library. The TARDis project completed its transition to invisibility in 2005, but the sequel is – back to the future!
Lorenz theory of symmetric relative concentration and similarity, incorporating variable array length In this paper we showed that the Lorenz theory of symmetric relative concentration and similarity developed in [7] can only be applied if the length N of arrays is kept constant.
Library quarterly, 1956-2004:: An exploratory bibliometric analysis Library Quarterly continues to attract a roster of highly productive, international scholars. Library Quarterly continues to receive contributions from nearly one-half of the world's most cited library and information scientists. All of these more nuanced measures should be considered in any future assessment of Library Quarterly and for all other bibliometric journal studies [6].
Alphabetized coauthorship It is found that alphabetized coauthored papers with two authors are more highly cited than non-alphabetized coauthored papers in both economic and agricultural economics. It is speculated that the preponderance of non-alphabetized papers in agricultural economics is due in some part to the differential importance of non-market-based criteria to evaluate research in this area as opposed to economics departments. Obviously, the intricacies of intellectual team production are subtle in ways that are not yet fully understood.
Influential journals, institutions and researchers in real estate This provides strong evidence of the existence of a distinct real estate research discipline.
"Eigenlob": self-citation in biomedical journals In conclusion, we found that self-citation was not rare in the reviewed journals, an observation that is likely true for the majority, if not all, of scientific journals. In addition, it seems that there is an association among the type of the paper (original article vs. review paper), the type of journal (nonclinical vs. clinical), and the number of authors with a higher proportion of self-citations in the multivariable analysis.
The top 25 at 25:: Citation classics in the Journal of Pediatric Orthopoedics The influence of the Journal of Pediatric Orthopaedics on the subspecialty of pediatric orthopaedic surgery is readily apparent from this 25-year review.
Current status of peer review at Annals of Emergency Medicine "We are extremely pleased with, and grateful to, our knowledgeable and hard-working reviewers."
The most influential journals in academic accounting Thus, there appears to be strong support for considering these journals as the top five in the field. However, differential rankings across specialty areas suggest that universities should consider individuals' specialty areas in performance evaluation settings, particularly if they focus on publications in fewer than five journals.
Do regional disparities in research on climate and water influence adaptive capacity? Our meta-analysis of literature on climate change and water resources suggests that scientific effort on this subject has not been evenly distributed between developed and developing regions of the world or among the types of research done.
Ranking Australian economics departments by research productivity This paper ranks Australian economics departments on the basis of research productivity as determined by the (lagged) annual flow of size and quality adjusted pages published per person year between 1996 and 2002 in two sets of journals. Our results also suggest that many economics departments achieved very low research productivity over the study period. Many Australian economics departments currently lack the critical mass of research-productive members necessary to create an environment that promotes and encourages high-quality journal publications.
Indicators for complex innovation systems The ranks of member groups of an innovation system by scale-independent indicators can be subtly and profoundly different than the ranks given by conventional indicators. The differences can result in a shift in perspective about the performance of members of an innovation system that has public policy implications. A similar renaissance could occur in the study of social systems if scale-independent indi-cators and models were be used to inform public policy.
PublicationHarvester:: An open-source software tool for science policy research PublicationHarvester is fast, simple to use, and reliable.
Design and the management of multi-institutional research collaborations: Theoretical implications from two case studies We argue that the domain (i.e. epistemic or organizational) that provides the highest level of institutionalization is the one that organizes the "rules" of the collaboration.
Does the academic labor market initially allocate new graduates efficiently? This finding is comforting, insofar as it suggests that the market adjusts its errors in initial assessment after considering the later publication record; but it is also disturbing, in that the impact of initial placement continues over time, even though initial placement for certain groups does not accurately predict their later publication record. The original misallocation of individuals is only partially corrected by their later publication record, because some effects of initial placement appear to be lasting.
Traces of Prior Art: An analysis of non-patent references found in patent documents Our findings reveal that citations in patents allow for the development of non-trivial and robust indicators.
Influence of the 1991-1995 war on Croatian publications in the MEDLINE database Croatia and its centers, Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek increased biomedical publication rates despite enormous destruction and human losses caused by the war. Despite a significant increase in the quantity of Croatian publications in the MEDLINE database, the number of AIM-publications increased only slightly.
Structure of the impact factor of academic journals in the field of Education and Educational Psychology:: Citations from editorial board members We believe that our approach to elucidating the structure of impact factor is a potentially useful tool for analysing the dynamics of a given scientific discipline. Perhaps the most significant finding from this study is the fact that for some journals in the field of Education and Educational Psychology, in some years, a significant proportion of all citations that count toward the impact factor are from articles published by members of the journal's editorial board. Given that editorial board members are considered to be among the most prestigious scientists, we suggest that citations from papers authored by editorial board members should be given particular consideration.
The efficiency of self-citations in economics Citations are the coin of the realm for academic economists.
Assessment of research performance in food science and technology:: Publication behavior of five Iberian-American countries (1992-2003) Results show that output research of a given country may be influenced by specific publication and management strategies which in turn may depend upon the phase of development of the field, geopolitical and economic factors as well as the effects of productive collaboration patterns.
An informetric model for the Hirsch-index We have considered the Hirsch-index, h, in the context of Information Production Processes (IPPs) and shown an existence theorem in this general framework.
Theory and practise of the g-index This yields a better distinction between and order of the scientists from the point of view of visibility.
h-index sequence and h-index matrix:: Constructions and applications The h-sequence and h-matrix could complement the absent details, reveal different increasing manner and the increasing mechanism of the h-index, and make the scientists at different scientific age comparable.
An extension of the Hirsch index: Indexing scientific topics and compounds By comparing both the hb index and m for a number of compounds and topics, it can be used to differentiate between a new so-called hot topic with older topics.
A Hirsch-type index for journals Hirsch's h-type indices will certainly challenge scientometrists and other number crunchers for a while, and their use in the citation assessment of journals seems to have promising perspectives with a lot of systematic analysis and statistical background work to be done.
The scientists pyramid The proposed mix of quantitative and qualitative indicators shown for each class in Table 2 is not exhaustive, but it is probably more complete than any other form of traditional judgment of a scientist's achievements and reputation, and can be applied across countries with varying scientific infrastructure.
Scientists' performance and consolidation of research teams in Biology and Biomedicine at the Spanish Council for Scientific Research In conclusion, the results reported here provide evidence that helps explain how consolidated, well-established research teams provide researchers with a context that favours higher productivity and greater activity in training pre-doctoral students.
Mapping the structure of science through usage "We conclude from these promising results that usage data is a viable, if not essential, part of the future scientometric and informetric instrumentarium."
A bibliometric analysis of productivity patterns of biomedical authors of Nigeria during 1967-2002 What has been done in this article is to test the prescribed author categories of the biomedical publications of Nigeria listed in Medline during 1967-2002 for fitting to Lotka's law of scientific productivity. We have seen that the categories of 'all authors', 'first authors', 'non-collaborative authors' did fit the Lotka's inverse power law with different parameters of α = 1.88, 1.64 and 1.97, respectively.
Publication lag in biomedical journals varies due to the periodical's publishing model The present study shows that “OAP” journals and “traditional" journals have a competitive publication speed, while it takes much longer for manuscripts submitted to association journals to be published.
Use of bibliometric information to assist research policy making.: A comparison of publication and citation profiles of Full and Associate Professors at a School of Chemistry in Uruguay We have studied the sets of Full and Associate Professors at the School of Chemistry of the UDELAR, the larger and only public University in a small country in Latin America, namely Uruguay.
The unification of institutional addresses applying parametrized finite-state graphs (P-FSG) The model presented here describes the corporate source data at micro-level in a systematic form.
World literature on thorium research: A scientometric study based on Science Citation Index The scientific study on thorium based on Science Citation Index database shows that USA is the major producer of scientific output with 1000 authorships to its credit in this field. Science policy makers and science administrators in respective countries have to take the facts into account and formulate a suitable policy which can ensure continued encouragement, adequate expertise and resources for the research in this field which may help in identifying innovative nuclear energy systems designed to run on thorium in a sustainable manner in the future. A compherensive study may be done using all databases. The results may be different and interesting.
Journal self-citations that contribute to the impact factor:: Documents labeled "editorial material" in journals covered by the Science Citation Index In the present study journal self-citations that contributed to the impact factor and that appeared in published documents labeled editorial material were found in about 43% of the journals we analyzed. We conclude there was no suspicious overall pattern of intentional impact-raising strategies. Our findings tend to support the robustness of the impact factor as a bibliometric indicator in the journals covered by the Science Citation Index.
Cross-national preference in co-authorship, references and citations The study of the preference patterns of the leading 36 countries of the scientific world revealed that geopolitical location, cultural relations and language are determining factors in shaping preferences whether in co-authorship, cross-reference or cross-citation.
Scientific productivity paradox: The case of China's S&T system The most important finding in this paper is the negative scientific productivity growth rate of China's S&T institutes since the 1990s. Given the negative scientific productivity growth rate, China's future S&T reform policy needs to emphasize continuous improvement of the funding system, strengthen the internal management and fight misconduct activities. If fails to do so, the best R&D proposal will not be financially supported and excellent scientists will lose their motivation to pursue first class research, which can be reflected by negative productivity in the long run.
Profile of the Brazilian scientific production in multiple sclerosis The present study shows that the interest in the study of MS has increased over the years in Brazil as reflected by the increased number of papers. However, most of the papers on MS have been written in Portuguese and have appeared in predominantly local medical journals with a low IF. We believe that adherence to stricter criteria of quality for carrying out and reporting research, attention to international editorial conventions and the use of the English language to communicate the findings should contribute to making Brazilian papers appear in journals with higher IF, and become more visible to the international scientific community.
Has the growth and development of subspecialization in pediatric urology affected scholarly activity? Scholarly pursuit of pediatric urology as a subspecialty has remained remarkably steady, averaging about 2 authorships per author yearly in the recent decade. The percent of authorships with funding in pediatric urology has decreased. New members are more likely to publish with a low unpublished percent.
Not quite as simple as A-B-C - Reflections on one department's experiences with publication ranking All things considered, we believe our publication ranking efforts were successful.
Tracking cross-disciplinary information use by author affiliation: Demonstration of a method Our results, based on an author-affiliation method of assigning discipline in the sci-ences, indicate decreasing CDC rates over the last 20 years for Biological Sciences and Physics, and an increasing CDC rate over the last 20 years for Chemistry. These results do not support our first hypoth-esis, which stated our expectation that CDC rates had increased over the time period 1985–2000. Additional data from future studies may help clarify the role that this method can play in mea-suring cross-disciplinary citation rates.
Open access publishing in the biomedical sciences: could funding agencies accelerate the inevitable changes? The list of funding agencies supporting open access is growing.
Do financial factors such as author page charges and industry funding impact on the nature of published research in infectious diseases? There is clearly a relationship between industry funding and certain types of published research.
Scientific authorship in the age of collaborative research In summary, collaborative research benefits science in a variety of ways. But, I have argued that collaborative research also raises concerns. In redesigning the reward structure a variety of goals must be made to converge: (i) the goals of individual researchers who work collaboratively, (ii) the goals of collaborative research teams, and (iii) the institutional goals of science.
Systematic acceleration of radical discovery and innovation in science and technology I have proposed the identification and exploitation of diverse literatures, and their representative experts, to help solve problems of interest through potentially radical discovery and innovation.
Electroanalytical methods. Publications in 1999-2004 Thus, the character of the distribution of methods of electrochemical analysis in the proceedings of conferences and journals is similar. Making no pretense to the complete coverage of all publications in the world, we believe that the performed scientometric analysis of Russian and foreign publications reflects the current status and main trends in the development of EMA, their contribution to the development of analytical chemistry in 1999–2004, because it is based on a sufficiently representative sample. Taking into account the prospects of the development of nanoscale electrochemical measurements, we might expect a rapid growth in the number of publications in EMA in this field, including Russian papers, and an increased demand for EMA.
Top-cited articles in emergency medicine Our analysis gives an encyclopedic review of citation frequency of top-cited articles published in EM journals, which may provide information for those who want to find the history, evolution, and areas of high-impact research activities of EM.
Citation analysis of five journals in andrology Andrology journals have a wide coverage of literatures, which are related to reproductive medicine, urology, endocrinology and biochemistry. References in andrology journals are mainly periodicals and are relatively old. US, China and Japan lead the world in andrology researches for the number of papers published.
Multiple actors, multiple settings, multiple criteria: issues in assessing interdisciplinary research If, in fact, the trends in scientific inquiry towards multidisciplinarity, collaboration, and scale are as powerful and important as many recent statements project, changes in national policy, including changes in funding priorities, intra-organizational arrangements, composition of review panels, and criteria and methodologies for assessing program and project outcomes well beyond those adopted in the past 10 to 15 years will be required.
The policy challenges of peer review: managing bias, conflict of interests and interdisciplinary assessments An overall conclusion here is that peer review is a central element in the organisation and working of the scientific community - for allocating resources, ensuring traditions and standards of good research, and for promoting competition and an achievement-oriented attitude in the research community.
Beyond blind faith: overcoming the obstacles to interdisciplinary evaluation Evaluators in interdisciplinary panels must walk a fine line between trust and creed to produce a fair evaluation. Panelists respect the primacy of disciplinary sovereignty, deference to expertise and methodological pluralism. The inclusion of personal tastes in the review process does not impinge on panelists' understanding of the deci-sion-making process as fair and the outcome as legitimate.
Conclave in the Tower of Babel: how peers review interdisciplinary research proposals However, my empirical study has demonstrated that, under certain conditions, successful interdisciplinary peer review is possible without special criteria.
The value of South and Southeast Asian studies journal rankings Our central assumption is that journal rankings are valuable. Overall, our position is that technical limitations do exist, they should not be glossed over, and they undermine but do not invalidate our results. Journal rankings should be used as guides to complement, not supplant, other ways of measuring scholarship.
Can electronic journal usage data replace citation data as a measure of journal use? An empirical examination This study indicates that electronic usage data, as provided by most publishers of electronic journals, correlate significantly with print usage data in the areas of chemistry, biochemistry, and related fields.
On citation rates in earthquake engineering The nature of the data presented in this paper permits only rough estimates of the citation rates in earthquake engineering and describes only a small group of 51 faculty. Nevertheless, it is hoped that this type of analysis will further motivate more detailed studies, helping us to understand and improve our standing relative to other disciplines in the field of engineering.
A note on publication and citation rates of female academics in earthquake engineering Thus, given the opportunity FEF can rank as high as recognized leaders in the field of earthquake engineering, and we should look forward to their future significant contributions.
Aggregation consistency and frequency of Chinese words and characters Nonetheless, according to our analysis, it appears that internal consistency within each database remains fairly high. The main argument against syllable aggregation in Romanized fields of Chinese titles set forth by the Library of Congress does not appear to hold true since their vernacular data, found in parallel fields 880 of the MARC record, are already in polysyllabic format (segmented) and display a very high consistency level. This indicates that using Romanized data in aggregated form appears to be a preferable option.
Orthodontic journals with impact factors in perspective: Trends in the types of articles and authorship characteristics The 3 journals accept articles from different geo- graphic origins: 80.6% of the articles in the EJO are from European countries, and articles from North America constitute 3.9%.
Institutional addresses in the Web of Science:: the effects on scientific evaluation This new rule must be taken into account by the authors of bibliometric analyses when evaluating both the scientific production of countries and institutions, and inter-institutional and international co-operation.
Scholarly productivity of US LIS faculty Looking at the increase in publication and citation, it becomes apparent that LIS is maturing as a field of study and developing a larger body of research. The production and publication of research helps the profession establish its theoretical and epistemological foundation.
Delay between online and offline issue of journals: A critical analysis "In general, online issues are available ahead of their respective print versions and the average delay is nearly 3 months." "Delay varies by publisher." "One point worth making here is that this delay has serious implications for research activities in developing countries."
Trends in scientific activity addressing transmissible spongiform encephalopathies:: a bibliometric study covering the period 1973-2002 In brief, this study reveals a high increase in scientific pro-duction on prions research, with the establishment of pro-gressive collaboration relationships and a reflection of public health concerns about this problem, dictated by both the extent of the epidemics and the sensitivity of organisations such as the European Union Research Com-mission.
The effect of open access on citation impact: A comparison study based on web citation analysis On average, JCMC articles receive Web citations twice as often as NMS articles.
Web indicators for complex innovation systems What do the web indicators developed in this study tell us about the web presence of the European and Canadian innovation systems? They tell us that an innovation system's web-page presence is composed of an evolving complex network of hyperlinks that has emergent scaling properties. Furthermore, as the level of aggregation increases, the amount of recognition becomes more concentrated. At every level of aggregation and for all crawl depths, inter-group recognition scales with group size in a manner exhibiting a cumulative disadvantage. Web metrics research is in its infancy. However, this study and recent research suggest that web indicators have the potential to help us understand different and novel aspects of complex innovation systems.
Investigating triple helix relationships using URL citations: a case study of the UK West Midlands automobile industry "This exploratory study has investigated the potential use of web URL citations as weak benchmarking indicators to determine levels of collaboration between organisations within the different sectors of the triple helix model."
On the visibility of information on the Web: an exploratory experimental approach We have created an experimental situation in which we measured information visibility as website visi-bility, using a recall measure. We can conclude that these corre-lations may also hold on the live Web, although perhaps less strongly due to the lack of stability of many features that we kept constant. Understanding the role of search engines in the framework of the Web as complex system is therefore increasingly important.
Collaboration structures between German immunology institutions, and gender visibility, as reflected in the Web The study has shown that a high percentage of academic multi-authored publications are visible in the Web and that it follows, therefore, that evidence of collaboration between institutions or scientists can be found in the Web.
Constructing experimental indicators for open access documents As we can show, logging data and derived web-based indicators of open accessible scholarly web spaces is a very interesting source and also monitors real usage by real readers/users, in almost real time.
Methodologies for the analysis of research funding and expenditure: from input to positioning indicators To conclude the paper, it is useful to summarize some general features of the approach proposed here.
Retention of retrospective print journals in the digital age: trends and analysis "It is possible to eliminate older years of a print journal collection without a large impact on the needs of researchers."
Reporting of non-communicable disease research in low- and middle-income countries: a pilot bibliometric analysis Conclusions: Even in regions rampant with infectious diseases, some capability exists to conduct research on non-communicable diseases. Greater attention should be paid to the conduct and support of such research in LMICs, which will benefit these countries and may yield clues to lower-cost solutions to the burden of these diseases worldwide. Sustained research on neglected and, especially, very neglected diseases is clearly essential in LMICs, but international funding agencies should strongly consider placing a greater emphasis on NCD research as well.
Bibliometric analysis of the American Journal of Veterinary Research to produce a list of core veterinary medicine journals A core collection of veterinary medicine journals would include 49 veterinary medicine journals from zones 1 and 2.
Awareness and attitude of Spanish medical authors to open access publishing and the "author pays" model Authors responding to this study clearly rejected au-thor fees due to lack of funding and knowledge about the prestige or reputation of OA journals.
Web links and search engine ranking: The case of Google and the query "jew" "The major conclusion of this content analysis is that Web users who link to both these pages view linking as a game."
Co-occurrence matrices and their applications in information science: Extending ACA to the Web environment This article has discussed the differences between the symmetrical cocitation matrix and the asymmetrical citation matrix as well as the appropriate statistical techniques that can be applied to these matrices.
What does it mean to be an author? The intersection of credit, contribution, and collaboration in science All of this discussion of the means for authorship and attribution of credit in HEP suggests that there are very large questions confronting this field. Thus, there are two key issues in understanding authorship that are ripe areas for future research: (a) better understanding reputational payoffs and (b) inducement of best efforts. While this list touches on issues of importance to scientists, it is not all-encompassing by any means.
Web crawling ethics revisited: Cost, privacy, and denial of service Decisions can be based upon an approximate cost-benefit analysis, but it is crucial that crawler owners find out about the technological issues affecting the owners of the sites being crawled in order to produce an informed assessment.
Measuring the utility of journals in the crime-psychology field: Beyond the impact factor Consistent with these predictions, the CPA correlated significantly with size-corrected informal journal utility (cIJU) and the IF did not.
Comparative citation analysis of duplicate or highly related publications The present data, derived from comparing the citation counts of highly related or nearly identical publications, sug-gest that the awareness of researchers of relevant previous work can be rather limited.
Article decay in the digital environment: An analysis of usage of OhioLINK by date of publication, employing deep log methods What we found supported the general belief that usage declines with the publication age, but the real interest (and surprise) is to be found in the detail of the analysis.
The economics of ecology journals Finally, from the broader community perspective, the scientific community as a whole would benefit if over-priced journals were displaced by journals priced at or near average cost.
NIH funding in family medicine: An analysis of 2003 awards CONCLUSIONS Most NIH awards to family medicine departments went to PIs in noncore organizational components, where most physician PIs were not family physicians.
Scientific production of research fellows at the Zagreb University School of Medicine, Croatia Undergraduate publication could be used as one of the main criteria in selecting research fellows. One of the crucial factors in a fellow's scientific production and career advancement is mentor's input, which is why research fellows would benefit most from working with scientifically productive mentors.
A bibliometric analysis by geographic area of published research in several biomedical fields, 1995-2003 In summary, the fact that the scientific production of researchers in Canada is higher (when adjusted for GDP) compared with other regions around the world deserves careful attention by the worldwide scientific community, as well as by public and private funding organizations, to identify the key determinants contributing to the cost-effective research productivity of this country. Unfortunately, the developing regions of the world contribute a very small amount of research to the worldwide biomedical research output. What is even more worrisome is that developing countries are low on the list of research productivity even after adjusting for GDP.
A bibliometric study in crystallography The growth of the cumulative number of entries after the Second World War is best described by a third-degree polynomial and not – as is often done – by an exponential growth.
Gender differences in publication and citation counts in librarianship and information science research In this paper we have reported a comparison of the publications by, and the citations to, 57 male and 48 female academics in five leading LIS departments of librarianship and information science. Statistical analysis of the resulting data shows that the male LIS academics do publish significantly more papers on average than do female LIS academics: this situation mirrors that observed in other disciplines, despite the high proportion of women working in the area as professionals and academics. There are, however, no significant differences in the numbers of citations to published papers by male and by female LIS academics.
Scholarly publishing practices: a case of plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose? "Online journal publishing has only just entered its second decade. The market is still in a process of experimentation." "Publishers and librarians are victims of their print inheritance, and find it difficult to migrate their policies and practices to a dynamic online environment, in which the technology itself is changing." "While we have yet to see the consequences of their intervention, it is clear that new players may yet have a profound effect on the scholarly and professional information market."
Financial support at the time of paper acceptance: a survey of three medical journals To conclude, a large proportion of published research is not externally funded, and many funded researchers do not have access to financial support at the time their paper is accepted for publication. The author-pays model could become an additional barrier for such researchers and some research may not be published due to limited resources. To determine the overall feasibility of an author-pays model detailed economic analy- sis is required, taking into consideration the volume of research that is not funded.
Is it enough to change the language? A case study of Croatian biomedical journals "Our results show that the language transition may produce positive changes in the editing and publishing characteristics of the journals (internationalization of editorial councils and the pool of authors, and more scrupulous categorization of published papers)."
Performance metrics Any attempt at measuring performance solely in this manner is, therefore, impossible in practice, and flawed in principle.
Gender differences in productivity - Research specialization as a missing link In this article, I have found that a heretofore neglected aspect of scholars' research programs—the extent to which they are specialized—plays a critical role in not only explaining variation in productivity levels but also helping us understand why women have consistently lower rates of productivity than men. Having a specialized research program (i.e., writing papers in the same specialty area repeatedly) promotes productivity, but women tend to have less specialized research programs, thereby missing out on a means of achieving higher productivity. Before these empirical results can contribute to a theory of specialization in work and to more practical endeavors, such as policy making and career planning, they must be replicated on other samples from other fields, at different times, with different outcome variables—including more encompassing measures of research productivity than the ones I used here.
What happens when special issues just aren't "special" anymore? Thus, special issues truly should be “special" (i.e., scarce) in our most prestigious journals. For my taste, 10% special issue pages would be a good target for a top journal, with 20% as the absolute upper annual limit.
What has mattered to economics since 1970 These caveats notwithstanding, our study has shown which papers have had the most impact on our profession and how demands for different subfields and modes of research have changed over time. It will be interesting to look again, a few years from now, to see what articles join the list and what new patterns emerge.
An evaluation of emergency medicine investigators' views on open access to medical literature Despite concerns that open access may impede their ability to publish research and decrease the quality of publications, most EMIs surveyed favoured open access.
Combining mining and visualization tools to discover the geographic structure of a domain In this paper, we present a method to aid understanding of the state-of-the-art and the evolution of scientific communities and research topics. It is based on the analysis of document sets (scientific publications) from which information is extracted and mined. Future work will concern the level of granularity the geographic map module takes into account.
Predicting subsequent citations to articles published in twelve crime-psychology journals: Author impact versus journal impact These results suggest that author impact may be a more powerful predictor of citations received by a journal article than the periodical in which the article appears.
The influence of publication delays on three ISI indicators Based on the analytical expression of the disturbed citation distribution and some theoretical hypotheses, formulae of Impact Factor, Immediaty Index and Cited Half-Life are established.
International versus national oriented Brazilian scientific journals. A scientometric analysis based on SciELO and JCR-ISI databases Therefore the SciELO citation database allows to endorse that publications in national journal of some areas do not fall into the void as sometimes has been presumed.
The rise of China in gastroenterology? A bibliometric analysis of ISI and Medline databases But, after detailed analysis, we could know that the speed of China's growth was not so rapid as seen at the first sight.
Collaboration uncovered:: Exploring the adequacy of measuring university-industry collaboration through co-authorship and funding We conclude that uncritical use of the two indicators may lead to misinterpretation of the development of collaborations and thus provide incorrect data for decision-making.
A new reader trial approach to peer review in funding research grants: An Australian experiment In comparison to the traditional peer review approach, the new reader system is substantially more reliable, timely, and cost efficient and applicable to many peer review situations.
Is chemistry 'The Central Science'? How are different sciences related? Co-citations, reductionism, emergence, and posets Our hierarchical “framework" ordering of Figure 2 here has some favorable basis. And finally we may return to our question of the "centrality" of chemistry. Brown et al.'s argument that chemistry concerns all we can touch and that it has diverse scientific contacts, is evidently further supported by its bridging character between the "hard" and "soft" sciences, and it is supported by our observation that chemistry is the primary initial location of branching in our partial ordering of the sciences.
Scientific production on tetrachloro-dibenzo-dioxins:: A bibliometric study It has been shown the scientific literature dispersion.
Impact factors and peer judgment: The case of regional science journals Overall considered, we have to conclude that the claim that impact factors are strongly positively correlated to peer judgment is not supported for European regional science.
Journal status The distinction between popularity and prestige that is prevalent in all areas of social life has yet to find its way into the assessment of scholarship.
The Current Impact Factor and the long-term impact of scientific journals by discipline: A logistic diffusion model estimation This paper developed a method for estimating the long-term impact of journal articles, in terms of citations, by discipline, based on 1981–2003 data on article counts and on "citations to present" counts.
The citation impact of digital preprint archives for solar physics papers Despite the slower adoption by the solar physics community, digital preprint archives boost the citation rates of posted papers to twice the level of unposted papers, a conclusion first noted in the comprehensive study of Schwarz and Kennicutt (2004).
Generalized comparison of graph-based ranking algorithms for publications and authors In this report we proposed and experimentally examined a family of new alternative methods for scientific publica- tions evaluation, besides the known algorithms of Page- Rank and HITS.
Bielefeld Academic Search Engine (BASE) An end-user oriented institutional repository search service As a conclusion of our experiences we can establish a list of personal rules derived from the harvesting activities. Hopefully this approach will support the development of another type and quality of search environments in the future.
The Nereus international subject-based repository - Meeting the needs of both libraries and economists IRs can prove to be a significant catalyst for bringing libraries closer to their researchers and to the research process, provided they are designed with the needs of the researcher in mind.
Institutional research productivity and the connection to average student quality and overall reputation In sum, after taking into account the endogeneity of reputation, per-capita research productivity and average student quality, we find that reputation has a positive impact on per-capita research productivity for universities, while student quality appears to have a negative impact for liberal arts colleges.
25 Years of Technovation: Characterisation and evolution of the Journal During its 25 years of existence, Technovation has clearly advanced. Whereas in 1981 a typical article covered an average of 11 pages and was in general written by a single author, a typical article is currently, in general terms, a joint article, covering an average of 15 pages with a bibliographical support of 30 citations on average.
Research students and the Loughborough institutional repository With respect to an IR, the role and needs of research students have been shown to be quite similar to those of any other academic authors.
Business models for open access journals publishing This study provides results that may enhance one's understanding of the open access publishing model, allowing both the reader and the author to benefit from it.
Implementing a collaborative digital repository: the dCollection experience in South Korea The article shares dCollection experiences with the wider community and to guide the best practices in the development of a national and global digital repository. The South Korean government sees the dCollection project as one of several efforts to improve the preservation of and access to academic digital resources. Therefore it is desirable to set up comprehensive portal sites that can simultaneously search the three sites.
The open access movement in China In this report, we have summarized the current status of the OA movement in China. We have also pointed out some possible solutions for the issues identified.
Publishing performance of Spanish academics:: 1970-2004 Results presented here have reinforced several of the main results outlined in the original article.
Overlap between traditional periodical indexes and newer mega indexes Therefore, for the libraries that still have current subscriptions to those traditional indexes that are covered 90%-100% by the newer mega players in the index field, it would be cost effective to consider saying goodbye to the classical players, especially when libraries face tight budgets.
The scientific production in health and biological sciences of the top 20 Brazilian universities The performance of these top 20 research institutions reveals a concentration trend in scientific output in Health and Biological Sciences in the richest regions of Brazil. National efforts, such as the enhancement of academic training and stimuli to the activity of state funding agencies should be made to reduce this gap and to better comply with the needs of poorer regions of the country. Brazil as a whole would benefit from the strengthening of scientific production in the most varied regions of the country, regions so diverse economically, socially and culturally that they could be considered as independent countries inside the larger country.
Information and library science MPACT: A preliminary analysis The data and resulting “mpact” metrics offer new ways to assess faculty impact and to investigate the nature and growth of a field.
Financial anatomy of neuroscience research Financing for neuroscience research has increased significantly over the past decade, but new approvals for drugs in the neurosciences have not kept pace with the rapid increase in funding. This lag may represent a natural delay in realizing the return in the investment in scientific research or a decline in the productivity of neuroscience research. The challenge ahead now is how to maximize the value of the large investments in neuroscience research to create meaningful clinical advances for society.
A bibliometric analysis of global trends of research productivity in tropical medicine The most important finding of our analysis is that developing areas of the world including Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Caribbean may need more help by the developed countries to produce more research in the field of tropical medicine, with and without the collaboration with organizations and/or institutions from countries from the developed world regions. In conclusion, we performed an analysis to provide estimates of research productivity in the field of tropical medicine by different world regions. Compared to other, also important, fields of medicine, it is evident that more efforts, especially from the financially stronger nations, should be done to increase the research production in the field of tropical medicine, a field with major impact on the worldwide burden of disease.
Is accuracy everything? A study of two serials directories Ulrich's lists 385 (48 percent) more resources in the index and abstract field than does Serials Directory (186).
Obstetrical and gynecological writing and publishing in Europe These data indicate an important role of European research in the field of obstetrics and gynecology comparable to that of US-American research. The English language is gaining importance as scientific language, displacing other languages and contributing to a loss of impact of non-English journals. German journals in this field achieve only comparably low impact factors, but this may not appropriately indicate their quality and especially their local impact.
Research quality and efficiency -: An analysis of assessments and management issues in Dutch economics and business research programs The main conclusions from our study are that the number of publications in international top journals is the best predictor of peer review assessment results.
Mapping the emergence and development of translational cancer research Both inter-citation and semantic network maps of cancer research provide striking evidence of the consolidation in the 1990s of a biomedical interface that had barely begun to emerge a few decades before. Our maps show that in 1980, within the broadly defined field of cancer, research was less defined by adherence to sub-domains and more by a generic allegiance to either a clinical or a laboratory style. Cancer policy analysts who frame their investigations in terms of pre-defined specialties or disci-plines (such as biochemistry, genetics and the like) will likely miss the overall dynamics displayed by a network analysis of large domains.
Eighteen years of research on AIDS: Contribution of and collaborations between different world regions The vast majority of the world's research on AIDS is produced in the developed world.
ERSA Conference participation: does location matter? The ranking of countries by number of participants does not differ significantly between the conferences and this confirms our first hypothesis.
Filling the gap between researchers studying different materials and different methods: a proposal for structured keywords In this context, the concept of structured keywords is proposed to reinforce the functionality of a future e-library.
A bibliometric analysis in the fields of preventive medicine, occupational and environmental medicine, epidemiology, and public health USA researchers maintain a leadership position in the production of scientific articles in the fields of Preventive Medicine, Occupational/Environmental Medicine and Epidemiology, at a level similar to other scientific disciplines, while USA contribution to science in the field of Public Health is by all means outstanding. We believe that our findings clearly indicate the need to promote research in the above fields in less developed regions of the world. All of the above are likely to increase research and development in the less developed regions of the world and improve peoples' health through the diffusion of knowledge and the implementation of large-scale research projects.
Recent publication productivity of Czech economists I find that the majority of scientific output in the field of economics in impact-factor journals is concentrated in one institution, CERGE-EI.
Quantitative analysis of the publishing landscape in high-energy physics This article presents the results of the first bibliometric study of HEP publishing which accounts for the widespread phenomenon of coauthorship. The worldwide collaborative patterns in HEP, which are quantified in this article, suggest that an Open Access publishing model could quickly spread with a “domino effect” through coauthorship links. The assessment of the relative contribution to the worldwide production of HEP scientific results which takes into account the coauthorship phenomenon, presented in table 2 and figure 4, might constitute the basis for a model where each country or institution would contribute with their “fair share” towards the financial cost of Open Access publishing.
Towards a better list of citation superstars: compiling a multidisciplinary list of highly cited researchers In spite of the above remarks, the presented multidis-ciplinary list of top cited researchers provides a better picture than Garfield and Welljams-Dorof (1992) and Schafer (2003).
How relevant are local scholarly journals in global science? A case study of South Africa The outcomes of this novel approach raise important issues about criteria for selecting the most appropriate sets of journals for journal-based research funding formulas, quality assurance systems, and evalua-tions of research performance. The outcomes of this case study clearly demonstrate that one cannot simply divide research journals into locally oriented journals and internationally oriented ones according to a single criterion. Measuring a journal’s citation impact on global science may therefore help determine the relative standing of domestic and regional research journals within a unified internationally comparative frame-work.
Gauging success of a project: a case study of the TOKTEN-India Umbrella Project The outcome of the analytical approach showed that the degree of success of the TOKTEN Umbrella Project was high, which was vindicated by a cross-section of experts, host organizations and other beneficiaries. The in-depth study of the TOKTEN, questionnaire surveys, interviews, discussions, and published as well as unpublished information lead to the conclusion that the TOKTEN Umbrella Project has left behind visible success with a trail of outputs of lasting value.
Interdisciplinary research: meaning, metrics and nurture This paper was composed to frame our assessment of how well the National Academies Keck Futures Initiative succeeds in fostering interdisciplinary re- search.
Potential sources of bias in research fellowship assessments: effects of university prestige and field of study Scientific norms prescribe that rewards are allocated to individuals solely on the basis of their achievements.
Research funding by city: an indicator of regional technological competitiveness? R&D expenditures by the granting agencies tend to scale with city size (that is, R&D per capita is relatively constant).
Vitaly L. Ginzburg - A bibliometric study We have carried out a detailed analysis of the citations of Ginzburg's articles covering his whole scientific life (ca. 65 years). Our studies place Ginzburg among the most prominent and influential Russian physicists. This analysis is of particular interest in revealing the effects of the language (Russian vs. English) on the impact of a publication as measured by the citations received.
Are reviewers suggested by authors as good as those chosen by editors? Results of a rater-blinded, retrospective study Author-nominated reviewers produced reviews of similar quality to editor-chosen reviewers but were more likely to recommend acceptance during the initial stages of peer review. We conclude that the use of ANRs is unlikely to materially affect the quality of reviews received, however it could affect acceptance decisions if journals rely heavily on reviewer recommendations. Our findings suggest that ANRs produce reviews of similar quality to ECRs.
Articles with authors affiliated to Brazilian institutions published from 1994 to 2003 with 100 or more citations: I - The weight of international collaboration and the role of the networks The international collaboration and the network organization of work played a fundamental role in these results.
Articles with authors affiliated to Brazilian institutions published from 1994 to 2003 with 100 or more citations: II - Identification of thematic nuclei of excellence in Brazilian science The weight of factors such as international collaboration and network organization are distinct in these areas and the reasons for that are discussed.
Designing highly flexible and usable cyberinfrastructures for convergence It is our sincere hope that the CIShell specification will be widely adopted and used to create highly flexible and usable CIs in service of international and interdisciplinary innovation and progress. It is argued here that CIs will not only transform the way science is conducted but also will play a major role in the diffusion of expertise, data sets, algorithms, and technologies across multiple disciplines and business sectors leading to a more integrative science.
Scientific research activity and communication measured with cybermetrics indicators Results show that cybermetric measures could be useful for reflecting the contribution of technologically oriented institutions, increasing the visibility of developing countries, and improving the rankings based on Science Citation Index (SCI) data with known biases.
Web issue analysis: An integrated water resource management case study Hence Web issue analysis is claimed to be a useful new technique for information science.
Language evolution and the spread of ideas on the Web: A procedure for identifying emergent hybrid word family members A method has been described to identify and track the evolution of hybrid word families, by using the Web.
The role of the Internet in informal scholarly communication The empirical analysis showed that the Internet has become a ubiquitous tool in European science. Finally yet importantly, the results support the assumption that invisible colleges have integrated the Internet into their communication practices. In the future, to understand the use of Internet applications in science better, it is worth broadening the scope, both in terms of countries and disciplines. Moreover, it would also be beneficial to carry out time series and panel analyses.
Timelines in citation research The timeline used in ISI's Journal Citation Reports for half-life calculations, is not a timeline for (average) cited age.
On Egghe's version of continuous concentration theory The casual reader of Egghe (2005) may well be tempted to think that certain results there are confirming or reproving established results in the standard literature.
Trading cultures: Resource mobilization and service rendering in the life sciences as revealed in the journal article's paratext Intense coauthorship and subauthorship collabo-ration were shown to be defining features of contempo-rary research in the life sciences.
Performance-related differences of bibliometric statistical properties of research groups: Cumulative advantages and hierarchically layered networks We studied performance-related statistical properties of bibliometric characteristics of two sets of research groups, 157 chemistry and 65 medical research groups, covering a period of at least 10 years.
Visualizing the computational intelligence field Based on our visualizations, we can draw a number of conclusions.
Quality assessment of reviewers' reports using a simple instrument This 5-point scale proved to be a simple, reliable, and valid instrument enabling editors to assess the quality of reviews.
Analyzing the association between referees' recommendations and editors' decisions Using the RC association model, we have shown that a single latent dimension is sufficient to account for the association between referee recommendations and editorial decisions at both PZ and ASR. Together, these results are consistent with the claim that the referees and editors are judging submissions to these journals on a general quality dimension. In addition to enabling researchers to study similarities and differences in peer review patterns at different scholarly journals, the RC-association model may also help editors to evaluate aspects of peer review at their own journals.
Organizational vs. personal social capital in scientists' performance:: A multi-level network study of elite French cancer researchers (1996-1998) Our main results confirm both our hypotheses: the centrality of laboratories in the inter-organizational networks of laboratories matters more than researchers' centrality in the inter-personal network of the elite of cancer research in France between 1996 and 1998.
Measuring internationality: Reflections and perspectives on academic journals We conclude that internationality is best viewed as a mathematically fuzzy entity and that a single measure Internationality Index, constructed from a combination of suitably weighted criteria, is the only way to unambiguously quantify the degree of internationality.
Science in Brazil.: Part 1:: A macro-level comparative study Science in Brazil can be understood only in the Latin American context. Brazilian scientists still prefer publishing in national or regional journals, sometimes even in their national language. This implies both a lower-than-average visibility and a relatively low citation impact accompanied by high shares of author self-citations. A deeper insight in the structural evolution of Brazilian science requires a detailed analysis of the development of publication profiles and citation impact of Brazil's main actors at the institutional level.
Science in Brazil.: Part 2:: Sectoral and institutional research profiles The institutional analysis showed that Brazilian S&T capacity is concentrated in a few number of institutions mainly from its wealthy states. Our data has also pointed out the completely absence of private companies and firms within the Brazilian science. Studying institutional dynamics has shed light at different aspects of national patterns of scientific communication among others at sectoral and institutional research profiles, and thus provides a better interpretation of national science indicators and their evolution.
A dense network sub-grouping algorithm for co-citation analysis and its implementation in the software tool Sitkis Current methods in bibliometric co-citation analysis possess limitations that dense network sub-grouping can overcome to identify distinct streams of research within a scientific field. Using a data set of family business articles, we demonstrate our algorithm and compare it to existing research practices. We hope that future work might further improve the existing clustering methods, which are somewhat awkward in the study of broad scientific fields, making it a practical necessity to limit analysis to a low number of highly cited articles.
Detecting citation types using finite-state machines We have proposed a method to detect the reasons for citations. Our method is robust to the problem of synonymy and hyponymy, achieved better accuracy that previous works. In addition, our method using finite-state machines requires neither user-interactions nor explicit knowledge about cue phrases, so it has more flexibility to be extended.
Assessing scientific strengths of academic institutions: the example of the University of Pretoria The research strengths of UP are in computer science, engineering, materials science, in the animal and plant sciences, agriculture, and environmental studies.
Brazilian articles in international journals on limnology We could identify three phases regarding the contribution of Brazil to international Limnology in the period 1970–2004.
The influence of the publication delay on journal rankings according to the impact factor The increase of the average publication delay of any journal would bring decreases of impact factors of these journals and influence journal rankings according to the impact factor.
Analysis of the evaluation process of the research performance:: An empirical case Our findings show that publications in SCI/SSCI and the number of sexenios are the most determinant indicators of excellence in a research group. Contrary as we expected, the total amount of funds coming from projects and coming from collaborations with firms and administrations have no influence on the determination of a research group as excellent. To sum up, our results suggest that the peer review process is not so objective as we expected. Moreover, other indicators should be taken into account apart from publications to enhance the impact of the research group activity on regional development. We encourage other researchers to conduct similar analyses as ours for other regions or countries.
Measuring the meaning of words in contexts: An automated analysis of controversies about 'Monarch butterflies,' 'Frankenfoods,' and 'stem cells' In conclusion, techniques for mapping the semantic meanings of co-words in contexts are suitable for automated filtering of the meanings of the words in their different domains of use, over time as well as across varying sets of texts.
Visualization of citation patterns of some Canadian journals The social network analysis can sometimes give insights into the general patterns, for example the Canadian Psychology case with its pivot point, but the MDS two dimension diagrams give a better visualization of the clusters of journals around a seed journal. It would be interesting to see if there are any differences in the MDS if a larger set of correlations from more journals is used. Another possibility is to start with the basic asymmetric matrix of journal-journal citations to see if it could be used in other types of visualizations.
Why are hyperlinks to business Websites created? A content analysis The vast majority of links are business related which confirms findings from early quantitative studies that links contain useful business information.
Applications of SQL for informetric frequency distribution processing This paper has demonstrated by example how IPP data and relationships can translate readily to a relational DBMS environment for efficient processing of frequency distribution relationships.
On the h-index -: A mathematical approach to a new measure of publication activity and citation impact We have found strong relation between both number of papers published and citations received with h-index for practically all Paretian distributions. The strength of this index lies in the potential application to the assessment of small paper sets were other, traditional bibliometric indicators often fail or at least were their application proved usually problematic. Nonetheless, the h-index is a useful supplement to the bibliometric toolset but it is certainly not suited to substitute the advanced indicators which have long ago become standard in bibliometric work.
Phrase clustering without document context Overall, this experiment has shown that even without adequate context (document co-occurrence), clustering algorithms can be adapted to partially reflect a human semantic organisation of scientific concepts.
Intrinsic plagiarism detection The paper is devoted to this problem class; it shows that it is possible to identify potentially plagiarized passages by analyzing a single document with respect to variations in writing style.
Mapping the literature of nursing: 1996-2000 For comprehensive searches, nurses need to search multiple databases. Libraries need to provide access to databases beyond PubMed, including CINAHL and academic databases. Database vendors should improve their coverage of nursing, biomedical, and psychosocial titles identified in these studies. Additional research is needed to update these studies and analyze nursing specialties not covered.
What is submitted and what gets accepted in Indian Pediatrics: Analysis of submissions, review process, decision making, and criteria for rejection Indian Pediatrics is receiving contributions from all over India.
Scope and geographical distribution of African medical journals active in 2005 This study is likely to represent the most comprehensive list of current African medical journals. It confirms growth in African health care research and journal activity on the continent. Limited inclusion in international databases and accessibility to African researchers remain challenges in achieving publication of high-quality African research in high-quality African journals.
Impact of double-blind reviewing on SIGMOD publication rates Based on the results in Table 1, it is apparent that double-blind reviewing has had essentially no impact on the publication rates of more senior researchers in the database field.
Spanish scientific output on Helicobacter pylori.: A study through medline In summary, findings in the present study demonstrate that the production and impact of documents published by Spanish authors regarding H. pylori infection have considerably increased during the last two decades. A greater quality has also been attained, with papers having a higher mean impact factor. Regarding topic area, therapy is most relevant nowadays, in contrast to diagnosis and microbiology, which were more significant in initial years.
The association between impact factors and language of general internal medicine journals Journal impact factor is more associated with journal language (ie, English versus non-English), rather than journal country of origin. Scholars should be aware of language bias as it might affect the results of their research.
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Policy on Enhancing Public Access: tracking institutional contribution rates The ICR formula is a useful tool for measurement and planning; however, it has several limitations (Table 2). The institutional contribution rate formula is one tool libraries can use to evaluate the success of a PMC promotional campaign. Future work is needed in this area to determine the specific promotional activities that are most effective.
Exploration of researchers' social network for discovering communities Community mining is a method to find communities with implicit knowledge. In this paper, we propose a new approach to community mining, namely, including both a macro view of all researchers and a micro view of individual researchers. We implemented and demonstrated the proposed system. Although the proposed system is functional in its current state, a number of areas for improvement remain.
Book citations:: influence of epidemiologic thought in the academic community Results offer a rich picture of the academic influences and trends of epidemiologic methods and reasoning on public health, clinical medicine and the other health, life and social sciences.
Citations, publications, and perceptions-based rankings of the research impact of North American forestry programs Although we are reluctant to draw strong conclusions from the admittedly small sample of respondents that form the basis for the subjective ranking, it does seem safe to conclude that perceptions may not always be well grounded in reality.
Towards next generation CiteSeer: A flexible architecture for digital library deployment Managing data quality plays an increasing role for service providers in the internet such as DBLP which offers access to bibliographic records.
Intelligent bibliography creation and markup for authors: A step towards interoperable digital libraries Managing data quality plays an increasing role for service providers in the inter net such as DBLP which offers access to bibliographic records. The most time consuming quality task is the task of offering consistent data. Especially person names are error prone and hard to deal with.
Clustering scientific literature using sparse citation graph analysis In this paper, we presented an algorithm that incorporates the citation graph of a collection of scientific literature to the clustering solution to better identify distinct groups of documents.
Assessing expert interdisciplinary work at the frontier: an empirical exploration Our findings suggest that while researchers in the institutions that we visited deemed a piece of work acceptable if it survived the test of peer review, journal prestige, citation pat- terns, or successful patent filing, they also viewed these procedures with a certain degree of skepticism. The findings here presented complement such efforts by drawing at- tention not to the 'procedural how' but to the 'epis- temic what' of interdisciplinary research evaluation thus sharpening the focus of discussions. The three assessment categories introduced build on interdisciplinary researchers' own views on quality assessment a perspective that can inform evaluation practice in productive ways by shaping review guidelines (see examples in Appendix 2).
Automatic annotation using citation links and co-citation measure:: Application to the water information system This paper has described an an approach in order to automatically annotate documents used by a specific community, namely EMWIS users. The experiments with the CiteSeer database has shown the feasibility of the approach and have allowed the automatic annotation of scientific articles. However, we still need an objective measure to evaluate our approach independently from human experts.
The effects of the Internet on scientific publishing -: The case of construction IT research All in all the experience with ITcon has shown that it is possible to publish a peer reviewed journal which is on par with the other journals in its field in terms of scientific quality, using an Open Source like operating model, which requires neither subscriptions nor author charges. ITcon outperforms its competitors in terms of speed of publication. The one parameter where ITcon still lags many of its competitors is “prestige”, in terms acceptance of an ITcon article as an equally valuable item when comparing CVs for tenure purposes, research assessment exercises etc.
Who publishes in leading general surgical journals? The divide between the developed and developing worlds Very few articles are published from developing countries in leading general surgical journals.
Plagiarism by academics: More complex than it seems It concludes that a more fine-grained analysis of plagiarism is needed, in order to distinguish copying that is harmful to the intellectual process, and that which is important to it. The paper suggests that balance is needed, and that conventional, narrow, defensive, and proprietary attitudes to copying need to be moderated. The boundaries need to be clarified, through community debate. A mature conception of plagiarism needs to be articulated, the bad forms need to be distinguished from the good, appropriate behaviors need to be encouraged, and sanctions need to be imposed on the seriously bad. The AIS is the appropriate body to perform that function on behalf of IS academics. This paper has proposed enhancements to the AIS Code, intended to achieve those ends.
Information systems is not a reference discipline (and what we can do about it) Based on this evidence, the paper concludes that IS is not yet a reference discipline, but has the potential to become one.
Towards an evolutionary perspective for human information behavior This paper has implications for expanding the nature of our evolutionary understanding of information behavior and provides a broader context for the HIB research field. Overall, our exploratory study has begun the process of answering a major question driving the research – what is the evolutionary nature of HIB’s? From our analysis we can conclude that information behaviors do have an evolutionary dimension that requires more extensive studies.
On the persistence of supplementary resources in biomedical publications We conclude that if supplemental data is required to support the publication, journals policies must take-on the responsibility to accept and store such data or require that it be maintained with a credible independent institution or under the terms of a strategic data storage plan specified by the authors.
Library and information science research in China From 1975 to 2004, the number of publications in China LIS research area was continuously growing. The scientific productivity of Hong Kong’s universities was significantly higher than that of mainland universities. About half of the Chinese papers were completed with an international or domestic collaboration.
Three options for citation tracking: Google Scholar, Scopus and Web of Science This study did not identify any one of the three tools studied to be the answer to all citation tracking needs. Scopus showed strength in providing citing literature for more current (2003) oncology articles. However, Web of Science seemed to perform better for current CM physics, and was stronger for both subjects for articles published in 1993.
Internet-based resources citation by undergraduate students The conclusion is that a few dissertations have really cited Internet-based resources.
Why are hyperlinks to business Websites created? A content analysis Building on early findings that links to business Websites contain useful business information, the current study investigated the motivations for hyperlink creation to gain a deeper understanding of the Web hyperlink phenomenon.
The h index and career assessment by numbers We suggest that h is not obviously superior to other indices that rely on citations and publication counts to assess research performance.
Segmenting academics: resource targeting of research grants Analysis supports the view that heterogeneity exists within the proposal-submitting population, suggesting a meaningful measurable segmentation is possible.
Italy's investment in research The system we have outlined above is par-ticularly damaging for promising young scien-tists, who to survive need to learn how to maneu-ver in an environment where politics is more important than scientific merit for advancing and obtaining grants.
Organizational vs. personal social capital in scientists' performance: A multi-level network study of elite French cancer researchers (1996-1998) Our main results confirm both our hypotheses: the centrality of laboratories in the inter-organizational networks of laboratories matters more than researchers' centrality in the inter-personal network of the elite of cancer research in France between 1996 and 1998. The social capital of the organizational unit to which the individual member of this elite belongs is indeed more important in explaining individual performance of an individual researcher than his/her personal relational capital, controlling for human capital. To overcome such shortcomings, much remains to be done.
ChemSem: An Extensible and Scalable RSS-Based Seminar Alerting System for Scientific Collaboration The announcement of a scientific seminar or presentation represents an almost perfect example of metadata, that being information about a data content object (the seminar itself). Exposing such metadata using RDF, we suggest, is an integral part of the currently ambitious attempt to transform the Web into a semantically structured fabric of information and knowledge. Ultimately, if the mechanism succeeds, then links will be created between information in a more systematic manner than that dependent on rather more unpredictable and evanescent human activity alone.
Webliometrics: a new horizon in information research Webliometrics is a very new, emerging horizon in information research. Webliometrics potentially offer a powerful and rigorous new research tool for LIS researchers. Webliometrics may well also emerge as an important item in the syllabi of LIS research methods courses.
The basis for evidence‐based practice: evaluating the research evidence If research is to inform practice in our field, then practitioners need to be able to evaluate research reports and interpret the results in a way that will be helpful within their own setting. My pilot project (described above), based on the ways in which experts in research evaluation actually evaluate research reports suggests that research evaluation is a much more complex process than we usually acknowledge. The article highlights the variety and limitations of existing strategies or models for evaluating research quality and suggests possible steps forward.
SCIELO, OPEN ACCESS AND THE PUBLICATION OF SCIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA: IS THERE REASON FOR HOPE? SCIELO and free open access have changed the prospect and is in the process of revolutionizing the Scientific Editorial process in Latin America. It is suggested that similar indexing systems should be organized for all developing areas.
Consider the Source: Predictors of Online Citation Permanence in Communication Journals The results of this study show that close to four out of 10 online citations collected from six top refereed journals over a four-year period (2000–2003) do not work. The year of publication, the Web site domain, and the URL level are important indicators of the likelihood of a site's availability. Toward that end, despite the lack of convenience, access to printed material will remain the most reliable source for citation.
The relative success of private funders and government funders in funding important science The regressions in Tables 2 and 3 indicate that the “number of private grants received” is a positive predictor of the importance of research, both in the short-run and in the longer run, as measured by the number of citations received by an article. The “number of government grants received” does not appear to be a positive predictor of the number of citations received by the article, in either the short-run, or the long-run. The most straightforward interpretation is that private funders are more successful than the government at identifying important research.
Analyzing the association between referees' recommendations and editors' decisions Using the RC association model, we have shown that a single latent dimension is sufficient to account for the association between referee recommendations and editorial decisions at both PZ and ASR.
The role of corporate scientists in innovation Our findings suggest that core scientists play an important role as central conduits for the in-flow of knowledge from outside their companies, thereby stimulating innovation. The core scientists serve as channels through which external knowledge flows to the researchers, thereby performing an important role in the stimulation of innovation by corporate scientists. Future research should consider factors related to the positive effect by core scientists on innovation in greater detail, including the specific types of expertise practiced by core scientists, the research environment in which they operate, and the research resources allocated to them.
Where do Chinese scientists publish their research in environmental science and technology? The significant and continuous efforts of the Chinese gov- ernment to fund quality scientific research, and the determi- nation to promote innovation-oriented development of the nation, indicate that the drive for international scientific publi- cation from China will remain strong.
Citation Analysis: A Comparison of Google Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science This study provides direct and meaningful implications for faculty members who need assistance in compiling their own citation records and also for use as a general reference tool (e.g., for locating citations to a particular paper or book). This study showed that other practical methods and sources, such as Scopus and Google Scholar, can be used to locate citations not covered by ISI. Significantly, this study showed that: Web of Science should not be used alone for locating citations to an author or title.
Identification of factors that influence authorship name placement and decisions to collaborate in peer-reviewed, education-related publications The findings of this study show that contribution amount (e.g., writing various drafts, general level of work expended) and idea origination are the two most commonly used factors in determining name placement by the sample of authors surveyed. Although most authors appear to be aware that the reward system in higher education clearly advantages the single author, our respondents tended to engage frequently (68% of the publications) in coauthored endeavors. This consistency further validates the results obtained here. Finally, this study led us to devise categories for the reasoning used to determine name placement as well as categories regarding the benefits of coauthored and single authored publications.
E‐mail decay rates among corresponding authors in MEDLINE E-mail correspondence is becoming increasingly common within biomedical fields, but CAEs expire rapidly, with 45% of published e-mail addresses invalid at the time of this study.
The top eight percent: development of approved and rejected applicants for a prestigious grant in Sweden All this taken together, there is evidence to state that there were no major differences among the 40 applicants in terms of scientific performance during the years before the application (1997–2000), but that there have been some significant differences in their development after the grant was given to half of them. The cost of not having provided the 20 rejected applicants in this study probably exceeds the cost of 20 additional INGVAR grants substantially. ‘Good practice’ in research policy would locate the point of break-even in any application round, where the quality of the applications and the potential of the applicants are good enough for a grant to be beneficial.
A Study on Using Rubrics and Citation Analysis to Measure the Quality of Doctoral Dissertation Reference Lists from Traditional and Nontraditional Institutions "Citation analysis used in conjunction with the Brydges/Tuñón sub-jective rubric demonstrated that the quality of dissertation reference lists produced by students at traditional and nontraditional institutions has more in common than differences." "Both social construction and constructivist theories had insights to offer into the use of citation analy-sis as an assessment tool for the library research skills of doctoral stu-dents." "Directions for further research that emerged include a need for studies using a broader selec-tion of traditional and nontraditional dissertation reference lists that in-clude more specialization areas and more institutions, longitudinal studies that examine the impact of electronic resources on student usage patterns, and surveys that examine possible differences in library ser-vices provided to Ed.D. students in traditional and nontraditional pro-grams."
The influence of the publication delay on journal rankings according to the impact factor The influence of publication delays on the impact factor has relation with the inter-citation relationship between journals in the group.
&lt;title&gt;Structure analysis of the Polish academic information society using MDS method&lt;/title&gt; The analysis presented in this paper allowed finding similarity and dissimilarity between the investigated objects.
Redips: Backlink search and analysis on the Web for business intelligence analysis We expect that Redips would be useful in the business intelligence analysis process.
Who submits to and publishes in this journal? A peer-review study of 772 manuscripts 2000—2004 Monitoring of the procedures and outcome of the peer review as illustrated above has been a means of shaping and improving on the process. The scope of the journal has also been mirrored in terms of what problem areas are covered and what methodological approaches are applied by our authors. Gender issues may be disclosed but we see no marked bias in this study.
Ranking Journals in the Humanities: An Australian Case Study The third indicator (standards of refereeing) did not appear to be of much practical use as a measure of quality.
The impact of cognitive communities on the diffusion of academic knowledge: Evidence from the networks of inventors of a French university Our empirical examination of the geography of ULP innovative networks challenges several assumptions about the circulation of knowledge within knowledge intensive communities.
Trends in sociology titles These findings suggest that long titles are not effectively capturing reader's attention. Perhaps the effectiveness of long tittles is contextual: a long title is only distinctive when all other titles are short. When nearly 70% of titles include multiple parts, short and sweet stands out.
Journal Use by Graduate Students as Indicated by Master's Theses Bibliographies at an Urban Commuter College, 1991–2004 This study shows some evidence for a change in journal citation be- havior by masters' theses students from 1991 through 2004, possibly due to the dramatically changed information environment.
Corporations, Universities, and Instrumental Communities: Commercializing Probe Microscopy, 1981-1996 First, the development of probe microscopy illustrates how completely—though intricately and indirectly—the corporate and academic worlds are intercon- nected.
Institutional repositories in the UK: What can the Google user find there? The Google user who is at an early stage of the information-seeking process, or without a well-specified need, perhaps seeking ‘useful content’ on a particular topic may well come upon the repository material. The user seeking a specific journal article title may well find that a Google or Google Scholar search will provide a free full-text version of the article. For these users from the academic community, ensuring that the repository is OAI compliant, and encouraging students, academics and researchers to use harvesting tools might prove the route to greater success.
Library and information science research in China: An international perspective From 1975 to 2004, the number of publications in China LIS research area was continuously growing. The research effort in China LIS area was higher than the world average level. About half of the Chinese papers were completed with an international or domestic collaboration.
How to provide an alerting service on health topics for medical journalists selecting papers from scientific journals Any activity in this direction, such as our alerting service, is useful to improve the quality of health-related news reaching the general public, both in terms of topics, selection of original sources, and contents of news articles. Timeliness was the weakest point and could have been improved by sending notices on each article, with its abstract, by email, instead of pro- viding a web-based service.
Researchers’ Industry Experience and Productivity in University–Industry Research Centers: A “Scientific and Technical Human Capital” Explanation We feel these findings are potentially relevant to both theory and policy. The persons who populate university-industry centers publish at rates com-parable to those with more traditional academic career trajectories but appear to bring added value in terms of larger grants and more student support as well as, in our judgment, a different sort of S&T human capital. In future work, we hope to further develop the S&T human capital model and include additional direct indicators for the model.
Visualization of citation patterns of some Canadian journals The social network analysis can sometimes give insights into the general patterns, for example the Canadian Psychology case with its pivot point, but the MDS two dimension diagrams give a better visualization of the clusters of journals around a seed journal. It would be interesting to see if there are any differences in the MDS if a larger set of correlations from more journals is used. Another possibility is to start with the basic asymmetric matrix of journal-journal citations to see if it could be used in other types of visualizations.
The expropriation of intellectual capital and the political economy of international academic publishing There is no merit in the claims of commercial publishers presiding over a business-oriented system that undermines the central purpose of the academy: advancement of knowledge and the progress of humankind.
Scholarly use of web resources in LIS research: a citation analysis The World Wide Web provides a fast and efficient means of disseminating and accessing scientific information. The findings of the study are meant to serve as a pathfinder for the academic and research community in LIS, to help them assess the impact of the Web on scholarship and to show the extent to which we can be said to select judiciously and cite accurately the Web's authentic and reliable resources.
A dense network sub-grouping algorithm for co-citation analysis and its implementation in the software tool Sitkis Current methods in bibliometric co-citation analysis possess limitations that dense network sub-grouping can overcome to identify distinct streams of research within a scientific field. We hope that future work might further improve the existing clustering methods, which are somewhat awkward in the study of broad scientific fields, making it a practical necessity to limit analysis to a low number of highly cited articles. Although a variety of bibliometric software tools exist, we do not know of any other free tools capable of automatically creating Ucinet-compatible network files.
Visualizing meta search results: Evaluating the metacrystal toolset The presented analysis showed that a document's probability of being relevant can be approximated by a piece-wise linear function of the number of engines that found it and its rank positions in the result lists. This provides strong empirical support for MetaCrystal's design approach of visually emphasizing documents based on the number of engines that found them and their rank positions. The user study also showed that the subjects could identify highly relevant documents more rapidly and accurately using the RankSprial than the Cluster Bulls-Eye. The user study helped to bring into better focus how the multiple visual coding schemes employed by MetaCrystal can be better utilized and optimized.
Towards a model of information scatter: Implications for search and design To understand the causes of information scatter in the healthcare domain, this paper presented results from two analyses.
Patterns of research collaboration in a digital library for Economics Our findings imply that the RAS population is made up of highly active academics that are well connected to each other. Consequently, insights gained from this study will help RePEc team in developing a strategic plan to expand and improve the service in the near future. One possible direction for future work is to build a user service where authors examine the paths that lead them to other authors.
Measuring impacts of academic science on industrial research: A citation-based approach Ultimately the utility of this new approach hinges on its validity and, above all, its added value in practice.
Do You Sincerely Want to Be Cited? Or: Read Before You Cite This means that about 40 out of 24 000 papers should be renowned; ergo, mathematical prob-ability, not genius.
The impact of metadata in web resources discovering The study indicates no significant difference in the rank order of the web pages that include metadata (Dublin Core and meta tags) and those that do not include any metadata at all.
Deconstructing Diffusion If one of the major tasks of any scientific field is to generate replicable knowledge (cf. Hart, 1996, p. 25), then this ethnostatistical investigation of the reanalyses of the medical diffusion data is both discouraging and enlightening.
Journals in surgery and gastroenterology: indexing in databases and bibliometric indicators Although in the international databases the percentage of journals of gastroenterology and surgery is low, Latin American journals are well represented in regional databases as the LILACS and SciELO, which give them more visibility.
Benchmarking scientific journals from the submitting author's viewpoint The proposed method is still at the proto-type stage.
Document supply and open access: an international survey on grey literature We can thus put forward the idea that the commitment of the document suppliers in the domain of OA to the dissemination of grey literature is a strategic means of establishing their position in the broader scientific and technical information market. Perhaps an update of this survey in one or two years could provide more evidence on the relationship between the OA movement, document supply and grey literature.
The CARL metadata harvester and search service Despite the common attitude that Google will allow researchers to find everything libraries put online easily and effectively, collecting metadata from related repositories and making it searchable in one interface allows us to create effective virtual collections and other services and to cater to the needs of specialized audiences. The type of analysis used in this paper is one approach to discovering patterns in a set of metadata harvested for the purpose of allowing end-users to search it, and some of the patterns that have emerged may enable repository implementers to change the ways they create their metadata, or at least the ways they create the uDC representations of it that are collected by the CARL harvester.
Evaluating websites A systematic investigation of internet site quality from a single country domain name To facilitate the progress of e-government towards its strategic objectives, that is the development of web based services on an effective, countrywide basis in Iran, a national raising of awareness of internet quality is needed. Information of the websites should be made available in bilingual formats, in languages other than Persian, especially in English.
Agriculture and Food Related Theses and Dissertations Available on the Web This cursory examination of various online sources for agricultural and food information reveals that no single source consistently and comprehensively provides the following ET/D information: full-text, subject headings, and keywords. Consequently, use of the various free online resources augments ET/D information retrieval. Technological developments and the efforts of NDLTD, OCLC, Google, and many others have truly opened the possibility for publication of T/D research results on the Web.
Measures for measures Therefore, with sufficient numbers of publications to draw meaningful conclusions (50 or more) the mean or median citation counts can be a useful factor in the academic appointment process.
Building a scientific knowledge web portal: The NanoPort experience Through our prototype system, we demonstrated the feasibility of using such an integrated approach and the study brought insight into applying the proposed domain-independent architecture to different areas of science and engineering in the future. Our framework provides an integrated approach to building Web-based information retrieval and analysis systems that incorporate various techniques and functionalities including collection building, meta-searching, keyword suggestion, and content analysis techniques such as document summarization, document clustering, topic map visualization, and patent analysis. Because the techniques employed are not domain-specific, only minimal effort would be required to apply the architecture to different areas of science and engineering, such as bioinformatics, micro-electronic devices, future-generation wireless communications, etc.
Evaluating Scholarly Communication at the Subdisciplinary Level This study highlights the importance of factoring scholarly communication patterns at the subdisciplinary level into collection development decisions.
Science in Brazil. Part 1: A macro-level comparative study Science in Brazil can be understood only in the Latin American context.
Longitudinal study of content and elements in the scientific web environment The main results confirm a growth of web content and elements in the web, although there is also a high degree of web content decay.
AN ECONOMIC MODEL OF SCIENTIFIC RULES We have developed an economic theory for the choice of epistemic standards. Our model assumes only selfish, strategically behaving scientists and, nevertheless, implies that theories satisfying stringent standards will tend to be accepted, especially if scientists do not seek, so to speak, the bare recognition of getting their theories accepted, but the recognition for having devised a good solution to a scientific problem. Our model suggests that, in order to argue against the objective validity of some parts of scientific knowledge, something more is needed besides just pointing to the fact that this knowledge is the outcome of a social negotiation: at the very least, an argument should be offered showing that the scientific standards arising from that negotiation are inefficient in a clear epistemic sense, i.e. that they systematically preclude the acceptance of theories which are objectively better than the ones actually accepted.
Multiple presents: how search engines rewrite the past We have shown that the search engines AltaVista and Google systematically relocate the time stamps of web documents in their databases from the more distant past into the present and the very recent past. Finally, information is lost not only in the quantitative sense of documents disappearing from the historical record, but also in the sense of a loss of structure in the semantic networks. The question of how we can make better use of search engines in scholarly research to unveil the overall updating cycles that dominate the web and particular domains of the web becomes an interesting research question that should be put on the agenda.
An Examination of Undergraduate Student Citation Behavior Despite these possible limitations, some clear conclusions can be drawn from the study. All three of the variables analyzed in this study had some significant effects on the citation behavior of students. Further studies on the research behaviors of students are needed to help educators move beyond a reliance on assumptions and anecdotes and allow them to shape course instruction and course assignments to better guide students' development and use of research sources across the college experience.
Effect of Blinded Peer Review on Abstract Acceptance This study provides evidence of bias in the open review of abstracts, favoring authors from the United States, English-speaking countries outside the United States, and prestigious academic institutions.
Reply to discussions of “Editorial—The peer review system: prospects and challenges” Our view on this question is positive. Despite its pathologies, the review system is a great achievement of the scientific community, so democratic as to virtually embrace all scientists, who act on a voluntary basis providing community work without direct compensation. We regard the discussion of problems, as done with our own article and the present contributions, or even with publishing personal experiences, such as in Pannell (2002), as a necessary condition for any improvement.
Encouraging Consensus‐Challenging Research in Universities* Time constraints, systems of accountability, differences in research self-efficacy, and their impact on conceptualizations of cost and benefit influence a scholar's choice of research strategy.
Scientists’ coping strategies in an evolving research system: the case of life scientists in the UK On balance, the findings from this study are posi-tive regarding the resilience of research performers and the survival and growth of good and useful sci-ence through periods of adverse or disruptive change.
U.S. University Research Parks Our findings may also be useful for guiding those involved in the 81 existing research parks as well as those associated with the planning and imple- mentation of the 27 additional parks currently in the planning stage could use our statistical findings for benchmarking themselves against the population as a whole.
Citation indexes for science. A new dimension in documentation through association of ideas† "Even if there was no other use for a citation index than that of minimizing the citation of poor data, the index would be well worth the effort required to compile it."
Impact factor and education journals: a critical examination and analysis It was concluded that the use of impact factor for the evaluation of journals, articles and researchers should be done with considerable care.
Comparing holistic and disaggregated ratings in the evaluation of scientific presentations Using scientific material as the target stimuli, we found that, on average, disaggregated ratings were more reliable than holistic ratings of presentations at the 2001 convention of the Society for Medical Decision Making. A second finding, and an additional advantage of using a disaggregated method, is that the ratings contain significantly smaller amounts of dispersion. Given the stupendous magnitude of the national investment in scientific and medical proposals, consideration should be given to using disaggregated rating scales during proposal review, due to the fact that this method is likely to foster higher reliability.
Dispelling the Myths Behind First‐author Citation Counts We provide strong empirical evidence for the bias associated with first-author counts, and for the low degree of significance in correlations between author rankings by first-author counts and other counting methods. We also demonstrate the capability of emerging tools such as CiteSeer in supporting various counting methods without adding much cost. This may in turn contribute to the emergence of a more effective scholarly communication system.
A New Framework for the Citation Indexing Paradigm The cascading citation indexing framework (c²IF) increases the granularity of the citation indexing paradigm by: 1. Considering the citations at the (article, author) level. 2. Registering not only the (self-)citations made directly to a given (article, author) target, but also those made indirectly, up to a pre-specified depth along each one path in the citation graph. The pilot implementation of the new citation indexing framework includes a universal author identifier subsystem (UAI_Sys) that enables each one author to acquire a unique identification code which remains invariant for life.
Citation behaviour of information science students II: Postgraduate students There is a clear trend towards the use of electronic resources. Citations to electronic materials have been found to increase over time and the use of hardcopy materials has substantially decreased. It is ironic that library and information students may end up in jobs where they have to try to track down incorrect citations on behalf of patrons, and yet they are no better than average at citation accuracy themselves.
The current status of Open Access in biomedical field: the comparison of countries relating to the impact of national policies We examined the results of OA situation in biomedical field from two points of view: 1) the characteristics of OA articles, 2) national policies relating to scholarly communication in each country. Many other factors than those dealt with in this study may affect the situation of OA. For example, the policy (or position) of journals for OA, the type of researchers' affiliation (university or private company), researchers' recognition for OA could be the factors, and further detailed investigation is necessary to know how these factors have worked.
A use-and-transformation model for evaluating public R&amp;D: Illustrations from polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) research However, the use-and-transformation model (as presented) has some clear advantages over traditionally used evaluation approaches.
Comparative study of scientific publications in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay (1995-2004) Results provide initial benchmarks on O&V publication rates in countries in South America that may be useful to follow research trends.
New developments in citation analysis and research evaluation The outcomes suggest that some claims made in the open access debate have been based on over-simplification.
Evaluation of cross-strait public library Website Some suggestions based on the result of evaluation are given in this paper with an expectation to promote the construction and development of public library Websites.
Publication and patent behavior of academic researchers: Conflicting, reinforcing or merely co-existing? These findings not only suggest the co-existence of both activities; they may actually reinforce each other. Based on present findings, we tend to conclude that it is feasible to organize both scientific and entrepreneurial activities, without one jeopardizing the other. While our findings reveal that reconcilia-tion between different activity realms appears feasible in this particular university at the level of individual fac-ulty, increasing our understanding of how such positive effects unfold – and under what conditions – is an issue should remain high on our research agendas.
Open Access Publishing and Author-Pays Business Models: A Survey of Authors’ Knowledge and Perceptions The survey yielded useful information about respondents' knowledge and perceptions of these publishing models. Authors have limited familiarity with the concept of open-access publishing and surrounding issues. Currently, open access policies have little impact on authors' decision of where to submit papers.
The State of Scholarly Journal Publishing: 1981-2000 A review of the data on the 1317 journals in our sample revealed no reduction in the number of journals or the number of papers published by these journals between 1981 and 2000.
Link decay in leading information science journals In our work, the half-life value obtained was approximately 5 years, indicating that 50% of the Web citations in our body of IS literature will become inaccessible after that period. With the increasing popularity of Web citations, there would be no guarantee that readers could retrieve cited Web documents, especially for articles that are relatively old but still highly cited.
Author Impact Measure (AIM): An author publication statistic for the Who's Who in Fluorescence Volume We hope you find this new author publication statistic informative and we look forward to any suggestions you may have.
Are raw RSS feeds suitable for broad issue scanning? A science concern case study This article sought to assess whether a purist approach to RSS feeds (i.e., using the raw feeds without data cleansing) is suitable for broad issue scanning, using a coword frequency time series approach. The domination of the results by nonuseful terms in the science concern case study showed that data cleansing is necessary for efficient broad issue scanning. Finally, the analysis confirmed that the time series information generated by real-time monitoring of RSS feeds could usefully illustrate the evolution of new debates relevant to a broad issue.
Creating an academic landscape of sustainability science: an analysis of the citation network Our citation analysis extracted 15 main research domains: Agriculture, Fisheries, Ecological Economics, Forestry (agroforestry), Forestry (tropical rain forest), Business, Tourism, Water, Forestry (biodiversity), Urban Planning, Rural Sociology, Energy, Health, Soil, and Wildlife.
Web intelligence analyses of digital libraries A case study of the National electronic Library for Health (NeLH) Is the web intelligence analysis of a digital library worthwhile? According to this research, yes, it is. We have demonstrated that a LexiURL web link analysis can provide interesting, if not surprising insights into who links to and potentially uses an important web site. When a log file analysis and a LexiURL link analysis are used together for comparative purposes, the findings are generally more complete: one can expect to find out where users are coming from (i.e. the web referring domain), when they are using a site, and where potential users might discover a digital library site if they are currently not using it.
How socially connected are citers to those that they cite? It is clear that the combination of SNA and citation analysis provides a rich picture of academic networking. SNA integrates with citation analysis.
Open access in context: a user study By drilling deeply into the logs we have been able to determine precisely what agents and initiatives are actually responsible for use and how that use is apportioned. By contrast - and as a consequence not supporting the findings of many citation studies, open access publishing had a relatively small immediate impact, adding in total less than 10 per cent on usage. The findings show how important it is not to look at open access too narrowly or simplistically, and to consider it in the light of a number of factors that have led to scholarly journals becoming more accessible and used.
Inflated Impact Factors? The True Impact of Evolutionary Papers in Non-Evolutionary Journals This suggests that, for evolutionary biologists, publishing in high-impact multidisciplinary journals should not receive as much weight as it does now, while evolutionary papers in more narrowly defined journals are currently undervalued.
A citation-based document retrieval system for finding research expertise Using the search for research domain expertise as a case study, we have demonstrated the effectiveness of our new system with encouraging results achieved consistently.
Bibliometric mapping of scientific research on prion diseases, 1973-2002 The most notable findings in the study include the fast increase of the number of publications on these subjects after 1990. Finally, attention is drawn to the usefulness of bibliometric tools in the analysis of research activity, for the precise insight they provide into the characteristics and evaluation of scientific output. The information obtained from applying these techniques, in conjunction with expert opinion, can provide valuable support for enhanced scientific policy decision-making.
An analysis of the most cited articles in software engineering journals - 2000 The analysis here is intended to highlight and acknowledge the articles attracting most citations within software engineering. Insights into what is viewed as important to build upon may provide valuable insights into both what research is important and where the field of software engineering is heading. The objective is to make the analysis of the most cited software engineering journal articles in a specific year to a yearly tradition for Information and Software Technology, and to invite the most cited authors to contribute to a special issue of the journal.
Faculty research behaviour and career incentives: The case of Taiwan First, among the three field groups, natural sciences and engineering data best fit the behavioral reinforcement theory, then humanities, followed by social sciences.
Recent publishing trends at the AER, JPE and QJE Recent statistics show that this concentration is once again increasing at the AER and the JPE, while at the QJE, these numbers are significantly higher than any other point in the last fifty years. The reasons for this reversal are unclear but worthy of further investigation.
Bridging the Divide: A comparative analysis of articles in higher education journals published inside and outside North America The analysis presented in this article has shown significant differences, as well as many similarities, in the articles published in specialist higher education journals in the year 2000 inside and outside North America. In such circumstances, greater liaison between higher education researchers in all systems is surely to be encouraged. The somewhat unconnected patterns identified in this article are characteristic of fields of study or disciplines in relatively early stages of development.
Node similarity in the citation graph Our research aims to find efficient ways to judge relatedness among research papers using only citation information represented in the citation graph. From our experiments, we conclude that both metrics are promising and effective in finding related papers for scientific research. Combining text-based metric and link-based similarity metrics is worth pursuing.
How we are cited: Russian analytical chemistry in the mirror of the Science Citation Index (1991-2004) The works by Russian chemists are generally often cited by foreign researchers. A characteristic fea- ture of works in analytical chemistry is a high level of citation for methodological papers. In the list of papers with high citation indexes, papers by Russian authors in foreign journals with high impact factors are predominant.
An examination of the reliability of prestigious scholarly journals: Evidence and implications for decision-makers This paper is a simple one. It provides evidence that it is dangerous to believe that a publication in famous journal X is more important than one published in medium-quality journal Y.
Standardizing formats of corporate source data This paper presents one novel means of improving data quality by eliminating inconsistencies in address field formatting, transforming address patterns under a uniform structure, and permuting the main organization into the primary position.
Scientific and technological performance evaluation of the Spanish Council for Scientific Research (CSIC) in the field of Biotechnology The main results obtained in this study allow to assess that, despite the lower economic and human resources of the CSIC, its scientific performance in the field of Biotechnology is competitive, according to its output in scientific publications, its participation in EU research projects and the significant flow of its published knowledge to the US patents. However, the technological performance of CSIC is too low as shown by its non-competitive position in the generation of US Biotechnology patents. Consequently, new scientific and technological policies should be implemented in Spain, as it has been the case in France and other European countries, oriented to the generation of patents and to transfer knowledge and technology from the R&D public institutions to the productive sectors.
Hypothetical influence of non-indexed Spanish medical journals on the impact factor of the Journal Citation Reports-indexed journals It has been demonstrated that the inclusion of cites from a selection of non-indexed Spanish biomedical journals in SCI–JCR-indexed journals produces a slight increase in their 2002 impact factor, mainly in journals edited in the USA and in the UK.
Evaluating the performance of sponsored Chinese herbal medicine research AHP is an appropriate method for determining weights, and was illustrated in this study; AHP can not only determine weights, but also ranks all researches in the year.
A bibliometric study of China's semiconductor literature compared with other major asian countries China has greatly increased it scientific activities in the semiconductor-related field. Generally speaking, Asian countries have still a long way to go with respect to research impact compared with western countries, as reflected by some indicators based on "Times Cited". The research results of Chinese scientists in semiconductor are still rather "local" and suffer from a low international visibility.
Identifying creative research accomplishments: Methodology and results for nanotechnology and human genetics First, we suggest that our functional typology is a constructive and practical schema for classifying creative research. Second, our results confirm that research regarded as highly creative has a multi-dimensional distribution. Third, we found that combining our two data sources – the nominations of creative research and the databases of scientific prizewinners – was complementary and offered additional validation, particularly in identifying researchers who were recognized for their creativity through multiple nominations and prizes.
Citation frequency: A biased measure of research impact significantly influenced by the geographical origin of research articles Citation frequency was significantly augmented by nation oriented citation bias.
Probabilities for encountering genius, basic, ordinary or insignificant papers based on the cumulative nth citation distribution In this paper we extended the model for the cumulative nth citation distribution, developed in EGGHE (2000) and EGGHE & RAO (2001) to the universe of ever cited papers and allowing for variable aging rate a.
Patent analysis of genetic engineering research in Japan, Korea and Taiwan From the patent productivity and research impact, Japan is the leading country in genetic engineering research in the three Asia countries and also owns the innovation human resources. The results show that the analyses of patent information could be also used in assessing the technology research to identify the productive countries and core assignees. Other relative indicators could be applied in the future studies to further investigate the insights.
Successive h-indices This might be a positive indication for the usefulness of the successive h-index concept to develop a coherent frame for multi-level assessments.
National research profiles in a changing Europe (1983-2003) -: An exploratory study of sectoral characteristics in the Triple Helix The results confirm that a process of European homogenisation and convergence is taking place, but also show that this process is slow and that member countries have maintained their individual peculiarities and preferences during this evolution.
Measuring industry-science links through inventor-author relations: A profiling methodology Our text-based profile methodology performs significantly better than a random matching of patents and publications, suggesting that text-based profiling is a valuable complementary tool to the name searches used in previous studies. While at this point we have only presented preliminary results on the potential of text-based profiling — a proof-of-concept — we are convinced that it is a valuable complementary tool to the extended name searches used in previous studies and are in the process of developing several interesting applications.
Developing technology in the vicinity of science: An examination of the relationship between science intensity (of patents) and technological productivity within the field of biotechnology Our findings reveal that within the field of biotechnology, the science intensity or science proximity as measured by the amount of non patent references - of patents is positively associated with technological productivity. These findings corroborate the construct validity of indicators based on other references found within patents. In addition, the positive relationship between science intensity, or stated otherwise, the closeness between science and technology, and technological productivity, corroborates the relevancy of policy frameworks that foster interaction between knowledge/science generating institutions (universities, research centres) and technology producers (companies).
Tracking techno-science networks: A case study of fuel cells and related hydrogen technology R&D in Norway By mapping co-authorship, patenting and co-activity networks this study has illustrated that all three network and mapping approaches are necessary in order to get a comprehensive picture of the science-technology interplay. A policy relevant implication of this is that evaluations of research institutions should cover also research output other than scholarly publications. With respect to future research, analysts need to pay attention to further developing the co-activity approach.
Reflection of co-authorship networks in the Web: Web hyperlinks versus Web visibility rates In summary, it seems that a high percentage of academic multi-authored publications are visible in the Web and that it follows, therefore, that evidence of collaboration between scientists can be found in the Web. Three empirical studies suggested that "Web Visibility Rates of collaboration” can be used as Web indicators of collaboration, whereas counts of hyperlinks are not useful in reflecting collaboration structures measured as measured by bibliometric data.
Evaluation criteria development and assessment of purchasing and supply management journals The results provide guidance for PSM scholars with respect to journals that contribute to the knowledge base in PSM, as well as support an extended understanding of conceptual bases for how scholars evaluate the journals they read and in which they publish. The importance for PSM academics in understanding the journals to target for attaining and disseminating new knowledge should not be underestimated. The constructs presented, and the items used to measure those constructs represent an early contribution to attempts to develop a theory of journal evaluation in general, and specifically in PSM.
Constructing a broader and more inclusive value system in science Whether or not we intend it to, scientific culture has strong impacts on the focus of our science; on who enters, is retained, and excels in the profession; and on public support of science.
Normative publication productivity of communication scholars at selected career milestones The findings of this study help to illuminate disciplinary norms and historical trends in publication productivity for the communication field.
To what degree does the promotion system reward faculty research productivity? The results indicated that the system is at least potentially effective. Overall productivity, the publication type and publication timing do generally help determine one’s probability of getting promotion and its timing.
Countries of origin of Personality and Individual Differences (PAID) contributors: A comparison of 2003-2005 with 1999-2001 and 1993-1995 The conclusion of this most recent survey must be that, in the setting of a greatly increased number of issues and published articles, there is continued relative stability in the rankings of the contributions of countries and ‘continents'.
Library faculty publishing and intellectual property issues: A survey of attitudes and awareness The results of the questions related to the copyright and intellectual property rights of publishers, including self-archiving, compared with national and international data for faculty members in all disciplines showed that the library faculty members are not practicing what they generally advocate. Of the few respondents who attempted to negotiate with their publishers for more intellectual property rights, most were successful. The researchers recommend another study of the reasons why library faculty members do not seem to be more concerned with the copyright of their own materials and the extent of self-archiving of articles by library faculty members.
Measurement of use of electronic resources: Advances in use statistics and innovations in resource functionality The ICOLC guidelines and Project COUN-TER have greatly improved vendor-sup-plied statistics about use of electronic resources. More significant, increased functionality of electronic resources and systems com-plicate interpretation of two key measures in COUNTER—sessions and searches. The analysis also suggests the following principle: innovations in electronic resource functionality will necessitate advances in electronic resource usage measures to describe use meaningfully.
Measuring the international standing of universities with an application to Australian universities We have produced ratings of Australian universities based on the criterion of international academic standing. Our survey results exhibit a common view, held internationally, that the measurement of standing should not be confined to research performance; indeed, the general consensus was that the international standing of academic staff as measured by research performance should have a weight of less than 50 per cent. International academic standing is, of course, only one criterion by which a university's performance may be measured.
On the relationship between the student-advisor match and early career research productivity for agricultural and resource economics Ph.D.S Our finding that even within the same program tier students with more highly ranked advisors outperform students with lower ranked advisors demonstrates that this sentiment also applies to the student's early career research productivity.
The slowdown in first-response times of economics journals: Can it be beneficial? The observation that the actual and optimal FRT both increased is intriguing; whether the increased optimal FRT is the reason for the actual increase in the FRT is an interesting question that is left for future research.
Authorship patterns of surgical chairs These findings provide valuable insight into the publication patterns of chairs of surgery departments.
Encouragement to contribute to peer-review process in clinical neurology journals More “Japanese” investigators are encouraged to contribute to peer-review process in clinical neurology journals other than Brain and Development. More “Non-Japanese” investigators are encouraged to contribute to peer-review process in Brain and Development. Participation in peer-review can facilitate critical thoughts on their own manuscript writing.
Item-time-dependent Lotkaian informetrics and applications to the calculation of the time-dependent h-index and g-index We show that both h(t) and g(t) are concavely increasing functions with a horizontal asymptote at the values h (respectively g) of the h-index (g-index) for time t = ∞.
The fate of epidemiologic manuscripts - A study of papers submitted to epidemiology These data suggest most epidemiology manuscripts are eventually published, although some persistence on the part of the authors may be necessary.
Exploring the willingness of scholars to accept open access: A grounded theory approach The contribution of this research is twofold.
Nanoscale research in South Africa: A mapping exercise based on scientometrics Research in nanosciences has been identified to exist in small scale in the university sector in the country.
Language trends in nanoscience and technology: The case of Chinese-language publications We believe that neither coverage bias in the SCI-E database nor authors' language preference can explain the growth of Chinese-language publications in NST.
Global nanotechnology research metrics Global nanotechnology research article production has exhibited exponential growth for more than a decade. While the US remains the leader in aggregate nanotechnology research article production, in some selected nanotechnology sub-areas, China has achieved parity or taken the lead. Despite the increased paper productivity from East Asian countries, the US continues to make the most impact on nanotechnology.
Knowledge emergence in scientific communication: from "fullerenes" to "nanotubes" Network analysis proves useful to understand the dynamic process of knowledge production as a further codification of information; in this text, consequence of new discoveries. The different network analysis seems to converge in the conclusion that even though fullerene and nanotube research are related, nanotube research has acquired its own dynamics soon after its discovery and has been disconnected from fullerene research.
How cross-disciplinary is bionanotechnology? Explorations in the specialty of molecular motors This suggests that cross-disciplinarity is an eminently epistemic characteristic and that bibliometric indicators based on citations and references capture more accurately the generation of cross-disciplinary knowledge than approaches tracking co-authors' disciplinary affiliations.
Gatekeeping patterns in nano-titled journals As already demonstrated in our previous investigations,14–16 in the power structure of professional influence of the gatekeeping of nano-titled journals, there is an overwhelming dominance of scientists from the US. Perhaps the most interesting aspects of our results are those which show a clear and impressive appearance of Asia on the world map of nanoscale research. The concentration of individual decision-making power in the hands of about 33 core gatekeepers is also new and impressive.
The global institutionalization of nanotechnology research: A bibliometric approach to the assessment of science policy "From a global perspective, universities both started the institutionalization of nanotechnology (with a share of 85% in 1988, though at a very small level) and are nowadays the primary sector of the institutionalization (with a share of 80% in 2006 and at a very high level)."
Nanotechnology as a field of science: Its delineation in terms of journals and patents Using the USPTO data, it became clear that the references in the class of patents specifically designated as nanotechnology were too general for this delineation.
Internationalization and evolution of application areas of an emerging technology: The case of nanotechnology Based on our analysis using USPTO patent data, the evolutionary dynamics of nanotechnology as a major emerging technology appears to share three broadly similar characteristics with an earlier major science-based technology – biotechnology – but with some interesting variations as well. Finally, similar to what happened in biotechnology, university and public sector institutions played a much more significant role in nanotechnology than in general patenting. Notwithstanding this, the quality of university patents (as measured by citations) relative to private sector did appear to have narrowed over time, suggesting that the continuing quantitative expansion of university patenting in recent years may be at the expense of quality.
Measuring and assessing the development of nanotechnology The political lessons learnt from the data are not new: Europe is doing well, but has to reduce a gap to the United States and Japan in many fields and for many indicators. In addition, Europe has to observe carefully the development in the emerging nanotech countries China, India and Russia. Second, the United States is the benchmark when it comes to both scientific and technological excellence in nanotechnology.
Anticipating technological breakthroughs: Using bibliographic coupling to explore the nanotubes paradigm We consider that patents are suitable for the identification of leitbilder leading to technological breakthroughs.
What do we know about innovation in nanotechnology? Some propositions about an emerging field between hype and path-dependency The aim of the propositions in this paper is to contextualise the nanotechnology discourse in technological developments that have been observed to date.
Characterizing creative scientists in nano-S&T: Productivity, multidisciplinarity, and network brokerage in a longitudinal perspective It is not only the sheer quantity of publications that causes scientists to produce creative pieces of work. Rather, their ability to effectively communicate with their colleagues and to address a broad work spectrum are important dimensions in the process of how creative ideas develop.
Mapping nanosciences by citation flows: A preliminary analysis In this work we propose a map of nanosciences based on a bibliographic coupling technique, grouping articles by the similarity of their pattern of references, using Hellinger metrics and Axial K-means clustering.
The impact of open access publishing (and other access initiatives) on use and users of digital scholarly journals The findings of the study showed how important it is not to look at OA too narrowly or simplistically (or, indeed, too optimistically), and to consider it in the light of a number of factors that have lead to scholarly journals becoming more accessible, and both publishers and librarians have contributed significantly here.
E-prints and journal articles in astronomy: a productive co-existence We show that the e-prints have not undermined the usage of journal papers from the four core journals in astrophysics. This suggests that most astronomers have access to institutional subscriptions and that they choose to read the journal article. In other words, the e-prints have not undermined journal use in this community and thus currently do not pose a financial threat to publishers.
China opening up: Chinese university journals and research - today and tomorrow As with the many other challenges that China has faced in the past, it is evident that the state and its advisory boards have a clear vision of what is required, and have the strategic planning skills to implement a long-term improvement plan to positively develop and enhance the scholarly publishing sector and its accompanying research functions, in order to strategically position China as a leader in the world market for scholarly publishing. It is the authors' belief that with a greater openness to ideas and with more co-operation between the Chinese scientific community and publishers from both home and abroad, Chinese university journals will themselves show rapid development in line with that of Chinese science and technology generally, and will increasingly take their full place in the international publishing scene. With increased mutual understanding there will be many more opportunities for effective collaborations of the sort described in this paper.
Clustering methodologies for identifying country core competencies The main objective of this study was to identify and assess the technical core competencies of Mexico. This was accomplished using a variety of manual and statistical clustering approaches.
Analysis of scientific productivity using maximum entropy principle and fluctuation-dissipation theorem In this paper we have attempted to provide a quantitative approach to the publish-or-perish phenomenon, which refers to the pressure to constantly publish work in order to further or sustain one's scientific career.
Putting Google Scholar to the test: a preliminary study The results of this small-scale study suggest that, before Google Scholar can fully achieve its goal of identifying and making accessible scholarly information on the web, its poor performance in relation to non-scientific queries must be addressed. Although already a serviceable tool for science scholars, the weaknesses discussed in this article must be addressed if Google Scholar is to prove useful to scholars of non-scientific disciplines.
Growth in biomedical publications and scientific institutions in the Emirates (1998-2004): an Arabian renaissance? The Emirates are witnessing a rapid development in universities, colleges, hospitals and research centres.
The Research Assessment Exercise, the state and the dominance of mainstream economics in British universities The foregoing discussion clearly suggests that the conclusions of our previous research continue to hold and the predictions made seven years ago have materialised. Thus the dominance of mainstream economics in British universities has emerged, not because it is 'right' or provides a better understanding of the social provisioning process in market economies, but because it has access to state (and organisational) power to muffle competing heterodox explanations. In the end, a paradigmatic homogenised discipline is a harrowing outcome of the RAE and QAA.
Coauthorship networks and institutional collaboration in REVISTA ESPANOLA DE CARDIOLOGIA publications An analysis of collaboration networks led to the identification of a number of author networks in cardiovascular medicine in Spain, and highlighted the interrelationships between them in terms of both scientific research and scientific publications. The most significant aspect of institutional collaboration was the predominance of collaboration within institutions and within Spanish autonomous regions (i.e., 80.57% of collaborations). Possible topics for future study include an analysis of the scientific productivity of the networks identified and of changes in the pattern of collaboration over time.
Geographic origin of publications in surgical journals In conclusion, it is rather obvious in terms of output that in the selected clinical surgical journals, as in all other scientific fields, the USA ranks as the most productive country in the world.
The pulsing structure of science:: Ortega y Gasset, Saint Matthew, fractality and transfractality This paper shows that finally the two opposing traditional proposals that have been used to explain the behaviour of scientists – the Saint Matthew Effect and Ortega's Hypothesis - may constitute successive phases of the same process of continual renewal in which scientific activity unfolds.
Research and citation impact of publications by the chemistry division at bhabha atomic research centre The results indicate that 92.46 percent of the cited papers have received their first citations within five years of their publication shows that Chemistry Division publications were noticed immediately by the researchers working all over the world in this field and well integrated in the evolving research front.
Publishing in international journals - An examination of trends in Chinese co-authorship This study revealed that the proportion of Chinese international co-authorship within the Chinese authorship category as a whole was almost identical to that of non-Chinese international co-authorship within the non-Chinese authorship category. It is clear that when involved in an international collaboration, China is often a proactive participant. Nevertheless a number of interesting questions remain and the authors are developing methodologies for a second qualitative stage to the project.
An analysis of the determinants in Economics and Business publications by Spanish universities between 1994 and 2004 Despite a significant increase in the number of publications by authors affiliated to Spanish universities in recent decades, the evidence obtained in this study clearly shows the existence of major differences between Spanish university institutions. It was also possible to identify some of the factors influencing scientific production, productivity and the impact of Business and Economics research done by Spanish universities. In particular, the main conclusion arising from this study is that in order to reduce the differences between Spanish universities in terms of their scientific production and its impact, it is necessary to promote quality doctorate programmes at all universities, stimulate research by providing the universities with the necessary personnel and resources, and actively encouraging international collaborations.
Using scripts to streamline citation analysis on STN International In conjunction with its script language, which is well suited for repetitive tasks, citation analysis can be significantly automated.
The contribution of Hong Kong to China's international scientific publications Without doubt, Hong Kong is now a part of China. But, if the emphasis of bibliometric study was on the waking-up of ‘the sleeping dragon', the factor of Hong Kong should be taken into consideration.
The research productivity of Canadian physicians: How the timing of obtaining a PhD has an influence Physicians who obtain a PhD after an MD have a more research-focused career than those who enter medical school with a PhD.
Science indicators as reliable evidence But errors in measurement produce serious problems, and for this reason, policy-making methods must incorporate an historical perspective.
Is team formation gender neutral?: Evidence from coauthorship patterns We can therefore conclude that there is indeed evidence of gender sorting in team formation. Our results show, counter to the common notion, that the relative lack of gender-mixed teams in economics will not automatically disappear as the pool of potential women coauthors increases. Our findings suggest that gender segregation may be linked to the prevalence of teamwork.
Electronic journals collections in Argentine private academic libraries This study provides further insight into the realities encountered by private academic libraries in Argentina regarding access to, use of, and publishing of electronic journals.
Life and times of the impact factor: retrospective analysis of trends for seven medical journals (1994-2005) and their Editors' views IFs of the journals studied rose in the 12-year period due to rising numerators and/or falling denominators, to varying extents. Journal Editors perceived that this occurred for various reasons, including deliberate editorial practices. The vulnerability of the IF to editorial manipulation and Editors' dissatisfaction with it as the sole measure of journal quality lend weight to the need for complementary measures.
Scooped by a blog While most of the entities had an optimum lag of zero, the entities are well distributed among the different optimal lags.
The ACRL conferences: A profile of its presenters This study provides a profile of these authors, specifically their geographic distribution, institutional affiliation, occu-pation, and gender. It also explores trends in these author characteristics over the history of the conference. With the exception of gender, the pro-file and trends were similar to what has been reported in C&RL authorship stud-ies. Future studies should explore the role of gender in research and its subsequent presentation or publication.
References in scholarly English and American literary journals thirty years later: A citation study Despite changes in libraries, in the profession, and in the way scholarship is being done in a computerized world,... Developing a strong literature collection is only one aspect of the work of the literature selectors. It is important for literary scholars, in addition to being acquainted specifically with the literature resources, to be able to find their way around the other resources the library has to offer.
Analysis of a decade in library literature: 1994-2004 The analysis of LIS literature over a decade illustrated that librarians are still largely writing about the practical issues that face the profession.
Spanish productivity in smoking research relative to world and European Union productivity from 1999 through 2003, analyzed with the Science Citation Index Smoking research is developing appropriately in Spain and has high impact, even though output is modest.
Journal gatekeepers indicator-based top universities of the world, of Europe and of 29 countries -: A pilot study As visible the correlations are quite weak, testifying that the choice of indicators the rankings are based on is significantly influencing the rankings.
Bibliometric indicators of Indian research collaboration patterns: A correspondence analysis The result of this study demonstrates the suitability of correspondence analysis in analyzing collaborative patterns of a country in different disciplines. The study shows how the data can be displayed in an easy readable format using correspondence analysis. This analysis of collaborative patterns as revealed in Indian publications almost tallies with the publication production analysis carried out by KING (2004).
On the validity of citation counting in science evaluation: Content analyses of references and citations in psychological publications Thus, validity of evaluative citation counting is limited because at least one quarter refers to perfunctory citations exhibiting a very low information utility level and by the fact that existing citation-databases refer to journal articles only.
Does the arXiv lead to higher citations and reduced publisher downloads for mathematics articles? The results of this study show that in general, articles deposited in the arXiv receive more citations and fewer downloads at the publishers website than non-deposited articles.
Communication and collaborative research pattern of Sivaraj Ramaseshan: A scientometric portrait The work done by S. Ramaseshan has made a mark on the various areas he dealt with earnestly for the encouragement of science in India.
Be known by the company you keep: Citations - quality or chance? Our results have confirmed those of others in that citations are declining with time, tend to increase with page length and are higher for lead papers in a journal. The significant impact of a highly cited paper on the citations of other papers in the same issue unambiguously suggests the importance of imperfect information and the role chance can play in determining citation impact. In this respect it is possible for the major paper effect to convert a quite good paper into a good one as measured by citations and its impact on the literature.
Usefulness of Hirsch's h-index to evaluate scientific research in Spain Overall consideration of all these indexes is much more informative than the use of any single one in an immature scientific system, such as the Spanish system. Although our discussion on use of the h index and its derivatives has centered on the Spanish scientific research system, we believe many of the above considerations should be valid for evaluation of scientific performance in other immature national scientific research systems that could also benefit from a set of unbiased, formal indexes to complement evaluation by peers.
Categorization and trend of materials science research from Science Citation Index (SCI) database: A case study of ceramics, metallurgy, and polymer subfields The data and information contained in this work could be used for selecting a suitable journal to publish research work depending on the characteristics or contents of the article and the journal size preferred. To produce an international article in material science, at least 3-4 authors were mostly required.
Africa's contribution to the worldwide research literature: New analytical perspectives, trends, and performance indicators Although the current information sources and quantitative indicators inevitably offer incomplete pictures of the strengths and weaknesses of African science, the results of the analyses described in this paper, present a strong case for establishing a journal-based information system that includes both internationally-oriented journals and local journals.
Is fundamentalism a threat to science? Evidence from scientometrics This article set to provide evidence concerning the statement that fundamentalism is a threat to science and to map the relevant literature over space and time. Investigation of the scientific systems of eight Islamic countries i.e. Egypt, Tunisia, Indonesia, Iran, Jordan, Malaysia, Morocco and Pakistan shows that during the 1990s when fundamentalism was on the rise, science was thriving in those countries. The statement in the New Scientist that "a rise in literalist religious thinking in the 1990s devastated science in the Islamic world by promoting the idea that all knowledge could be found in the Koran" does not find support. The debate of science versus fundamentalism is currently in an embryonic stage of development with limited number of articles (less than 10 per year) covering the issue.
Parameter identification of the observed citation distribution According to analyzing the ageing process and the publishing process, bigger one of two time constants (T1 and Ts) identified from citation distribution data is the time constant T1 related with the citing process and smaller one is the time constant Ts related with the journal publication delay.
The outcome of manuscripts submitted to the American Journal of Ophthalmology between 2002 and 2003 Rejection of a manuscript by the AJO does not preclude publication, but rejected manuscripts are published more often in journals that serve a smaller readership and are cited less frequently, although exceptions exist. The results of the present study and the other studies in the literature confirm that rejection of a manuscript by a peer-reviewed journal by no means precludes publication. The editors, reviewers, publishers, and certainly the authors are well aware of the significant investment of resources in time, effort, and money that is expended with each study and each manuscript preparation.
Assessment of self-archiving in institutional repositories: Depositorship and full-text availability Self-archiving as a revolutionary way of publishing has been a myth for a long time. A closer look at individual deposits, however, divulges a slow, if not negative, performance of self-archiving in the making of IR content documents. By identifying different practices of self-archiving, repository managers can create new strategies for the operation of their repositories and the development of archiving policies.
Google Scholar coverage of a multidisciplinary field Because Google Scholar's search, retrieval, and record management mechanisms are relatively unsophisticated, the current version of GS is unlikely to replace conventional social science databases for serious scholarly work. Google Scholar is nonetheless valuable due to its comprehensive coverage. The results presented here suggest that the unconventional methods used to build the GS database have not adversely affected its coverage of the scholarly literature.
Fair assessment of the merits of psychiatric research No single index or metric can be used as a fair rating to compare nations, universities, research groups, or individual investigators across biomedical science.
What sort of community is the European Conference on Information Systems?: A social network analysis 1993-2005 Based on the SNA, a range of possible interventions are proposed that could aid the future development of the ECIS community. The paper concludes by considering the usefulness of SNA as a method to support IS research. The paper has also considered the role of SNA as a research method for IS researchers and concludes that when SNA is combined with existing IS theories and frameworks it is likely to be most useful.
Analyzing IS research productivity: an inclusive approach to global IS scholarship Our analysis of the most productive IS researchers between 1999 and 2003 in a set of 12 geographically balanced, scholarly IS journals produced a substantially different — and more diverse — set of 'most productive researchers' than that reported in earlier studies. We urge future studies of IS research productivity to follow our practice of including high-quality European journals, while eschewing practitioner-oriented publications (such as Harvard Business Review and Communications of the ACM). We also advocate that such studies count only research contributions (e.g., research articles), and that other genres of non-research articles – such as book reviews, 'issues and opinions' pieces and editorial introductions – not be conflated with counts of research contributions.
Reasons for rejection of manuscripts submitted to AJR by international authors High-quality scientific work is key to overcoming barriers to publication.
Citation environment of Angewandte Chemie In this study the relevant citation environment of Angew. Chem. was analyzed by using these data (corrected for double citations).
Using hit curves to compare search algorithm performance We present a formal model for information retrieval that supports the concept of weighted hit curves. Hit curves enable rigorous, standardized representation of user search experience. Hit curves are a useful theoretical construct that allows more complete evaluation of information retrieval.
Jack-of-all-trades, master of none: Postgraduate perspectives on interdisciplinary health research in Australia The role of interlocker is potentially invaluable, and in light of this we argue that increased consideration and commentary on the role of interdisciplinary PhD students and researchers must occur. We therefore call for increased consideration and discussion concerning the future roles and capacities of interdisciplinary health researchers such as ourselves.
Structure of the nanoscience and nanotechnology instrumentation literature A wide variety of instruments are used in nanoscience and nanotechnology research.
Biotechnology and nanotechnology: Science-based enabling technologies as windows of opportunity for LDCs? Three countries appear at first sight to be seriously engaged in the windows of opportunity currently offered by biotechnology and nanotechnology: Brazil, China, and India. Windows of opportunity therefore exist with these new technologies, but only a few countries that are in a position to do so, have currently taken advantage of them. Through their sheer size, the three majors of the Third World could become leaders of the foreseeable future in biotechnology and nano-technology.
Collaboration and article quality in the literature of academic librarianship This study finds no compelling evidence that co-authored articles are of higher quality as measured by rates of citation. The value of collaboration should not be overstated, and multiple-authored articles should not be viewed as superior. The benefits of collaboration to the production of a manuscript should not be construed as a difference in quality that pertains in regard to published papers.
The intellectual and social organization of academic fields and the shaping of digital resources The findings of the comparative qualitative case studies are explorative, not conclusive or neces-sarily widely generalizable across institutions and countries.
A note on measuring overlap In this paper we have showed that one sample is sufficient to estimate both relative overlaps O(A|B) (overlap of a set A with respect to B) and O(B|A) (overlap of a set B with respect to A).
UK academic Web links and collaboration - an exploratory study This study shows that a significant number of the links that are placed on university web sites to other organizations reflect a collaborative relationship between the different web page owners, and these links are therefore a rich source of information regarding collaborative relationships.
The input relationship between co-authors in economics: A production function approach The empirical results showed that the partial elasticities of substitution are positive—co-authors in economics are equivalent substitutes in production.
Twenty years of the Journal of product innovation management:: History, participants, and knowledge stock and flows Fittingly, JPIM's story has been one of continuous innovation while strengthening credibility in the scientific marketplace. In 20 years' time, JPIM has become a reputable, multidisciplined, international publication that serves both academic and practitioner communities with highly readable, high-quality, and useful articles. The knowledge-flow analysis demonstrates how JPIM functions as a bridge between the knowledge from various domains and the body of knowledge on management of technology. In the future, JPIM should try to become a productive two-way gatekeeper in the knowledge marketplace by also introducing novel insights from innovation management toward subject areas such as strategy, management, and marketing.
PERSPECTIVE: The world's top innovation management scholars and their social capital The results have implications for both the IM scholar community and the social capital literature.
Pointing users toward citation searching: Using Google scholar and Web of Science The findings from these initial studies suggest a variety of uses for both of the databases' citation features in academic reference and instruction. For instructing undergraduate students in the use of the “cited by” features, Google Scholar's lack of advanced search functions may actually be a boon. Graduate or faculty researchers doing com-plex bibliometric analysis will continue to benefit, however, from the advanced search functionality, controlled vocabulary, and known search domain of Web of Science.
Liberating the markets for journal publications: Some specific options It has been argued here that academic journal publication markets have unusual features, some of which would seem to support, and others to constrain, the various options for opening up the market that have been proposed. At its simplest, it seems to me that the success of any or all of these alternative publication modes depends on the balance among economic (the academic labour market, commercial publishers, viable business models, barriers to entry), political (disciplinary hegemonies) and technological (developments in web technologies and their penetration) factors and the fundamental aspirations of academics, individually and in groups, to create new knowledge which is valuable to whichever constituencies they relate to.
Research Awards Program of the Canadian Anesthesiologists' Society/Canadian Anesthesia Research Foundation: survey of past recipients The RGCSFP has supported a large number of new and established anesthesia investigators in Canada, and these individuals have demonstrated high research productivity.
Research productivity among recipients of AAFP foundation grants Projects supported by the JGAP have generated a considerable body of publications and presentations, as well as subsequent grant activity.
The production and placement of political science Ph.D.s, 1902-2000 "In sum, there has been a dramatic ex- pansion in the number of Ph.D.-granting institutions, and in the number (and pro- portion) of Ph.D.s produced by “newly arrived” departments."
HIV/AIDS research in India: A bibliometric study Still, in an international sense, relative productivity of India is low and requires more focused research and development. The research output and its growth indicate that research activities in this field are still in their infancy. National-level AIDS programs need an R&D orientation to improve research output.
Publishing trends of psychology faculty during their pretenure years The results showed that, at least for individuals with pub- lishing rates in the middle 50% and top 25%, this informal impression seems to be correct. At least 25% of the time, however, tenure is still awarded even though the publishing rate is less than one article per year. In any event, I hope that the findings of the present study prove useful to faculty who are engaged in tenure deliberations or who are mentoring junior faculty.
Citations of plenary-session articles published in the Proceedings of the International Symposium on Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics We infer that the ISVEE proceedings represent an important resource for veterinary epidemiology. Of 99 ISVEE plenary-session articles published from the nine ISVEEs between 1976 and 2000, 37 were cited a total of 187 times in other refereed literature. Articles related to Epidemiological methods, models, and information systems were cited most frequently (111/187).
RoMEO studies 8: self-archiving - The logic behind the colour-coding used in the Copyright Knowledge Bank The use of these self-archiving colours as a means of identifying self-archiving friendly publishers plays an important role in the open access movement.
Author's version vs. publisher's version: an analysis of the copy-editing function In a sample of 189 articles the process of copy-editing resulted in a significant number of changes. None of these materially altered the conclusions of an article, which is more the purview of the peer-review process, but they did produce a more consistent and accurate article of record. This is particularly important in the electronic environment, where accuracy of linking, for example, could be critical in establishing correct citation data.
Double anonymity in peer review within the chemistry periodicals community It has been determined that there is a general ambivalence about the effectiveness of double anonymity in the peer-review process, with only one quarter of respondents expressing strong opinions either way. The main reasons cited by respondents for the use of double anonymity in peer review not being more widespread were to do with a lack of historical precedent or common practice of the technique, coupled to the current system being judged satisfactory. It will be interesting to see if this community also begins to lead the way in providing alternatives to traditional peer review.
Academic authors, scholarly publishing, and open access in Australia Practically, this indicates that much work needs to be done within this university to increase knowledge of, and change behaviours with regard to, open access and repositories if the university and its academics are to make the most of new funding requirements and research evaluation processes.
A shifting mosaic of scholarly publishing, scientific delivery, and future impact changing the face of learned societies Future challenges facing nonprofit scientific societies include open access, fiscal realities, archiving of publications, and scientific and societal impact; future opportunities include a strengthening of member responsibilities and professionalism, development of data registries to enhance scientific progress, and bundling of like societies. The manner in which nonprofit scientific societies respond to these challenges and opportunities will no doubt affect their sustainability and future impact.
The optimal age to start a revolution Our data support the observation that truly groundbreaking work is done by young scientists.
Comparative study of international academic rankings of universities "The implications of obtained data for main rankings consumers are discussed."
Explaining international collaboration in global environmental change research Our results confirm that linking bibliometric data, sociological theory and insights in cognitive field structures advances our understanding of internationalisation patterns in earth and environmental research. In particular, the high mutual task dependence generated by problems of systemic GEC leads to levels of internationalisation that are matched by few other SCI fields. On the other hand, knowledge transfer and capacity building are important motives for international collaboration in application oriented fields, as shown by very high DET ratios in Water Resources.
Mapping interdisciplinarity at the interfaces between the science citation index and the social science citation index The merger of the two Journal Citation Reports of the Science Citation Index and Social Science Citation Index offers an opportunity to map scientific specialties and disciplines across this interface.
A quantitative relationship between per capita GDP and scientometric criteria Let G be per capita GDP, F be GERD% (gross expenditure on R&D as % of GDP), P be patent applications, N be IUPI (Internet users per 10,000 inhabitants), and k be a constant. The above discovery means there exists an approximate relationship in most countries, which can be expressed as G=kF(lgP)N. More years of data are needed to confirm the results. I will look for more data to check the above results, if the IMF, WIPO and UNESCO statistics becomes richer.
PhD theses in Turkish sports sciences: A study covering the years 1988-2002 Most theses were prepared in Institutes of Health Sciences, but the subjects covered the field of training and movement sciences. The unique and multi-disciplinary nature of sports sciences seems to warrant the foundation of an Institute of Sports. Since sports sciences is multidisciplinary and has its own body of Knowledge, Institutes of Social Sciences, Natural Sciences, and Educational Sciences need to be encouraged to establish new programs for sports sciences.
Import-export of knowledge between scientific subject categories:: The iceberg hypothesis The first conclusion is that, as was to be expected, the rank/JIF distributions in each of the Subject Categories fit a negative power law fairly well.
International contribution to library and information science in Poland: A bibliometric analysis The system of LIS communication in Poland is definitely dominated by Polish authors and Polish language.
Factors to evaluate a patent in addition to citations Therefore, those factors discussed in the article would be a great asset in patent evaluation. Future research would be needed to investigate these factors in a more detailed manner.
A longitudinal study of academic webs: Growth and stabilisation The main finding of this research is that both the average and median number of static pages for the academic webs of the UK, New Zealand and Australian universities appears to have stabilised, in absolute terms, over a 5-year period even allowing for an expected increase in new web technologies which may have adversely affected the accuracy of the data collection method. This suggests that these academic webs have stopped expanding, and may be tending to equilibrium. These findings have importance to both past and future academic web link analyses in that, if the academic web is indeed stabilising over time, the low rate of variation in academic web site size would lengthen the shelf-life of many webometric results, increasing the time before these results became obsolete.
Gatekeeper index versus impact factor of science journals Based on this fact we can state that the GI can be used as an additional indicator for the evaluation of science journals. Our investigations are continued by calculating the GI's for a more comprehensive set of journals in different science fields.
Visualization of the citation impact environments of scientific journals: An online mapping exercise In other words, these results suggest that new developments at interdisciplinary interfaces in the sciences first generate an effect on the relevant citation environments and thus can be made visible in the cited environments.
Understanding journal usage: A statistical analysis of citation and use This study indicates that although citations remain a difficult phenomenon to understand, some of the variability can be explained by local usage measures.
Institutional journal costs in an open access environment A shift from a pricing model based on subscriptions to one based on publishing productivity will therefore reduce the proportion of the total cost paid by most institutions and increase the proportion of the total cost paid by the largest research universities.
The impact of survey data: Measuring success Through citation analysis, there is overwhelming evidence that the NPHS has not only been used but also has had a positive impact on studies in health.
Which factors explain the Web impact of scientists' personal homepages? Overall, the results emphasize the complexity of the phenomenon of Web linking, when analyzed at the level of individual pages. Finally, although this study has produced some important new findings, it also has shown the complexity of the phenom-enon of academic links and the impossibility of finding simple characterizations of their usage.
A comparison between the China Scientific and Technical Papers and Citations Database and the Science Citation Index in terms of journal hierarchies and interjournal citation relations Comparison between the two databases, the SCI and the CSTPCD, shows that the average number of citations per journal in the CSTPCD is much less than that of the SCI. Chinese authors publishing articles in journals in the CST-PCD make less reference to articles in journals than do authors publishing articles in journals covered by the SCI. The low visibility of Chinese journals affects the expected number of citations of the articles published within them.
Structure of the impact factor of journals included in the Social Sciences Citation Index:: Citations from documents labeled "editorial material" Our results appear to rule out widespread manipulation of the impact factor by academic journals publishing large amounts of editorial material with many citations to the journal itself as a strategy to increase the impact factor. Our analysis does not appear to offer any clear evidence of widespread manipulation of the impact factor of academic journals included in the Social Science Citation Index between 1999 and 2003. Our findings tend to support the robustness of the impact factor as a bibliometric indicator, at least in the area of the social sciences.
Self-archiving and the copyright transfer agreements of ISI-ranked Library and Information Science journals Copyright and open access can coexist. The findings tend to confirm this; copyright is not a barrier to self-archiving.
Using the h-index to rank influential British researchers in information science and librarianship These results show that a new indicator of an individual's scholarly success, the h-index, is a useful measure. Together with other metrics, including total citation count, the h-index offers many possibilities for evaluating scholars.
Identifying and characterizing public science-related fears from RSS feeds In this article, we have shown that feed-based counting is superior to item based counting for the identification of pub-lic science debates. The feed-based method produced less than half as many duplicate stories than the item-based method. We believe that the technique is both a practical and a reasonable investment for a government science policy unit.
Dynamic h-index:: The Hirsch index in function of time This is important to describe the expected career evolution of a scientist's work or of a journal's production in a fixed year. The result in Corollary II.4 is logical but shows that, when time passes, it becomes more and more difficult to increase the h-index of the set of articles under study, e.g., for a set of journal articles in a certain year or for a scientist's publications.
Citation data analysis on hydrogeology The growth patterns in citations of highly cited papers from two different time periods (Figure 4) show that these highly cited papers from the two decades have equivalent impact, and that citation data are stable and reliable after the 1980s as well.
Untangling Herdan's law and Heaps' law: Mathematical and informetric arguments We show that in general Lotkaian informetrics, these laws—being, essentially, concave power laws—cannot be true due the fact that T is not only a function of A, but also of some parameters occurring in, e.g., the law of Lotka.
Rejecting highly cited papers: The views of scientists who encounter resistance to their discoveries from other scientists This study is limited to the personal accounts of scientists, so it is hard to draw generalizations.
TOP-curves In this contribution, we have introduced TOP-curves because several characteristics of classical Lorenz curves make them unsuitable for the study of a group of top sources. We therefore advocate the use of TOP-curves when focusing on the top sources in information-production processes. In this way, this article contributes to the study of cores, a central issue in applied informetrics.
The publishing dynamics of catastrophic events The analyses presented here tested the publishing dynamics of disaster literature in four bodies of literature: scholarly, technical-scholarly, technical, and consumer. It was clear, though, that disaster literature was spread out among more authors and its publications were spread among a larger number of journals. The observance of anniversaries of major events suggests that marking the recovery from an event plays some part in the timing of publishing, an observance totally absent in the regular fast-growing literature.
Topological analysis of citation networks to discover the future core articles In conclusion, we investigated the factors determin-ing the capability of academic articles to be cited in the future by a topological analysis of citation networks.
Case studies in open access publishing.: Number three.: Open access on a zero budget:: a case study of Postcolonial Text Conclusions. A strong commitment to the principles of developing a new field of inquiry committed to global issues of access to knowledge, in combination with open source and Internet technologies, has lowered the barriers to the exercise of academic freedom on a modest, but nonetheless global scale. We think that, in light of the commitment of those currently involved in the journal, there are very good reasons to believe that Postcolonial Text will continue to flourish as a quarterly journal, attracting not only the scholarly community but a wider reading public who stand to gain from the cutting-edge scholarship presented through this free-to-read medium.
Patent citation network in nanotechnology (1976-2004) The analysis applied to the citation networks for patents, institutions, technology fields and countries provide a holistic view of the characteristics of the knowledge diffusion process within a technology domain. The network-centric perspective of our analysis framework has enabled the identification of important findings that are accessible from traditional citation analysis as well as some interesting findings only extractable using network analysis methodology.
Impact factors in urology - How well do our journals stack up against other medical and surgical journals? Urological journals stack up quite well against other medical and especially surgical journals.
Self-citation corrections for the Hirsch index In conclusion, Hirsch's conjecture that usually only very few if any papers need to be dropped from the h count, if self-citations were taken into account, has been shown to be unrealistic.
The increasing dominance of teams in production of knowledge These results are detailed for sciences and engineering, social sciences, arts and humanities, and patents, suggesting that the process of knowledge creation has fundamentally changed.
Predicting impact factor one year in advance However, as important as IF can be to a journal, it is vital not to let IF considerations influence every aspect of the editors' decisions.
Pricing of scientific journals and market power Our empirical investigation documents the following: 1. There exist large price differences across fields. 2. These differences seem to be correlated with the market power of publishers. 3. As a general rule, FP journals charge four times as much on average than NFP journals, for a given number of citations, age, language, number of articles, and field (or concentration ratio).
Evaluating academic journals using impact factor and local citation score This study presented a method for local citation analysis combined with the national citation index.
Discovering information use in agricultural economics: A citation study "This article has demonstrated that journals and books are the primary types of materials used by the agricultural economists, whereas government publications and working papers account for the other two major resources for the researchers."
Social metadata for the impact factor The application of this semantic vocabulary could be used as a way of enhancing the accuracy of source data for bibliometric evaluation instruments. It will be of use in the development of digital libraries.
A longitudinal social network analysis of the editorial boards of medical informatics and bioinformatics journals The number of editorial board members facilitating the publication intersection of the communities has grown, but the intersection remains dependent on a small group of individuals and fragile. Our research provides insight into the forums that allow exposure between the medical informatics and bioin-formatics communities.
The R- and AR-indices:: Complementing the h-index Based on the foundation laid by the h-index we have introduced the R- and AR-indices.
Changes in the LIS research front:: Time-sliced cocitation analyses of LIS journal articles, 1990-2004 The time-sliced analyses shows some interesting results when analyzing changes in the LIS research fronts over the last 15 years, like the merging of the ISR field, the IR and in- formetrics fields coming closer to each other; and of course, the development of Web-oriented studies both in ISR and informetrics research. The future is discussed in terms of LIS dependency on technology, how integration of research areas as well as technical systems can be expected to continue to characterize LIS research, and how webometrics will continue to develop and find applications. One thing making it hard predicting the future of LIS is that LIS by its nature is technology-driven (Saracevic, 1999).
Google Scholar citations and Google Web/URL citations: A multi-discipline exploratory analysis Finally, although we found many significant trends, there were also numerous exceptions, suggesting that replacing traditional citation sources with the Web or Google Scholar for research impact calculations would be problematic.
Dissertation advisors and initial job placements for economics PhD recipients This article is the first to examine the effect that the student-advisor match has on a student's early career productivity.
Departmental networks - An empirical analysis of career patterns among junior faculty in Germany The results indicated that PhD graduates from departments with higher reputation were streamed into highly reputable departments.
Longitudinal study on patent citations to academic research articles in nanotechnology (1976-2004) The patent citations to academic articles have been used to evaluate the impact of the scientific literature on technological innovation in the NSE area in the interval 1976–2004.
A descriptive analysis of authorship within medical journals, 1995-2005 We describe a trend of increasing mean authors, editorial authorship, study groups, and multicenter trials over time with fewer solo authors now publishing original research or case reports.
Automatic and versatile publications ranking for research institutions and scholars We have provided an automatic and versatile framework to support such rankings for research institutions and scholars. While producing comparable results as those from manual processes, this framework can save labor for evaluators and allow for more flexible policy choices. However, the results produced must be viewed within the context of the adopted policy choices.
Electronic journals and their unbundled functions in scholarly communication: Views and utilization by scientific, technological and medical researchers in Japan From the viewpoints of the utilization, Japanese researchers continue to use the scholarly journals as publication platform and information sources.
Transplantation research in Iran: A bibliometric study Iranian researchers seem to be interested in the topic of transplantation; however, some fields of transplantation are neglected.
The UK Research Assessment Exercise: the evolution of a national research evaluation system The national evaluation of research in UK higher education establishments is well entrenched. Reflection on the evaluation process shows strong stakeholder engagement, through the participation of academics on peer review panels and frequent reviews of the RAE. From a UK science policy perspective, the Treasury has noticed that the RAE will not deliver strategic policy outcomes beyond helping to keep some UK academic science at world-class level.
Research productivity and the journals system: a study of immunology and microbiology authors "The key policy implication of this work is that Europe could improve its research performance by listening more carefully to its scientists and harnessing those resources more effectively."
Evaluation of strategic research programs: the case of Danish environmental research 1993-2002 As a program SMP was a success associated with the volume of research publications published over the five-year period.
Classification of 'research letters' in general medical journals and its consequences in bibliometric research evaluation processes The ultimate consequence of such a handling of this type of publication in the Lancet is that in bibliometric analyses in which these publications play a role, the letter/article publications are in fact compared with an expected value which is too high (namely nine citations per publication versus 16 citations per publication), while on the other hand the article/article publications are compared with an expected value which is too low (22 versus 16, on average).
Reviving the vascular surgeon-scientist: An interim assessment of the jointly sponsored Lifeline Foundation/National heart, Lung, and Blood Institute William J. von Liebig Mentored Clinical Scientist Development (K08) Program The von Liebig K08 program has therefore been an effective vehicle to stimulate research career development in the field of vascular surgery.
Multiple publication on a single research study: Does it pay? The influence of number of research articles on total citation counts in biomedicine All in all, the results of our study suggest that the practice of multiple publication of sizable reports on a single research study leads to greater reception of the study findings in the scientific community. In other words, it pays for researchers to publish more than one paper per study. However, not all forms of multiple publication practices are held to be ethically acceptable.
Assessing the value of a journal beyond the impact factor Journal value is multidimensional and citations do not capture all the facets; costs, benefits, and measures for informative and scientific value must be distinguished and developed in a fuller model of journal value. Journal value is multifaceted and JELIS serves a small specialized teacher-practitioner community. Understanding specialized journals in terms of value, and using other quantitative indicators besides impact is critical; this article has outlined some first steps towards such an understanding.
An exploratory study of the feature of Iranian co-authorships in biology, chemistry and physics The results are however likely to be valid for the selected disciplines, in the Iranian context. Cultural circumstances do influence scientific collaborations and it is thus all natural that Iranian expatriates play an important role for Iranian scientists in their efforts to reach out into the international scientific community, as well as getting access to information and take part in international networks. There is one obvious difference as well: only 8% of the Iranian articles in the investigated disciplines 2003 are internationally co-authored. This is significantly lower than what we find in most other countries.
Irreproducibility of the results of the Shanghai academic ranking of world universities The data presented here suggests that the results of the Shanghai ranking are irreproducible.
Exploring social integration as a determinant of research activity, performance and prestige of scientists.: Empirical evidence in the Biology and Biomedicine field We believe that our results are consistent with the hypothesis that researchers who are well integrated within their teams will have a competitive advantage over those who are less integrated.
Why are websites co-linked? The case of Canadian universities The study found that in over 94% of cases, the two co-linked universities were related academically.
Low awareness of the link between science and innovation affects public policies in developing countries:: The Chilean case Our results confirm that in Chile a non-patenting culture which involves researchers and institutions still prevails. Hence, public policies need to be designed and implemented to foster scientific production and innovation in order to advance progress in the current knowledge-economy-driven society which sustains competitiveness in the globalized world. In countries like Chile, to make innovation a real tool for development, governments need to have the required political will to consider R&D as a power engine of the country's progress.
The frequencies of multinational papers in various sciences In conclusion, I find that the frequency of multinational papers ranges from 13% to more than 55%. The most frequent explanation seems to be in whether the objects studied by the scientists are local or worldwide. However, the motivations and activities of scientists are much too varied to be explained in terms of a single mechanism, so we can expect several factors to be involved here, of which the local/international one seems to be one of the most prominent.
Measuring researcher interdisciplinarity We have derived three measures based on ISI Subject Category information for sets of research papers – Integration (I), Reach (R), and Specialization (S).
The evidence of systematic noise in non-patent references: A study of New Zealand companies' patents Based on a sample of 850 USPTO patents of New Zealand companies, this paper demonstrates the evidence of systematic noise in NPR data. Our results suggest that one should be extremely careful in applying and interpreting results based on the NPR methodology. Future research should therefore focus on further developing a more enlightened interpretation of patent citations and take the limitations of the data more into account.
New physician-investigators receiving National Institutes of Health research project grants - A historical perspective on the "endangered species" From 1964-2004, the number of physician-investigators applying for first R01 grants showed little net change. Physician-investigators consistently experi-enced higher rates of attrition and failure, even after receiving a first R01 grant, and those proposing clinical research were less successful in obtaining funding than phy-sicians proposing nonclinical research.
Peer review and the relevance of science In conclusion, peer review potentially includes a range of criteria—scientific, organisational, and relating to social relevance—all of which are largely concealed in the current policy of treating peer review as a 'black box'—a tool for the exclusive use of the scientific community that is thought best left to work autonomously. The employment of a more structured approach to the criteria used in peer review might offer the chance to increase the levels of transparency and openness in peer review. It might also help to ensure that peer review is not seen as an opaque affair through which scientists escape scrutiny and accountability.
Insights into factors affecting Production and Operations Management (POM) journal evaluation This study explores the impact of various factors on POM journal evaluations. Our findings can be summarized as follows. First, differences in the way journals are evaluated are evident among researchers located in North American, European, and Asia. Second, the type of research impacts journal evaluations.
The missing link: journal usage metrics Indicators in the form proposed could find a wide variety of applications, from helping librarians to assess the potential value-for-money of bundled journal deals, to helping policy-makers and scholarly communication researchers to better understand the dynamics of knowledge diffusion. We think the time is ripe to develop a set of standardised measures of journal usage that are as easy to understand, and as universally accepted, as ISI's current citation-based indicators. Usage metrics would transform research in science policy and scholarly communication (big markets for ISI data) by opening up new questions about knowledge transfer.
Publication bias and merit in ecology We argue that without explicit consideration of both the qualitative and quantitative aspects of publication bias in ecology, we limit our capacity to fairly assess and best use the science that we as a community produce.
Technical structure of the global nanoscience and nanotechnology literature The US remains the leader in numbers of SCI/SSCI nanotechnology publications annually and in high impact papers, but China is closing the gap. While the large US nanotechnology paper producers have numbers of highly cited papers in the range from medium to large, there are substantially large numbers of medium volume publishing organizations that have no (or almost none) papers in the 500 highly cited publications.
How important is the contribution of surgical specialties to a medical school's NIH funding? Surgical departments as an aggregate have continued to receive a stable overall fraction of NIH awards. The total funding to the different surgical departments varies considerably between institutions and does not correlate well with total institutional funding. The downward trend in the correlation of general surgery funding to total institutional funding suggests a decline in support for surgical research in this specialty nationwide.
Internationalization of R&D: where does South Africa stand? The evidence in this paper suggests that, from the R&D perspective, the emerging South African knowledge economy is still insufficiently 'open'. Greater investment in people and infrastructure, and the promotion of enabling framework conditions, remain priorities. Actions that may contribute to attracting international R&D investment and collaboration include development of skilled people and the further enhancement of direct and indirect R&D incentives.
Factors to assess self-archiving in institutional repositories A thorough and well-organized assessment can provide valuable suggestions to keep self-archiving healthy.
Assessing the quality of a scientific journal: the case of Revista Brasileira de Psiquiatria As researchers' scientific productivity measures are largely associated with citation indices of journals in which manuscripts are published, it is essential that Revista Brasileira de Psiquiatria continues to attract high quality, innovative articles, with the ultimate goal of providing state-of-the-art continuing medical education for mental health professionals. RBP now faces the challenge of continuous improvement of its quality indices, such as sustaining the rapidly growing citation rate in order to achieve an initial IF above 1 in the year 2007. All these features enable the attraction of high-quality original and review articles to RBP, with the ultimate goal of publishing innovative research and providing outstanding continuing medical education for mental health professionals.
Refining dermatology journal impact factors using PageRank Adjusting for citation origin provides a more refined measure of journal status and changes relative dermatology journal rankings. In summary: IF rankings may be improved by the same technology that improved Internet search engines (PageRank).
Can citation analysis of Web publications better detect research fronts? We conclude that in such fields, (a) for detecting current research fronts, author co-citation analyses (ACA) using articles published on the Web as a data source can outperform traditional ACAs using articles published in journals as data, and that (b) as a result, it is important to use multiple data sources in citation analysis studies of scholarly communication for a complete picture of communication patterns.
Betweenness centrality as an indicator of the interdisciplinarity of scientific journals The finding of betweenness centrality as a possible indicator of interdisciplinarity was originally a serendipitous result of my work on journal mapping.
Modeling the diffusion of scientific publications A first consequence of our analysis is that one might wish to re-consider the current practice in use by the SSCI.
Perceptions of authorship criteria: effects of student instruction and scientific experience Conception and design, Analysis and interpretation and Drafting of article were recognised as the most important of the ICMJE criteria by all participants.
A bibliometric study of literature on digital libraries This study has looked at patterns of authorship in articles published in LISA Plus over a seven-year period.
Which journals do primary care physicians and specialists access from an online service? Primary care physicians, more so than specialists, chose full-text articles from clinical journals deemed important by several measures of value. Most journals accessed by both groups were of high quality as measured by this study's methods for assessing journal importance. Collection build-ing, especially when restricted by budget and sub-scription increases, can likely be guided in part by us-ing lists of journals selected for various evidence-based journal services.
Citation analysis of Minnesota Department of Health official publications and journal articles: a needs assessment for the RN Barr library Overall, no large gaps appeared in the RN Barr Library's journal collection. The analysis confirms that the library's collections budget for serials and books reflects the cited use of these materials.
Investing wisely: Citation rankings as a measure of quality in library and information science journals Our findings have led us to conclude that, by supporting seldom-cited LIS journals, academic librarians may not be spending our limited budgets very wisely. Our hope is that librarians will use the research results provided in this article as a starting point for this endeavor.
Kiyo journals and scholarly communication in Japan Kiyo are one of the predominant forms of publication in Japan's social sciences and humanities research because they fit well within the culture of Japanese academia—a culture that is characterized by a seniority-based hierarchy and greater loyalty to in-stitutions rather than to disciplines.
The Journal of Sexual Medicine -: Impact factor predictions and analysis In conclusion, although it remains to be seen what the official 2006 JCR Impact Factor value for the JSM will be, and how embarrassing this predic- tion may appear with hindsight, a value somewhere between 3.8 and 4.6 would represent an enormous achievement for the journal. Further, irrespective of the Impact Factor value itself, there is now available a rich source of data through Web of Science which can be analyzed to provide valuable insight into the JSM's performance—providing, of course, one recognizes and accounts for the inher- ent skewed distribution of citations, imposes appro- priate temporal controls over the citation-counting process, and is aware of the sociological aspect of citation counting itself.
Ranking scientific publications using a model of network traffic High CiteRank traffic to a publication denotes its high relevance in the context of currently popular research directions, while the PageRank number is more of a 'lifetime achievement award' [3].
Authorship decision making: An empirical investigation "Overall, data suggested that authors are fairly satisfied with the decision-making process, with 84% of the sample being very satisfied with both the process and the outcome of the decision." "It was notable that using some kind of guidelines in making authorship credit decisions made a significant and positive difference in authors' satisfaction with the process and outcome of these decisions." "Therefore, for professional/ethi-cal and practical reasons, student researchers and both new and more experienced researchers are encouraged to use APA Standards explicitly during their author-ship decision-making processes."
A bibliometric analysis of the effectiveness of Korea's Biotechnology Stimulation Plans, with a comparison with four other Asian nations Over the last two decades, there has been considerable growth in South Korea's concern for the state of its science.
Relative Superiority Coefficient of papers: A new dimension for institutional research performance in different fields The new indicator the "Relative Superiority Coefficient" of papers compensates for some of the flaws in citation data used in cross-field comparisons. It provides a new dimension for scientific evaluation in the scientometric field, providing fresh insights for comparing research quality and making qualitative distinction at multiple levels in terms of research quality. It should be pointed that this supplements rather than replaces other relative qualitative and quantitative indicators, but it does improve research evaluation.
Patent-bibliometric analysis on the Chinese science - technology linkages The empirical findings suggest that the patents and the corresponding scientific citations are related in different ways. This reveals that the scientific references covered by SCI show a skewed distribution not only in journals but also in categories. The detailed features of Chinese science-technology linkage are provided as follows.
Does self-citation pay? The evidence of our macro study, however, suggests that self-citation does pay - the more one cites oneself the more one is cited by other scholars.
Lost in citation: Vanishing visibility of senior authors Our results indicate that CRAL is associated with one or more of the measures of journal quality we used. This means that the visibility senior authors might gain by being cited in a more prestigious journal, could be lost due to truncation of final author positions in cited references. Senior authors who have made a significant contribution to reported research should be appropriately recognized and not lost in citation.
Self-citations, co-authorships and keywords: A new approach to scientists' field mobility? In this study, we have focused on the self-citation patterns of one author over time, and compared this pattern to his co-authors and the keywords in these articles. We believe that our method can be used for detecting emerging research fields and to trace field mobility. The analysis also suggests that the changes in the collaborations of a scientist may influence his field mobility.
Changes of scientific knowledge production and research productivity in a transitional society The central characteristics of the knowledge production mode and productivity in the Croatian research system confirm their expected duality – the features comparable to world trends that accompany the introduction of a competitive system of research funding and evaluation on the one hand, and the inherited and newly acquired peculiarity of the research system on the other. They show that the expansion of team work and applied research as well as deep structural improvements in scientific productivity are accompanied by a reduction of researchers’ work on projects, especially on commissioned projects, and with the persistent lagging of average research productivity behind the world average. Theoretically, confirmation of the influence of a concrete research system on scientific production is very important, but comparative sociological studies in (some) other transitional countries are necessary for broader generalizations to be made about specificities of knowledge production in that social milieu.
The difference between highly and poorly cited medical articles in the journal Lancet Medicine has many facets, including adequacy and affordability of health care, disease and injury prevention, public health education, lab research and clinical trials, theory and experiment, individual and global health issues, and epidemiology. Out of all these possibilities that could be of substantial interest to the medical research community, The Lancet readership community has chosen to emphasize high citations to large-scale clinical drug trials on breast cancer, diabetes, coronary circulation, and immune system problems, reported by many authors in long well-referenced papers, for the time period chosen.
Ranking doctoral programs by placement: A new method No ranking system can adequately define a concept as multifaceted as the "quality" of graduate programs in politi-cal science, much less measure it pre-cisely.
Ranking departments: A comparison of alternative approaches Finally, we can explain most of the variance in departmental reputational rankings with only three variables: number of present departmental faculty in the Political Science 400, proportion of past departmental Ph.D.s placed at other U.S. graduate departments, and professional success of departmental Ph.D. graduates as judged by membership in the Political Science 400.
Variations in content and format of ISI databases in their different versions: The case of the Science Citation index in CD-ROM and the web of science With regard to the basic bibliographic fields analysed in this study, a high coincidence between CD-ROM and WOS is found: by 100% of publication data, by 98% of journal titles, by 92% of number of authors per document (after removing commas, because if commas were taken into account, the percentage would be 0).
The citation impacts and citation environments of Chinese journals in mathematics Local citation impacts reflect a journal's status and function better than (global) impact factors. We also found that authors in Chinese journals prefer international instead of domestic ones as sources for their citations. The fact that Chinese authors favor international journals may indicate that they assess the quality of articles published in Chinese journals as less then those published in international journals.
A bibliometric and citation analysis of stroke-related research in Taiwan Stroke-related scientific research in Taiwan has increased significantly over the last 15 years. The numbers of articles with international co-authorship have increased over the years, and had significantly higher CPP values than the others. In developing stroke-related research in the future, more emphasis should be placed on increasing the continuity of research by providing consistent funding for research and training programs.
Transient and continuant authors in a research field: The case of terrorism Observation of the lists of core authors devised at different points in time has shown that contributors to the field of terrorism research over the years have been mostly new-comers, terminators, and transients; only a very small core of researchers has dedicated most of their time to conducting research in the field.
Generalized Hirsch h-index for disclosing latent facts in citation networks Some of the novel indices, namely contemporary h-index and trend h-index, are able to disclose latent facts in citation networks, like trendsetters and brilliant young scientists. For the case of conference and journal ranking, the indices normalized h-index, contemporary h-index and trend h-index give a more fair view for the ranking. Finally, the yearly h-index and the normalized yearly h-index can be used in order to evaluate separately each conference/journal success.
Separating the articles of authors with the same name In summary, a practical algorithm has been presented for separating the papers of an author from those of other authors with the same name. It semi-automates the separation process by creating clusters of papers that most likely belong to the same author, thus simplifying greatly the generation of an author publication list.
Models for citation behavior We feel that this work could serve as a useful reference for the modeling of citation behavior. We have derived a collection of 17 flexible formulas and the associated estimation procedures for the citation distribution by choosing 17 flexible models for the latent rate (λ). Given the choice and the variety of the 17 models, we expect that this work will lead to improved statistical modeling of citation behavior.
Profiling citation impact: A new methodology "The value of impact profiles lies in their role as an interpretive aid for non-specialists, not as a technical transformation of the data for scientometricians."
Intelligent transportation systems: What do publications and patents tell us? During the last two decades, the general trend in the number of ITS-related publications and patents has been increasing, reflecting the substantial growth of ITS R&D activities. The empirical evidence suggests that legislation and funding could play an important role in ITS R&D activities beyond ITS implementation by stimulating research in labs and providing deployment opportunities. This information also can facilitate federal ITS programs to identify promising initiatives with the potential to better direct ITS development toward deployment.
China's emerging presence in nanoscience and nanotechnology - A comparative bibliometric study of several nanoscience 'giants' This paper shows that research activities on nanoscale phenomena have increased over the last two decades around the world.
Data search strategy for science and technology emergence: A scalable and evolutionary query for nanotechnology tracking The automated scalable query that we propose here allows the obtaining of a nano database whose quality content will be further assessed by independent 'nanoexperts' and scientometricians.
A computer-aided bibliometric system to article ranked lists in interdisciplinar generate core subjects A computer-aided bibliometric system (CABS) was designed and constructed in order to generate a subject core article ranking list and assist with further citation analysis.
The cost implications of open-access publishing in the life sciences Within the field of cell biology, the wholesale adoption of either the PLoS model or the equal-revenue model would result in a major redistribution of systemwide expenditures, reducing the proportion of the total cost paid by most institutions and increasing the proportion paid by the major research universities.
Assessing research self-efficacy in physician-scientists: The clinical research appraisal inventory In a sample of 210 individuals pursuing careers in academic medicine, the pre- sent findings indicate that the CRAI reliably measures 8 (opposed to the original 10) dimensions of research self-efficacy according to competencies previously deemed important for a clinical research career (Bieschke et al., 1993; Bland et al., 1990; Bonetta, 2004; Dunn & Chadwick, 2004; Holden et al., 1999; Korenman & Shipp, 1994; Phillips & Russell, 1994; Royalty & Reising, 1986).
Internet equaliser? Gender stratification and normative circumvention in science The study seems to reveal that Internet connectivity is helping women scient-ists circumvent, but not yet undermine, the patrifocal social structure that reduces social capital and impedes career development. The Internet could emerge as a level playing field that connects women to the professional community at a dis-tance, especially outside the country. The optimistic indications, however, only point to the need to undertake further studies in the same direction in order to substantiate and understand the actual conditions of develop-ment and change in the patrifocal structure of Kerala society.
Frequency and structure of long distance scholarly collaborations in a physics community Regardless, our findings suggest that we are witnessing an evolution, rather than a revolution with respect to remote collaborative behavior and the Internet.
On the robustness of the h-index The integer nature of the h-index, its robustness to perturbations in the tails of the publication-citations distrib-ution, and the ease of verifying, offer compelling reasons to favour a Hirsch-type index over an index based on total citations and total publications.
On Egghe's construction of Lorenz curves This proves that Egghe's approach does include the classical Lorenz curve.
Metalib and google scholar: a user study In the specific context examined in this study, that is students seeking material for their thesis, Google Scholar exhibited higher usability than our implementation of Metalib in the short search sessions that we examined.
Scientist-friendly policies for non-native English-speaking authors: timely and welcome Although our research is still underway and our results are preliminary, they suggest that the correlation between written English proficiency and research productivity should not be underestimated. Particu-larly, English proficiency, at a time when writing in English is mandatory for research-ers, should be better addressed by scientists, educators and policy makers. We believe that scientist-friendly language policies in Bra-zil are needed, timely and welcome.
You must be joking ... A historic open reviewing at Global Internet '07 Open reviewing is doable. This is a major and indisputable lesson. Reviews seem to improve with the open review according to the authors of both accepted and rejected papers. Finally, authors and reviewers alike would like GI to continue with the open review process.
Role and contribution of foreign-born scientists and engineers to the public US nanoscience and technology research enterprise Based on a large sample of 14 437 U.S.-based scientists and researchers, the results obtained in this paper suggest that foreign-born sci-entists and engineers are playing an important role in the U.S. national innovation system when we consider one key indicator of scientific performance, i.e., of research productivity. The most reasonable and beneficial immigration and science policy is likely to be the one that finds a middle ground between these two extreme positions, and balances the economic and social benefits of having a select group of excel-lent foreign-born scientists and engineers with the interests of the native-born scientific community. The findings also have implications for individual organiza-tions such as universities, research centers, federal laboratories, and even corporate R&D laboratories.
A comparison of reviewers selected by editors and reviewers suggested by authors Editor-selected reviewers did not give significantly higher-quality reviews, nor where they significantly faster compared with author-suggested reviewers. Editor-selected reviewers were less likely to recommend acceptance.
Publications in vascular journals: Contribution by country An additional interesting finding of this study is that a noticeable number of high quality "vascular” papers are submitted and published in “general” surgical journals with a high impact factor.
Redundant publication of clinical trials on herpetic keratitis Overlapping publications of therapeutic trials on herpetic keratitis often had undisclosed or fragmentary interconnections.
Improving peer review with CARMA CARMA would improve the quality of reviews, while allowing readers to make informed judgements about the actual impact of reviews on published manuscripts.
Going all the way: how Hindawi became an open access publisher In examining Hindawi's achievements over the past ten years, it is clear that experimentation and innovation are vital to the success of the company.
"OM Forum: Evaluating operations management-related journals via the author affiliation index" - Do professors at top US business schools do what they say? We find that the AAI is in general well-correlated with survey results, indicating that top researchers’ publication patterns are indeed consistent with information gleaned from surveys on journal quality.
Social-organizational characteristics of work and publication productivity among academic scientists in doctoral-granting departments In these ways, the analyses point to formulations about ways that the social-organizational factors of team composition, collaboration, work practices, and work climate relate to publication productivity among academic scientists. An additional, related area for inquiry, for example, is the mode of team leadership among scientists: the closeness or remoteness of super-vision and the level of freedom or constraint in research permitted for team members; the level of coordination (or conversely, independence) between team members and their tasks; expectations about amount of time spent in the lab by team members and the faculty director; the level of "risk” encouraged (or not) in research tasks and directions; communi-cation patterns established (or not); and the frequency and formality/in-formality of team meetings.
The quest for citations: Drivers of article impact In this article, we contrasted, synthesized, and simultaneously tested three theoretical perspectives on the influence of article and author characteristics on the number of citations an article receives. We found full or partial confirmation for the universalist and social constructivist view on science, but we found virtually no confirmation for the presentation view on science. Our findings contribute to the marketing and scientometrics literature.
Publications of plastic surgery research 1972 through 2004: a longitudinal trend analysis of three international journals We conclude that the number of articles in three international plastic surgery journals has more than doubled over the last three decades. Most articles still originate from the USA, but the absolute and relative number of articles originating from Europe and Asia is rapidly increasing. Even though authors from larger countries, in general, contribute more publications in absolute numbers, authors from small countries have a more efficient output relative to the number of inhabi-tants and GDP of their country.
An alternative perspective on citation classics: Evidence from the first 10 years of the European Conference on Information Systems We have argued that the use of the ECIS citation data could provide a useful complement to the data presented by W&L as it drew on a more diverse set of authors and institutions, from a different region of the world. We also demonstrated that social theorists are more widely cited in European IS research than in the North American tradition and we identified the key authors in this area. The most popular classic sources are books that address key themes and approaches and do so in a pioneering way.
Peer-reviewed publication output of psychiatric nurses in the Republic of Ireland This study set out to map the publications by psychiatric nurses in the Republic of Ireland. In conclusion, if the upward trend in publication continues, psychiatric nurses in the Republic of Ireland will make a greater contribution to the overall development of nursing knowledge in the coming years. Equally important is the continued collaboration between academic institutions, health service providers and service user groups, so that research and publication becomes an integrated part of service delivery and practice as opposed to an academic activity undertaken by those in education.
Bibliometric analysis of tsunami research For tsunami research, logarithmic and exponential relations between yearly cumulative number of publications and year were obtained for the periods from 1991 to 1998 and 1998 to 2004 revealing that yearly publications sustained a constant growth rate. The logarithmic model was successfully applied to describe the relationship of number of authors and the number of articles, the number of journals and the number articles, and the percentage of total articles and the number of times a keyword was used. Moreover the tsunami publication pattern in the first 8 months after the Indonesia tsunami occurred on 26 December 2004 indicated a high percentage of non-article publications, more documents being published in higher-impact factor journals, and the English language and the US dominating production.
Hirsch index or Hirsch rate? Some thoughts arising from Liang's data We believe that we have demonstrated that the h-rate is a far more useful indicator of a scientist's contribution than the basic h-index, in particular because it compensates for different career lengths it is quite possible that younger scientists could feature high on such a ranked list.
Who's who and what's what in Brazilian Public Health Sciences Brazilian PH is mainly committed to classical research fields and ranking among authors is narrow. As a conclusion, the present study suggests that about 66% of potential Brazilian authors in Public Health are present in the ISI data records. From these, 60 to 70% achieve at least one citation. The probability of authors with just one paper is higher than expected and the range of values to rank authors according to either number of papers or number of citations is narrow. Brazilian Public Health scientific interests do not very much exceed what is traditionally acknowledged as its purview.
Coverage analysis of Scopus:: A journal metric approach Statistically speaking then, the coverage provided by Scopus is balanced in terms of subject areas, languages and editors when compared with Ulrich's Core.
Journal self-citation rates in ecological sciences In this study I found that journals with higher impacts have lower self-citation rates, which supports the use of journals impact factors.
Hirsch-index for countries based on essential science indicators data Since the h-index combines the effect of size (number of papers) with that of impact (mean citation rate per paper), smaller countries haven't got too much chance to compete with the giants.
Worldwide econometrics rankings: 1989-2005 This paper ranks academic institutions and individuals in econometric theory and all econometrics over a span of 17 years, covering the period 1989–2005. The usual caveats apply. One could question the 16 journals used, or the conversion factors applied even after adjusting them by citation impact factors and size and age of the journal. Despite these shortcomings, we believe these rankings to be a help- ful guide to graduate students, faculty, and academic administrators.
JRI, JF, and the Internet: Coauthors, new authors., and empirical research "Trends in JRI and JF research articles indicate the Internet has increased the number of coauthored articles and increased the number of new authors."
Tracking open access journals evolution: Some considerations in open access data collection validation The number of OAJs indexed by SCI found in this study is more than that reported by previous studies.
Matrix comparison, part 1: Motivation and important issues for measuring the resemblance between proximity measures or ordination results Consequently, the authors recommend the use of empirical matrix comparison techniques for individual studies to investigate the degree of resemblance between proximity measures or their ordination results.
Matrix comparison, part 2: Measuring the resemblance between proximity measures or ordination results by use of the mantel and procrustes statistics This two-part article has introduced two flexible and simple statistical tests for matrix comparison, very suitable and appropriate for validation purposes in informetric studies such as co-citation analyses.
How is science cited on the web? A classification of google unique web citations "To answer the first research question, we classified about 25% of the Google unique Web/URL citations as indicating online impact in the four science disciplines."
A mathematical theory of citing Although much can be understood from purely random models, we find that to obtain a good quantitative agreement with empirical citation data, one must introduce Darwinian fitness parameter for the papers.
Some comments on the question whether co-occurrence data should be normalized The conclusion is clearly incorrect.
Eminence of scientists in the light of the h-index and other scientometric indicators Scientific research is multifaceted, consequently it is very dangerous to rely on a single indicator.
Using position, fonts and cited references to retrieve scientific documents First, fonts and positions do provide useful information for computing similarity of documents. Second, we observed that fonts and locations are highly related factors, meaning the information they contain is very similar. Based on this clue, we developed a method to combine the two vectors conditionally, and as a result, this integrated approach does, indeed, improve searching performance.
Citing practices in ecology: can we believe our own words? Ultimately, the causes of mis-citation are more likely to be deep-rooted within the culture of modern ecological research.
Argument and outline for the sociology of scientific (and other) careers This paper concludes by stressing ways in which contextual studies of careers in and beyond science will advance our understanding in five larger domains of social process: identity construction; institution building; social-psychological differentiation; job satisfaction; and mystification of work.
The international performance of the South African academic institutions: a citation assessment We suggest that the findings are valuable for both higher education and science and technology policy development. Government should identify institutions with "seed" expertise in the particular fields and support them to develop an international profile. The article provides valuable insights that the relevant national authorities could utilize the information in order to enhance research in weak research areas and improve exploitation in areas of strength.
Teaching clinical research methodology to the academic medical community: a fifteen-year retrospective of a comprehensive curriculum Our experience shows it is feasible to accomplish these objectives, with a high level of satisfaction, through a didactic program targeted to the general academic community.
Biomedical research funding: when the game gets tough, winners start to play As a counterintuitive consequence, grant proposals conceived during lean periods might stand the best chance of success.
Prizes for basic research: Human capital, economic might and the shadow of history Our empirical analysis confirms the importance of lagged relative GDP in accounting for prize shares, and the presence of a winner-takes-all scale effect. An obvious implication of our study is that, in the presence of scale effects, a critical size is a necessary condition for basic research take-off.
Are co-linked business web sites really related?: A link classification study The current qualitative study confirms findings from that quantitative study.
A bibliometric analysis of scientific production in cancer molecular epidemiology Cancer molecular epidemiology is an expanding area attracting an increasing interest. The identification of an operative definition is a necessary condition to give to this discipline a unique scientific identity. An additional limitation of the study—which affects all bibliometric studies—is represented by the intrinsic inaccuracy in the measure used to describe the quality of scientific production.
Indicators on individual higher education institutions: Addressing data problems and comparability issues It concludes by indicating areas where major improvements are urgently needed, and advocates a European S&T Indicators Platform to maintain and develop these data sets long term. Finally, we will advocate the need of a European Science and Technology Indicators Platform (ESTIP) as proposed by the PRIME Network of Excellence (Barré, 2006), which would allow maintaining and developing these databases from a long-term perspec-tive.
Modelling of bibliometric approaches and importance of output verification in research performance assessment In this study, a model was developed along the lines of which bibliometric research performance assessments could be carried out.
From experimentation to coordination in the evaluation of Spanish scientific journals in the humanities and social sciences Evaluating publications is one of the basic elements of any research evaluation system, thus justifying the development and maintenance of national publication evaluation systems, especially in those areas which the Thomson Scientific impact factor, the usual benchmark, does not cover. The complexity of evaluating science in general, and journals in particular, makes it advisable to use several different indicators to determine the overall quality of a journal. The accumulated experience in the development of evaluation methodologies should result in a coordinated system uniting the best of each of them, thus constituting a tool for researchers, editors and, in particular, evaluation agencies.
Assessment of scientific programs: a necessary procedure for Brazilian scientific policy - the young investigator program of the state of Sao Paulo research foundation This assessment provided evidence for the achievement of first three goals. The fourth one is still pending on additional data requiring survey assessment. Actions in this direction are recommended.
National and institutional productivity and collaboration in Antarctic science: an analysis of 25 years of journal publications (1980-2004) Scientific journal publications about Antarctica in the period 1980-2004 were dominated by the nations with a strong interest in the continent. This study has shown a marked increase in one indicator of international scientific cooperation in Antarctica: publications authored by writers from different countries. It would be extremely interesting to identify Antarctic research trends in this way, and it is hoped that this will be the subject of further analysis.
Retractions, press releases and newspaper coverage All three publications that received newspaper coverage were preceded by a press release. Not surprisingly, a press release seems to stimulate newspaper coverage. If the linkage suggested by the data of this study holds, and if newspaper coverage stimulates library patron interest, then a medical library might prepare itself for information requests following a press release.
Environmental health research in Europe - bibliometric analysis Major advances have been made during recent years in the understanding of associations between health and environment, and of biological, environmental and social mechanisms involved in this association. More emphasis should be placed on investigations of complex environmental health problems such as complex exposures to different pollutants at different levels and their combined health impact in different populations. More collaborative research is needed in order to link these areas of data and knowledge in a more effective way and for a better use in planning future environmental health research.
Public health research literature on infectious diseases: coverage and gaps in Europe We believe that SPHERE represents a useful tool, both for scientists and public health policy makers, to plan and organize research on IDs, with clear implications for future EU (and other) funded programmes in Europe.
Health promotion research literature in Europe 1995-2005 Health promotion research production varies across Europe. Research commissioning should stress interventional and policy level research.
A bibliometric overview of public health research in Europe "There is marked variation in public health publication by country in Europe."
Bibliographic characteristics of plastic surgeons in The Netherlands: a 55-year survey The quantity and quality of publications by plastic surgeons and residents from The Netherlands increased over the studied 55-year period.
Fate of submitted manuscripts rejected from the American journal of neuroradiology: Outcomes and commentary These findings should give hope to authors receiving a rejection from AJNR, because greater than 50% of articles rejected from AJNR are subsequently published within 2-3 years, irrespective of publication type, into high-quality journals.
An empirical examination of the relationship between scientists' work environment and research performance In conclusion, the findings presented here represent advancement in our understanding of the way in which the component characteristics of an organizations' culture may be related to the performance of scientists within that organization.
Mobilizing networks - Researcher roles in atmospheric science This article has presented a typology which constitutes a role repertoire for researchers participating in atmospheric field campaigns and confirms how technological practice is important in understanding scientific collaborations (cf. Chompalov and Shrum, 1999).
A Bibliometric evaluation of publications in Urological journals among European Union countries between 2000-2005 This survey demonstrated that a bibliometric analysis of publications in international urological journals can serve as a useful rational approach to benchmark the research activities among European nations. Geographical distribution of scientific per- formance must not only be analysed in absolute terms but also in relation to complementary vari- ables such as population, GDP, GERD, HCE in order to provide a more realistic view. The study accredited the great significance of European research in urology.
NHMRC grant applications: a comparison of "track record" scores allocated by grant assessors with bibliometric analysis of publications The poor correlation between track record scores and bibliometric measures for project grant applications suggests that factors other than publication history may influence the assignment of track record scores.
A case study of the Hirsch index for 26 non-prominent physicists It has been demonstrated that it is not straightforward to determine the data base accurately, a simple WoS search often leads to a wrong number of publications and consequently usually to a wrong h index. The significance of these self-citations has been demonstrated in the present investigation. It was shown that not only the author's own self-citations have a substantial effect in reducing the Hirsch index appreciably, but also the self-citations of the co-authors are usually quite significant and reduce the Hirsch index further. I believe that it would be fairer and safer to utilize the sharpened index hs.
Highly visible science:: A look at three decades of research from Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Spain The present study demonstrates the usefulness of the software employed for analyzing publications in the two influential, multi-disciplinary journals, Nature and Science, to determine a country's high international scientific profile. While the presence of Latin American and Spanish papers is important in mainstream journals as a whole, publication in the two multi-disciplinary journals Nature and Science gives another dimension to the concept of international visibility.
Research on spectroscopy in Morocco from 1984 to 2006 This study gives an overview of the development of spectroscopy in Morocco during the period 1984–2006 (September), covering research only in the journal articles indexed in the SCI database of ISI. The most productive cities on the basis of total number of publications were Rabat, Marrakech, Kenitra, and Oujda, and this must be taken into consideration in order to organize scientific events in this field. On the other hand, a big effort must be made, in our opinion, to reinforce the activity of the analytical chemistry teams and to make spectroscopy not only available for use by the academic sector, but also to transfer the technology of spectroscopy to make it available to the private sector and business enterprises.
Assessing influence on the field: An analysis of citations to educational administration quarterly, 1979-2003 The findings point to three conclusions: (a) EAQ’s substantive, ongoing influence on the scholarly education literature is limited to a small percent- age of articles and consists predominantly of a dialogue within its own pages; (b) this level of influence, though perhaps not the form, appears to be generally comparable to the level of other scholarly education journals with a solid academic reputation; and (c) EAQ appears to be statistically among the top tier of influential scholarly journals in education but below the most influential.
Academic otolaryngology in the new millennium: We are failing behind The scholarly output of young academic otolaryngologists is declining when compared with academic otolaryngologists graduating the 1980s and early 1990s.
How do ecological journals stack-up? : Ranking of scientific quality according to the h index In conclusion, this study has illustrated the utility of the h index (Hirsch, 2005) for quantifying the scientific quality of journals in the ecological sciences and highlighted temporal trends in journal performance over recent decades.
Manifestation of research teams in journal literature: A growth model of papers, coauthorship, weak ties, authors, collaboration, and Lotka's law "Having shown the validity of the model through its match to a variety of collections of articles via the proposed quantitative model, the model provides great insight into the social processes of research."
The determinants of research output and impact: A study of Mexican researchers This work analyzes the determinants of researcher output and impact using a database of the most pro- ductive researchers in Mexico. We find that, similar to previous work, there is a quadratic relationship between age and the number of publications of a researcher. Yet, contrary to several existing works, in particular Levin and Stephan (1991), aging is not found to be associated with any significant slowdown in publication activity: SNI researchers at 65 years are as productive as those at 43 years and more than when they finished their PhD. It would be useful to study the determinants of research publishing in other countries, particularly out- side the more developed world, to determine whether the patterns hold more generally. Studying publications during the 1970s and 1980s might be especially interest- ing to reveal changes in the patterns of publications over time.
Opening the box: Comparing EU and US scientific output by scientific field During the 1990s, in the midst of a significant increase in world scientific output, the EU15 overcame the US in paper production and is catching up in visibility and impact, as measured by citations.
Social networks in political science: Hiring and placement of Ph.D.s, 1960-2002 We believe that the methods for analyzing patterns of placement in the political science social network convey a considerable amount of information about the core-periphery structure of the discipline.
Ranking political science journals: Reputational and citational approaches In sum, the study shows that while reputational judgments and citation measures of journal impact are related, they are not identical, and this provides further evidence that different measures of scholarly performance may be needed for evaluating journal quality.
Making a life in the field of organization science Weak paradigm development in organization science is a fact of life that has significant implications for individuals and schools. Making a life in organization science may not be the right path for all aspiring scholars. Significant numbers of deserving individuals continue to have papers rejected, promotions denied, and careers side-tracked while others benefit from good luck.
Hirsch's index: a case study conducted at the Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciencias e letras de Ribeirao Preto, Universidade de Sao Paulo The poorer performance of the Psychology program may be associated with the limited coverage by the Thompson Institute of Scientific Information database. The h-index, like other bibliometric indicators, is sensitive to the field of knowledge and must not be used as the only factor for assessing an individual's scientific research output. Nevertheless, particularities of the research fields must be taken into account during such evaluations.
Early recognition of high quality researchers of the German psychiatry by worldwide accessible bibliometric indicators High quality researchers can be recognised early in their careers by means of worldwide accessible bibliometric indicators.
The determinants of election to the Presidency of the American Economic Association: Evidence from a cohort of distinguished 1950's economists Among the variables that we have analyzed, those representing merit seem to have a more consistent effect than those representing most of the non-merit considerations. This finding, if it proves robust, would advance the discussion on how much merit matters, but will not settle it once and for all. In the meantime, we have at least provided evidence to believe that within the group of members of the Executive Committee, merit matters in determining who is elected to be President of the AEA.
Row-column (RC) association model applied to grant peer review Using the RC association model, our findings show – in accordance with the results reported by HARGENS & HERTING (2006) for the peer review procedure of two journals that a single latent dimension is sufficient to account for the association between (internal and external) reviewers' recommendations and the fellowship award decisions of the B.I.F. Board of Trustees. This indicates that the latent dimension underlying reviewers' recommendations and Board's decisions reflects the merit of an application being evaluated. Although statistical analyses determined that overall, favorable ratings by the reviewers corresponded with favorable decisions by the Board (and vice versa), it was also shown through a specific ordering of those scale values in a graphical representation that resulted from estimation of the RC association model that the recommendation of the internal reviewer can have a greater influence on the Board's decision than the recommendation of the external reviewer.
Mapping of spices research in Asian countries Asian continent undoubtedly is a prime producer and publisher of literature on Spices Research. India ranks top the list among the Asian countries. It is likely that such analytical approach may provide more effective tool to science planners in a country to not only evaluate their research efforts but also to help them in identifying and removing their weaknesses.
Time-dependent aspects of co-concentration in informetrics We have shown, using a simple stochastic model, that we would expect the co-concentration coefficient to decrease in situations where we are cumulating informetric data over an extending period of time.
Publication, cooperation and productivity measures in scientific research The combined use of counting methods provides valuable information on the extent and character of scientific cooperation between scientists, institutions, and countries.
Journal relatedness: An actor-actor and actor-objectives case study In the scientific publishing landscape, citation represents, beyond the manifestation of scientific interest, the expression of a relationship of power and a game of specific influences and dependencies, placing the scientific journals (assimilated in the present paper as "actors") in a given strategic context in which they are expected to value their competitive edge.
The evolution of the sleep science literature over 30 years: A bibliometric analysis The last three decades witnessed the important growth and evolution of sleep research and its community. Based on the numbers of scientific publications, the seven leading countries in sleep research in 2004 were the USA, UK, Germany, Italy, Japan, France and Canada; these countries appeared in the top seven since 1974. With a four-fold increase in sleep research over the last three decades, we can look forward to further unlocking the 'mysteries' of sleep.
The meaning of author order in medical research Current patterns of author order and contribution suggest a consistent theme. Based on the results, a proposal is put forth by which author accountability is clarified. Our proposed authorship system would be a great improvement over the current approach by clearly indicating the relative role and contribution of each listed author, without the ambiguity that exists with the current system of authorship. The proposal is intended to provoke and kick-start a discussion on the topic.
Holistic sense-making: conflicting opinions, creative ideas, and collective intelligence The value of the work is the conceptual and methodological contributions to address various phenomena across micro- and macroscopic levels.
Public health citation patterns:: an analysis of the American Journal of Public Health, 2003-2005 "Analysis of cited material types revealed results similar to citation analyses in specific public health disciplines, including use of materials from a wide range of disciplines, reliance on miscellaneous and government documents, and need for older publications."
Comparing test searches in PubMed and google scholar Performing a direct and exact comparison between searches in Google Scholar and PubMed is not possible as the systems function in very different manners.
An analysis of diversity in electronic commerce research The most important finding is that the major and EC specialty journals play distinctive roles in the progress of EC research.
Ranking journals in business and management: a statistical analysis of the harzing data set Looking at the different rankings, the main conclusions are that there is in general a high degree of conformity between them as shown by a principal components analysis. There is, however, a difference between the citation index and the other rankings. The cluster analysis produced quality groupings of journals across all the management disciplines.
Making sense of mankind's scholarly knowledge and expertise:: collecting, interlinking, and organizing what we know and different approaches to mapping (network) science An argument for a reconceptualization of the way we collect, access, and make sense of scholarly knowledge was presented.
Environment and Planning B: Planning and Design as a journal: The interdisciplinarity of its environment and the citation impact The evaluation of EPB changes when one analyzes its local citation environment at the interface between the Social Science Citation Index and the Science Citation Index.
Impact of digital information resources in the toxicology literature The formal communication system of toxicology has been little affected by new forms of information resource. Reliance is still placed on the “traditional” journal article, with citations largely to other “traditional” resources, though these may now be accessed electronically rather than in print form. A noticeable increase in the proportion of web-based material being cited in the toxicology literature has occurred between 2000 and 2005.
Of the rich and the poor and other curious minds: on open access and "development" This paper is intended to open up the view for open access's less obvious alliances and conflicting discursive ties and thus to initiate a politisation, which is necessary in order to further the debate in a more fruitful way.
Utilisation of the c-fos immunohistochemical method: a 2004 quantitative study This study is characterised by a high prevalence of articles with c-fos immunohistochemical method in the Current Contents/Life Sciences collection (901 articles), in contrast to the sparse number of articles published in the Current Contents/Clinical Medicine collection (125 articles).
Citation network of CVD research: Research topics and journals In summary, we analyzed the citation network of CVD to investigate the current structure of the research.
A longitudinal investigation into the changing citing behavior of geomatics postgraduate students at Wuhan University, China, 1988-2004: Implications for collection development The aim of this study was to analyze trends in citing behavior of the geomatics postgraduate students at the Wuhan University. The results of the analyses carried out may inform the development of library services at Wuhan University including collection development plans, management of library journal resources, promotion of reference services, and development of user training aimed at geomatics students in preparing their theses. Analysis of citations in publications of library's users can be an excellent tool in aligning its services to the needs of its users.
A bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Molecular Graphics and Modelling "2007 sees the Molecular Graphics and Modelling Society celebrating its 25th Anniversary, and this paper has discussed the publications in, and the citations to, articles in its associated journal, the Journal of Molecular Graphics and Modelling. The most highly cited papers are those describing systems or algorithms, but the proportion of these types of article is decreasing as more applications of molecular graphics and molecular modelling are reported. The journal is international in scope, receiving papers from around the world, but with the USA being by far the largest source of articles."
Is there a role for research students in an institutional repository? Some repository managers' views The paper concludes that there is a need for clear guidance on the quality of repository content; that evidence of use should be sought; and that IR policy should accommodate the needs of all stakeholders.
Ranking Dutch economists We show that the use of cardinal ranking methods generates results that are not robust to small changes in the assumptions concerning the importance of particular journals.
Evaluation of formal quality of Spanish psychiatry journals Spanish psychiatric journals fulfill most of the requirements, although some of them could be improved, such as failures in the regularity of the publication, the English presentation of the abstracts and the paper typology specification, indication of the reception and acceptance date and lack of a clear description of the publishing process for the selection of the manuscripts and peer review.
Timelines of creativity: A study of intellectual innovators in information science Our data suggest that there may be two (very) broad categories of innovators in information science, just as Galenson (2006) found in his analyses of the history of art, but we—as he—would argue that it makes more sense to view creativity as a continuum, running from predominantly conceptual to predominantly experimental. In addition, it seems abundantly clear from our survey that intellectual innovation is not a function of chronological age alone.
The effect of "Open access" on citation impact: An analysis of ArXiv's condensed matter section Correcting for these effects, there is in a sample of six condensed matter physics journals studied in detail no sign of a general "open access advantage" of papers deposited in ArXiv. The study does provide evidence that ArXiv accelerates citation due to the fact that ArXiv makes papers available earlier rather than makes them freely available. The outcomes illustrate that a citation time window of 18 months, as applied in a recent article by Eysenbach (2006), may not be sufficiently long to adequately capture how "OA versus non-OA IRs” vary with the age of cited articles. Accelerating communication is definitely a positive effect of ArXiv.
The role of web-based information in the scholarly communication of chemists: Citation and content analyses of American chemical society journals This glimpse into the artifacts that scientists in an array of fields of chemistry leave behind in their scholarly publica-tions illustrates that chemists are not taking great advantage of chemistry information that is freely available on the Web.
Impact of data sources on citation counts and rankings of LIS faculty: Web of science versus scopus and google scholar The use of Scopus and GS, in addition to WoS, helps reveal a more accurate and comprehensive picture of the scholarly impact of authors. The study found that the addition of Scopus citations to those of WoS could significantly alter the ranking of authors. The study also found that GS stands out in its coverage of conference pro-ceedings as well as international, non-English language journals, among others.
The citation performance of open access journals: A disciplinary investigation of citation distribution models The results show that the general performance pattern of the OAJSS is similar to that of the whole science system.
Egghe's construction of Lorenz curves resolved It has been established that the construction of Lorenz/ Leimkuhler curves advocated by Egghe (2005a, 2005b) is not equivalent to the classical construction as claimed, nor does it include the classical case as claimed by Rousseau (2007). Instead, we have shown that, in fact, Egghe's construction yields the classical Leimkuhler curve of the dual function, up to scale transformation. We therefore conclude that, although Egghe (2005a, 2005b) has produced an interesting approach and Rousseau (2007) an interesting observation, they have both failed to properly appreciate the standard construction.
Research note:: Identifying the invisible colleges of the British journal of industrial relations:: A bibliometric and social network approach We believe that our findings illustrate how the scope and intellectual base of BJIR has changed, and perhaps even matured, over the 20-year observation period.
The changing college and university library market for university press books and journals: 1997-2004 Seismic shifts in library budgets, triggered by declines in budgetary increases, endowments (in the early part of the twenty-first century), and the cost of journals, have adversely affected university presses by resulting in reductions in the number of books purchased and the cancellation of some journal subscriptions.
Sometimes one is more than two: When collaboration inhibits knowledge construction In this paper I suggested that to understand better knowledge construction in science and the role of social processes and collaboration in it, it is useful to distinguish between elaborative knowledge, the knowledge constructed for solving clearly defined problems in established theoretical framework, and emergent knowledge, the knowledge constructed to reach the hierarchically higher, more complex level of scientific understanding. However, for building emergent knowledge, only individual or unidirectional collaboration is productive, and dialogical collaboration can hinder or even prevent the construction of this kind of knowledge. As major steps in science are always related to the construction of emergent knowledge, the current system of science may implicitly hinder the development of science in a long run.
Nanotechnology systems of innovation - An analysis of industry and academia research activities The research showed that Asian countries play an important role in the global nanotechnology research, accounting for approximately 40% of all scientific and technical articles worldwide. The findings can be particularly useful for forming technology strategies, science and technology policies by revealing strengths and weaknesses of the emerging innovation system in nanotech, existing country-level competencies and differences. The research analyses pointed to the existence of strong links between research orientations of specific countries, suggesting the potential for a closer cross-border scientific co-operation.
Indicators of European public research in hydrogen and fuel cells- An input-output analysis This paper has shown that there is growing interest in H&FC research in the EU25 countries and associated states.
Open access developments in France: the HAL Open Archives System In the author’s view, a ‘positive feedback’ loop may be anticipated as self-archiving spreads, and a consensus will tend towards considering it as the norm.
Mapping the journal publishing landscape: how much do we know.? The landscape of scholarly journal pub-lishing is a complex one, and reliable quantitative data about it is hard to find. However, it is hoped that these findings have added some details to the map.
Career success and weak paradigms: the role of activity, resiliency, and true scores These analyses have implications for authors, editors, and reviewers.
Productivity and impact of astronomical facilities: A statistical study of publications and citations On the other hand, if you are an observer, the present results show that cosmology is still a good bet (but so are exoplanets, brown dwarfs, gamma ray bursters, and some kinds of public-spirited investigations), and it pays to have access to the best telescope around for whatever your purpose may be. We will resist, but believe it is safe to predict that, if funding continues to be ever more focussed on a few subfields thought to be the most fundamental and on a few large, expensive facilities, then the inequalities of both opportunities and rewards will increase, and it will be a brave young astronomer who is willing to choose a career studying binary stars at an institution closely tied to a small wholly owned telescope.
National scientific facilities and their science impact on nonbiomedical research A number of federally funded science centers and laboratories have been compared with the highest ranking U.S. public and private academic institutions.
Challenges and opportunities for research portfolio analysis, management, and evaluation "Integrated, data-driven portfolio management and evaluation involve more complex and prescriptive uses of portfolio analysis for which theoretical and methodological challenges present a bigger obstacle."
Portfolio review expert panel (PREP) process: a tool for accountability and strategic planning to meet research goals This paper presents a portfolio assessment method developed particularly for program improvements that also responds to performance and accountability requirements. The method can be adapted by other government or non-government research entities that use expert scientific panels to review evidence of achievements as well as providing guidance for scientific endeavors. The process has been adopted by CSREES partners at the state level, such as New Mexico State with the work of the New Mexico State University Extension Service, to review their programs and services.
Peer review for the evaluation of academic research: lessons from the Italian experience As to the first point, the outcome analysed confirms some strengths of the peer process, even if some bias were still present. Peer review confirms its reliability for the retrospective assessment of the quality of research, even if it is necessary to take care of management, as well as of monitoring. From this perspective, further developments of VTR should go toward a larger use of the bibliometric indicators, in conjunction with peer evaluation, for strengthening the peers' outcome credibility as well as enhancing its use for research policy purposes.
A bibliometric analysis of global clinical research by anesthesia departments Clinical research attributable to investigators in our specialty is diverse, and extends beyond the traditional field of anesthesia and intensive care.
A scientometric study of the perceived quality of business and technical communication journals This study has provided valuable insights into how worldwide B&T communication researchers value the key journals in their fields.
Soil science and the h index In conclusion, the h index appears as a useful measure of the effectiveness of scientific output for individual scientists.
Scientometric analysis of geostatistics using multivariate methods In this study, we successfully applied multivariate methods to the scientometric analysis of worldwide geostatistics research published during the period from 1967 to 2005.
The publication rate of scientific papers depends only on the number of scientists I do not know why the average annual number of papers per scientist has remained constant during two generations of scientists, particularly with the preparation of manuscripts being made much easier through the change from typewriters to computers.
Scaling the h-index for different scientific ISI fields We believe the above discussion and data indicate that: a) Simple-minded comparison of the h-index of two people will give meaningless results unless the indices are properly corrected for the fact that different science fields have different citation habitudes, as reflected in the widely differing average values of citations/paper for the different scientific areas.
The self-cited rate of scientific journals and the manipulation of their impact factors Based on theoretical and actual analyses and the relationship between the journal impact factor and its self-cited rate, it is obvious that the journal impact factor should be affected by its self-cited rate, but change trends of actual impact factors of most journals do not match with theoretical impact factors; the reason is that the self-cited rate is only one of factors which affect the impact factor and is not a main factor.
Bibliometric analysis of English-language academic journals of China and their internationalization This inconsistency may result from their insufficient internationalization either in international paper proportion (less than 20%) or in the amount of high-quality manuscripts, probably caused by their local journal title, circulation and low IF. Suggested means of improving internationalization include encouraging Chinese scientists to cite more home journals when they publish their papers in foreign journals; soliciting the submission of international co-authorships based on the unavailability of pure foreign authorship; cooperating with internationally recognized publishers to utilize their globalization platform; employing overseas scientists to recruit international papers; improving writing style and content, to enable greater accessibility to worldwide readers. In conclusion, considerations on how to increase the internationalization of English-language journals in China have produced many good ideas, however putting them into effect still presents a problem, and Chinese English language journals still have some distance to travel before they become parallel with their international peers.
The growth of research on inter- and multidisciplinarity in science and social science papers, 1975-2006 As indicated by our measurements, the research on interdisciplinarity and multidisciplinarity presents itself as a self standing field of science and research policy which is considered important and significant by the different decision making bodies and granting authorities in the most important scientific nations of the world. It is suggested that science policy should give proper priority to inter- and multidisciplinary research.
The future of single-authored papers We conclude that single-authored papers will decrease in frequency in coming years, but will not disappear. There are some projects that do not require teams and some authors who prefer to work individually. It is because the rapid decrease from near 100% to 30% between 1900 and 1960 did not continue, but changed into an exponential that will never reach zero single-authored papers.
Visualizing the marrow of science This new methodology for the visualization and analysis of large scientific domains stands as a practical connection of several fields of research, including information visual- ization, citation analysis, social network analysis, and domain analysis. We consider this a very powerful tool not only in view of its capacity to schematize but also because of its facility for representing relational information chained in a series of intelligible sequences, which facilitate and favor comprehension, analy- sis, and interpretation of the structure of a domain, both for neophytes and for experts.
When do researchers collaborate? Toward a model of collaboration propensity The data presented here suggest preliminarily that, in the fields studied, variance in attitudes toward collaboration is better explained by the nature of work being conducted than by the perceived individual versus collectivist orientation of a field.
Bibliometric mapping of the computational intelligence field First of all, our initial expectation that the CI field is structured around the neural networks, fuzzy systems, and evolutionary computation subfields turns out to be too simplistic.
The perverse effects of competition on scientists' work and relationships When competition is pervasive, such effects may jeopardize the progress, efficiency and integrity of science.
Does the h index have predictive power? In summary, we found that the h index appears to be better able to predict future achievement than the other three indicators—number of citations, number of papers, and mean citations per paper—with achievement defined by either the indicator itself or the total citation count, Nc.
Little science, big science - Strategies for research portfolio selection in academic surgery departments Although incentives to junior investigators and clinicians with secondary participation in research are important, our findings suggest that the best strategy for increasing NIH funding for surgery departments is to invest in individuals with focused research commitments and established track records of garnering large and multiple research grants.
"Of sea urchins, volcanoes, earthquakes... and engagement":: Marcello!Carapezza, Alberto!Monroy, and Italy's university system "Reshaping work at Italy's universities requires rediscovering the approach of predecessors such as Alberto Monroy and Marcello Carapezza."
Impact factors and publication times for plastic surgery journals The fact that the field of plastic surgery targets a rather specific and limited medical audience, and that plastic surgical articles usually get quoted by this audience, partly explains these values.
Global cardiovascular disease research survey "The research output (measured through PubMed citations) is low among LIC and LMIC."
Concentration in publishing at top-tier business journals: Evidence and potential explanations The absence of a salary premium for accounting full professors suggests an underperformance of accounting researchers relative to their business school colleagues.
The Web impact of open access social science research About 30% of the Web/URL citations reflected the formal or informal intellectual impact of social science research and could hence be used in some way for research evaluation. This represents approximately five useful Web-based citations per article-a figure high enough to be valuable. The Web-based citation extraction method suffers from some of the same limitations as the ISI database.
Planning that title: Practices and preferences for titles with colons in academic articles Authors of scientific articles and conference papers use a variety of methods to make the titles of their papers more effective. Readers have different preferences for different kinds of titles. In this study, academics had mixed views about the effectiveness of colons, but students generally preferred titles with colons to titles without them.
Coordination costs and project outcomes in multi-university collaborations We found support for our hypotheses that having multiple universities involved in a research collaboration complicates coordination and reduces outcomes in the project.
Evaluating existing and emerging connections' among interdisciplinary researchers We found a wide familiarity among participants with the six component fields of HPE.
Are articles in "Top" management journals necessarily of higher quality? This finding suggests that both administrators and the man-agement discipline will be well served by efforts to evaluate each article on its own merits rather than abdicate this responsibility by using journal ranking as a proxy for quality.
Assessment of self-archiving in institutional repositories: Across disciplines The findings of this investigation do question the validity of the disciplinary culture theory.
A comparison of literature citations in faculty publications and student theses as indicators of collection use and a background for collection management at a university library The results of this study revealed similarities and differences in the citation patterns of faculty and students.
Author Affiliation Index, finance journal ranking, and the pattern of authorship This paper ranks 41 popular finance journals based upon a new method — Author Affiliation Index. On the whole, our AAI-based journal ranking is highly correlated with the findings in prior studies. Overall, the patterns of authorship/co-authorship over a spectrum of journals are consistent with the journal rankings based upon our ranking system.
A comparison of academics' attitudes towards the rights protection of their research and teaching materials A comparison of the RoMEO and R&R data has been both interesting and useful. The RoMEO data highlighted the lack of certainty amongst the teaching community as to who owned the copyright in their teaching materials. It remains to be seen whether a blended rights solution that meets the needs of both researchers and (some) teachers can be found.
Creating science and technology information databases for developing and sustaining sub-Saharan Africa's indigenous knowledge We have shown in this article that sub-Saharan African countries need to develop science and tech-nology information databases in order to provide more adequate information resources for their development activities than the international databases presently do.
Assessment of China's and India's science and technology literature - introduction, background, and approach This paper, the first of four in a Special Section on China's and India's S&T, introduces the remaining three papers.
Chinese science and technology - Structure and infrastructure China's publication of SCI research articles has had an annual exponential growth rate of 20% over the last 25 years.
Assessment of India's research literature India’s research article production reached a plateau during the period 1980–1995, and it has since started a rapid increase.
Comparisons of the structure and infrastructure of Chinese and Indian Science and Technology The bottom line in this comparison is unmistakable. In 1980, India was light years ahead of China in volume and breadth of published research. Presently, China outperforms India substantially both in quantity and quality (as measured by the Impact Factor of research output), the gap is widening and shows no sign of abating if present Indian research policies are continued!
Nanopatenting patterns in relation to product life cycle This article contributes a method for characterizing the state of nanotechnology development of main institution of the country.
Global nanotechnology research literature overview In summary, based on the metrics used in this analysis, some of the Asian nations that have experienced rapid nanotechnology paper production growth rates in recent years have also been improving the fractions of these papers that are cited highly.
The hidden perils of citation counting for Australasian political science First, it is clear that ‘standard’ SSCI data do not allow a fair evaluation of Australasian political science.
20 years of four HCI conferences: A visual exploration This article presents our analysis and visualization of a selection of publication metadata of four major conferences in HCI and information visualization: CHI, UIST, AVI, and InfoVis. Nevertheless, we believe these insights will be a good first step in documenting the history of HCI for the benefit of students, practitioners, and researchers alike. Improving metadata quality and publication coverage will make the visualizations and analysis of future studies much more reliable.
On the breeding of coauthors: just call me Al The current study — like much of science — merely quantifies what is widely known.
The 2006 summary of scientific productivity of chemical engineers in Taiwan Finally, judging from the exponents of the power-law scaling regions on the author distribution curve determined from Figs. 1-3 for different categories of authors, the 2006 scientific productivity of chemical engineering fellows in Taiwan roughly follows the general trends found at different time periods, specifically 1907–1916 and 1969–2004, elsewhere in the world.
An exploratory study of Google Scholar The paper concludes that Google Scholar has some interesting pros (such as citation analysis and free materials) but the service cannot be seen as a substitute for the use of special abstracting and indexing databases and library catalogues due to various weaknesses (such as transparency, coverage and up-to-dateness). Google Scholar can be helpful as a supplement to retrieval in abstracting and indexing databases mainly because of its coverage of freely accessible materials.
Reliability of journal impact factor rankings Decisions placed on journal impact factors are potentially misleading where the uncertainty associated with the measure is ignored.
Country-wise collaborations in HIV/AIDS research in Kenya and South Africa, 1980-2005 The number of countries that collaborate in HIV/ AIDS research with Kenya or South has ex-ponentially increased over the last two decades.
Surface transport management projects in the Sixth Framework Programme of the European Union This study provides an overview of the research areas that have attracted major interest within the EU's surface transportation manage-ment sector.
General evolutionary theory of information production processes and applications to the evolution of networks Applications to the study of the evolution of networks are given, including cases of deletion of nodes and/or links but also applications to other fields are given.
A rational indicator of scientific creativity In conclusion, I have proposed an index of research merit based on creativity, defined as the creation of new scientific knowledge, in a plausible model of knowledge generation and transmission. It is calculated easily from the citations and references of the author's articles, and it is well suited for interdisciplinary comparisons.
Lifting the crown-citation z-score Even though the citation z-score could be considered a considerable improvement it should not be used as a sole indicator of research performance.
On the behavior of journal impact factor rank-order distribution We have shown the excellent agreement of the data with our model. The quality of the fitting is superior to the proposal of Lavalette.
Comparing alternatives to the Web of Science for coverage of the social sciences' literature All of the databases examined give significant coverage of the social sciences in terms of journals and articles indexed as well as the indexing of cited references. Given that coverage by Scopus is considered good, and its tools to analyse citation counts are sufficient, then arguably it offers the best choice from amongst the multidisciplinary databases reviewed here. On this basis, notwithstanding its poor foreign journal title coverage, it is suggested that Scopus could be used as an alternative to the WoS as a tool to evaluate research impact in the social sciences.
On the h-index, the size of the Hirsch core and Jin's A-index We have shown that Burrell's (1992, 2007a) model for the publication-citation process allows analytic and numerical investigation of the time-dependent behaviour of both the size of the h-core and the A-index (for an individual author). Our own feeling is that all of these measures are indicative, supplementary scientometric measures. It will take much more empirical as well as theoretical research before anyone can claim a single definitive measure.
Popularizing Antarctic science: impact factors and penguins While the need for science communication has never been more pressing, the means at our disposal for communicating Antarctic science have never been more varied or more cost effective.
Research productivity of Australian academic economists: Human-capital and fixed effects Both effects were found to be important.
Global ranking of accounting programmes and the elite effect in accounting research We study the ranking of accounting programmes globally using a set of top 24 accounting journals from 1991 to 2005. We further analyse the 'elite degree' and 'elite affiliation' effect and find that top-ranked authors generally graduated from higher-ranked schools. Finally, the difficulty of getting published in the top 5 journals by non-elite- affiliated authors has increased in recent years.
A systematic analysis of Hirsch-type indices for journals It was found that a simple theoretical relation (see Eq. (9)) among H, n and IF, derived from a Paretian model to the citation distribution within the journals, fits perfectly to the empirical data obtained from one publication year with a 3-year citation window. Remarkably, the only free parameter of the model, c, proved to be practically independent of the science field. Eq. (9) in this sense allows for a kind of “similarity transformation" of h-indices between different fields.
Scoring research output using statistical quantile plotting In this paper, we have presented two scoring methods for assessing the scientific output, first on a macro and meso level for comparing different groups of researchers based on indicators such as impact factors, and secondly for comparing individual researchers based on the extreme value index.
The h-index: Advantages, limitations and its relation with other bibliometric indicators at the micro level The h-index tends to underestimate the achievement of scientists with a “selective publication strategy", that is, those who do not publish a high number of documents but who achieve a very important international impact. ... The use of h-index as a single indicator for the assessment of the scientific career of a researcher is not adequate. ... For the time being, it is still true that science is multidimensional and therefore multidimensional approaches are necessary to assess properly the scientific performance of scientists.
Convergent validation of peer review decisions using the h index -: Extent of and reasons for type I and type II errors The results of our study show that the applicants' h indices correlate at a medium to high level with the applicants' number of publications (Pn) and the number of their total citations (Ctot).
Taxonomy visualization in support of the semi-automatic validation and optimization of organizational schemas The paper concludes with a discussion and an outlook to future work.
Gender differences in grant peer review: A meta-analysis The findings of our quantitative review suggest, in contrast to recently published narrative reviews of the research on grant peer review (Demicheli & Pietrantonj, 2004; Wood & Wessely, 2003), that there are overall robust gender differences in grant peer review procedures. Whatever the cause, there are ways to rule out gender bias – whether intentional or unintentional – from the grant-making process (for an overview about the wide range of ways, see Valian, 1999): one possible way is to mask applicants' gender (Bornmann, 2007).
Transformations of basic publication-citation matrices The use of basic publication-citation matrices for the construction of informetric indicators has been highlighted. In the spirit of Klein's Erlangen program (1872) we introduced invariants of transformations of the publication-citation matrix. Invariants offer a mathematically founded way of comparing informetric matrices before and after a transformation. For this reason, we think that invariants and the study of invariants should receive more attention in theoretical informetrics.
Bibliographic coupling and its application to research-front and other core documents It was found that the second level of cluster fusion (C2) should be the optimal level.
Lotka's distribution and distribution of co-author pairs' frequencies Kretschmer and Kretschmer have shown that there are regularities existing for the well-ordered distribution of co-author pairs' frequencies (Fig. 1).
Complete graphs and bibliographic coupling: A test of the applicability of bibliographic coupling for the identification of cognitive cores on the field level The findings in this study highlighted that despite a subject expert's cumulated experience, he/she may not anticipate the many associations generated by the citing collective of peers. It seems to do the job it was assigned to do; finding coherent and relevant ‘cliques’ in the research-front network. Conclusively, findings in this study suggest further research on the application of bibliographic coupling for research-front mapping.
Substitution and complementarity in the creation and communication of Australian university research The results show that, on average, research communicated through conferences is unlikely to be published subsequently in journals. Policies that encourage conference papers – e.g. equal DEST weighting for conferences and papers will tend to have an adverse effect on publishing in journal papers. On balance, our view is that abandoning the E1 category is desirable for most disciplines.
An empirical note on critical commentary in Australian Economics journals This finding concurs closely with the results obtained by Coelho et al. (2005) for their more limited sample of five top-ranked Economics journals. We suggest five additional tentative explanatory reasons for our own findings.
Strategies for knowledge acquisition in bionanotechnology - Why are interdisciplinary practices less widespread than expected? These observations can be explained by a trade-off between the benefits of cognitive diversity set against the costs of team cohesion and learning.
Scientific production in bioethics in Spain through MEDLINE There was a progressive increase in the number of scientific publications on bioethics by Spanish authors during the study period.
US-Asia interdependencies: A study of business and knowledge links In this study, different measures of business and knowledge linkages are used to show US-Asia (inter)dependency.
The influence of missing publications on the Hirsch index "Contrary to what one might intuitively expect, a relative small number of missing highly cited publications has only a small influence on the value of the h-index. An analytical model reinforces our argument for missing publications, as well as for missing citations. We conclude that the h-index is resilient to missing articles and to missing citations."
Finding scientific gems with Google's PageRank algorithm We believe that protocols based on the Google PageRank algorithm hold a great promise for quantifying the impact of scientific publications. They provide a meaningful extension to traditionally-used importance measures, such as the number of citation of individual articles and the impact factor for journals as a whole. The PageRank algorithm implements, in an extremely simple way, the reasonable notion that citations from more important publications should contribute more to the rank of the cited paper than those from less important ones.
Hirsch's h-index: A stochastic model So far as the model is concerned, our investigations suggest that, other things being equal, Hirsch's h-index (i) is approximately proportional to current career length, T; (ii) is approximately a linear function of the logarithm of the author's productivity rate; (iii) is approximately a linear function of the logarithm of the mean citation rate for the author, for moderate citation rates. Obviously, because of their striking simplicity these observations are of interest, but note that they are based upon numerical and graphical investigations rather than analytical studies so that they should be viewed as conjectures and there is room for further theoretical work. We concur with Glänzel (2006a) who describes it as "a useful supplement to the bibliometric toolset” but it is certainly not a substitute.
Some measures for comparing citation databases In this paper we introduced a set of measures for comparing rankings of different citation databases induced by the number of citations the tested publications receive in each database.
Journal self-citations - Analysing the JIF mechanism Bearing in mind that we cannot generalise the results we can conclude that increasing the self-citing rate increases JIF. Applying one perspective of analysis we can see this as a defence of JIF as is provides support to the hypothesis that JIF is capturing the impact and quality of journals. Hopefully, this can qualify the debate on JIFs and journal self-citations.
The source-item coverage of the exponential function The results in Section 4 could be considered as a “mathematical fitting” method for exponential function, as opposed to statistical fitting.
Mapping the bid behavior of conference referees This paper provided an exploration of the bidding behavior of the 2005 JCDL program committee.
Gatekeepers of science - Effects of external reviewers' attributes on the assessments of fellowship applications The results suggest that the external reviewers of the B.I.F. indeed achieved the foundation's goal of recommending applicants with higher scientific achievement for fellowships and of recommending those with lower scientific achievement for rejection.
Characteristic scores and scales -: A bibliometric analysis of subject characteristics based on long-term citation observation The characteristic scores and scales defined by Glänzel & Schubert (1988a, 1988b) proved an interesting self-adjusting informetric tool that can be used for evaluative scientometric purposes as well.
The justification of journal rankings - A pilot study The overall results of the pilot survey support theoretical findings, particularly with regard to the motives for publishing, namely a researcher's career and reputation.
Testing novel quantitative indicators of research 'quality', esteem and 'user engagement': an economics pilot study The aim of this study was to obtain and assess some evidence, using a peer-informed comparative pro-cess, to identify possibilities for widening the kinds of metrics used to inform research assessment pro-cesses, especially for areas of research not adequately represented by standard indicators.
Indicators for comparative analysis of public project funding:: concepts, implementation and evaluation This study showed how using existing non-statistical sources made it possible to produce indicators for a domain of research funding which is not well cov-ered by R&D statistics.
Scientific versus economic specialisation of business R&D - the case of Norway The careful examination of the scientific and economic indicators above provides a clear picture of Norwegian business specialisation patterns. One of the main and possibly surprising conclusions of this paper is that many economic sectors which are classified as low-tech sectors according to OECD nomenclature such as fishing, mining and quarrying, food and others, demonstrate strong links between research activities and economic performance. Perhaps in the case of Norway, the pay-off of investments in know-how, research and development have been higher than other countries precisely because sizable early-phase investments took place in scientific and technological areas most relevant to non-science-based sectors (see Glänzel, 2000, for a similar line of thinking).
Coauthorship linkages between universities and industry in Japan Industries and universities have a large gap in their perception of the importance of their research collaboration.
On how editors of academic journals at institutions of higher learning should resist academic corruption These institutions should be comprised of experts and scholars from the disciplines to which the theses published by the journals pertain.
Scientific and ethical reflections on academic corruption in universities - On the science research evaluation system in China's universities Truly scientific evaluations of academic research activities must abide by the characteristics and regularities of academic research activities, and the formulation of methods, standards, and mechanisms for such evaluation must proceed according to the characteristics and regularities of academic research activities.
Content validation of the organizational climate for research integrity (OCRI) survey This study represents important foundational research to develop a brief fixed-response survey to assess the organizational climate for research integrity. In total, the results provide evidence suggesting that the panel of research integrity scholars and administrators agreed with the importance of core organizational input, structure, process, and outcome components noted in the IOM conceptual framework for research integrity. In terms of future research plans, pilot testing and psychometric validation research of this instrument are also indicated next steps.
Citation analysis for collection development: A study of international relations journal literature Similar to political scientists, international relations scholars primarily cite books, with journal articles and government publications ranking the second and third prominent scholarly communica- tion vehicles.
Geography of Africa biomedical publications: An analysis of 1996-2005 PubMed papers In this study, we found that most populous and rich countries (such as South Africa, Egypt, and Nigeria) have correspondingly higher research production; but smaller countries can be productive.
Brazilian scientific journals in surgery. III: analysis of the Instructions for authors based on Vancouver uniform requirements Even though publishing freedom and independence of each publisher must be respected, there are internationally accepted criteria that must be observed. The current trends, towards the prioritization of open access electronic journals, will lead to important changes in the process of publishing scientific journals.
The End of the "Two Solitudes"? The Presence (or Absence) of the Work of French-speaking Scholars in Canadian Politics Far from having passed through, as the new Governor General hoped, the time of the “two solitudes," the English Canadian intellectual tradition is still defined by it. Although it is possible to estimate the contribution of francophone scholars as being between 20 and 25 per cent of all knowledge produced in Canada, their work is not taken into account in a similar proportion to the works published by non-francophone scholars on Canadian politics and society. The production of knowledge about Canada is both limited and biased.
Social Science Approaches to e-Science: Framing an Agenda The aim is to highlight the diversity of these approaches, show complementarities among them, and point to how they may shape the e-science enterprise in years to come.
Critical Accountability: Dilemmas for Interventionist Studies of e-Science The double role of STS research in the management of expectations is our answer to the question whether it is possible to combine critical analysis with design.
From Shared Databases to Communities of Practice: A Taxonomy of Collaboratories The SOC Collaboratory taxonomy has proven useful in guiding both research and assessment within the SOC project.
Collaboration Structure, Communication Media, and Problems in Scientific Work Teams "Our results suggest that scientific collaborations face a variety of problems that cluster into two types: problems of coordination and misunderstandings and problems of culture and information security."
Does the Internet Promote Collaboration and Productivity? Evidence from the Scientific Community in South Africa We examined the linkages among Internet use, scientific collaboration, and productivity of scientists working in two institutional settings (universities and research institutes) in the most highly developed research system in sub-Saharan Africa.
Google Bombing from a Time Perspective Out of the nine Google bombs studied, six were still successful even after a considerable period of time. A closer examination showed that one of these bombed pages, David Gallagher, was no longer the number one result for this search because of Google bombing, but because the site was appreciated by the blogger community; and the French military victories bomb did not have the characteristic linking pattern of Google bombs.
Resolvability of references in users' personal collections Users' personal reference collections have a tremendous potential of building, supporting, and enhancing personalized digital library services, such as reference recommender systems.
The handicap principle: a new perspective for library and information science research The paper demonstrates the feasibility of the handicap principle as a theory for understanding the act of academic book reviewing - an act that is difficult to understand from traditional cost-benefit views such as the principle of least effort.
Characteristics Associated with Citation Rate of the Medical Literature In our analysis, large trials, with group authorship, industry-funded, with industry-favoring results, in oncology or cardiology were associated with greater subsequent citations.
Reliability of disclosure forms of authors' contributions Our study showed that the autobiographical memory con-struct, the memory for events and issues related to oneself, is involved in the cognitive aspect of filling out contribution declaration forms and confounds the conclusions about self-reported contributions toward the authorship of scientific ar-ticles, as well as their reliability. Psychological factors such as autobiographi-cal memory may confound contribution disclosures as an evaluation tool for authorship on scientific articles and affect responsible authorship and publication practices. Psychometric analysis of contribution disclosure reports has indicated that they are an unreliable source of informa-tion.
The US's changing competitiveness in the biomedical sciences Thus, the current trends are likely to continue for years, even with active efforts to reverse them starting now. The horse is not out of the barn yet, but it's getting there, so I hope that as a nation we don't wait as long in the bio-medical sciences as we have in the Physical Sciences to take corrective actions.
A model of scientific communication as a global distributed information system It is hoped that the model could prove useful in providing a roadmap showing the place of a number of different initiatives for increasing access to scientific publications, within the overall system of scholarly communication. Hopefully the model presented here could be of use in integrating such evidence.
The effects of portfolio purchasing on a specialized subject collection The costs of acquiring a publisher's portfolio, even through a consortium, should be balanced with the costs of purchasing content required to provide a balanced collection for all user populations. Consortia rationally focus on the collective needs of the entire group when developing collections. This focus, however, may not support the information needs of a unique group of users.
Peer assessment of journal quality in clinical neurology The results provide valuable insight on how neurological experts perceive journals in clinical neurology.
Limiting authorship in Indian pediatrics: An initiative to curb gift authorship The study shows that limiting authorship in certain sections had no adverse effect on quantity or quality of overall submissions.
"Seed money" and publication output in Mexican research:: A case study of IFS grantees The present study suggests that IFS has made a positive con-tribution to Mexican grantee’s overall scientific production, as well as to their publication in English and in mainstream journals.
World trend of peritoneal dialysis publications The number of PD research societies in the world has been growing during the past 15 years.
Factors associated with citation rates in the orthopedic literature Our results suggest that basic science articles and clinical articles with greater methodolog-ical safeguards against bias (randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses) are cited more frequently than are clinical studies with less rigorous study designs (observational studies and case reports). Increased dissemination of research findings may lead to quicker adoption of clinically important re-search findings to patient care.
Quality control of epidemiological lectures online: Scientific evaluation of peer review To our knowledge, this was the first time that poor inter-rater agreement was demonstrated for the Internet lectures.
Some bibliometric indexes for members of the Scientific Association of Animal Production (ASPA) This first exercise on calculating some bibliometric indexes for ASPA members demonstrates that the scientific system of Animal Science in Italy has a fairly good level of internationalization.
Impact factor of Latin American medical journals The journal impact factor was similar in the four countries studied. A non-significant higher impact factor was observed in Latin-American journals published in English. In general, it is clear that the low impact factor of Latin American journals requires new and creative strategies from editors in the future to improve the dissemination of Latin American research and to enter a globalized scientific community that has adopted English as the contemporary 'lingua franca'.
Characteristics and trends of published emergency medicine research Emergency medicine research output is increasing worldwide.
Publishing science in the digital age. The case of Neurocirugia Electronic publishing allows Neurocirugía to offer something that was not economically feasible before: free access to its published papers. An analysis of the costs and interests for the different stakeholders (authors, readers, the Journal, the Spanish Society of Neurosurgery, and society as a whole) indicates that free online access (the current policy of Neurocirugía) is a desirable strategy for all the stakeholders. Sooner or later this will mean different contents in the printed and electronic edi- tions of the Journal, and, in the long run, it may imply revising the design and perhaps even the existence of the printed edition.
Citation classics in occupational medicine journals These results confirm the low influence of occupational health journals on the whole, except for a very few number of papers that have brought new insights concerning epidemiologic evidence on the toxic effects of metals, asbestos, or solvents, which revealed the metabolism of common workplace pollutants or proposed a comprehensive approach to the occupational etiology of some occupational diseases, such as work-related musculoskeletal disorders.
Examining the value added by committee discussion in the review of applications for research awards Committee discussion of fellowship applications did not appear to increase the fairness to applicants or the likelihood of achieving fellowship program objectives over and above the levels attainable with structured at-home review. It was not an efficient use of reviewer time.
The Canadian Journal of Soil Science: Glances through the last half-century and into the next As a community of scientists, we look forward with enthu-siasm to making CJSS even more informative, pertinent, and influential.
The internationality index of the Spanish psychology journals The present study is the first classification of the Spanish Psychology Journals based on the level of the internationality of each one of them. It is now possible for all the psychologists who have published articles in these journals to verify whether the publication is national, international or foreign. To sum up, the Internationality Index is a useful indicator to evaluate the scientific productivity in relation to the international proliferation which also enables the quantification of the "internationality" of any scientific journal.
Learning to communicate science in developing countries The data pre-sented show encouraging evidences that a new auspicious pan-orama is being established in the context of producing scientific journals in Brazil.
Comparison of retrieval performance of eleven Online indexes containing information related to quaternary research, an interdisciplinary science This study indicates that, of the eleven indexes studied, the most important for Quaternary research are GeoRef, GEOBASE, Current Contents, Zoological Record, and Biological Abstracts. In order to conduct a comprehensive search of the Quaternary research literature, as many science indexes as possible should be consulted. Currently, the most efficient method of doing this type of comprehensive search involves the use of federated search tools.
Publication portfolio of the Czech economists and problems of rankings Rankings have strong motivation effects, providing signals for individuals and institutions, cultivating publication habits and setting up good guidelines for PhD. students. It is important to reach consensus about selected ranking rules, perhaps on the basis of Professional societies (such as Czech Economic Society), grant agencies etc. Any systematically used ranking rule is better than nothing.
A look at fifty years of library resources & technical services This analysis of LRTS content over time has provided a mir-ror of librarianship over the last fifty years. The content of the first three decades was primarily focused on cataloging and classification issues, specifically code revision and library catalogs. Collections topics have steadily grown, from 7 percent of the LRTS content during the first decade, to 26 percent during the fifth.
Using publication statistics for evaluation in academic psychiatry Publication statistics differ among academic ranks.
On the road to Philadelphia, the joy of being indexed, and publication cloning: reflections of a past Editor-in-Chief Therefore, the old question returns: should we count publications or rather "weight" them? And what kind of scale should we use ? This risk, however, must be faced if the journal is to develop. The future is promising, but it does not promise complete happiness...
The 'platinum route' to open access: a case study of E-JASL: The electronic journal of academic and special librarianship The ICAAP has demonstrated to the world that is possible to form independent scholarly journal publishing projects outside of the commercial mainstream.
Creating links into the future We have introduced and implemented a useful new feature within the context of a particular journal.
The impact factor-based quality assessment of biomedical research institutes in Iran: Effect of impact factor normalization by subject "The Iranian scientific community and science development policy makers are recommended to employ subject-normalized impact factor, rather than crude impact factor, in quality assessment of biomedical research held in various academic and research institutes."
Pursuing efficiency: international visibility of the scientific production of Brazilian graduate programs in child and adolescent health from 1998 through 2003 Graduate programs in child and adolescent health became more efficient in producing knowledge through the publication of more articles with broader international visibility. Such trend was contradictorily accompanied by a diminishing number of advisors.
A scientometric investigation into the validity of IS journal quality measures From these findings, we conclude that recent studies in the IS journal quality stream are credible. As such, these IS journal quality measures provide appropriate indicators of relative journal quality. Therefore, we conclude that the results from the studies in the stream are appropriate measures of journal quality.
Academic journal prices in a digital age: A two-sided market model We analyzed equilibrium in market structures ranging from monopoly to free entry.
Web-resources in Nuclear Science and Technology The web-resources in nuclear science and technology on the Internet are growing at a tremendous pace. There is a need to have a standard bibliographic presentation for web-resources in the databases as the potential of these quality resources to support nuclear scientists' information needs is very high.
Publication productivity of Malaysian authors and institutions in LIS Firstly, the field of LIS in Malaysia is evolving into a developed discipline and Malaysian publication contribution in this field is on an upward trend. The present study has helped to locate, identify and bibliographically control all published works by Malaysian LIS professionals and academics. Moreover, hopes to encourage other researchers to explore other local areas of possible improvement and expansion in the field.
A scientometric analysis of publications on accelerator-based research from Nuclear Science Centre and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, India This paper has attempted to present a brief scientometric analysis of publications from two accelerator-based research facilities in India, the Nuclear Science Centre and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, based on the publication data obtained from the respective annual reports, impact factor values from JCR. Both facilities have received comparable rankings on many counts, or for some attributes, one received a better ranking than the other. The qualitative estimate of the papers based on SCI data has to be further corroborated from citation studies of each of the papers. Also a comparison of publications from other similar facilities elsewhere needs to be conducted to have a better assessment of the output in the international scene.
Carnegie Classifications and Institution Productivity in Information Systems Research: A Scientometric Study The results of our study confirm the relevance of the Carnegie Classification to the information systems research community.
Gender in Academic Career Tracks: The Case of Korean Biochemists Such analysis suggests that women as a minority in academic science are pressured to prove their legitimacy through more rigorous criteria of academic performance. Thus, ostensibly gender-neutral rules of academic performance can be applied in such a way as to maintain gender inequality. Finally, a longitudinal analysis of individual scientific careers across the generations would explain how institutional changes, organizational prac- tices, and individual efforts interact with one another on the gendered nat- ure of academic science.
A persistent problem The data that we present suggest subtle differences in the average applications of men and women, which collectively combine to real effects that are reflected by lower success rates for women.
Influences of Chinese educational journals—research based on 2000–2004 CSSCI Results show that the quantity of educational periodicals and papers published in China, their influence, “impact factor" and the quantity of language varieties and quotation types are not completely compatible.
Equal Representation by Search Engines? A Comparison of Websites across Countries and Domains The study found that websites from different countries received unequal represen- tation in major search engines. Given that websites not indexed by a search engine are effectively invisible to people who use the search engine to find sites, the under-representation of commercial sites could result in economic disadvantages, while the under-representation of governmental sites may have political implications. Future studies are needed to monitor these important issues.
Indirect costs and other uses of facilities data at institutions The return on the institutional investment made in space management can be seen in improved knowledge of classrooms, personnel, and research activities.
Measuring demand for online articles at the<i>Journal of Vision</i> DemandFactor (and other measures of online usage) is a different and in some respects complementary measure. We believe that this is useful information, for both authors and readers. The Journal of Vision will continue to innovate and evolve.
The pure<i>h</i>-index: calculating an author’s<i>h</i>- index by taking co-authors into account The authors in this article have introduced an adaptation of the h-index, which takes the actual number of co-authors and the relative position of an author into account.
Citation analysis of scholarly communication in the journal <i><b>Knowledge Organization</b></i> Citation analysis of the journal KO for the period under study reveals that the average number of citations is around 21 per article. The major source of information is books and documents published during the later half of the century (1982-91), are the preferred source of information for the researchers. KO ranks first among the cited journals and Dahlberg is the most cited author. The cited half-life of the literature published in the journal is 14 years.
Practical potentials of Bradford's law: a critical examination of the received view Bradford analysis can no longer be regarded as an objective and neutral method.
Monitoring knowledge We have shown that term usage increases in the academic community before becoming the sub-ject of patent documents and this may provide areas of exploitation or direction for research and development.
Developing an institutional repository: Cranfield QUEprints – a case study Cranfield QUEprints began life as a pilot project on a test server, but after only eight months, it seamlessly became a production service, largely due to the successful acquisition of appropriate material. The primary aim, to make Cranfield research more accessible, appears to have been successful. It is the percentage of staff engaged with the IR, rather than the number of papers available, that shows how far the service is embedded into an institution.
The future of research evaluation rests with an intelligent combination of advanced metrics and transparent peer review The central thesis of this paper is expressed in its title: the future of research evaluation rests with an intelligent combination of advanced metrics and transparent peer review.
Mapping the intellectual impact of library and information science research through citations: A tale of two databases – Scopus and Web of Science This study examined the differences between Scopus and WoS and the necessity and value of using both databases in mapping or visualizing scientific networks.
The Development of a Benchmarking Methodology to Assist in Managing the Enhancement of University Research Quality This paper has suggested an RQI that measures research quality for each of the main areas of research activity that an academic unit within a university would potentially be judged for funding purposes in the RQF in Australia.
Science Citation Index Expanded: The Effect of Journal Editorial Policies Omission of citations from cited article lists in SCIE records for six chemistry journals was strongly associated with citation attributes. By making it easier to identify where one citation ends and the next one begins, article submission policies and journal editorial policies can help reduce the number of citations SCIE omits from database records. The single best advice to journal editors: allow only one citation per number.
Between policy and science: research councils' responsiveness in Austria, Norway and Switzerland Our first research question concerned the respon-siveness of the councils. From our material it is evident that research councils might be equally responsive to scientists and their institutions as to policy-makers, thus reducing the possibilities of im-plementing science policy. Our findings also illustrate that the political and scientific systems can be partly de-coupled, and that the science system is able to act independently of government despite its dependencies for funding.
Journal Impact Factors Are Inflated Although the goal of some of these strategies may be to cut costs and to improve the quality and availability of scientific publications, the inherent im-pact factor inflation associated with these strategies should make consumers of the peer-reviewed literature wary about the impact factor's usefulness as a quality index for scientific journals.
Consensus and knowledge production in an academic field The Kuhnian perspective on academic production is supported by these data from the bioethics field.
All‐author vs. first‐author co‐citation analysis of the Information Science field using Scopus The present study has found that the major specialty structures of the Information Science field identified from first-author-based ACA and from all-author-based ACA are largely the same. The present study also shows that, for exclusive all-author co-citation count matrices, computing meaningful diagonal values appears to produce a statistically more meaningful picture of the intellectual structure of a research field than treating the diagonal as missing values. Thus, a complete view of the intellectual structure of a research field requires both types of ACA.
The relevance and recognition of Latin American science. Introduction to the fourth issue of CBP-Latin America Considering that Hirsch's indexes are more suitable indicators of performance than CpP, we conclude that Latin American CBP researchers, despite handicaps, perform similarly to those in developed countries.
Academic Libraries and the Research Quality Framework Academic libraries face interesting times. The RQF will have implications for collection management, institutional repository management, and staffing, which will all in turn affect funding decisions.
Blog search engines Blog search engines are a source of new types of information, such as public opinion and expert commentaries. Based upon the experiments above, users should expect great variety between search engines and a lack of uniformity. Hence we make the following recommendations: Try different search engines to find one with the most useful capabilities.
Material transfer agreements and collaborative publication activity: the case of a biotechnology network The findings showed the opposite. Thus we construe that MTAs might not have interfered in such a way as to limit co-publication activity of re-search organisations in the network. Organisations that want to strengthen or have to defend their leading positions in research thus appear to partially give up their autonomy, develop and im-plement co-authorship or co-assignment strategies with other organisations, and use the results of these strategies to reinforce their research capabilities.
Does Open Access Really Make Sense? A Closer Look at Chemistry, Economics, and Mathematics Again, we do not intend to draw broad conclusions from this investigation; the research was intended simply to provide a piece of data for the ongoing discussion.
A Survey of the Availability of Primary Bioinformatics Web Resources The findings presented here have demonstrated the wide use of UNIX/Linux OSs and Apache-related technology. It is also suggested that primary resources exhibit higher availability rate compared with secondary or supplemental web published documents.
A principal–agent model of public research with a retrospective payoff rule The model developed here is by no means complete because I have narrowed the scope to non-appropriable science. The only justification is parsimony.
History of Changes in Technical Subject Matter of ASAE'S Periodicals: 1950-1999 ASAE (now ASABE) has been a society linked to the land, with the wordroots of Soil and Water leading in prominence over the 1950-1999 period. The trend toward increasing emphasis on information-related subject-matter continued undiminished over the fifty-year period. The trend toward decreasing emphasis on socially-related subject-matter continued undiminished over the fifty-year period.
The evolutionary nature of genre: An investigation of the short texts accompanying research articles in the scientific journal Nature The present analysis has shown that the short texts accompanying articles in the scientific journal Nature veer considerably from traditional models of abstracts and that these texts have themselves undergone a further recent change. The evident concern for “non-specialist understanding of a scientific paper, is a kind of “democratization” of the scientific community, with an opening up to the general public. Finally, it follows that the complexities of a genre and the discourse community that produces it and the evolutionary changes which can occur need to be taken into account when teaching genre conventions to apprentices and when applying generalized models in research, particularly if the models are developed from the literature.
Produção científica brasileira nas 40 revistas de psiquiatria com maior fator de impacto no ano de 2006 CONCLUSION. Although, Brazilian publications on psychiatry had demonstrated apparent quantitative and qualitative growth, scientific production on the subject remains highly concentrated in a few states.
Assessing the Diffusion and Impact of Grey Literature Published by International Intergovernmental Scientific Groups: The Case of the Gulf of Maine Council on the Marine Environment Although digital alerting and access tools are increasing in number and coverage, a reliance on grey literature as the primary means of publication continues to pose hurdles for influencing scientific research, public policy, and public opinion. While evidence that GOMC publications are used in public-policy settings was uncovered, the evidence is not strong. To complement our current findings, other methods of determining usage in policy decision making contexts are needed.
A Plea for a Common Citation Format in Scientific Serials Therefore, it is still apparent from our basic analysis that savings from the use of a common citation format could permit significant scientific investment elsewhere. With uniformity among scientific serials, redirected energy may just propel one of our colleagues to become the next Darwin!
Changing patterns of public research funding in France In methodological terms, this analysis shows the problem of the choice of the underlying categories in the production of indicators: specifically, comparative analysis over long periods of time requires the adoption of stable categories.
Assessment of the impact of an open‐URL link resolver This study accomplished the goal to demonstrate how collections and catalog librarians can use data to participate in university assessment of teaching and learning.
Impact of commercial search engines and international databases on engineering teaching and research In summary, the writer believes that new search engines and open access digital repositories may fill a gap between traditional search engines, databases and libraries.
Issued US patents, patent-related global academic and media publications, and the US market indices are inter-correlated, with varying growth patterns In summary, I have shown that the growth of the number of issued US patents has directly influenced the growth of other literatures, including those of the media and peer-reviewed publications.
Distribution of Co-Author Pairs’ Frequencies of the Journal of Biological Chemistry Explained as Social Gestalt This is a proof for the assumption the distribution of the co-author pairs Nij of JBC can be considered to be the reflection of a social Gestalt. As the second proof for the approximation of the distribution of co-author pairs by a model of social Gestalts, both the empirical and the theoretical distributions of co-author pairs in JBC could be shown in agreement with the co-authorship data (1980-1998) of the journals Science, Nature, Proc Nat Acad Sci USA and Phys Rev B Condensed Matter (Kretschmer & Kretschmer 2). It will be interesting to investigate whether social Gestalts also emerge on the basis of fractional frequency distributions.
Does free‐access to scholarly articles increase readership and citation impact? A randomized controlled, multi‐publisher, multi‐journal study This research proposal is focused on understanding the relationship between access, readership and citations, yet we should not focus entirely on these concepts in isolation of their contextual meaning.
Bibliometric analysis of the journal Uspekhi Khimii (Russian Chemical Reviews) In conclusion, we would like to note that in recent years, owing to crucial changes in the editorial policy of the journal Uspekhi Khimii (Russian Chemical Reviews), transfer of the whole body of preparatory work for the edition of Russian- and English-language versions to the editorial office and recruiting highly skilled research personnel from the chemical institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences for participation in editorial work, it became possible to increase the quality of selection of reviews and preparation for publication, to improve the appearance of the journal and attain almost simultaneous publication of the Russian and English versions. All this helps to maintain the subscribers' and readers' interest in the journal and to ensure its high rating.
The journal is dead, long live the journal The internet offers a vast opportunity for change to the scholarly communication system. This paper has demonstrated that the necessary functions of registration, certification, awareness and archiving can all be addressed equally well, if not better, by alternate systems taking advantage of new technology. The traditional scholarly communication system no longer supports the communication of findings and only a move towards an adapted journal system can reverse this trend.
What drives partners in industry-academia cooperation? A special consideration of reducing uncertainty through computational chemistry All in all, our findings shed new light on different types of scientists and their characteristics with regard to industry-academia cooperation.
Science, accounting and statistics: The input–output framework Official statistics mainly served discourse purposes, and in this sense the accounting framework and the statistics presented within it were influential because they fit perfectly well with the policy discourse on rationality, efficiency and accountability: it aligns and frames the science system, by way of statistics, as goal-oriented and accountable.
Factors influencing publication choice: why faculty choose open access It appears that publication quality is of utmost importance when choosing publication venues in general, while free access and visibility are specifically noted incentives for selection of OA journals.
You Can’t Get There from Here: Student Citations in an Ephemeral Electronic Environment More important, they do not fulfill the function that their very presence mandates. Of those citations, 91 percent and 55 percent are pure form, with no substance. There are tangible problems with new forms and we cannot afford simply to throw out the rules.
An educational resource for information literacy in higher education: Functional and users analyses of the e-COMS academic portal E-COMS is a pioneer tool in information literacy that aims at satisfying the objectives of the EHEA for the autonomous and continuing education of students.
Merton and Ziman's modes of science: the case of biological and similar material transfer agreements In this paper, I have maintained that concerns regard-ing scientific development by privatised practices in research material exchange, formalised through MTAs, were formulated following Mertonian norms. Since post-academic science represents a suffi-cient departure from the prior state of the knowledge production system as to open-science assumptions, I have argued that the current use of the Mertonian norms can no longer be considered as a theoretical framework for scholarly studies on post-academic science. It is clear that there are interests other than science for its own sake when transferring re-search material: the instrumentalism of science.
Blog searching We claim that blog search engines are a valuable new data source that social scientists can use to track debates or for retrospective public opinion information. Insights can come from both reading posts on particular relevant dates or from viewing trends in the volume of discussion relevant to a topic. Our case study showed that the methods can be effective but also highlighted limitations: only sectors of society that use the internet will be represented and this, together with language issues, is an important defect.
Google Scholar as a new source for citation analysis The use of GS generally results in more comprehensive coverage in the area of management and international business, which benefits academics publishing in sources that are not (well) covered in ISI.
Scientific performance of Japan's science and technology basic plans From the review exercise, we came up with some findings. Japanese universities improved their paper productivity regarding R&D expenditure and faculty members. This suggests that Japanese university researchers did not waste the increased S&T budget. Thus, the government and policy researchers need to clarify how the budget has been spent and to evaluate how the budget size and the distributing method have affected the scientific performance of a country at least.
Two new discipline-independent indices to quantify individual's scientific research output In conclusion, these parameters are proposed as a way to complement the scientific evaluation process of a candidate.
Understanding the North–South knowledge divide and its implications for policy: a quantitative analysis of the generation of scientific knowledge in the environmental sciences The vast majority of research published in the nine leading environmental science journals we have examined is done by scientists in the North in socio-economic terms and in the environments of the North in eco-climatic terms. The knowledge divide means that the world is divided into countries who dominate the production of scientific knowledge and those who are primarily using that knowledge without making very visible contributions to it. The divide can hardly be reduced through short-term ad hoc measures but needs to be subject to long-term rectifying strategies.
Materials Science Research in India (1993–2001): A Scientometric Study Publications output by India in Materials Science has been growing steadily at about 7% per year.
The qualitative future of research evaluation This paper maintains that quantitative indicators are as infused with human values as are qualitative approaches.
A study of collaboration among Iranian News Agencies websites using Webometrics methods This study showed that collaboration among Iranian news agencies websites could be studied through their websites using cluster analysis and Multidimensional scaling technique.
The effect of informal industry contacts on the time university scientists allocate to collaborative research with industry The results suggest that informal interactions between university scientists and private companies are more than elusive interactions with hard-to-specify outcomes.
Scientometric Approaches to Better Visibility of European Educational Research Publications: A State-of-the-Art-Report In summary, we can say that the publication culture in social sciences (cf. Hicks, 2005) is more complex and less harmonized than a good coverage by the ISI indexes would suggest. All the new approaches mentioned above, when combined with traditional methods, form a suitable basis for a concept of a multi-attributive analysis of publications relevant to educational research. Finally, a sustainability plan integrating the project results into the scientific publishing environment.
Link analysis: Hyperlink patterns and social structure on politicians’ Web sites in South Korea The important theoretical contribution of this research is in supporting the formulation of political and general Internet community theories on the basis of a detailed case study of a non-Western Internet-active nation.
Mapping evolutionary trajectories: Applications to the growth and transformation of medical knowledge We believe the methodology we have developed is capable of generating robust evidence of micro-processes of innovation and yield interesting potential for applications in other research domains.
Peer review and the relevance gap: ten suggestions for policy-makers In conclusion, we have argued that there is now a need to open up the question of 'relevance'. Our suggestions relate directly to the objectives of government research policy in many countries, which largely aims to increase the relevance of research investments. Although this opening-up of peer review implies some sharing of decision-making power by academics with others, it should help to build wider public support for the community of scholars whose expertise is so urgently needed in helping society address the challenges it faces.
A study on the model to link the Korean University Library OPAC with search portals Although the Korean government has been supplying approximately 17 billion won (US$18.4m) from the national treasury every year to private university libraries, the fact is that public benefits have not yet been developed. From this point of view, strategically used search portal sites, which have been positioned as a gateway for the searching out of information by the public, is seen as a very desirable end. In view of this trend of the times, it would be desirable that the library resources of Korea be opened from the possible services and their utilization scope expanded.
Open access and accuracy: author‐archived manuscripts vs. published articles While differences were indeed found in article pair comparisons, none was serious enough to invalidate significant data, conclusions, or overall validity of the findings; none would warrant a published correction or retraction. These findings give a preliminary indication that repository versions of articles may be of adequate quality for practical purposes; further refinement, while desirable, is not necessary if it increases cost or decreases access. Larger samples, and comparison across additional fields of study, are needed to draw stronger conclusions, but hopefully the door to quantifiable review has been opened.
The impact of web site structure on link analysis The paper shows that the structure bias of in-links should be considered by link analysis measures used in search engines.
Fostering scholarly productivity through academic and internship research training environments. "The results of this study suggest that RTEs are operational and exist not only in academic programs but also in a variety internship settings."
A New Centrality Measure for Social Network Analysis Applicable to Bibliometric and Webometric Data After demonstration of these new introduced Complex Degree Centrality Measures in this pilot study this new method should be empirically tested in future analyses of bibliographic citation or co-authorship networks as well as in analyses of Web networks.
Metric analysis of the information visibility and diffusion about the European Higher Education Area on Spanish University websites The Spanish public universities are aware of the interest that information about the EHEA holds for the university community, and they also understand the need to have a website to disseminate such information, as is shown by the fact that 45 of the 48 universities considered in the study dedicated space on their website to the subject.
Research quality, publications, and impact in civil engineering into the 21st century. Publish or perish, commercial versus open access, Internet versus libraries? New search engines and digital OARs may fill a gap between traditional search engines, databases, and libraries.
The half-life of internet references cited in communication journals The findings of this study document substantial online citation failure and are consistent with previous research in other disciplines. This study documents the rate of decay of online citations used in leading communication journals. It also provides recommendations to address the half-life phenomenon. Unless authors, educators, editors and associations take dramatic steps to extend the half-life of internet citations, replication may prove difficult in the social, medical and natural sciences, precisely because the footnote remains the most basic component of research without which everything else is tainted, including research methodologies and scientific formulas.
Metalogue as Methodology An advantage of this practice is making visible otherwise abstract philosophical debates through applied examples using empirical evidence generated during the review process.
IS Journal Quality Assessment Using the Author Affiliation Index We believe that using the AAl as described here has merit. It provides another indicator of journal quality that is different from surveys and citation analyses.
Academic science and the birth of industrial research laboratories in the U.S. pharmaceutical industry In sum, our analyses suggest that while the presence of industrial facilities helped shape the direction of university research programs, there was a significant, positive, and causal effect running from university research to the growth of industrial research laboratories in the first half of the twentieth century in the United States.
Buying science and selling science: gender differences in the market for commercial science Overall, the gender gap in commercial science has by no means disappeared at Big School; in the entire population of junior faculty, 44% of men have granted patents compared to only 11% women. Overall, our research elucidates key determinants of gender stratification in commercial science that lie at the supply and demand intersection of the commercial marketplace. Encouraging research and institutional policies that redress inequities in faculty participation in commercial science is an important next step within this shifting context.
Perceptions of Open Access Publishing among Academic Journal Editors in China The journal editors interviewed for this column foresee some positive potential of open access.
Evaluating universities using simple scientometric research-output metrics: total citation counts per university for a retrospective seven-year rolling sample We suggest that the proper purpose of a government research assessment is to generate a rank ordering of universities in terms of their scientific research output.
IDENTIFYING AGE, COHORT, AND PERIOD EFFECTS IN SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY: DISCUSSION AND ILLUSTRATION USING SIMULATED AND ACTUAL DATA ON FRENCH PHYSICISTS This paper has explored a familiar identification problem, that of vintage, age, and time, in a context where it does not seem to have been sufficiently recognized: the identification of cohort, age, and period effects in scientific productivity.
International Collaboration of Clinical Medicine Research in Taiwan, 1990-2004: A Bibliometric Analysis In conclusion, Taiwan achieved a significant increase in the number of SCI publications in clinical medicine from 1990 to 2004.
Life and times of the impact factor: retrospective analysis of trends for seven medical journals (1994-2005) and their Editors’ views IFs of the journals studied rose in the 12-year period due to rising numerators and/or falling denominators, to varying extents. Journal Editors perceived that this occurred for various reasons, including deliberate editorial practices. The vulnerability of the IF to editorial manipulation and Editors' dissatisfaction with it as the sole measure of journal quality lend weight to the need for complementary measures.
A Ranking List for Information Systems Journals The journals ranking list presented in this paper has been developed specifically for the Australian IS community. It includes a balance between North American and European influences and provides a useful basis for assessing the quality of research output. The ranking list may be used in two main ways.
Whither Latin America? trends and challenges of science in Latin America In the past two decades, Latin America as a whole maintained a growth rate of its scientific output that was significantly larger than that exhibited by most of other geopolitical regions of the world.
Non-Open Access and Its Adverse Impact on Molecules Since April 2007, we have granted full Open Access to all the papers published in all MDPI journals in 2005 and 2006, and in 2007, we have published papers exclusively in Open Access form.
What Causes a Management Article to be Cited—Article, Author, or Journal? Our results suggest that universalistic, particularistic, and mixed universalistic-particularistic characteristics all play significant roles in the extent to which research articles in the field of management are cited. However, in terms of unique variance explained by substantive (as opposed to control) variables, our results suggest that the single best predictor of citation is publication in a journal with a high average citation rate. Researchers can increase the number of times their work is used by others by conducting either qualitative or quantitative (i.e., meta-analytic) literature reviews, conducting empirical studies that clearly extend the theoretical base of existing literature (via exploration research plots), employing longitudinal designs in empirical research, and ensuring that their presentations are clear and readable.
Deconstructing Scholarship Our study is intended to help researchers—particularly research students-learn the craft of scholarly writing. In conclusion, we suggest that understanding citation usage and the structure of academic articles is greatly enhanced by the systematic, detailed study of exemplary work. The benefits of such analysis lie not only in attaining deep comprehension of the specific published work studied, but also in developing the ability to deconstruct the article into a series of stages where citations are used to funnel the discussion into a specific theoretical position, research method, and contribution.
The strike rate index: a new index for journal quality based on journal size and the h-index of citations The strike rate index showed some useful characteristics for a metric of journal quality that can be applied in any field of study.
Networks of knowledge: The distributed nature of medical innovation A detailed analysis of the underlying literature enabled us to conclude that this reflects substantial differences in the rate and direction of progress in the relative clinical areas.
Eigenfactor: Measuring the value and prestige of scholarly journals Our aim with the Eigenfactor project is to provide such a resource to the library community.
Developing and applying a metric for estimating trends in databases of articles Absolute document incidences can be used to measure an enormous range of trends in articles held on Academic Search Premier and other searchable repositories of electronic text that provide data on the reported number of matches and on the number of items searched.
What drives the emergence of entrepreneurial academics? A study on collaborative research partnerships in the UK Our results point to the following findings. First, we provide evidence to show that there is a huge heterogeneity among university researchers in terms of the degree of engagement in collaborative re- search with third parties.
Negatively correlated author seniority and the number of acknowledged people: Name-recognition as a signal of scientific merit? The data show conditionally as well as unconditionally that junior authors acknowledge significantly more colleagues than senior authors do.
Factors to Assess Self-Archiving in Institutional Repositories "A thorough and well-organized assessment can provide valuable suggestions to keep self-archiving healthy."
Publication bias and merit in ecology We argue that without explicit consideration of both the qualitative and quantitative aspects of publication bias in ecology, we limit our capacity to fairly assess and best use the science that we as a community produce.
Social-Organizational Characteristics of Work and Publication Productivity among Academic Scientists in Doctoral-Granting Departments In its simple correlation with publication productivity, male gender is positively and significantly associated with higher number of articles published (Table 2). Rather, the key variable is the interaction between being a male faculty respondent and having higher numbers of male graduate students on the team. The finding of the relationship between collaboration and productiv- ity suggests that collaboration can be important as a means to ideas, skills, expertise, and equipment that, in turn, enhance productivity.
A Plea for a Common Citation Format in Scientific Serials it is still apparent from our basic analysis that savings from the use of a common citation format could permit significant scientific investment elsewhere.
Archiving Challenges of Scholarly Electronic Journals: How Do Publishers Manage Them? Finally, despite these agreements and developments, the field of digital archiving is still in its infancy, and much work needs to be accomplished to achieve a secure and permanent archiving of electronic journals.
Assessment of Self-Archiving in Institutional Repositories: Depositorship and Full-Text Availability Self-archiving as a revolutionary way of publishing has been a myth for a long time. Not only are the majority of current IR deposits contributed by non-authors, but many IR deposits are also presented in a non-full-text mode. The understanding of the practice of self-archiving will help re-orient the operation of IRs and make them healthy.
Reward Systems and NSF University Research Centers: The Impact of Tenure on University Scientists' Valuation of Applied and Commercially Relevant Research Our findings support the general—and, until now, empirically untested—notions from science policy and higher education circles that junior-level scientists value basic over applied research and that they do not value commercially relevant research as highly as do their tenured colleagues.
The economics of university research parks We conclude that URPs should not a priori be considered a primary element of a nation's innovation system, but rather that that point of view, which evidently is held by a significant group in the US Congress as well as by policy-makers in other nations, needs more study.
Factors Influencing the Adoption and Development of Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Programs, with Particular Reference to the Arab Gulf States In conclusion, it seems clear that most issues regarding the adoption and development of ETD programs can be resolved by undertaking appropriate promotional and advocacy activities. Conducting such activities effectively in the appropriate time and place with relevant parties can make a huge impact and thereafter will make the adoption and development of ETD programs smoother with a high chance of success.
Plastic Surgery Classics: Characteristics of 50 Top-Cited Articles in Four Plastic Surgery Journals since 1946 An article featuring a clinical or nonclinical innovation, observation, or discovery that leads to clinical improvement has the best potential to become a “classic.” The 50 top-cited articles of the past 60 years dealt predominately with the reconstruction of acquired defects and with basic or experimental research. High levels of evidence and multi-institutional collaboration were irrelevant for an article to be cited.
"Scientific identity" and "ethnocentricity" in top journals of logistics management The overall variety of “scientific identities” among the journals studied here support in part the ongoing scientific exploration of logistics management, though it may be improved in the future.
PUBLICATION BY AUSTRALIAN LIS ACADEMICS AND PRACTITIONERS: A PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION In line with the Australian literature on publishing across disciplines and the international LIS literature, the number of publications by Australian LIS academics has increased; however, their percentage of publications within the category IS&LS has decreased. The numbers (and percentages) of co-authored publications in the IS&LS category have increased, and the numbers and percentages of Australian and international author co-authorships have also increased. We are currently carrying out further research to provide a deeper assessment of publication performance and trends and guidelines for the future.
QUALITY AUSTRALIAN JOURNALS IN THE HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES In conclusion, the JDF does not provide a comparable alternative journal ranking method to JIF. The JDF may contribute to our understanding of the nature of a journal, but until further research is conducted a JDF ranking should be considered as a quite independent measure of journal rank. To test the relationship between JDF and other journal ranking methods, a much larger study is required.
A NEW ERA OF OPEN ACCESS? It is predicted that the overall limited number of open access journals on the ERA list will restrict take-up of open access journals.
The North-South information highway: case studies of publication access among health researchers in resource-poor countries The desire to contribute to and utilise contemporary scientific debate appears to be strong among study respondents. However, longstanding barriers remain in place and innovative thinking and new publishing models are required to overcome them. Meanwhile, as new information highways are opened, experienced editors and authors from all settings have vital roles to play in supporting them and creating international solidarity.
"Empirical characteristics" and "geocentricity" in "top" journals of logistics management A majority of the contributions in the selected journals were based upon empirical research designs. We believe it would be desirable (and a potential for further research) with a larger share of the contributions being based upon international research data. The total number of authors that have been published in the selected journals is fairly large.
The differentiation of the strategic profile of higher education institutions. New positioning indicators based on microdata The integration of micro-data at European level, taking into account all possible comparability issues, is a fundamental requisite for the European Research Area.
ICT assessment: Moving beyond journal outputs Many projects are currently in train to develop new, or more finely tuned, metrics for use in sector-wide research assessment exercises. The ICT project detailed in this paper is fast gaining a reputation for 'best practice' for this type of exercise.
Q-measures for binary divided networks:: Bridges between German and English institutes in publications of the Journal of Fluid Mechanics Q-measures quantify the idea of bridges between two groups in a connected undirected network. For the case of the England-Germany science collaboration network in fluid mechanics, as revealed by the Journal of Fluid Mechanics, we found that Cambridge University, Manchester University, Technische Universität Berlin, Max Planck Institute and Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe are the key bridges in this network. It is observed that institutes with a high Q-value group have, on average, a higher production than those with a lower Q-value.
'Triad' or 'tetrad'? On global changes in a dynamic world The world system of science is currently undergoing dramatic changes. A fourth member has now joined the triad formed by the USA, EU and Japan. China has transformed this group into a tetrad; and other countries already started to compete for a position among the leading nations in science and technology. Although the emerging countries have not yet reached the citation standard set and maintained by the former triad, the catch-up process is already in progress.
The declining scientific impact of theses:: Implications for electronic thesis and dissertation repositories and graduate studies The results of this study are paradoxical: while theses are becoming increasingly accessible to scholars in electronic format, their overall scientific impact seems to be declining. Overall, this paper raises important questions concerning the modus operandi of graduate programmes. A papers-based graduate approach might be a more effective training for researchers if publishing papers is what will concern them during most of the rest of their careers.
Knowledge network hubs and measures of research impact, science structure, and publication output in nanostructured solar cell research Using co-authorship data to analyse research structure and network centrality raises important questions about the dynamics of emerging fields and the appropriate measures for determining research output, impact and structure. In addressing the question of research evaluation and impact assessment in emerging research fields, these findings also point to i) the importance of distinguishing between early and late phases in the evolution of a novel research field, and ii) the application of a systemic view on learning processes and knowledge diffusion in science-based technology fields. Future areas of research include a focus on the interorganisational relations within the knowledge network, an analysis of the complementarities in capabilities of different knowledge hub locations and network nodes, and an examination of the conditions for the emergence of strong and repetitive ties in science-based innovation activities.
Patent coupling analysis of primary organizations in genetic engineering research The author took Patent Coupling approach to reveal the technological links among the primary organizations. 7 technological clusters were identified based on the result of the correlation analysis and multiple dimensional scaling on Coupling Index. The outputs showed a different viewpoint of cluster linking which is worth further investigation for strategic planning in technology development.
UK research assessment exercises: Informed judgments on research quality or quantity? The implications of the findings for the use of citation analysis in the RAE are briefly discussed.
Policy impact of bibliometric rankings of research performance of departments and individuals in economics The ranking lists did help to stimulate output in prestigious international journals. However, overall, the rankings induced economists to focus more on maximizing publication output than on optimalizing their citation impact. The present results suggest that a research performance system that weighs output only maybe effective in increasing the number of publications in the more highly weighed international outlets, but may fail to obtain a high citation impact.
International collaboration in multilayered center-periphery in the globalization of science and technology I have found from empirical data that collaboration between Korean research organizations and advanced organizations is not primarily undertaken for the purpose of knowledge production but, rather, that it benefits activities such as knowledge transfer, career building, model application to local conditions, or fund-raising.
Citation accuracy in the oral and maxillofacial surgery literature This study shows that there needs to be a greater effort on the part of authors to provide accurate citations in their articles. Although it may not be practical for those involved in the editorial process to check the validity of every reference, the findings from this study clearly indicate that they also can do a better job in detecting and correcting minor errors.
The centrality and prestige of CACM This research provides guidance to scholars in assessing the importance of a particular outlet in a specific academic publication network.
Archiving of publicly funded research data: A survey of Canadian researchers Overall, the researchers surveyed strongly agree with the concept of a national data archives strategy. The results of this survey, however, indicate that a large gap still remains between the recognized need for archiving of research data as outlined in the SSHRC data archiving policy and the corresponding action or ability of researchers to respond to this need.
The readability of marketing journals: Are award-winning articles better written? Award-winning articles in AMA academic journals were more readable than nonwinners on several measures of readability. Brevity is a good thing, but it is not the prime goal of good writing. The key is improved reading ease and comprehension. Small improvements in writing can help even expert readers read a manuscript faster, while understanding and remembering more.
A publication power approach for identifying premier information systems journals "The publication power approach gives new empirically based insight for identifying the premier IS journals (upper echelon of Table 2) and, more broadly, for identifying journals that figure most prominently in the publishing activity of tenured IS researchers (Tables 2-5)."
Caveats for the use of citation indicators in research and journal evaluations Can journals and journal rankings be used for the evalua- tion of research? Garfield’s (1972, 1979) original purpose when creating the impact factor and the Journal Citation Reports was not to evaluate research, but journals!
Long-term variations in the aging of scientific literature:: From exponential growth to steady-state science (1900-2004) As the evolution of the Price Index strikingly shows (Figure 4), contrary to a widely held belief, science as a whole—and especially NSE—relies on an increasingly older body of literature.
Authorship, collaboration, and predictors of extramural funding in the emergency medicine literature The number of authors per article in the EM literature has steadily increased over the last decade, as has evidence of collaboration with other specialties.
An analysis of the most cited articles in software engineering journals - 2001 The analysis here is intended to highlight and acknowledge the articles attracting most citations within software engineering.
Blind men and elephants: What do citation summaries tell us about a research article? We introduced a sentence-oriented cosine similarity metric called cohesion, which is highly correlated (p ≥ .84) with the document-oriented tf.idf-weighted cosine similarity which it is based on.
On the normalization and visualization of author co-citation data:: Salton's cosine versus the Jaccard index If the only option is to generate a co-occurrence matrix, as is often the case in webometric research, the Jaccard index is the best basis for the normalization because this measure does not take the distributions along the respective vectors into account. In the empirical examples, this Jaccard index was as good a measure as the cosine-normalized citation matrices. However, one should be very cautious in using the symmetrical matrix as input to further statistical analysis because of the change of the size and potentially the sign of the correlation when multiplying the citation matrix with its transposed.
Usage Impact Factor: The effects of sample characteristics on usage-based impact metrics The discussed analysis of CSU usage data indicates significant, community-based deviations between local usage impact and global citation impact as indicated by the generated CSU UIF and ISI IF rankings, respectively.
Library and information science research areas:: Analysis of journal articles in LISA The study performed leads to the conclusion that, although a good deal of the research in the sphere of Library and Infor-mation Science continues to be of practical and applied nature in relation with the sphere of libraries, the development of the World Wide Web and information and communication tech-nologies has brought studies connected with these spheres into the heart of research activity.
Applying successive H indices in the institutional evaluation:: A case study The h₂ calculus allows the determination of the impact at the department level, with the aim of a comparative evaluation from the research made by the different departments or research directions, as well as the determination of the impact reached by CNIC, in an integral way. The obtainment of an h₃ value similar to the number of research departments could be the top goal to be achieved in the policy of institutional evaluation for a determined period. The institutional evaluation by using successive H indices offers an integral vision of the institutional researcher staff’s behavior and its impact upon the international scientific community.
Deja vu - A study of duplicate citations in Medline This study concludes that duplicate publications are a persistent problem, yet perhaps not as pervasive as some have estimated.
Ranking journals following a matching model approach: An application to public economics journals The absence of extraordinary surprises in the ranking of public economic journals presented in Table 2 is an important empirical ally in support of the rationale and pertinence of the theoretical explanation of the publishing market on which the ranking approach is based.
For a few dollars more: a future for scholarly books in Australia? This would deliver major gains in impact and productivity for government, universities, and individual academics alike.
Vendor-supplied usage data for electronic resources: a survey of academic libraries More time was spent on the tedious work of downloading and processing the data than on actual analysis and interpretation.
Measuring the validity of early health technology assessment:: Bibliometrics as a tool to indicate its scientific basis Publications used as sources in a Swedish system for identification and early assessment of new methods in health care are also highly cited within the scientific community.
National institutes of health funding for surgical research NIH funding to academic surgeons is declining relative to their nonsurgical colleagues. This trend will likely be reversed only by an increase in the number of grant applications submitted by surgeon-scientists. Structural changes in surgical training programs, and in the economics of academic surgery, may support a greater contribution of surgeon-scientists to the success of translational research.
Time variation of some selected topics in bioethical publications There was an increase of bioethical publications in the Medline database. The topics in bioethics literature have an important time variation. Some factors were suggested to explain this variation: current legal cases, resolution of the issue, saturation of a discussion and epidemiologic importance.
Persistent nepotism in peer-review Nepotism seems to be a persistent problem in the Swedish grant peer review system.
Relations between national research investment and publication output: Application to an American Paradox The main reason for the American Paradox, however, is not inefficient allocation of investments.
Scientists' perceptions of the social and political implications of their research This paper has explored an empirical approach to studying the social and political implications of science by gathering scientists' perceptions of the social impacts of their research output.
A structural analysis of publication profiles for the classification of European research institutes The main findings of this study are that it is possible to group research institute on the basis of their research profile and that this clustering proved to yield stable and valid results. The first potential application is creating the methodological framework for cross-institutional comparative studies. The second important application is the dynamic look at institutional publication profiles in the context of national research policies.
Correlation between the structure of scientific research, scientometric indicators and GDP in EU and non-EU countries Significant departures from the share of fields in European Community member states, the US and Japan (EUJ) were found for several Central and Eastern European countries (CEE).
Which h-index? - A comparison of WoS, Scopus and Google Scholar The findings show that it matters which citation tool is used to compute the h-index of scientists.
Sources of Google Scholar citations outside the Science Citation Index: A comparison between four science disciplines This might be considered to be an advantage of Google Scholar, since it could be useful for citation tracking in a wider range of open access scholarly documents and to give a broader type of citation impact. Our findings that the majority of Google Scholar unique citations (70%) were full-text scholarly sources is important evidence for the growth of OA publishing and self-archiving, although it clearly varies by discipline. Hence this is evidence that Google Scholar provides a significant boost to the OA movement.
Maps of the academic web in the European Higher Education Area - an exploration of visual web indicators The general picture of the European academic network sector allows us to see that it is built up of multiple national networks. Thus a university is first linked to others within its country and then this national network is connected to other national networks. However, there are "pan-European" universities, detected through the Betweenness index, that link and are linked mainly to universities abroad.
Benchmarking Google Scholar with the New Zealand PBRF research assessment exercise However this study indicates that Google Scholar provides a good coverage of research based material on the Web, and a relatively simple method of deriving measures of research output, for example citation counts for web based material.
A new look at evidence of scholarly citation in citation indexes and from web sources With 92% of Google Scholar citations representing intellectual impact, it has considerable potential to become the primary source for measuring research impact.
Bibliometric statistical properties of the 100 largest European research universities: Prevalent scaling rules in the science system First, we find a size-dependent cumulative advantage for the impact of universities in terms of total number of citations. Second, we find that for the lower performance universi-ties the fraction of noncited publications decreases with size. Clearly, the scaling rule is a prevalent property of the science system.
Comparison of PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and Google Scholar: strengths and weaknesses PubMed remains an optimal tool in biomedical electronic research.
Citation analysis of Ph.D. dissertation references as a tool for collection management in an academic chemistry library Finally, the results can be used as a tool for the collection management of the library. We propose three criteria that a library may use in deciding which subscriptions to cancel and which to keep. Last, having already developed an analysis model, we can continue monitoring the situation merely by updating the data contained in forthcoming Ph.D. theses.
Mapping high-temperature superconductors - A scientometric approach A typical main stream research discipline has been reviewed by scientometric methods as a case study.
Strategies for revising and resubmitting papers to refereed journals Our study bears evidence on professional practice at both the individual and community levels. We trust the results will be instrumental in helping scholars and editors make informed judgements in the course of designing, creating and disseminating knowledge, the life-blood of academe. We hope these findings will inform the academic community of the behind-the-scenes of R&R current practice, equipping scholars to better reason with R&R considerations, as well as providing stakeholders with an in-depth under- standing of this important aspect of the scholarly enterprise.
The evaluation of large research initiatives -: A participatory integrative mixed-methods approach This pilot investigation was intended to explore and develop evaluation methods and models and to create products and templates that could be adapted in later evaluation efforts in similar scientific entities.
Decline in research publications from the United Kingdom in anaesthesia journals from 1997 to 2006 In conclusion, the data we present in this study confirm Pandit's observation that academic anaesthesia is a specialty in decline, and that it compares poorly with anaesthetic research activity in other parts of the world [4].
Citation analysis of the most influential authors and ophthalmology journals in the field of cataract and corneal refractive surgery 2000-2004 The USA and Australia together were the source of more than half of the most-published authors on cataract and LASIK and the majority of articles published by the 30 most prolific authors were published in only 10 journals.
Longitudinal trends in academic web links This research focuses on inlink and outlink count variations over time in academic web spaces.
Phenomenon and manifestation of the 'Author's Effect of Showcasing' (AES):: a literature science study, I.: Emergence, causes and traces of the phenomenon in the literature, perception and notion of the effect The AES in both its phases is a phenomenon that has existed for over a century in the elite journal literature of the natural sciences.
Phenomenon and manifestation of the 'Author's Effect of Showcasing' (AES):: a literature science study, II.: Very heterogeneous documentedness of historically synchronous conference communications of a single natural science This generally extremely heterogeneous documentedness is therefore valid evidence of the existence of the effect and its effective operation in the scientific literature.
Readability in the British journal of surgery Several factors influence readability. Knowledge of such factors might help authors to improve their scientific writing.
Impact of the internet and scholar age distribution on academic citation age Based on our results, it seems that the Internet has lengthened the average life of academic citations by 6 to 8 months.
The shifting balance of intellectual trade in information studies Our data present a rather different picture from that drawn by Cronin and Pearson (1990). Our data permit two summary assertions: (a) IS has become a much more successful exporter of ideas than in the recent past, a point graphically illustrated in Figure 1; and (b) IS is less introverted than before, drawing more heavily on the literature of such disciplines as computer science and engineering on the one hand and business and management on the other, as Table 7 demonstrates. In conclusion, and to return to the economic metaphor that was our point of departure, IS has in the past decade become a more successful exporter and also a more welcoming importer of intellectual goods trading with an expanding array of partners.
Scaling rules in the science system: Influence of field-specific citation characteristics on the impact of research groups It is demon-strated that this representation of the science system is particularly effective to understand the role and the interdependencies of the different bibliometric indicators and related topological properties of the landscape.
Perceived influence of the use of electronic information resources on scholarly work and publication productivity In sum, scholars think that the use of e-resources has improved their work most by making access to information resources considerably easier, and also considerably, but to a lesser extent, by expanding the range of material available and by helping with keeping up-to-date. This perceived improvement in the access to literature correlates with the increased international publication productivity among younger scholars in particular. The results seem to imply that investments in academic digital libraries are beneficial for the researchers and for the universities.
A statistical analysis of the web presences of European life sciences research teams In conclusion, although it is clear that research group size and Web presence size are important for attracting Web links, the connection between links and research productivity is weak, at best.
Assessment of research performance in biology: How well do peer review and bibliometry correlate? Most of this unexplained variation is presumably due to limitations of both the peer-review system and bibliometric scores.
The actual citation impact of European oncological research The outcomes illustrate that different bibliometric methodologies may lead to different outcomes, and that outcomes should be interpreted with care.
Institutional antecedents to research productivity in operations: the US perspective In general, our results indicate that individual productivity is directly impacted by the prestige of affiliated schools.
Journal publication productivity in academic physical therapy programs in the United States and Puerto Rico from 1998 to 2002 The vast majority of academic phys-ical therapy programs published at least one manuscript during the 5-year period from 1998 to 2002. Unfortunately, there were only a few programs with a large number of at-tributed bibliographic citations, and there were many programs with vir-tually no publication productivity (50.3% of the programs published fewer than 5 manuscripts in the study period), as measured by biblio-graphic citations of journal articles. These findings provide a critical baseline for periodic assessments by which the impact of the growing mi-gration to the DPT degree and the CAPTE standards requiring scholarly productivity by core faculty at ap-proximately the same time can be measured.
Online presentations as a source of scientific impact? An analysis of PowerPoint files citing academic journals It seems that the main scientometric value for online presentations may be in track-ing the popularization of research, or for comparing the impact of whole journals rather than individual articles.
From conference to journal publication: How conference papers in software engineering are extended for publication in journals The results show that extending conference papers for publication in journals is a common way of carrying out research work in SE, though this practice has not yet been quantified.
Are there better indices for evaluation purposes than the h index?: a comparison of nine different variants of the h index using data from biomedicine Our results indicate that there is an empirical incremental contribution associated with some of the variants of the h index that have been proposed up to now—that is, with the variants that depict the impact of the papers in the productive core.
When different persons have an identical author name. How frequent are homonyms? On the basis of the study it can be concluded that the fre-quency of homonyms is rather limited, accounting for only 14% of the population of Norwegian researchers. For the large number of authors, there is a one-to-one correspon-dence, and homonyms do not represent a problem. This enables a range of studies relating to these variables, for example, how the productivity of publications per person varies according to age, gender, and among fields.
The importance of being first:: Position dependent citation rates on arXiv:astro-ph We found that articles at or near the top of these listings receive significantly more citations than articles at positions 10 and higher. Confirming that the PCE is present and more pronounced for European authors, who usually can gain the top position on astro-ph only by submitting outside their normal working hours, we could conclude that self-promotion plays a role in creating the PCE. A situation in which the number of citations a publication gets does not solely depend on its merits is unsatisfactory.
The production rate and employment of Ph.D. astronomers Despite the accuracy of Thronson’s predictions, a broader definition of sustainability may now be necessary, since the character of the astronomy job market appears to have shifted in the meantime.
Assessing the demand for scholarly publishing in South Africa The survey results, although based on a limited sample, do refute some hypotheses found in the literature.
Accuracy of references in journals of hand surgery References are an integral part of a scientific article and should be as accurate as the rest of the text.10
Literature-related discovery (LRD): Methodology "Also shown is a vetting procedure that insures potential discoveries claimed are potential discoveries realized."
Rating Pakistani medical journals using the principles of citation analysis This study examined the citation pattern of Pakistani medical journals.
ONF trainee awards contribute to capacity building in neurotrauma A high proportion of past award recipients remain involved in neurotrauma activities, especially in research. These results may lead to a cautious conclusion of the positive impact of the ONF studentships and fellowships on neurotrauma capacity building. These results should be considered in strategic planning of funding agencies similar to ONF.
Calculating impact factor: How bibliographical classification of journal items affects the impact factor of large and small journals Our study showed that IF equation is most relevant for journals that publish almost solely original research articles and reviews.
The socially driven life cycle of academic scholarship: A longitudinal study of six electronic journals The literature suggests that technological superiority of innovations is not enough to ensure their acceptance and success. Our study of academic e-journals supports these assertions. We found that although e-journals are functionally and economically superior, the forces that drove their success and ultimate survival were managerial and social. A successful e-journal should strive for a compromise between the functionality afforded by the technology and academia social norms.
All author cocitation analysis and first author cocitation analysis: A comparative empirical investigation Our study concludes that all author based ACA is better than first author based ACA to capture all influential researchers in a field. It also identifies more research subspecialties. Finally, all Author based ACA and first author based ACA produce little differences in stress values of MDS outputs.
Global scientific production on GIS research by bibliometric analysis from 1997 to 2006 In this study on GIS-related papers dealing with the SCI, we obtained some significant points on the global research performance throughout the period from 1997 to 2006.
On the relation between the Maximum Entropy Principle and the principle of Least Effort: The continuous case In the continuous case, the two principles are equivalent if the effort function is strictly increasing, unbounded and admissible.
On material transfer agreements and visibility of researchers in biotechnology Being a user of these contracts might, to some extent, be the reflection of systematic differences in the stratification of science based on visibility. Indeed, those who used MTAs, regardless their role as provider of receivers, continued to be more visible than those who did not used them (first empirical strategy). This might suggest that those researchers who were more visible before using MTAs were more prone to adapt to changes in modes of science imposed by more contractual or privatised practices.
XMM-Newton: The next decade The workshop ended with the clear impression that requests for future XMM-Newton extensions stand on a sound scientific basis for the next decade.
Google Scholar goes to school: The presence of google scholar on college and university web sites Google Scholar is clearly making inroads into the info-structure of academia.
Employment outcomes among junior researchers in medicine in Croatia This study suggests that junior researchers in medicine commonly used their fellowship as a short-term employment option. The direct consequence of this is the low percentage of obtained PhD degrees during the fellowship period. Additionally, this article provides an insight into the current status and future of the fellowship programs in medicine, with special emphasis placed on the potential changes that might occur as a consequence of physician shortage in Croatia.
Duplicate publications in Korean medical journals indexed in KoreaMed The proportion of duplicate publications in Korean medical journals appears to be higher than expected.
The intellectual structure of the strategic management field: An author co-citation analysis The objective of this paper was to trace the evolution of the intellectual structure of the strategic management field.
Enhanced co-citation analysis using frameworks This research has improved the co-citation analysis by providing the following: (1) a method for clustering the cited patents properly; (2) a flexible and appropriate criterion for competitiveness; (3) the concept of citation routes that indicate the technology transition; and (4) frameworks for analysing technology transition and patent strategy.
Money for science?: The impact of research grants on academic output We find a positive and statistically significant effect of subsidy on the number of publications.
Where we publish - An analysis of the publications of German institutes of pathology Our results mirror the wide diversification in scientific pathology and the overlap with other medical subspecialties, especially oncology, cell biology and biochemistry.
Article and journal impact factor in various scientific fields Our analysis shows that in most scientific fields examined, it is quite easier to publish an article in the top 50% of journals (based on impact factor calculations) than it is for the article to be included in the top 50% of published articles (based on the assumption made regarding the article' impact factor).
Web of Science and Scopus: a journal title overlap study Allowing relatively quick comparisons, journal title overlap calculations based on machine readable title lists may serve as a convenient tool for tracking the development of the databases over time. However, it is essential that the producers provide accurate lists. The journal list serves as the declaration of contents of the database, and should be subject to quality control accordingly.
A possible role of social activity to explain differences in publication output among ecologists These correlations are consistent with the possibility that leisure time social activities might influence the quality and quantity of scientific work and may be potential sources of publication and citation biases. First, the results suggest that considering social activities could be useful for understanding a quality of scientific work and potential sources of publication and citation biases.
Managing and evaluating digital repositories Digital repositories require ongoing evaluation to determine their quality and new directions for growth. A LexiURL analysis could be carried out by managers every four to six months and used as a complement to transaction log file analyses. Repository managers will need formal training in the future and we suggest a set of modules that would be suitable for a specialist programme.
Fate of manuscripts declined by the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology Approximately half of the manuscripts rejected by the JAAD were subsequently published in other journals within 28 months, among which, roughly 40% went to nondermatology journals.
Evolution of social norms with heterogeneous preferences: A general model and an application to the academic review process This article suggests a theoretical analysis of how the two changes may be related, using a model of social norm evolution that can also be applied to other contexts. The model, however, suggests the surprising result that under a reasonable condition, the average refereeing time is in fact longer in the absence of a social norm, and consequently the existence of a social norm reduces social welfare. I agree with Ellison, and this article addresses these two issues, among other things, but there is surely more work to be done along these lines.
An economics journals' ranking that takes into account the number of pages and co-authors In this work I validate that it is correct to correlate positively academics remuneration with the number of published articles per co-author, the number of pages and journal reputation although an increase in the number of co-authors causes a small increase in article value. Additionally, relating to journals quality, data suggests that there are four distinct groups that I named A, B+, B and B−. The grouping of journals using a statistical measure is new in the literature.
Impact of the national institutes of health on radiology research The NIH funded less than one-fifth of all U.S. radiology articles, but the proportion of funded articles is increasing, especially for clinical trials, where in 2005 more than half received funding; cancer and neurologic disease research is relatively well funded.
Information science during the first decade of the web: an enriched author cocitation analysis We find that the Web has had a truly profound effect on the intellectual structure of IS.
Quantifying scholarly impact:: IQp versus the Hirsch h To conclude, the results of our study demonstrate clearly that Hirsch’s h simply does not hit the spot. It seems to measure brute force of output but does not quite capture the finesse of input. We trust that researchers will develop alternative measures that better serve the academic milieu by capturing both dimensions of scholarship that matter: quality and quantity.
On the episternic significance of place "So, do two swallows a spring make? I don't know, but this admittedly modest microanalysis of a brace of scholars’ co-authorship patterns attests to the importance of place and propinquity when it comes to the selection of research partners."
Citers' use of citees' names: Findings from a qualitative interview-based study The study underlines B. Cronin's (1984, 2005) argument that citation is a private and subjective process, and shows that interview-based studies afford the analyst insights into writers' citing practices which alternative methodologies cannot.
Scientific productivity, web visibility and citation patterns in sixteen Nordic sociology departments Citations appear to be more closely tied to individuals, while hits are more related to positions and departments.
Prediction of citation counts for clinical articles at two years using data available within three weeks of publication: retrospective cohort study Conclusion Citation counts can be reliably predicted at two years using data within three weeks of publication. Therefore we can predict citation counts of methodologically sound clinical studies and review articles at two years with surety using data available within three weeks after publication.
The development of microbiology and the Institut Pasteur: an historical bibliometric analysis As this discussion has shown the Institute Pasteur is a centre of excellence which publishes a substantial amount of research in several fields each year, with its focus on Microbiology. The standard of the research it publishes is amongst the best in the field and attracts a high degree of citation activity. The Institute's journals continue to grow and be well cited and have strong citation links to several key journals, not only within Microbiology, but across many areas of life science research.
European and US publications in the 50 highest ranking pathology journals from 2000 to 2006 Results mirror the leading role of the USA in pathology research but also show the relevance of European scientists.
New approach to institutional domain analysis:: Multilevel research fronts structure The results of this study show that the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Museum (FCNyM) of the National University of La Plata (UNLP), Argentina, has a characteristically heterogeneous intellectual structure, made up of a network of interdisciplinary relationships and several research fronts in the area of Natural Sciences, especially tied to studies in Botany, Biology, Ecology, Cytogenetic and Paleontology.
Correlation analysis between university research competitiveness and library's scholarly information in OECD nations and Korea In conclusion, it can be said that paper productivity, which is an important indicator of university research competitiveness, increases when universities have access to a greater amount of academic information (LC, JT) as well as a larger faculty size.
Are international co-publications an indicator for quality of scientific research? In consequence we do not believe that co-publication analysis can validly replace citation analysis.
Editorial and publication delay of papers submitted to 14 selected Food Research journals. Influence of online posting Publication delay of papers is strongly dependent on the peer review process, which affects most of the manuscripts in the Food Research field. Advanced online publication through formal posting at the editor's sites only slightly reduces the time between reception and final publication of papers. Establishing some repositories in the field is the soundest possibility to achieve a timely distribution of manuscripts in form of pre-prints.
World-wide university rankings: A Scandinavian approach The methodological improvement to university rankings proposed in this article is to include input data in the analysis.
International earth science literature from Turkey - 1970-2005: Trends and possible causes The earth science publications from Turkey in international journals showed a rapid increase starting in the 1990's in parallel with the increase in the total scientific output of Turkey. The increase was brought about by changes in the rules of promotion and appointment in the academia, by changes in the academic attitudes towards publishing, by increasing support for research, by financial incentives, and by the expansion of higher education. The average citation to publication ratio of Turkish earth scientists is also below average for most journals, and the citation rate of the average publication shows a decrease since the year 2000.
Increasing discrepancy between absolute and effective indexes of research output in a Brazilian academic department The observed situation, which might well represent a national trend, should be considered as a strong warning against current criteria of scientific evaluation heavily based on uncritical counting of publications.
On the ratio of citable versus non-citable items in economics journals On the basis of these analyses of the distribution of document types in economics journals we cannot find statistical significant evidence that the journal editors have succeeded in manipulating the distribution of document types. Furthermore we can conclude on the basis of these analyses that there is a clear distinction between journals located in North America North and journals located outside North America when it comes to the share of published material not included in the calculation of the ISI JIF. We further see a clear distinction between the top half and the lower half (according to impact factor) of the journals.
The influence of references per paper in the SCI to Impact Factors and the Matthew Effect Analysis of data showed that the number of references per paper from 1970 to 2005 has steady increased. It reached from 8.40 in 1970 to 34.63 in 2005, an increase of more than 4 times. We found that there is a linear correlation between journal self-citing and journal self-cited value, the mean value of self-cited rate always stays higher than the self-citing rate. This phenomenon is an important exploration what was not emphasised by other similar studies.
Locating active actors in the scientific collaboration communities based on interaction topology analyses In this paper we have presented a new method for large scale research project assignment.
Effective web dissemination of construction IT research publications The SciX open publication services software has been developed and tested in real applications. The practical experience of building and populating the pilot systems should be of particular interest to the global research community engaged in construction IT research. Open access provides increased readership within the research community itself but perhaps more importantly it increases readership by industry experts.
Comparison of scientists of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences and of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA on the basis of the h-index The comparison of categories between BAS and NAS- USA favors two areas in Brazil, namely physics and math- ematics. The widespread distribution of the h-index among aca- demics of the BAS - deviation/median 30% higher than for the academics of the NAS-USA - is an indication of a wide heterogeneity in each category. The reasons for this are not in the scope of the present study but certainly deserve attention and further studies.
Demographic changes in IS research productivity and impact In conclusion, we would like to highlight the modest growth of IS research productivity and the impressive improvement of its impact. While still dominated by North American institutions, there are signs of internationaliza- tion with Asia increasing its pro- ductivity and Europe enhancing its overall impact. The dynamism and interna- tionalization trends should contribute further to the enhancement of the IS research diversification and recognition.
Scientific identity in top journals of services marketing: review and evaluation The findings of the present study suggest that there is a reasonable mix of “scientific identities" in the selected journals, and that the research community of services marketing has access to a reasonable variety of journals offering a mix of empirical research designs - especially if compared with the journals that cover general marketing (Rosenstreich and Wooliscroft, 2005; Svensson and Wood, 2006). Despite this differentiation, all the journals studied here do strive to be broadly based, and none could be described as “narrow”. It would be desirable if the journals encouraged and supported submissions from these continents.
Encouraging research collaboration through ethical and fair authorship: A model policy The model authorship policy is designed to protect the contributions of all parties involved in a research collaboration. Although this model policy can be applied to multiple forms of collaborations (e.g., student-faculty, junior-senior faculty), the ultimate goal of the policy is to encourage greater collaboration between practicing clinicians and researchers. Adoption of an authorship policy at an institutional level can promote ethical authorship decisions, avoid conflicts over authorship, and ultimately encourage clinicians to become more involved in building the evidence base for psychological practice.
Ranking of field association terms using Co-word analysis In this paper, Co-word analysis has been used to develop a method to rank FA terms in sports field.
An h-index weighted by citation impact A citation-weighted h-index, denoted as hw, is introduced.
Bringing PageRank to the citation analysis The present study attempts to measure the importance of scientific publications from another perspective. The PageRank algorithm provides a meaningful extension to the traditionally used number of citations for individual papers or aggregation of papers at different levels. In summary, we suggest that PageRank is a better indicator serving as a substitution of the number of citations for measuring papers' influence. Yet we may expect that the PageRank indicator will be more universalized with expanded data source and long stretching time period.
Under the influence? Intellectual exchange in political science Breaking away from simple unitary counts of citations or expensive and sub-jective surveys, we showed a way to compare journals based on their perfor-mance as exchangers of information.
Publication and citation patterns among LIS faculty: Profiling a "typical professor" This study has provided a glimpse of the population from which the LIS luminaries are outstanding. The findings raise questions for how LIS or any field is perceived and lived by the majority. The authors hope that understanding the varied nature of contributions will inform recruitment, tenure, and promotion decisions.
'Interdisciplinary strategies' in US research universities The strategies discussed here expand the repertoire of organizational arrangements in research universities, some in subtle, others in substantive ways. Incentive grants, steering structures, and new models of faculty recruitment and evaluation create organizational conditions that are expected to contribute to the practice of interdisciplinary research.
Knowledge sources of innovation studies in Korea: A citation analysis This paper is a statistical work based on a database of innovation studies. This database has been constructed to check the overall status of innovation studies of Korea, more strictly speaking to lead to a more desirable direction. This paper results in two kinds of new theoretical hypotheses. One is for bibliometric studies and another is for innovation studies.
The internal migration of Indian scientists, 1981-2003, from an analysis of surnames The study selected and analyzed the names based on the prevalent groups of people in different states of India.
Bottom-up scientific field detection for dynamical and hierarchical science mapping, methodology and case study In this paper, we introduced an asymmetric proximity metric between terms that enables to define local neighborhoods for terms. We then proposed methods to provide high-level description of our set of terms, clustering them into salient paradigmatic fields. This enables to exhibit the hierarchical structure of paradigmatic fields within which terms can be said to be more generic or more specific.
Use of citation per publication as an indicator to evaluate pentachlorophenol research The study showed that the indicator of CPP provided an effective way to assess impact of a publication.
Calibrating the zoom - a test of Zitt's hypothesis The possibility that the level of 'zoom' will affect our assessment of relative impact is an important insight.
Use of citation per publication as an indicator to evaluate contingent valuation research The indicator of CPP provided an effective way to assess impact of a publication.
Condensed matter physics: An analysis of India's research output, 1993-2001 Condensed matter physics is the most sought after and the single largest branch in physics pursued by as many as 449 institutes in India. To improve quality of research in condensed matter physics, the country should strive to publish comparatively larger share in high impact journals. For catalyzing high citations, the country needs to focus more on producing original research in condensed matter physics.
Publication and citation patterns of Latin American & Caribbean journals in the SCI and SSCI from 1995 to 2004 Quantitative indicators show the LA-C journals are better positioned in the ISI rankings than ever before, as shown by improvements in IFs achieved by some titles.
A new methodology for ranking scientific institutions The signature of the visibility of a given population of papers can be characterized by a single curve (called master-curve or m-curve).
Personal name headings in COBIB: Testing Lotka's Law The paper shows that the author productivity distribution predicted by Lotka also holds for the occurrences of personal name headings in COBIB. These findings can be used in designing authority control systems and introducing new cataloguing codes. It would be interesting to examine our observed set of author data using some variations in methodology, such as the maximum likelihood approach instead of the least-square method or the complete or adjusted author count instead of the senior count, and compare the results.
Falsified papers in high-impact journals were slow to retract and indistinguishable from nonfraudulent papers Retractions due to falsification can take a long time, especially when senior researchers are implicated. Fraudulent articles are not obviously distinguishable from nonfraudulent ones. Acknowledging these caveats, our analysis of the tip of this important iceberg may help further sensitize scientists and journals to this problem and help promote a more trans-parent and timely recognition of serious misconduct in the published literature.
Quality vs. quantity of publications in nanotechnology field from the People's Republic of China Thus, under rapid growth conditions, PRC and South Korea have been able to increase their share of participation in highly cited papers.
Diabetes mellitus publication patterns, 1984-2005 This study's data help to confirm that diabetes, specifically type 2 diabetes, is increasingly a subject of research.
The structure of scientific collaboration networks in Scientometrics We found that there were 163 authors in the whole network and among them there were 96 authors connected with each other that composed a very large central component. We also noted that the density, the degree centrality, and the betweenness centrality of the whole network were all very low, which indicated that the network was not strongly connected and the collaborative network in the field of scientometrics is very loose. In our subsequent study, we will examine the dynamics of the collaboration network in the field of scientometrics.
Thought leadership: A new indicator for national and institutional comparison Thought leadership focuses on the age of the references in an agent's current publications. At the national policy level, we suggest that the measure of thought leadership should simply be the age of the scientific environments that the nation wants to pursue. At the laboratory level, where the choice of topic is given, we suggest that the measure should shift to relative age.
Article-count impact factor of materials science journals in SCI database ACIF index could be used as an alternative tool in assessing journal quality in terms of citation behavior of published articles, especially in the case where the identified journals had the same (equal or similar) JIF values.
An impact of Croatian journals measured by citation analysis from SCI-expanded database in time span 1975-2001 The aim of this research was to obtain an insight into the potential significance of papers published in Croatian journals which deal with the STM for the time span 1975-1998, by measuring their citedness within SCI-expanded database for 1975-2001. Results of this research could be usefull for journal editors as a guideline for adapting their editorial policy in order to improve a reception of their journals on an international level.
Some aspects of citation indexes in Spain: A comparative analysis Once again, all this data confirm that the determination of the best scientific journals not only in a discipline or speciality but also in a country is a very complex task and that quality is a multidimensional concept that can hardly be expressed by a single indicator.
Mathematical aspects of a new criterion for ranking scientific institutions based on the h-index Field observations made by Molinari & Molinari [7] showed that for a given institution, the h-index could be written as h = hmNβ where NT is the total number of papers, and β is an exponent which is nearly 0.4 whatever the institution considered.
Comparison and evaluation of Chinese research performance in the field of bioinformatics The policy implication of the findings lies in that China should pay more attention to increasing the international visibility of the research and improving the quality of research. In addition, Chinese scientists should further strengthen the academic linkages between China and worldwide nations, particularly those scientifically advanced countries. Thus, the influence of the research output of China in bioinformatics will be further enhanced.
Rational (successive) h-indices:: An application to economics in the Republic of Ireland We present three refinements of the h₁-index, h₁⁺, h₁^ and h₁*, and two refined h-indices: h and h*. An application to economics institutions in the Republic of Ireland shows that the new indices perform as desired: The crude order is preserved, but a finer order is added that is in line with a ranking based on publication and citation numbers.
Extending the concept of publication: factbases and knowledgebases I have proposed that factbase and knowledgebase modules should be considered as publications, and that it is both appropriate and useful to treat such modules much in the same way as we treat traditional publications.
Evolution of open access publishing in Chinese scientific journals Given the time lag for citations, it is too early fully to evaluate the effect of OA publishing; however, we tentatively conclude that the OA publishing model may be helpful in enhancing the journal’s visibility and accessibility, and thus increasing citations.
Refining search terms for nanotechnology We are currently analyzing our nanodata to examine and model nano research and innovation trajectories, the emergence of nano as a general purpose technology, regional nanodistricts and clusters, and mid-term nano applications. We believe that analyses of this information will raise important issues about nanotechnology development. Taken together, these analyses can offer a unique, evidence-driven vantage point to illuminate useful R&D interventions and to probe emerging policy questions.
Active research fields in anesthesia: A document co-citation analysis of the anesthetic literature In conclusion, the co-citation analysis presented in this article identified 46 active anesthetic research fields.
The journal list and its use: motivation, perceptions, and reality It is clear that the use of the journal list in the Bauer College is imperfect. The consensus was that a journal list that is properly maintained would be more, rather than less, beneficial to all. The process allows new journals to be quickly added to, as well as quickly pruned from, the list.
Expert evaluation vs bibliometric evaluation:: experiences from Finland This opinion paper evaluates pros and cons of these two approaches, concluding that they are complementary approaches. Therefore, they should be properly combined and synchronized to form an informative and cost-effective research assessment framework. There is an obvious need in Finland for a continued meta-analysis of alternative research assessment approaches at a much more detailed level of disciplines, hopefully including the disciplines of computing as own entities.
Information sources for developing the nursing literature Our study documented that journal literature was the primary source of information for communication within nursing. Gray literature was nearly 10% of the citations. The study also revealed an increase in citations to websites, which is anticipated to continue in the future.
The mapping of Spanish social psychology through its conferences:: A bibliornetric perspective Concluding remarks underline the role of conferences and scientific meetings as an important indicator of the dynamic development of a scientific discipline. The results of the descriptive analysis offer some interesting points to consider such as the growing trend towards co-authored papers, a fact that echoes similar studies in other disciplines such as Newman (2001), who found a mean of 3 authors per article. The concentration of theoretical paper types in two institutions, as well as the emergence of the areas of cultural psychology and the social studies of science and technology thematic areas considering their links with critical perspectives is indicative of tendencies that require more attention. Indeed, future inquiries into the state of Spanish social psychology will need to take these trends into consideration. And finally, conferences and meetings are a small but essential part of the scientific life of a discipline, and as such they need to be taken into account without losing sight of their connections with other dimensions of science.
Positioning indicators for cross-disciplinary challenges: the Dutch coastal defense research case The concept of transdisciplinarity entails two types of boundary crossing. First, in transdisciplinary research, boundaries are crossed between the world of science and the world of practice. The results of our study indicate that in this respect the field of coastal defense research has indeed a transdisciplinary dimension.
Measuring and assessing researcher mobility from CV analysis:: the case of the Ramon y Cajal programme in Spain The results thus support the idea that the qualitative dimension of mobility impact is an important one to consider.
New perspectives and challenges for the design and production of S&T indicators To conclude this paper, it is useful to review the main arguments we have proposed and the conclusion to which they lead for the organization of the indicator production system.
Research evaluation per discipline: a peer-review method and its outcomes The method for research evaluation per discipline at the VUB has proven its effectiveness as an instrument to obtain clear and pertinent advice at research team level as well as at university policy level. Supplementary outcomes, besides this advice, include: Implicit strategy improving effects at team level, Generally valid recommendations, Better insights into the different cultures, needs and properties of specific research disciplines, and Better insights into different evaluation methods, supporting research policy.
Characterisation and measurement methods for author productivity and research vitality: a study of the R&D management field There are two main sets of conclusions which can be made as a result of this study. The first concerns methodology, the second policy consequences. The techniques could easily be ap-plied to other research and technology fields, includ-ing patent databases at the level of countries, regions or individual enterprises. The use of the distribution-free techniques demon-strated above on the R&D management field shows that academic and research fields can be subject to review and analysis to disclose trend information.
Important factors when interpreting bibliometric rankings of world universities:: an example from oncology A practical implication of the findings presented is that it would be appropriate to compile and publish rankings of universities per research field or discipline. In addition, one should consider in rankings based on indicators calculated for all fields combined to add for each university the value of its disciplinary specialisation index, and to indicate for more specialised universities the discipline(s) in which they specialise. In this way, a public information system on world research universities can be built, that is not only useful for the general public, but also constitutes a database for further re-search on research performance and its determinants.
The Ombudsman: Verification of citations: Fawlty Towers of knowledge? As we expected, researchers fail to cite relevant research studies.
Revisiting h measured on UK LIS and IR academics It was found that scholars who published in more CS-related forums had a significantly higher hgs than their hwos or hscopus.
The Reference Return Ratio Our results show that there is a strong relationship between the 3R and the JIF.
Examples of simple transformations of the h-index:: Qualitative and quantitative conclusions and consequences for other indices In this paper we gave simple mathematical examples of transformations on an IPP and studied their influence on the h-index. We finally studied properties of the alternative indices g, R and hw and showed, essentially, that they inherit the same transformation properties from the ones of h* versus h.
A rational, successive g-index applied to economics departments in Ireland In this paper, I propose a rational, successive g-index for departments.
A general definition of the Leimkuhler curve In this paper, we provide a general definition of the Leimkuhler curve in terms of the theoretical cumulative distribution function.
Journal weighted impact factor: A proposal We believe that WIF provides a better yardstick for assessing the quality of journals as compared to the traditional IF.
The journal of risk and insurance:: A 75-year historical perspective It is clear from this historical perspective that the JRI has evolved as the field of risk and insurance has evolved.
North American perception of the prestige of biomechanics serials It was concluded that IF's should be used with caution in evaluating the prestige of journals publishing biomechanics research.
A significant decline in the American domination of research in gastroenterology with increasing globalization from 1980 to 2005: An analysis of American authorship among 8,251 articles From 1980 to 2005, American representation in American gastroenterologic journals significantly declined, whereas American representation in European gastroenterologic journals moderately increased.
A cautionary note on checking software engineering papers for plagiarism Plagiarism-checking services are convenient, if not necessarily powerful for work submitted in the engineering field. Because their databases miss a large portion of the professional engineering literature, a report of little similarity by current plagiarism detection services is untrustworthy. The professional societies must work out a licensing structure that gives plagiarism detection services access to the professional literature so that teachers, editors, and manuscript reviewers, can time-efficiently determine whether a submitted work has been plagiarized.
Ranking economics departments worldwide on the basis of PhD placement Illuminating the current state and trends of economics PhD education, the conclusions should be of broad interest to PhD candidates, academics, and policymakers. The rankings vindicate the well-founded nature of this broadly observed hiring strategy. This suggests that in the more competitive U.S. market, successful entry into the top-level league is harder than in Europe, confirming that the global reputation of a PhD program takes longer to establish outside academic circles and that a substantial lag exists between achieving a first-rate faculty and attracting top-level students and turning them into top economists.
An empirical study of scientific production: A cross country analysis, 1981-2002 The approach taken in this paper is pragmatic. From a policy perspective our results highlight two important phenomena: first, that the lag between investment and the research output is considerable and the impact first grows very slowly, peaks, and then drops quite quickly; second, this work provides some quantitative evidence confirming the view that science is an international enterprise characterised by major spillovers across countries.
What's new in finance? This paper uses Google Scholar to prepare a list of the 300 most highly cited Finance papers published between 2000 and 2006.
Doctoral prepared nurses in Denmark and their scientific production between 1976 and 2005 A pattern of growing engagement in publishing peer-reviewed articles was revealed among the Danish nurses holding a doctoral degree. Nursing as an academic discipline is evolving in Denmark but, with its roots in clinical nursing, scientists may have to be aware of the necessity to prevail as a discipline through scientific production.
Andrzej Pekalski networks of scientific intersets with internal degrees of freedom through self-citation analysis Altogether, these results seem to justify the use of self-citation networks as a key signature of a scientist career.
Assessing clinical and life sciences performance of research institutions in Split, Croatia, 2000-2006 Although the number and impact factor of research articles published by clinical and life scientists from Split, Croatia, is increasing, it is still low when the number of scientists is taken into account. There should be better mechanisms of control and evaluation of research perfor-mance of government-funded research projects.
The value of knowledge created by individual scientist and research groups Thus, this study is important in explaining which factors affect knowledge creation. This study identifies the factors that drive the knowledge creation of individual scientists and research groups. Despite the encouraging results of this study as to the positive effects of knowledge creation by individual scientists, future research is required to explore citation behaviours on the Internet.
Publication diversity Diversity is desirable, perhaps necessary; yet, in most situations, abundant publications in category 1 may be the principal or even the sole metric for recognition of academic worth, whatever else appears on the list.
RoMEO studies 7: creation of a controlled vocabulary to analyse copyright transfer agreements The aim of devising the controlled vocabulary was to enable journal publishers' CTAs to be system- atically analysed.
Exploring the emerging intellectual structure of archival studies using text mining: 2001-2004 The results of this study show that the intellectual structure of fundamental subject areas within the field of archival studies has changed and expanded dynamically from traditional single-subject areas to emerging, complex subject areas such as digital archiving technology and technical/legal/political issues. Considering the importance of digital records and the recent increase of interdisciplinary research trends, it can be expected that research areas within the field of archival studies have much growth potential and will continue to expand actively. It is expected that, as future research on the DL and RIM fields develops and expands, related research projects in archival studies will also expand dynamically.
Redundant publication in the journal Radiology Redundant publication appears to be less frequent in Radi- ology than in the other journals and specialties for which redundant publication information has been reported.
Reputation and reality: ranking major disciplines in Australian universities Our study shows that if reputation in a discipline is measured by peer opinion then it is highly correlated with a range of research measures and with an overall measure of performance comprising determinants of international standing. Our empirical results show that high international academic standing among peers is achieved through research performance, which in turn translates into high demand for places by students who are then not always pleased with what they get, at least immediately after graduation.
The Journal of Ayub Medical College:: a 10-year bibliometric study In conclusion, generally the volume and number of articles in the JAMC has increased.
Visual representation of knowledge networks: A social network analysis of hospitality research domain This study attempted to understand the knowledge network based on social network analysis of co-authorships in the field of hospitality business research.
Inflated numbers of authors over time have not been just due to increasing research complexity The number of authors in articles of randomized and nonrandomized studies has increased over time, even after adjusting for the topic, size, and visibility of a study.
Variations of author origins in World Journal of Gastroenterology during 2001-2007 The geographical distribution of WJG authors is wide for the past 2 years. WJG has made a step onto international publishing, and drawn even more attentions from gastroenterology researchers. Its authors are distributed over 74 countries in 6 global continents, and the journal has become the main intermediary for international gastroenterology researchers to demonstrate their research accomplishments.
Study of different h-indices for groups of authors In this article, we showed that there are at least, three different ways to calculate an h-index of a group of authors: the successive h-index h2, based on the h-indices h1 of the authors; the h-index hp based on the author-publication ranking; and the h-index hc based on the author-citation ranking.
The Influence of transformations on the h-index and the g-index We considered a very general double transformation on an IPP: j → φ(j) for the items and r → ψ(r) for the sources such that the rank-frequency function F* of the transformed IPP relates to the rank-frequency function F of the original IPP as follows F*(r*) = F*(ψ(r)) = φ(F(r)) for r ∈ [0, T].
Trends and lacunae for future computer assisted learning (CAL) research: An assessment of the literature in SSCI journals from 1998-2006 This study offers an interesting snap-shot of a field that is apparently on the rise; moreover, it raises some issues to be addressed in further research on CAL-related topics. In summary, the results of the present investigation underscore the need to reevaluate many of the "givens" that we tend to take at face value regarding the bibliometric assessment of individuals' (for academic promotion) and institutions' (for federal funding) contributions to their respective fields. Rather than unquestionably accepting “hand-me-down” facts and figures “from above,” we must remain ever vigilant in ascertaining the truth that often lurks behind the numbers.
Transition to electronic resources in undergraduate social science research: A study of honors theses bibliographies, 1999-2005 The authors argue that greater emphasis on starting research with scholarly indexes and bibliographies is a fruitful corrective to recent overdependence on random Web searching and will also better ground students in solid research practices as transitions in the scholarly publishing world continue. Unless students start their research with scholarly indexes and bibliographies, the use of print journals seems likely to drop off precipitously in the next five years.
Productivity and career paths of previous recipients of Society for Academic Emergency Medicine research grant awards Previous recipients of the SAEM grant awards show evidence of academic productivity in the form of subsequent grant funding and research publications, and the majority remain committed to and satisfied with their academic research careers.
The institutional repository rediscovered: What can a university do for open access publishing? The success or failure of self-archiving mandates should not cloud the fact that the university has the power to make a better repository, one that goes beyond self-archiving to serve faculty's core needs. It is time to reinvent the repository as a place to produce, showcase, and share an institution's exciting and original research. We believe that the institutional repository can become a centerpiece for university publishing, one that allows universities to play a new role in the emerging landscape of open access publishing.
Publishing original content in an Institutional Repository The experience at our IR has shown this difference to be about a sixty-fold increase in downloads (and thus in impact) of open-access as opposed to limited-access dissertations.
Institutions, their repositories and the Web Once full, a repository is a tool that enables senior management in research institutions to collate and assess research, to market their institution, to facilitate new forms of scholarship, and to enable the tools that will produce new knowledge. The locus for promotion of the institution, therefore, moves from institutional and departmental Web pages and other marketing channels to a new place-its digital collections of real outputs and resources. They are the fundament of future scholarship and innovation.
The access/impact problem and the green and gold roads to open access:: An update To reach 100% OA, self-archiving needs to be mandated by researchers' employers and funders, as they are now increasingly beginning to do.
Mixing and matching the Green and Gold Roads to Open Access -: Take 2 Six years following the initial Budapest meeting, the Open Access movement has demonstrated considerable strength and can point to some important successes. The case of Brazil is, of course, a great comfort in this context because it demonstrates, in effect, that Open Access is reachable simply if governments follow the logic of supporting research to its end: Publishing is an integral part of research. Brazil therefore harbors a model that, by its efficiency and its coherence, has become the inspiration for about nine other countries in the region.
The most commonly cited articles in Pediatric Surgical Journals In this study, we found that the most frequently cited articles, authors and institutions in pediatric surgical journals mostly originated from the USA. The gastrointestinal system, respira-tory system, urology and oncology were the leading topics and diaphragmatic hernia was the most common special topic. The Journal of Pediatric Surgery predominated with the most cited articles.
An analysis of research topics in software engineering - 2006 The distribution of research topics helps to reveal the current focuses of software engineering research commu-nity. We intend to continue our analysis of research topics in software engineering annually. In this way the evolving trend of research topics in software engineering can be revealed.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (2001-2005) Clearly, although top scholars undoubtedly are influential in driving up the scores of SSE institutions, they are not critical to the scores that the institutions achieve.
Efficient bibliographic searches on allergy using ISI databases This trend is further promoted but with this incor-rect perception not only by users of the research, but also by the government that turns Impact Factor into the measurement of the quality to evaluate investiga-tors. Finally, it seems that "non-English language” science is going backwards, if expressed frankly, and that journals would have to either make bilingual editions or pub-lish totally in good English.
Institutional repositories: Faculty deposits, marketing, and the reform of scholarly communication However, the findings of this and earlier studies clearly indicate that individual faculty participation is either low or nonexistent in one third of current university IRs at ARL libraries. Our study has demonstrated that there is no statistical relationship between the development of an IR and the discussion of scholarly communication on the library Web site. Clearly a better understanding of faculty research culture is required in order to engage in marketing that is more effective than current practice.
Google Scholar's coverage of the engineering literature: An empirical study The results of this study showed a close correspondence between the materials indexed by Google Scholar with those included in the Compendex database from the 1990s to the present. Google Scholar is a useful new tool for accessing the engineering literature published in the last ten to fifteen years. The service has room for improvement in the unfinished and incomplete nature of some of the records it returns, but it does provide users with another valuable resource for exploring the scholarly activity in engineering.
The changing research funding regime in Australia and academic productivity It is therefore imperative to put the attempts of the Australian Federal Government in trying to find “a more consistent and comprehensive approach to assessing the quality and impact of publicly funded research" ([9], p. 7) in the right context of excellent academic performance. Firstly, adequate resources should be provided to match and recognise its current achievements. Secondly, the funding model used³ should allow for diversity and flexibility to properly reflect the complexity of academic world.
Publish or peer-rich? The role of skills and networks in hiring economics professors The main finding is that, after controlling for the publication records of candidates and a large set of control variables, our network variables significantly affect the probability of getting hired. The network effects are important in the sense that unconnected candidates must substantially improve their publication records in order to have the same success probability as candidates with network connections. The question that remains to be answered is: why do jury members favor candidates with whom they have professional connections?
The h-index and the number of citations:: Two fuzzy integrals In this paper, we have shown that the number of citations (NC-index) and the h-index correspond to two well-known methods for information aggregation: the Choquet and Sugeno integrals, respectively.
Enhancing research collaborations: Three key management challenges This paper provides a number of ideas to stimulate exploration of key elements of partnerships that are likely to influence collaboration success.
Across institutional boundaries? Research collaboration in German public sector nanoscience Our empirical evidence suggests that the institutional structure of the GRS is permeable enough to allow sufficient knowledge flows in the emergent research domain of nano S&T between universities and the extra-university research sector.
The impact of cancer research: how publications influence UK cancer clinical guidelines The UK cancer clinical guidelines are sufficient in number and variety to provide a fair window on the impact of cancer research on clinical practice, not only in the United Kingdom, but in other leading countries, particularly in western Europe.
The evaluation of university departments and their scientists: Some general considerations with reference to exemplary bibliometric publication and citation analyses for a Department of Psychology The conclusion must be that ad hoc evaluations within the staff of a department are neither reliable nor valid – this approach should be forgotten in evaluation research and applications, because the results do not proof anything. However, feedback of objective bibliometric data can help to make such social perceptions within scientific departments more reliable and valid.
Scientometric definition of science: In what respect is the humanities more scientific than mathematical and social sciences? This paper used a scientometric method to examine the implicit but actual definition of science given by the scientific circles. Science was interpreted to respect his metodo risolutivo (empirical by using technical tools or the instrumental positivism) over his metodo compositivo (formally systematic by using mathematics or the formal/logical positivism). The result that the Humanities (especially, Historical sciences) is included in science is against the prevalent view of science. But this was considered reasonable by respecting metodo risolutivo as the characteristic method of science or the intension way of definition of science. There are several remaining problems. This paper analyzed only the category 'Reports' in Science, leaving the other categories (much less numerous than 'Reports') unanalyzed.
Relation of seminal nanotechnology document production to total nanotechnology document production - South Korea We have examined temporal trends in the ratio of highly cited nanotechnology/ /nanoscience papers to total nanotechnology/nanoscience papers for countries, global institutions, and South Korean institutions. Thus, the leading Chinese and South Korean institutions not only increased their total publications production rapidly, but increased quality as well. Papers with foreign institution participation tend to have high citation performance.
Great expectations: The role of Open Access in improving countries' recognition As the results of our analyses at collective and individual levels revealed, a lot of countries contributing to OA journals do not enjoy an OA advantage, but rather witness extremely rudimentary and fragile performances in OA journals. Notwithstanding the finding that publishing in OA journals is further fortifying the present inequalities between countries by redirecting more citations towards privileged ones, and depriving the already "have-nots"; a few evidences were found that confirm early beneficial effects of OA on scientific performances of some countries. An improvement in the role of OA journals in revitalizing countries’ “lost sciences" would not be beyond reach in future, given the incremental evidences confirming the scientific community’s embracement of the journals.
Ranking taiwanese management journals: A case study The results indicate that while subjective evaluation is able to provide an overall evaluation, especially taking into account those factors which are not quantifiable, it depends too heavily on images of journals in the mind of the experts. Thus, objective evaluation alone is not sufficient for a good evaluation, either. As a result, this study found that both the subjective and objective evaluations should be used to produce reliable results. The methodology used in this study combines subjective evaluation with objective evaluation. It is applicable not only to management journals, but to journals of other fields as well.
The mathematical relation between the impact factor and the uncitedness factor Adopting a simple model for the publication-citation relation, we prove this horizontal S-shape in this paper, showing that such a general functional relationship can be generally explained.
PageRank for bibliographic networks All in all, enhancing the citation graph with further bibliographic information proves to be very useful. The advantage over the standard PageRank is clear. Rankings based on both the citation and co-authorship information tend to place the awarded authors higher than the standard PageRank ranking. In our future work, we would like to concentrate on the issue of incorporating the time factor in the bibliographic PageRank.
The delineation of nanoscience and nanotechnology in terms of journals and patents: A most recent update Using betweenness centrality in the vector space, a set of 12 journals can be indicated as developing interdisciplinarily at the interfaces between applied physics, chemistry, and the life sciences. The focus of activity in the thus delineated journal set shifted from 2004 to 2005. The new tag of nanotechnology developed by the European Patent Office can now be used for retrieval and analysis.
What makes an article influential? Predicting impact in social and personality psychology The present study aimed to identify factors that contribute to the impact of articles in social and personality psychology. This aim was successfully accomplished, as several variables were shown to predict citations independently over a 10-year period. The study demonstrates that citation impact in social and personality psychology can be predicted strongly by objectively assessed factors, several of which are not intuitively obvious, and that several plausible predictors are in fact unrelated to impact.
The influence of self-citation corrections on Egghe's g index In conclusion, the present study corroborates the superiority of the g index as compared to the h index.
Publish and prosper: The financial impact of publishing by marketing faculty Based on our sample of 298 professors from 33 research-oriented marketing departments in the United States for the years 1999–2000, 2000–2001, and 2001–2002, our analysis suggests the following: • There is a positive association between research publications and salary.
A university-centred European Union link analysis Perhaps the clearest outcome from the analysis is the set of outliers in Figure 2: countries that may be under-represented on the web.
A bibliometric analysis of hydrogen energy literature, 1965-2005 The present work studies the characteristics of hydrogen energy literature from 1965 to 2005 based on the database of Science Citation Index Expanded (SCIE) and its implication using the bibliometric techniques. Future studies covering these two issues for a comprehensive insight on hydrogen energy and its literature are highly desirable and currently undergoing.
Korean journals in the Science Citation Index:: What do they reveal about the intellectual structure of S&T in Korea? The detailed analysis of the citation patterns of these ten Korean journals has taught us that these journals function each of them in specific niches of the international literature.
Integration in Europe of human genetics results obtained by Spaniards in the USA:: A historical perspective Throughout this paper we have advanced that the Spanish scientific emigration to the USA has been segmented by economic and innovation reasons, as well as by the continuation of post-doctoral studies. Lastly, the relationship between the research institutions involved in the USA and in Spain has been outlined and the most creative Spanish campuses in terms of mobility and the return of the scientists to their home country have been described.
Population modeling of the emergence and development of scientific fields The six case studies analyzed here show that population models analogous to those of epidemiology, suitably adapted, provide excellent bases with which to describe quantitatively the emergence and development of scientific fields across the natural sciences.
Contribution of Chinese publications in computer science: A case study on LNCS During the studied period, the number of Chinese papers in LNCS kept growing and the share of it gained a remarkable improvement since 2004.
Intra-EU vs. extra-EU scientific co-publication patterns in EU The differences between intra- and extra-EU collaboration patterns clearly point to a Europeanisation of shared co-authorship rather than Internationalization. The first results suggest that this is not the case and even if collaborations with a preferred partner are removed the average EU country still collaborate with intra- EU than extra-EU, showing that the collaborations are not completely scattered among regional clusters.
The h-index of h-index and of other informetric topics Computing the h-b index for topics is a promising direction, since it seems to be a good measure of visibility.
A hybrid mapping of information science The field of information science was subdivided into 5 classes by using a hybrid clustering method based on Fisher's inverse chi-square, incorporating the full text of scientific publications and their cited references. Three large clusters could be distinguished: one containing research in information retrieval, another one about bibliometrics/scientometrics, and, finally, a collection of more ‘socially' directed topics. We think that, in order to gain even better performance, a transition should be made towards fuzzy clustering algorithms.
Diffusion of treatment research: Does open access matter? Clearly, the article’s accessibility had a significant impact on mental health professionals’ likelihood to read it. Taken together, the data on readership and on treatment recommendations suggest that OA could increase consumption of treatment research, which is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for that research to influence clinical practice. A more immediate practical implication of the present study is that scholars wishing to maximize the diffusion of their research among the professional community should deposit eprints of their work in OA archives.
How to use bibliometric methods in evaluation of scientific research?: An example from Finnish schizophrenia research Bibliometric methods offer a practical and impartial way to estimate publication profiles of researchers and research groups. According to our experience, these methods can be used as an evaluation instrument in research together with other methods, such as expert opinions and panels.
Why are peer review outcomes less favorable for clinical science than for basic science grant applications? The present study, based on data from 12 review coun-cil rounds, confirms and extends preliminary observa-tions that clinical grant applications, in aggregate, do not fare as well in peer review as nonclinical applica-tions.
A generic lexical URL segmentation framework for counting links, colinks or URLs This article introduced generic lexical URL segmentation frame-works for URL, link, and colink counting. This framework allows a wide range of different lexical counting methods to be systematically described and compared.
Distributional differences of the Impact Factor in the sciences versus the social sciences: An analysis of the probabilistic structure of the 2005 Journal Citation Reports The main reason for the SCI Impact Factor distribution being more skewed than the SSCI one was that review journals defining disciplinary paradigms play a much more important role in the sciences than in the social sciences.
Local citation analysis, publishing and reading patterns: Using multiple methods to evaluate faculty use of an academic library's research collection Finally, the joint evaluation methods used in this study provided some confirmatory and some contradictory results; these results, in turn, have prompted us to ask why, and our analyses have painted a richer picture of the academic research landscape across a variety of subject areas of one university. By the same token, we hope that the results of this study will encourage academic librarians, especially from an increasing number of universities that have been surveyed using similar instruments, to consider the intermix of local citation analysis data and survey data on journal use and reading patterns when evaluating their research collections.
The DCI index:: Discounted cumulated impact-based research evaluation We propose the DCI metric for research performance evaluation.
Using field cocitation analysis to assess reciprocal and shared impact of LIS/MIS fields "This three-phase research was valuable in identifying the reciprocal and shared impact between LIS and MIS, validating field cocitation as an accurate bibliometric analysis tool, and defining the evolving fields of LIS and MIS."
Fundamental properties of rhythm sequences In this article, fundamental mathematical properties of rhythm sequences were studied. In particular, we have shown that it is possible to propose a set of axioms for valid rhythm indicators and to select rhythm indicators based on this set of axioms. The R'-sequence is for this reason preferred above the R-sequence.
An empirical investigation of the g-index for 26 physicists in comparison with the h-Index, the A-index, and the R-index In my opinion, this makes the g-index more suitable than the h-index to characterize the overall impact of the publications of a scientist. The g-index allows for a better discrimination among average scientists, as demonstrated in the present investigation. But one argument remains in favor of the g-index: It is just more elegant because just one number needs to be determined
Co-word analysis using the Chinese character set Nevertheless, the semantic organization in Figure 1 is meaningful.
Faculty publication productivity, collaboration, and grants velocity: using curricula vitae to compare center-affiliated and unaffiliated scientists Our statistical results indicate that center affilia- tion has some results in the hypothesized direction. We find that center affiliation tends to depress grants velocity while increasing collaboration rates. Generalizability of these specific findings may be limited to those working in the field of reproductive health research. Future research should specify other scientific fields that are stratified by multidiscipli- nary science centers to evaluate whether the phe- nomena of greater funding stability and propensity to collaborate hold.
Assessment of sectoral aggregation distortion in research productivity measurements The analyses carried out in this paper, focusing on the Italian university system, show that in scientific productivity assessments the level of data aggrega-tion plays a fundamental role, given the variability of the structures under consideration, the differences in prolificacy of the disciplines and the varying rep-resentativeness by area of the journals covered in source databases. Nevertheless, the approach described in this paper is an attempt to overcome one of the current limitations of this tech-nique, and can be used to reconsider in comparative terms the costs/benefits ratio between the bibliomet-ric methodology and the peer-review one, as well as to devise support systems for policy makers and for the staff in charge of the management of institutions and research systems at different levels.
Is the h index related to (standard) bibliometric measures and to the assessments by peers?: An investigation of the h index by using molecular life sciences data All in all, the findings indicate that the h index is a valid indicator for research performance at the micro and meso levels and is a promising rough measurement of the quality of a young scientist's work as it is judged by internationally renowned scientists.
Testing the validity of the Hirsch-index for research assessment purposes This study has shown that across disciplines the H-index is strongly biased, and one can imagine that even within one field, the di- versity of publication and citation patterns can be such that, even within one field, a bias can occur.
A new variant of the Pathfinder algorithm to generate large visual science maps in cubic time In this paper, we have presented a new variant of the Pathfinder algorithm, to be used as a network pruning algorithm for the generation of visual representations of very large scientific domains, aiming to decrease its actual run time.
Visualization of the Nordic academic web: Link analysis using social network tools Co-link analysis has contributed valuable information, mainly regarding thematic relationships, in the Nordic academic web space, grouping universities web domain according to their thematic area.
Two houses: Legislative studies and the Atlantic divide I used bibliometric data from eight of the leading journals in the discipline to shed light on the state of legislative studies as a sub-discipline.
The equalizing effect of the Internet on access to research expertise in political science and economics Using data on co-authorship in some of the top journals in political science and econom-ics, we have found evidence that the Internet has dimin-ished this inequity by having an equalizing effect on access to research expertise.
Ratings of journals for the dissemination of pharmacy-related social and administrative science Results of this study have implications for scholars choosing publication venues and those who make decisions contingent on scholars' publication records. This study provides guidance for decisions reliant on publication records, but should not be used exclusively as such an indicator.
A bibliometric analysis of communication journals from 2002 to 2005 The present data from 4 years of time (2002–2005) indicate that certain journals in the field of communication are more often referenced than other journals.
The seven deadly sins of communication research An explicit connection to a clearly identified theoretical corpus and novel findings or perspectives proved to be the most important predictors of publication. Our analysis leads us to conclude that strategically theoretical integration and originality ought to be foremost in the minds of prospective contributors as it will be in the minds of their reviewers. But stepping back and thinking about the field as a whole, what strikes us as a weakness in the process is the variability and ambiguity of what is accepted as adequate theory.
Bibliometric overview of Operations Research/Management Science research in Asia In conclusion, the present study offers a fairly complete and reliable overview of OR/MS research in Asian in the years between 1968 and 2006. In the seven Asian countries/regions under review here, the OR/MS research is active and productive, and accounts for 16.6% of all the OR/MS fields. In a highly competitive world, to precisely know its position in comparison with its competitors can be utilized to identify the strategies to improve the property of allocation of resources and therefore to upgrade the quality of its research.
The measurement of Italian universities' research productivity by a non parametric-bibliometric methodology This study was aimed at developing and validating a bibliometric non-parametric methodology for measuring the performance of public research activity. As it overcomes the representativeness limitations described above, our model therefore forms a robust benchmarking tool for research management and a valid integrating instrument to support policy makers' decisions. Further analyses and developments of the proposed methodology, part of which have already been undertaken by the authors, may concern: (in terms of methodological fine-tuning) i) use of production factors cost vectors to estimate economic and allocation efficiency; ii) use of citations rather than the impact factor in assessing the quality of a paper; iii) integration of data from the 2004-2006 period for time series analyses and extension to the socio-economic and art and humanities areas.
Scientific research competitiveness of world universities in computer science We manage to evaluate the scientific research competitiveness of global universities in computer science, build the evaluation indicator system including four primary indicators and six secondary indicators based on ESI and assign them with proper weights.
Representation of journals from five neighboring European countries in the Journal Citation Reports Our findings suggest that other factors, including the quality of individual journals, may influence how many journals a country will have in the JCR.
Bibliographic coupling, common abstract stems and clustering: A comparison of two document-document similarity approaches in the context of science mapping The complete linkage method, in combination with Mojena's upper tail rule, gives rise to a fairly good approximation of the classification with respect to the number of identified groups, especially in case of the stems approach. For future research, a full text approach may be compared to the two approaches studied in this work.
Scientific production and collaboration in Epidemiology and Public Health, 1997-2002 The study of collaborative profiles reveals the presence of more or less compact collaborative groups: European countries establish more collaborative relationships, although they are fairly heterogeneous.
Hyperlink analysis for government websites of Chinese provincial capitals For government websites in China, all of the three backlink counts are positively correlates with the comprehensive ratings of the these websites; this indicates that total backlink counts, external backlink counts, and non-gov backlink counts would be a useful measure for evaluating government websites in China. Based on this, we consider backlink counts to be a useful indicator for evaluating the economic status of regions. Nevertheless, since the study of government websites is a new realm, more work could and should be done to reveal the phenomena of link, and apply these discoveries to the design and improvement of government websites.
An exploratory study on substantive co-link analysis: A modification to total co-link analysis According to the discussion and analysis above, we validate our hypothesis mentioned in the front of this paper and draw the conclusion that substantive co-link analysis is more effective and tenable than total co-link analysis, the reason of which is substantive co-link frequency is closer to the fact, while in total co-link analysis, non-substantive links, such as script links, advertisement links and links within a BSP site, will magnify the real co-link frequency, and therefore, fail to reflect the real relation between two blogs. However, there are still some shortcomings in this paper. For example, our methods to recognize and distinguish substantive and non-substantive links are not so accurate and precise.
International graduate training, digital inequality and professional network structure: An ego-centric social network analysis of knowledge producers at the "Global South" "Our results suggest that scientists still prefer face-to-face interaction as their primary mode of communication."
A quantitative analysis of indicators of scientific performance We have shown that the use of Bayesian statistics and the Kullback-Leibler divergence can answer this question in a statistically compelling manner. It is possible to draw reliable conclusions regarding an author's citation record on the basis of approximately 50 papers, and it is possible to assign meaningful statistical uncertainties to the results. The probabilistic methods adopted here permit meaningful comparison of scientists working in distinct areas with only minimal value judgments.
An investigation into diabetes researcher's perceptions of the Journal Impact Factor - reconsidering evaluating research First of all, we found that the impact factor of a series of journals correlates significantly to the respondents' preferences for publication – the higher JIF the more the researches wish to publish in those journals.
Oxford Journals' adventures in open access Overall we are pleased to say that NAR remains financially viable at this time. Models funded by author-side charges seem unlikely to be viable across all of the disciplines in which we publish, so we foresee a future of diverse models, ranging across full open access, optional open access, delayed free access (e.g. where journal content is made freely available 12 months after publication), subscription access, and every combination in between, depending on the journal. One size does not fit all – we must continue experimenting and supporting a wide variety of publishing models, reflecting the different communities which we serve.
Expressions of concern and their uses Although the expression of concern is a relatively recent development and to date has been rarely used, it does offer journal editors a tool with which to address potential problems with articles before the conclusions of misconduct investigations, or when such investigations are unlikely to resolve the serious concerns raised.
Trends in journal prices: an analysis of selected journals, 2000-2006 There is some evidence to suggest that not-for-profit publishers may, on average, offer better value for money in terms of price per page and price per point of impact factor, but this is far from conclusive. It would be interesting to continue these series of analyses, and to extend the range of subjects covered. The development of open access models, transferring the costs of publishing from the consumer to the producer of scholarly material, is likely to introduce a further complication.
Author perceptions of journal quality Overall, the leading quality attributes were: (a) the journal's reputation, (b) the estimated length of time to publication, and (c) the journal's readership.
Citation counts and the Research Assessment Exercise, part VI: Unit of assessment 67 (music) Contrary to the null hypothesis posited at the outset, a strong correlation was in fact found between citation count totals at departmental level and the Assessment scores awarded to the departments. The Arts and Humanities Citation Index alone is not a suitable data source for citation analysis in the field of music. However, if an alternative data source could be found, there is potential for the use of citation analysis in research assessment in music.
Disentangling visibility and self-promotion bias in the arXiv:astro-ph positional citation effect Our finding that a visibility bias exists at the top of arXiv:astro-ph should provide a strong cautionary note concerning the use of such statistics.
Exploring the dynamics of journal citations: Modelling with s-curves Looking at citations for collections of papers, the significant lack of symmetry over time meant that they were best fitted by the gamma distribution, and occasionally the Weibull, but not the Pearl logistic or Gompertz curves. Predicting future citations for individual papers proved to be extremely difficult. Finally, it was surprising how many papers were still being actively cited after 14 years. It would be useful to replicate this analysis on a sample that is as old as possible—in the case of ISI data this would be back to 1975.
Arab universities on the web: a webometric study Although web search engines are not ideally appropriate for measuring the web impact factor, it is still a very applicable tool.
Electronic publication and the narrowing of science and scholarship Searching online is more efficient and following hyperlinks quickly puts researchers in touch with prevailing opinion, but this may accelerate consensus and narrow the range of findings and ideas built upon.
Trends in the scientific literature on phytoplankton During this period, changes in the approach of phytoplankton studies were evidenced in the literature.
Measuring science-technology interaction using rare inventor-author names Analysis of the distribution of our 6.7% sample of patents has shown that it corresponds reasonably well to the distribution of patents containing non-patent references, and thus is a suitable sample for further studies of science-technology interaction. There is much work that can be done with a set of validated inventor-author data such as that identified in this study. Such studies would have distinct policy implications in that they provide detailed input-output information that could be useful to decision makers.
On the relationship between the structural and socioacademic communities of a coauthorship network The analysis presented in this article compared communities in the studied coauthorship network identified by the community detection algorithms to communities made explicit in the socioacademic profile of the constituent community members.
Definitions of time series in citation analysis with special attention to the h-index The empirical p-c matrix combined with the adapted F-R notation clearly draws attention to fundamentally different approaches to time series in citation analysis. We hope that the series we designed will be useful in addressing problems related to the development and characterisation of scientific research, as represented by citation indicators such as impact factors and h-type indices. Also here there is much room for improvement.
A modification of the h-index:: The hm-index accounts for multi-authored manuscripts In conclusion, short of knowing how much each co-author has contributed to a publication, the hm-index appears to me to be the fairest way of taking multiple authorship appropriately into account. Its determination requires a somewhat larger effort than the determination of the h-index, but in my opinion this is worthwhile and it could be easily incorporated into the automatic search in the Web-of-Science. The respective analysis is left for future investigations.
Comparing all-author and first-author co-citation analyses of information science The major specialty structure of the Information Science field produced by author co-citation analysis is largely the same whether it is first-author- or all-author-based, confirming findings from Persson (2001)’s simplified study.
Object-relational data modelling for informetric databases The object-relational database methodology has been implemented for informetric studies. The system enables informetricians to: model dynamic and complex data; to interoperate with diverse data formats and attribute standards; perform sophisticated queries or embed ad hoc calculations as essential analysis methods in user-defined objects. Informetricians could benefit most from the querying capability when complex data is modelled expressly for informetric analyses together with the facility to build specific-purpose databases. Further work on the issues we face and the specific adaptations to data collection and processing is being conducted. Specifically we focus on database design, implementation, evaluation, leverage over the Web and interoperability with other services.
The influence of merging on h-type indices In this paper we studied mergings of two types (and all their intermediate values): corresponding sources receive the sum of their scores (=item values) or corresponding sources receive the maximum of their scores.
The effects of portfolio purchasing on scientific subject collections Mapping the citation patterns of fac-ulty does provide valuable information to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of journal portfolios. The premium paid to maintain access to the 75.4 percent of titles in the portfolio cited infrequently or not at all by faculty should be reconsidered. Rather than contributing to the normalizing of li-brary collections by supporting the strate-gic positioning of commercial publishers, large research libraries may respond better to the needs of all faculty, especially those conducting research in smaller fields, by returning to à la carte purchasing.
Citation characteristics and intellectual acceptance of scholarly monographs The present study provides valuable data and interesting insights outlining the shared and unique characteristics of citations to monographs, comparing to patterns of citations to journal literature established by the previous research.
Productivity and impact of astronomical facilities: Three years of publications and citation rates We conclude from the numbers shown here and those in the previous four papers that three years of publications, and three following years of citations, is sufficient to make the numbers robust for nearly all telescopes, observatories, and so forth. If you have a choice, large trumps small, but well-supported sites trump struggling ones by a comparable factor. And service to the community, in the form of catalogues and mission descriptions, is rewarded, at least in citation numbers, if not always in other ways.
Scholarly influence in the field of management: A bibliometric analysis of the determinants of university and author impact in the management literature in the past quarter century The purpose of the two studies reported in this article was to examine the extent to which influence in the field of management is concentrated in a few individuals and universities, identify those universities and researchers who have had the biggest impact during the past quarter century, and identify some of the key structural determinants of author and university influence.
e-Sciences as research technologies: reconfiguring disciplines, globalizing knowledge The conclusion assesses how the notion of research technologies is useful for understanding how networked computing technologies are changing the current landscape of knowledge production. As Shinn & Joerges have noted in their research, the practice-based universality of the e-research technologies that make knowledge more manipulable is bound to continue to grow.
Research specialization and collaboration patterns in sociology A primary goal of this paper was to assess how specialization, a defining characteristic of modern science (Dogan & Pahre, 1989, 1990), shapes sociologists’ collaboration styles. Results from our latent profile analysis suggest that the areas and extent of specialization pursued by researchers informs collaboration strategies. Our analysis and results will ideally serve as a springboard for additional research.
The annual meeting of the European Society for Vascular Surgery - The scientific contents over the years The presentations at the Annual meeting of European Society for Vascular Surgery contribute substantially to the contents of the Society Journal but a large proportion of the presentations never appear in print.
Ranking the management journals While the A-list of journals was already well known, this project offers a valuable aid in discerning the value of other outlets for management publication.
Problems and solutions for social science journals at Chinese universities Although the number of journals published has increased rapidly, making China the second largest producer of journals in the world, the quality of these journals, by international standards, still requires improvement.
Peer-review practice and research for academic journals in China While Chinese scholarly publishing has for the most part accepted peer review, continued debate and discussion will further improve the peer-review system.
Enhancing transdisciplinary research through collaborative leadership To be successful in these venues, leaders must assume a pivotal role in surmount-ing the obstacles inherent in transdisciplinary collabo-rations and in facilitating the emergence of major discoveries from these endeavors.
Measuring collaboration and transdisciplinary integration in team science This paper provides valid tools that can be utilized to examine the underlying processes of team science—an important step toward advancing the science of team science. In closing, it should be noted that this study was limited in its ability to examine the predictive validity of these scales, as only cross-sectional data were available. Therefore, much more work is needed to further assess the utility of these scales for detecting changes over time (e.g., in the collaborative effectiveness and productivity of transdisciplinary centers); for detecting stability; and for elucidating the pathways by which team science initiatives generate longer-term impacts on scientific progress and population health as suggested by the ELI logic model.
The collaboration readiness of transdisciplinary research teams and centers - Findings from the National Cancer Institute's TREC Year-One evaluation study This study contributes to the science of team science by (1) developing and testing new evaluation research tools (i.e., the TREC Year-One survey and the written-products protocol); and (2) by opening new avenues of investigation for evaluating the empirical links between collaboration readiness and near-term collaborative processes and products in the context of large-scale, cross-disciplinary research and training initiatives. Further investi-gations are needed to identify the highest leverage determinants of collaboration readiness and capacity—that is, those that are linked most closely to important scientific and health advances as they emerge over the course of a team science initiative. A broader under-standing of the relationships among collaborative-readiness factors, collaborative capacity, and longer-term collaborative impacts on health science, clinical practice, and population well-being will enable funding agencies to more effectively identify and support the teams of researchers with the greatest potential to succeed in complex cross-disciplinary research.
Transdisciplinarity among tobacco harm-reduction researchers - A network analytic approach Based on findings from this initial mapping of the Tobacco Harm-Reduction Network, network researchers can readily see which types of cross-disciplinary collabora- tive efforts are most likely and which are most (and least) effective, from an outcome perspective.
Intradisciplinary differences in database coverage and the consequences for bibliometric research Intradisciplinary differences in database coverage affect the results of bibliometric research based on retrieved data from databases.
Patent classifications as indicators of intellectual organization In summary, the results are a bit disappointing given the relatively well-organized dataset, and one should not expect better results from using more mixed sets like those currently under preparation by the OECD and the various patent offices.
Mathematical theory of the h- and g-index in case of fractional counting of authorship In this article, the h- and g-indexes of authors are extended to their “fractional” versions.
Self-citation as an impact-reinforcing mechanism in the science system From the findings in this study, one can conclude that generally, size (P) enhances self-citations (Cs) more than (external) citations (C), and this finding is further supported by the observation that P is a better predictor for Cs than it is for C.
Appropriate similarity measures for author co-citation analysis We have argued that the Pearson correlation has some shortcomings as a measure of the similarity between co-citation profiles. The cosine does not have the shortcomings of the Pearson correlation, and we therefore regard it as a more appropriate similarity measure for co-citation profiles. This shows that the choice of an appropriate similarity measure is not merely of theoretical interest but also has a high practical relevance.
The influence of the broadness of a query of a topic on its h-index: Models and examples of the h-index of N-grams In this article, we calculated h-indices for topics with a variable “wideness” and we showed that the model h = h(T) = T^(1/α) (9) applies well (concave increase) where T is the number of retrieved documents and α is the Lotka exponent. The above Equation 8 has been extended to a model for the h-index in function of the length N of the N-gram: h = h(N) = D.10^(-N/α) (10) where D is a constant and α is as above. The obtained data confirm this convex decreasing relation. We leave it open to find more stable methods to estimate the h-index of a database. We also encourage colleagues to further experiment on the h-index of topics expressed via different widenesses of the query and especially on the h-index of N-grams.
The university rankings game: Modeling the competition among universities for ranking The model provides (lagged) rank-specific elastic- ities of ranks with respect to changes in university characteris- tics, thereby offering insight about the effect of a university's strategy on its rank.
Alternatives to the publication subsidy for research funding In conclusion, it is evident that the publication subsidy serves as an extremely blunt instrument that probably has far more problems than benefits.
Comparison of SCImago journal rank indicator with journal impact factor Although further validation is warranted, the novel SJR indicator poses as a serious alternative to the well-established journal IF, mainly due to its open-access nature, larger source database, and assess-ment of the quality of citations.
Hyperlink analysis of the visibility of Canadian library and information science school web sites This study provides experimental results from a hyperlink study of the visibility of the web sites of the seven ALA-accredited Canadian LIS schools over a 3 year period. Based on the findings in this study, we make the following recommendations to improve the visibility of LIS school web sites: • develop unique and valuable web contents; • host a wide range of topics; and • maintain a consistent home page URL.
Sourcing research as an intellectual network of ideas In general, the most obvious research opportunities seem to reside in the comparison and synthesis of two distinct research areas: (i) the traditional channels ("inside-out") perspective that emphasizes companies as components of the overall value chain and (ii) the keiretsu-influenced strategic sourcing (“outside-in") perspective that is more specific to the dyadic nature of supplier relationships.
Patterns of use of electronic journals in Spanish university libraries Among the general conclusions, no stagnation can be observed in the number of articles downloaded during the period studied.
Fostering ethics research: An analysis of the accounting, finance and marketing disciplines Our study documents the dearth of ethics research in the finance discipline when compared to two other disciplines (one very similar and one quite different). Our analysis indicates that fostering an increased level of ethics research can be accomplished by including an ethics journal in the discipline's Top-40 journals list (i.e., marketing) or publishing a discipline-specific ethics journal and supporting conference devoted exclusively to ethics research (i.e., accounting). Consequently, the absence of data from management, law and economics in our study provides an opportunity for future research.
Role of gender in reviewers' appraisals of quality in political science books: A content analysis The findings of the present study indicate the role of women in academe is changing.
How do the media report cancer research? A study of the UK's BBC website In this study, we have found consistently high levels of BBC cancer research stories.
Visibility of team science - A case study of media coverage of the NSF Science and Technology Centers The results show not only that this trend in science and its associated issues are essentially invisible through the media, but that the synergies between research, education, technology transfer, and outreach are not picked up in reporting practices that are essentially unidimensional.
Open-access publishing for pharmacy-focused journals "A very small number of pharmacy-focused journals adhere to the OA paradigm of access."
Effects of social interactions on scientists' productivity This result is interpreted as providing evidence for threshold externalities and increasing returns to scale.
A citation-based ranking of strategic management journals The two most interesting periods we analyze are 1997–2006, which reflects the performance of the journals over a long time, and 2003–2006, the most recent 4-year period. Our analyses should prove useful for authors in choosing where to submit their papers, readers in deciding what to read, and tenure and promotion committees in evaluating academic publications. The overall picture—including the recognition of several strategy journals by the highly selective database of ISI and the clear grounding of strategy in established fields like economics—also reflects well on the academic status of the field as a whole, and should encourage more researchers to contribute to this field as it successfully graduates from youth to maturity.
Double-blind peer review and gender publication bias Yet our reanalysis could not confirm that double-blind review has any detectable positive effect. We believe that more target-oriented actions are needed to facilitate the scientific careers of female scientists, especially at young ages.
National Institutes of Health funding for cardiothoracic surgical research Per capita NIH funding of cardiothoracic surgeons is very much less than that of the NIH as a whole. The primary cause is the low per capita number of appli- cations submitted by cardiothoracic surgeons. Junior CT surgery faculty members are encouraged to use existing career development mechanisms. However, since the ability to shift cost from clinical to academic faculty is declining, affirmative action from the NIH may be neces- sary to ensure ongoing translational research in the field of CT surgery.
A bibliometric analysis of the literature of chemoinformatics Chemoinformatics first appeared as a distinct discipline in the late-1990s, since when it has generated a considerable literature.
Assessing the international web connectivity of research groups The results summarised above illustrate the wide range of findings available from web data. They also prove the utility of webometrics in fast pilot studies of research groups, providing hypotheses for subsequent more detailed study. By connecting automatic webometrics to textual indications of reasons for hyperlink creation – pointing to employment opportunities, to interesting research, to relevant events – hyperlink statistics can be expected to make a yet more important contribution to the research effort in this field.
Use and linkage of source and output repositories: interviews with chemistry researchers From the outcome of these interviews, the following conclusions can be made: ... Internet-based services such as Google Scholar are amongst the most popular means of searching for information. Other factors that it was felt would contribute to the success and/or the increased use of source and output repositories were the publicising of the potential benefits that such a service could have for the research community and the involvement of scientists in its development. Also important were issues regarding the sustainability, management and maintenance of both source and output repositories.
Viewing and reading behaviour in a virtual environment - The full-text download and what can be read into it The paper has undertaken a comprehensive examination of full-text viewing for the first time, and while it cannot be claimed to have ended arguments about the academic outcomes of this form of behaviour, it has set out the chief characteristics of this form of behaviour, demonstrated how diverse this form of behaviour is, and put forward a method of distinguishing between types of full-text viewing. Triangulating log and questionnaire findings it was found that just 12 per cent of full-text views could be assumed to have resulted in online reading. Finally, the results of this study, when taken together with CIBER research on “bouncing” (Nicholas et al., 2007), show more than anything else that rich navigating opportunities and the power browsing that goes with it are the prized benefits and real outcomes of web searching.
Statistical analysis of the National Institutes of Health peer review system Viewed more broadly, the methodology proposed in this article provides a general framework for the analysis of data collected interactively from expert panels through the use of the Delphi method and related procedures.
Open access publishing, article downloads, and citations: randomised controlled trial Open access publishing may reach more readers than subscription access publishing.
Perceptions of ethical problems with scientific journal peer review: An exploratory study Our survey provides support for these reforms, since it demonstrates that biomedical researchers perceive that there are some problems with the integrity and quality of peer review.
Quantification of authors' contributions and eligibility for authorship: Randomized study in a general medical journal "Ordinal scales for reporting authors' contributions to manuscripts were more sensitive than tick boxes for assessing the appropriateness of authorship."
Quantitative comparisons of search engine results In conclusion, quantitative results from the three search engines are mostly consistent but with unexpected types of inconsistency that users should be aware of.
Citation counting, citation ranking, and h-index of human-computer interaction researchers:: A comparison of Scopus and Web of Science This study shows that, in HCI, conference proceedings constitute, along with journals, a major channel of written communication.
Web site visibility evaluation The correct positioning of contents and services that a site offers as Web pages, in an environment which is as highly competitive as is the Internet, has a direct impact upon the traffic it receives.
Conference proceedings as a source of scientific information:: A bibliometric analysis The small percentage of references made to proceedings among all cited documents—about 2% in the NSE and the SSH combined—indicates that conference proceedings do not account for a significant share of the relevant scientific literature in general. Though proceedings account for a very small share of relevant literature in science as a whole, they do account for a nonnegligible part of cited literature in engineering and computer sciences and hence should, in addition to scientific articles, be considered for inclusion in bibliometric studies and evaluations. The evidence thus shows that proceedings have a relatively limited scientific impact, on average representing only about 2% of total citations, that their relative importance is shrinking, and that they become obsolete faster than the scientific literature in general.
Dynamic animations of journal maps: Indicators of structural changes and interdisciplinary developments The case studies teach us that this is not always so, and such mediation seldom leads to the stabilization of an interface beyond two specialties (Leydesdorff, 1992). In summary, the claim of “interdisciplinarity” eventually seems in practice to lead to the emergence of a specific interface between two existing specialties and the potential reorganization of that interface into a coevolution. Furthermore, we did not witness the emergence of stable interfaces between the social and natural sciences in these case studies, although the development of such an inter-face could have been expected in the cases of Social Networks and Cognitive Science.
Selecting manuscripts for a high-impact journal through peer review:: A citation analysis of communications that were accepted by Angewandte Chemie International Edition, or rejected but published elsewhere All in all, the results of this study confirm that peer review at AC-IE is able to select the "best" scientific work with the highest impact on chemical research.
A proposal for a dynamic h-type index As such, we are convinced that this proposal is more useful for hiring purposes than the lifetime-achievement h-index.
Modifying the journal impact factor by fractional citation weighting: The audience factor The audience factor, a weighted form of IF, controls for the differences of citing propensity and immediacy among fields. Its main features, in comparison with other types of measures, are shown in Table 3. A major question is whether citing-side normalization should stand alone or be embedded in influence measures reinforcing the "natural" Matthew effect.
Applying the Author Affiliation Index to library and information science journals In sum, the AAI may work well in relatively self-contained domains such as economics and finance and operations management which have large, homogeneous periodical literatures, but less well in more loosely structured and less clearly delineated fields such as LIS. Having said that, it would be interesting to apply the AAI to the journal literature of other professional fields such as social work or education to see whether similar issues arise and similar results are obtained. In addition, it might be instructive to extend the study population to include LIS programs from other countries.
Overseeing research practice - The case of data editing These findings serve as the basis for recommenda-tions to ensure data integrity while maintaining the professional autonomy of researchers.
Bibliometric analysis on global Parkinson's disease research trends during 1991-2006 The results would help researchers to realize the panorama of global PD research, and point to the direction for further studies.
Is the impact of journal impact factors decreasing? In summary, although we acknowledge that there is no single “perfect” journal impact indicator (Moed, 2005b), we have clearly shown that the commonly used IF for journals can to some extent be relatively easily manipulated. Our studies highlight cases in which journal impact factors are intentionally or not affected by particular editorial strategies. This finding leads to the conclusion that one must be most careful in interpreting and using journal impact factors, and that authors, editors and policy makers must be aware of their potential manipulability. If their frequency of occurrence increases, one is drawn to the conclusion that the impact of IFs is rapidly decreasing.
Yield sequences as journal attractivity indicators:: "payback times" for Science and Nature We can conclude from our investigations, though, that yield sequences make dynamic aspects of a journal visible.
Author-rated importance of cited references in biology and psychology publications Findings of the study have enabled a comprehensive, profound level of understanding of citation behaviors of biology and psychology authors. It uncovered a number of unique characteristics in authors' citation evaluations, such as article-level context effects and rule-versus affective-based judgments.
Reality check on career success and weak paradigms: chance still favors the hearty soul Our reality check shows clearly that Hollenbeck and Mannor's (2007) “reasonable case" is quite unreasonable.
Extending Lotkaian informetrics We have shown that the Pareto type II distribution also has the right form in the upper tail and additionally has the curvilinear form in the left tail (of the log-log form) revealed in many empirical data sets.
Explicit expressions for the Leimkuhler curve in parametric families All the obtained Leimkuhler curves can be computed easily.
An axiomatic characterization of the Hirsch-index In this article, we have given axiomatic characterizations for the Hirsch-index, the w-index, and the maximum-index. Another nice property of the w-index is that its underlying isosceles right-angled triangle (see Fig. 1) seems to resemble one's average citation curve more closely than the square that underlies the Hirsch-index. All this makes us hope that the w-index might actually turn out to be useful for practical purposes.
A hyperlink analysis of U.S. public and academic libraries' Web sites The results suggest that libraries of both types attract quantities of links in proportion to their size. This suggests that public libraries in the United States may have little interaction with the universities in the country. If this phenomenon is further verified in both online and offline settings, some serious effort needs to be made to enhance the dialogue between public libraries and universities and to further develop meaningful joint endeavors between the two.
The production of published research by US academic health economists This paper describes the research productivity of U.S. health economists and explores the association of effort, experience, training, demographics and academic unit with publications.
Domination in a scientific field: Capital struggle in a Chinese isotope lab In this paper, Bourdieu's field theory is used to explain the competition found in the isotope lab. My analysis of the case identified two forms of capital in the field of geoscience: theoretical capital and technological capital.
Influence of a scientific initiation programme on scientific output of professors on a medical course in Brazil All professors studied had an increase in their scientific output. One cannot exclude the influence of some nonspecific factor (e.g., incentive payments) in this general increase. Their increase in scientific output was probably related to their commitment to SIP.
Phytotherapy and psychiatry:: Bibliometric study of the scientific literature from the last 20 years Productivity on medicinal plants in the psychiatry area increased during the period 1986-2006. Nevertheless, documents about therapeutic herbs in this medical field are still relatively few in number. Indeed, the tremendous increase in the amount of literature on this topic and its diffusion in some of the most prestigious scientific journals suggest that the study of medicinal plants in psychiatry is a topic whose development is in full swing from both the basic and clinical research perspectives.
Author perception of peer review Author feedback was more favorable among authors of accepted manuscripts, and responses differentiated among aspects of editorial review and reviewers.
Amusing titles in scientific journals and article citation The results of the current study indicate that in two prestigious scientific journals in psychology the use of exceptionally amusing titles (2 standard deviations above the average rated amusement) was associated with a substantiate 'penalty' of around 33% of the total number of citations. The results of the current study give an empirical validation to this notion. Although the reasons for the negative association between the use of amusing titles and subsequent citations are not entirely clear, the findings do suggest that authors should be cautious about including humorous contents in article titles.
Linking patterns in European Union countries: geographical maps of the European academic web space Germany and the UK stand out from the remaining countries. The size of their web spaces constitutes more than half of the European university web. Hence, we can conclude that both countries are the base on which the EU academic web space rests.
A bibliometric analysis of pharmacology and pharmacy journals: Scopus versus Web of Science In our study, Scopus turned out to be suitable for bibliometric analyses. However, the practicability of such studies could be much increased if Scopus were to add its own bibliometric ‘infrastructure' (comparable to the Journal Citation Reports) to its citation database. Concerning conference articles, Scopus is more transparent than the Web of Knowledge. For the latter it is not always clear in which cases proceedings, which are recorded in ISI Proceedings in general, are included.
Design and simulation on the publication delay control system According to simulation results of these control processes, we obtain some conclusions: It is inapposite that the average publication delay is regarded as the feedback (or controlled) variable; one reason is that it is discommodious to observe the average publication delay per issue and editors' workload must increase; another reason is that the adjustable range of the accepted contribution quantity or the published contribution quantity per issue is limited and adjusting periods are too long, otherwise the control system is unstable and the work procedure of the editing and publishing process is easily disturbed. It is a fine control method that the deposited contribution quantity is regarded as the feedback (or controlled) variable. Excellences of the control system are: firstly, the deposited contribution quantity N is easily observed; secondly, the adjusting process has a better stability, editors can release deposited contributions by any methods (supplements, monographs, specials, decreasing accepted contributions, etc.), but a precondition is that editors should hold an undulation of the contributing manuscript flux and the proportion of accepted contributions and guarantee normal issue.
Scientific literature cited in USPTO patent documents as indicators for the evaluation and analysis of Spanish scientific research in biomedical disciplines The results obtained show that the number and characteristics of the cites found in US patent documents to papers authored by scientists working in the Spanish universities or public research centers, can be used as indicators of the impact in technology development of the published research of the studied authors, and may also contribute to a more complete evaluation of the performance of scientists or their corresponding research Institutions.
Does the aging of tenured academic staff affect the research performance of universities? Data from Norwegian universities over a period of two decades indicate that age is a poor predictor of productivity in research, and that the previously observed decline in publishing productivity with increasing age may have been due to generation effects rather than aging effects. Such a conclusion would, however, give a distorted picture of the research capacity of the university as a whole. Today, there are as many staff in non-permanent positions as there are tenured academic staff, and post-docs and PhD-students spend twice as much time on research as those in permanent positions, largely compensating for the aging of tenured staff.
Team consolidation, social integration and scientists' research performance:: An empirical study in the Biology and Biomedicine field The most important finding here is that the combination of both situations – a consolidated, well-established research team, and a personal perception of being in the group productivity stage – has been found to be associated, for CSIC researchers in Biology and Biomedicine, with higher productivity of individual scientists, measured as JCR articles and patents granted. The results presented here corroborate the importance of research teamwork, and draw attention to the importance of teamwork understood not as two or more scientists working together to solve a problem, but as a complex process involving interactions and interpersonal relations within a particular contextual framework. Accordingly, researchers should not only work within a team structure, but should also work to ensure that their performance (both qualitatively and quantitatively) is enhanced by the greater degree of team development and consolidation, and by their degree of personal integration in the team.
How to identify emerging research fields using scientometrics: An example in the field of Information Security This research is rooted in the analysis of a network that has acquired a strong persuasive power in modern physics. Therefore, concentrating research efforts on the present hubs and at the same time conducting research on the cryptosystem field will realize the two goals of the science and technology policies of the nation most efficiently: selection and concentration. This research, however, has the following limitations. First, the methodology of this research is in lack of validity.
Objective assessment of scientific performances world-wide This study, contrary to some gloomy opinions and despite the possible biases present in the various sources of data and in ways of handling them, suggest that at least for what concerns hard science, performances can be measured impartially and objectively to different extent with the different indicator chosen. The utilization of the chosen bibliometric indicators, tested in real situations, appears capable to effectively automatize the assessment of both the public and private Institutions and of their individual university professors and researchers proving to be quite significant and should be used to provide computer-assisted evaluation criteria with the properly referenced international databank. Even if it is not possible to make strong claims for bibliometrics on the basis of limited studies of 80 Italian scientists as compared with foreign scientists in leading institutions in a single field, the applicability and validity of the evaluation procedure here implemented appears then proven for biophysics and related disciplines.
Institutional change and scientific research:: A preliminary bibliometric analysis of institutional influences on Turkey's recent social science publications This paper assessed publication performance of Turkish researchers over the over the past three decades.
Beyond the Durfee square: Enhancing the h-index to score total publication output We argue that the h_T-index is superior to h, both theoretically (it scores all citations), and because it shows smooth increases from year to year as compared with the irregular jumps seen in h.
The effectiveness of the peer review process:: Inter-referee agreement and predictive validity of manuscript refereeing at Angewandte chemie With regard to the reliability of the peer review process, the kappa coefficients (between 0.10 and 0.21) indicated a low level of agreement between the referees' recommendations concerning acceptance or rejection of a Communication. The citation analysis showed that the Communications accepted by Ange-wandte Chemie were on average cited statistically more frequently than manu-scripts rejected by the journal and published elsewhere. Both of these find-ings attest to the predictive validity of the peer review process at Angewandte Chemie.
Interfield dysbalances in research input and output benchmarking: Visualisation by density equalizing procedures Despite similar significances of cardiovascular and respiratory diseases for the global burden of disease, large input and output imbalances have been revealed in the present study which point to a need for changes in funding policies.
A survey of attitudes about digital repositories among faculty at Louisiana State University at Baton Rouge For a digital repository to play a role in scholarly communication those who have material to share need to submit material to it and those who search for work need to be directed to that digital repository.
Bibliometric analysis of the Spanish MR radiological production (2001-2007) Spanish radiologists published approximately two-third of their MR articles in several non-Spanish journals, while the official Spanish radiological journal Radiología leads the ranking of Spanish journals. Spanish radiologists are mainly active in the "neuroradiology" topic. The Spanish healthcare sector is the most active. German institutions published more in their official journal ROFO.
Growth, productivity, and scientific impact of sources of HIV/AIDS research information, with a focus on eastern and southern Africa In conclusion, the coverage of HIV/AIDS sources published in Africa in the MEDLINE and ISI databases is minimal. This calls for a reassessment of the journals' editorial policies, among other issues. Finally, it is recommended that countries in the region endeavour to create regionalised bibliographic databases that can be used for evaluating research.
A quick MST-based algorithm to obtain Pathfinder networks (∞, n-1) In this article, we have introduced a new variant of the Pathfinder algorithm for the specific parameter setting used in many applications (q must be fixed to n 1 and r to ∞), enabling us to drastically decrease the run time of the original algorithm. Our proposal is based on the fact that the union of the MSTs is equal to PFNET(∞, n − 1), what allows us to reduce the time complexity from O(n⁴) to O(n² · log n). The experimental comparison on the laboratory problem conducted on large networks has demonstrated the fast run time when networks are fully connected.
Main-path analysis and path-dependent transitions in HistCite™-based historiograms HistCite™ is a powerful tool that enabled us, among other things, to identify the most frequently cited works in any set of documents, and to build an inner citation matrix among them.
The citation advantage of open-access articles There appears to be a clear cita-tion advantage for those articles that are OA as opposed to those that are TA.
Is multidisciplinary research more highly cited? A macrolevel study Hence, one cannot assume that in general, multidisciplinary research will be more highly cited, and the converse is probably true for many areas of science. A policy implication is that, at least in the sciences, multidisciplinary researchers should not be evaluated by citations on the same basis as monodisciplinary researchers. The results suggest that research in multidisciplinary journals is not more highly cited than research in monodisciplinary journals.
Finding communities: alternative viewpoints through weblogs and tagging Given the small scale of these experiments, any conclusions drawn from them will be, by definition, preliminary. The results of searching for tags as opposed to free-text searching was not convincingly broader in scope, or in results. This project raises issues and questions that can lead to other research and other projects in the future.
Research rankings of Asia Pacific business schools: Global versus local knowledge strategies First, this article contributes to the literature by providing the first set of research rankings of Asia Pacific business schools.
Prolific authors and institutions in leading international business journals The present study provides a contemporary snapshot of the leading authors and institutions in international business.
A ten-year retrospective of advertising research productivity, 1997-2006 The purpose of this study has been to examine advertising scholarship from two different perspectives, and it is interesting that the conclusions drawn from both are similar.
Do we need incentives for PhD supervisors? Our study suggests that a structured, collectively organised PhD education fosters the academic placement success of PhD students.
Bibliometric analysis of the journal Uspekhi Khimii (Russian Chemical Reviews) According to the authoritative international data- bases, CA and SCI, the journal Uspekhi Khimii is among the world's leading journals.
Research paper citation record keeping: It is not for wimps For sure, research paper citation record keeping is not for wimps. Indeed, considerable effort over the course of some duration is required to obtain an accurate database of citations for computing any citation measure.
A ranking of journals in economics and related fields This paper has recomputed the ‘invariant' values for a sample of 261 journals from economics and related disciplines for the period 2003–05.
Life cycle and cohort productivity in economic research: The case of Germany In investigating the careers of German academic economists we have come across two characteristics that we regard to be essential for our understanding of the profession.
Publish or perish?: The increasing importance of publications for prospective economics professors in Austria, Germany and Switzerland The objective of this article is to quantify the research output of newly-appointed economics professors in Austria, Germany and the German-speaking part of Switzerland. We find that a publication record of around six EER standard articles is a reasonable benchmark for an ambitious post-doc. It is advisable to start applying for professorships at the age of 35–36 (or five to six years after having completed the PhD) with an output index of one or two points below the respective field average.
What and how long does it take to get tenure? The case of economics and business administration in Austria, Germany and Switzerland This paper analyzes tenure decisions for candidates for professorships in economics, business administration and related fields.
Research productivity in business economics: An investigation of Austrian, German and Swiss universities Drawing on a new comprehensive dataset that collects the research output of roughly 1,800 business economists working at Austrian, German and Swiss universities, we provide research rankings of university departments and analyze the determinants of research performance. We find that individual research productivity – and consequently departmental research productivity is affected by institutional and personal characteristics.
Assessing the nature of nanotechnology: can we uncover an emerging general purpose technology? Our study has highlighted qualitative evidence suggesting that nanotechnology may exhibit characteristics of a GPT. More importantly, we put forth the application of quantitative methods to uncover the nature of nanotechnology.
Structure of the nanoscience and nanotechnology applications literature The study has identified the main nanotechnology Applications, both medical and non-medical, as well as the related science and infrastructure.
Institutional and individual research productivity in five nominated multicultural psychology journals This study identified five highly nominated multicultural psychology journals, using an empirical snowball sampling method of editors and editorial board members in the field.
The usage and acceptance of domestic preprint servers in China The volume of submission has a strong correlation with official policy and promotion. The preprints communication in China shows a preponderance of physics, mathematics and computer science that reflects the international preprint communication priorities. Preprint servers in mainland China have developed steadily but still receive little attention from excellent scholars and as yet have a low impact on scientific communication.
Bibliometric analysis of the scientific literature on pain research: A 2006 study This study has uncovered some interesting characteristics of the pain literature: the diversity of countries contributing to pain research, the extent of collaboration among countries, the scatter and concentration of papers over journals disseminating the research results, and the range of research subdisciplines incorporating the pain literature. Furthermore, this overview can be used by policy-makers to identify strategies for improving the distribution of resources, and subsequently for optimizing the quantity and quality of research on pain.
Assessing the assessment or, the RAE and the optimal organization of University research (i) unless all disciplines carry out their basic research programmes through the very same strategy, namely by generalist departments, then the reward structure implicit in the RAE is sub-optimal; (ii) for any discipline that carries out research by means of specialist departments, RAE incentives point in the completely wrong direction, by promoting the concentration of talent when the optimal allocation calls for its even distribution; and (iii) if research design is regarded as amenable to change, then the RAE ought to promote research by specialist departments, by applying a finer definition of 'discipline' broken down by essential tasks and by allocating resources evenly across sub-disciplines.
The effect of gender on research staff success in life sciences in the Spanish National Research Council Our results show that bibliometric indicators by gender provide interesting data to analyse the scientific activity of women as compared with men. Obtaining these indicators is at present very laborious and time-consuming, but the development of a digital author identifier would greatly help such studies in the future. The inclusion of different personal and social variables in these types of studies would be very desirable to increase our knowledge about the situation of women in research and detect possible barriers to their progression in their scientific careers.
The effect of university-industry collaboration on the scientific impact of publications:: the Canadian case, 1980-2005 Collaboration with industries is, thus, far from detrimental to the scientific impact of university research and even increases it significantly. More importantly, our study shows that university-industry collaborations are advantageous to the two partners in terms of scientific impact. Though papers resulting from university-industry collaborations are, on average, published in journals with lower impact factors, they in fact receive, on average, higher citation counts than those published without such collaborations.
The Benefits of Being Economics Professor A (rather than z) Our findings suggest that, given the convention of alphabetical name ordering, there is room for a correction method where individual performance measures are corrected for the advantage or disadvantage of being situated in the vanguard or the rearguard of the alphabet. An alternative way of terminating this practice which leads to discrimination against Z authors is for journal editors to take (random) name ordering decisions—making public the fact that they do so. Being an A-author, and hence often the first author, is beneficial for someone's reputation and academic performance. Hence name ordering is a strategic decision.
Designing foresight studies for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (NST) future developments This paper points out that foresight studies for nanotechnology (i.e. studies to chose where to focus on in the nanotechnology area) should be designed in a different way than the one normally used.
Coauthorship networks and institutional collaboration patterns in reproductive biology We identified the networks of authors who publish in the journals with the greatest impact factor. Only some of the most productive institutions have consolidated collaborative relationships with other institutions.
Restructuring Research: Communication Costs and the Democratization of University Innovation Overall, these findings enhance our understanding of knowledge production.
Mapping Korea's national R&D domain of robot technology by using the co-word analysis In this study, we obtained a strategic diagram for the robot technology from Korea national R&D Project metadata in 2001. Moreover, the experts verified that the particular location of each cluster in the diagram shows the almost exact progress status of the overall robot technology domain as of 2001. In conclusion, we think the strategic diagram which shows the current status of National R&D programs can be used complementarily in the drawing process of the technology roadmap such as Figure 11.
Patterns of annual citation of highly cited articles and the prediction of their citation ranking: A comparison across subjects The conjectures were found to apply to the six cases drawn from articles published in 1969 to 1971 and two samples of articles published in 1986. Finally, total citation prediction appears to be more accurate if based upon citations in years 5 and 6 only, rather than on the full data available for years 1–6, at least for articles that are eventually highly cited. This alternative indicator is recommended as part of a flexible approach where the method used for predicting total citations depends on the citation patterns of the subject.
A comparison of overall and sub-area journal influence: The case of the accounting literature Our results confirm that in certain sub-areas specialized journals may be substantially more influential than would appear from a ranking for the discipline as a whole.
New evaluation indexes for articles and authors' academic achievements based on Open Access Resources The concept of continuity of hits and citations as well as authors' productivity was applied to the normalized composite index developed in this study for the evaluation of articles and authors' academic achievements.
Assessment of world aerosol research trends by bibliometric analysis In this study dealing with aerosol SCI papers, we obtained some significant points on the worldwide research trends throughout the period from 1991 to 2006.
Impact of health science research on the Spanish health system, based on bibliometric and healthcare indicators As far as the first hypothesis explored in this study is concerned, more papers were not always found in areas such as Cardiology, Oncology, Gastroenterology and so forth, related to the population's chief health problems, for Nephrology with 18.8% and especially Neuroscience with 64.4% accounted for a major share of published research. In connection with the second hypothesis, scientists affiliated with health sector showed greater interest in research related to clinical practice, concentrating on Cardiology, Gastroenterology, Haematology, Nephrology, Rheumatology and Dermatology, whereas universities were more prone to conduct basic research in disciplines such as Neuroscience, Endocrinology, Dentistry, Ophthalmology and Psychiatry. In the present case, this would be extremely useful, for no substantial knowledge transfer has been observed from the research centres where it is generated to the society which defrays its costs.
Comparisons of results of publication counting using different methods "The development of standards hoped for in 1995 has not materialized."
On some new bibliometric applications of statistics related to the h-index In this paper we have described two new applications of Hirsch-related indexes.
Digital disciplinary differences: An analysis of computer-mediated science and 'Mode 2' knowledge production This questions the usefulness of the Mode 2 label and underlines the specificity of scientific disciplines.
Implications of managerial control on performance of Dutch academic (bio)medical and health research groups We have analyzed the relationship between experiences with and views of managerial control and performance of Dutch (bio) medical research groups. One internal research management activity was found to have a positive relationship with (bio)medical research performance in general. Our empirical study shows that the disciplinary setting, classification into preclinical and clinical research, is an important contingency factor which has an impact on the relationships between managerial control and per-formance as well as the relationships between other contingency variables and performance.
Information Use by PhD Students in Agriculture and Biology: A Dissertation Citation Analysis This study has provided a good understanding of the influence of different formats and ages of literature on the research projects of a group of budding scientists in agricultural and biological sciences. This will help subject librarians in agricultural and biological sciences at ISU make subject-specific collection management decisions. As the logical follow-up to this study, a citation analysis of articles published by ISU researchers and faculty members in these subject areas is currently being planned.
An analysis of bibliometric indicators, National Institutes of Health funding, and faculty size at Association of American Medical Colleges medical schools, 1997-2007 Though popular, ordinal rankings cannot adequately describe the multidimensional nature of a medical school’s research productivity and impact.
Citation patterns of online and print journals in the digital age The citation of print-only journals by researchers with access to a library with a large print and electronic collection appeared to continue, despite the availability of potential alternatives in the online collection.
Do local citation patterns support use of the impact factor for collection development? This limited, “proof-of-concept" study suggests that IF is a fairly accurate reflection of local psychiatry research emphases, as measured by the cited refer-ences in publications by local authors. The results also provide evidence that the IUSM Libraries collection is meeting up to 95% of the research needs of IUSM's psychiatry researchers. Because IF is not used in isolation and the process of local citation analysis is quite time consuming, the authors recommend the continued use of IF as a selection criterion in library collection development.
Blinding in peer review: the preferences of reviewers for nursing journals Nursing journal reviewers are generally very satisfied with double-blinding and believe it contributes to the quality of papers published.
The thematic and citation landscape of Data and Knowledge Engineering (1985-2007) We have analyzed the structure and dynamics of thematic trends, semantic clusters, and citation networks of DKE papers (1985-2007).
Research papers in the crosshairs: Newer viewpoints on the development of library resources The h-index is the prime tool for periodicals acquisition because it emphasizes this connection.
Detecting emerging research fronts based on topological measures in citation networks of scientific publications In summary, we performed a comparative study in two research domains to develop a method of detecting emerging research domains.
The pros and cons of computing the h-index using Scopus Originality/value – The paper adds insight into computing the h-index using Scopus.
Should crop scientists consider a journal's impact factor in deciding where to publish? Responding to the question of the title, it seems that the IF of the journal might be a valuable information for choosing the ideal group of journals in which to publish our best contributions only when comparing journals within the same category (and that category should be agronomy/agriculture if the relevance of our hypotheses is focused in this field).
Challenges of Macro-ethics: Bioethics and the Transformation of Knowledge Production All this implies that bioethicists should be more interested in the collective responsibilities of research communities engaged in exchanging and interpreting bioinformation than in the personal (immediate) duties of researchers on the micro-level.
Bank Structure Conference Impact Study We conclude that the Conference has had a strong and systematic impact on the academic literature.
The contribution of countries and world regions in productivity of oncological publication In conclusion, we evaluated the worldwide trends of research productivity in the field of cancer diseases during a 4-year recent period. The results of our study showed a known trend; the fact that developed world regions achieved a higher rate of research productivity than the other world regions.
Research Themes and Trends in Health Information Systems The study provides a unique perspective on the field of HIS, and the results indicate opportuni-ties for further research that explores collaborations and social networks among the sub-fields.
National research contributions: A case study on Finnish biomedical research Our results indicate that analyses of the scientific contribution of persons, disciplines, or nations should be based on actual publication and citation counts rather than on derived information like impact factors.
Journal evaluation by environmental and resource economists: A survey Moreover, the ranking based on the survey did not coincide with the ranking based on the impact factors published by Thomson Scientific. Apparently, researchers take other considerations into account in addition to the number of citations. Further research would be needed to identify these other factors more explicitly.
The state of the art in publication counting The conclusion is that 40 years of publication counting have not resulted in general agreement on definitions of methods and terminology nor in any kind of standardization. The analysis permits the following conclusions: ... 7. 40 years of publication and citation counting have not resulted in general agreement on definitions of methods and terminology nor in any kind of standardization. The present study may be considered to belong to scientometrics, to the science of science or be considered as a contribution to the contemporary history of science.
Publication outlets and their effect on academic writers' citations the findings reported here show that the influence the outlet exerts can be more profound. The data reported here remind us of how important it is for academic writers to consider their audience's needs. However, these findings show the outlet can be one of a number of influences helping to account for the non-standard [CRONIN, 1984; CRONIN & SHAW, 2002], "complex and multidimensional" [BORGMAN & FURNER, 2002] nature of citing.
Is g-index better than h-index? An exploratory study at the individual level Current research suggests that these indexes do not substitute each other but that they are complementary.
Exploration of the evolution of nanotechnology via mapping of patent applications Nanotechnology is a field which consists of an ensemble of diverse technologies.
Chinese researchers returning home: Impacts of international mobility on research collaboration and scientific productivity The results of the analysis presented in this paper supports the general expectation that having benefited from overseas experience has a distinctive positive impact on the publication productivity of Chinese plant molecular life scientists in top level research organisations. This finding is also important because of its implications for the debate on the return brain drain; it shows that while the return of scientists to China may constitute an outflow in human capital to the former host system, this loss may be partially off-set by new and intensive relationships between these Chinese researchers and their former supervisors and co-workers abroad. The net benefit is the strengthening of ties between the Chinese research system and other countries, thus embedding China more firmly within the global science system.
New exploratory work of evaluating a researcher's output Our method PQI considers both the quality and quantity of a researcher's output simultaneously.
Bibliometric analysis of the Czech research publications from 1994 to 2005 In conclusion, the Czech basic research is not very productive as far as number of papers or their impact is concerned.
Institutional h-index: The performance of a new metric in the evaluation of Brazilian Psychiatric Post-graduation Programs Our findings demonstrated the soundness of the use of the h-index in the institutional context, indicating that it should be considered part of a set of advanced bibliometric tools that supports the peer review process in the evaluation of the performance of research institutions. Further empirical studies replicating our findings and expanding them to other bibliometric indicators (e.g. TOP 10) and to other research fields are needed to advance the knowledge in this critical area.
H-index concatenation This again illustrates the robustness of the formula for Hirsch-index concatenation.
Assessing the Impact of Disciplinary Research on Teaching: An Automatic Analysis of Online Syllabuses The evidence from this research indicates that online syllabus citations are useful sources of evidence about the educational value of some social science research, including politics and information science.
A Model for the Size-Frequency Function of Coauthor Pairs We have shown that the size-frequency function of coauthor pairs retains the Lotkaian form that is present in the size-frequency function of authors (vs. their papers).
The Structure of Iranian Chemistry Research, 1990-2006: An Author Cocitation Analysis Since 1990, Iranian chemistry research, as represented in the Thomson Scientific-indexed journals, has grown at a rate of roughly 26%.
The Shift Towards Multi-Disciplinarity in Information Science From 1988 to 2007, there is a distinct tendency towards collaboration among authors, with external collaborations becoming more prevalent. For educators, this article is a call for information sci-ence curriculum to be designed with a multi-disciplinary flavor. For researchers, this article serves as an affirmation of the significance of scholarly collaboration.
Eigenfactor: Does the Principle of Repeated Improvement Result in Better Estimates than Raw Citation Counts? At least for medical journals, it does not appear that iterative weighting of journals based on citation counts results in rankings that are significantly different from raw citation counts. Or, stated another way, the concepts of popularity (as measured by total citation counts) and prestige (as measured by a weighting mechanism) appear to provide very similar information.
Empirical developments in retraction Our findings suggest that editors and institutional officials are taking more responsibility for correcting the scientific record but that reasons published in the retraction notice are not always reliable. More aggressive means of notification to the scientific community appear to be necessary. Further study of the impact of continued use of retracted data on end users such as patients (who may be harmed) and on the use of research resources (which could be wasted) as well as on downstream research that depends on upstream research will provide a perspective on costs of the current system relied upon for correction of the scientific record.
Practitioners and academics as authors and readers: the case of LIS journals Basing the analysis on the outcomes of a reader survey, a citation analysis and an editor survey, it was the main aim of our paper to generate hypotheses describing the relationship between practitioners and academics in LIS journal communication.
Do academic link types change over time? Significant increases in the “research oriented”, “social/leisure” and “superficial” categories were identified as well as notable decreases in the “technical” and “personal” categories.
Formalizing a discipline The institutionalization of library and information science research in the Nordic countries Internationally, LIS is a field of research spanning a wide array of research areas; and the same is true for the Nordic LIS institutions.
Carbon nanotubes - A scientometric study A currently most popular research discipline has been reviewed by scientometric methods.
Effectiveness of Journal Ranking Schemes as a Tool for Locating Information Our model enables us to quantify both the typical impact and the range of impacts of papers published in a journal.
Perceptions of Latin American scientists about science and post-graduate education: Introduction to the 5th issue of CBP-Latin America Such trend includes: (i) lack of satisfaction with governmental policies for science and post-graduate education due to mass-production policies for papers and PhD degrees, (ii) that current PhD students are doing an adequate job, but have not improved in quality as compared to those from 10 years ago (the same was observed for PhD thesis in terms of present versus past), and (iii) that research infrastructure and the curricula of post-graduate courses do not constitute a problem, but (iv) recent-PhDs are not as fit as they should be in paper-writing skills (especially in the eyes of Brazilian respondents), and (v) that "real job" opportunities in the field are scarce. The great risk in federal policies of mass production of science (i.e., papers) and PhD degrees is a reduction in the quality of both outputs in the future. This indicates that CPB researchers are doing a good job in Latin America despite the well-known difficulties (Zenteno-Savín et al., 2007, this study) and challenges for the future, especially for the formation of the next generations of researchers.
Outcomes of Rejected Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology Manuscripts A majority of rejected JVIR mauscripts were ultimately published.
Journal Prices Revisited: A Regression Analysis of Prices in the Scholarly Journal Market The aim of this paper was to gain a deeper understanding of pricing of scholarly journal publishers, as journals are the heart of scholarly communication. Although our results confirm this often stated assumption, the quantity of the effect was much too small to be considered a main cause for the "serials crisis." A deeper analysis of this pricing model should, therefore, be conducted.
The relationship between citations and number of downloads in Decision Support Systems This paper finds • A strong positive statistically significant relationship between the number of citations and downloads of papers in Decision Support Systems. This paper generates results that suggest that it is reasonable to use "most frequent download" or "top 25" download presence as surrogate for eventual citation and corresponding impact of an article. This could be especially useful for tenure cases or 3 and 4 year contract continuation reviews, where an assistant professor's publications have not really had time to be strongly cited because they have only appeared in the last few years.
Citation Analysis and Impact Factor Trends of 5 Core Journals in Occupational Medicine, 1985-2006 First, it has been shown that the absolute number of citations received each year in our field, although not always evenly divided between the journals, is steadily increasing. Second, one can see that occupational medicine articles are rarely cited in the same year as publication, and that most citations they eventually receive appear to take a relatively long time. Third, journal impact factors, both individually and as a group, appear to be steadily increasing in occupational medicine.
Bibliometric analysis of biosorption technology in water treatment research from 1991 to 2004 Linear relation between annual cumulative number of publications and year were obtained. Small-group collaboration was a popular method of coauthorship. The top three ranking countries of publication were USA, Canada and India.
Generalizing the h- and g- indices We have introduced the hα- and gα-indices, which generalize the h- and g-indices proposed by Hirsch (2005) and Egghe (2006a, 2006b).
Combining mapping and citation network analysis for a better understanding of the scientific development: The case of the absorptive capacity field We think that our results show to information scientists the potential of this new methodology as a tool for unraveling the patterns behind a set of publications representing a field.
How to detect indications of potential sources of bias in peer review: A generalized latent variable modeling approach exemplified by a gender study The analysis of the SNSF selection procedure using the generalized latent variable modeling approach thus indicates a gender bias in the SNSF selection process.
The power law model and total career h-index sequences In conclusion we may say that although in many cases statistical fits are excellent (especially for the third model), none of the three power law models we have tested is acceptable for the type 2 time series studied in this article. This observation leads to the following research questions: (1) Can the power law model be adapted to describe a type 2 h-index time series?
A symmetry axiom for scientific impact indices The h-index in fact satisfies the axioms A1, B, C, D, and S, but violates A2. The w-index satisfies the axioms A2, B, C, D, and S, but violates A1.
Coverage and citation impact of oncological journals in the Web of Science and Scopus In Oncology all 126 journals covered by the Web of Science and listed in the 2007 Journal Citation Reports are included in Scopus. In addition, Scopus covers 106 oncological journals not indexed in the WoS.
International collaboration in science and the formation of a core group During the period 2000-2005, the network of global collaborations appears to have reinforced the formation of a core group of fourteen most cooperative countries.
Ranking forestry journals using the h-index Because of its broader coverage and despite known deficiencies, Hirsch's h-index based on Google Scholar data may be more useful than the Journal Impact Factor, as a measure of journal quality, and in providing a basis to rank journals. The ranked list of journals provided in the appendix has several implications. Thomson Scientific may wish to recognise more of the high-ranked journals (such as Dendrochronologia with h-index 11), editors of some journals may wish to work with Google to make their contents more visible to search engines (e.g., Ann. For. Sci. which is not recognised by Google as Annals of Forest Science, and Tree-Ring Research which does not provide the date of publication in Google-readable format), and editors of journals not published in English (which are disadvantaged in internet searches) may wish to add English abstracts and keywords to raise their profile.
Woeginger's axiomatisation of the h-index and its relation to the g-index, the h<SUP>(2)</SUP>- index and the R<SUP>2</SUP>-index Among the four h-type indices h, g, h(2) and R2, only R2 is a strict pre-impact index. The g-index is a pre-impact index that only satisfies Woeginger's axioms C, D and Do, while Kosmulski's h(2)-index is a pre-impact index that satisfies Woeginger's axioms A1, B and C. Finally R2 is a strict pre-impact index satisfying only axioms A2 and D. For this reason we postpone such an investigation to the future.
Biomedical innovation at the laboratory, clinical and commercial interface: A new method for mapping research projects, publications and patents in the field of microarrays Our method for the exploration of "triple-helix" connections could be of practical value for at least three different purposes: as a tool for technological foresight (for firms and public policy analysts), as a method for the strategic assessment of public programs, and, last but not least, as a way to better understand the diversity of the processes partaking in the construction of new science-based technologies.
Comparison of China/USA science and technology performance The PRC challenge in non-biomedical research and technology sectors becomes apparent in those databases that do not contain substantial biomedical research papers, and therefore remove a substantial intrinsic USA advantage.
An axiomatic analysis of Egghe's g-index The statements in Lemma 4.2 and Lemma 4.4 together yield f(x) = g(x) for every vector x = (x1,...,xn) in X. This completes the proof of Theorem 3.1.
Some comments on the journal weighted impact factor proposed by Habibzadeh and Yadollahie We have shown that the WIF proposed by H&Y has some serious problems. As a consequence, a ranking of journals based on this WIF can be misleading. We have also indicated how the problems with the WIF proposed by H&Y can be solved.
Nonscientific Factors Associated with Acceptance for Publication in The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery (American Volume) Manuscripts submitted to The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery were more likely to be accepted if they were from the United States or Canada, reported a conflict of interest related to a nonprofit entity, or were authored by an individual with ten or more prior publications in frequently cited orthopaedic journals.
Iranian women in science: a gender study of scientific productivity in an Islamic country The study shows that Iranian women appear to be less active in exact sciences such as physics and mathematics and more active in certain areas of life sciences such as medicine and biology. They are also less likely than men to collaborate with non-Iranian authors. The study also highlights the need for further qualitative studies in order to investigate the reasons for the lower contribution of women in scientific production compared to men.
Universality of citation distributions: Toward an objective measure of scientific impact "These findings provide a strong validation of cf as an unbiased indicator for citation performance across disciplines and years."
The Burroughs Wellcome Career Award in the Biomedical Sciences Challenges to and Prospects for Estimating the Causal Effects of Career Development Programs Although it is clear from the unadjusted results that CABS grantees out-performed unsuccessful CABS applicants in obtaining a faculty position, successfully competing for an R01 grant, and publishing in top-ranked journals, the causal effects of the CABS award cannot be confidently determined.
Off the Roadmap? Family Medicine's Grant Funding and Committee Representation at NIH Departments of family medicine, and family physicians in particu-lar, receive a miniscule proportion of NIH grant funding and have correspond-ingly minimal representation on standing NIH advisory committees.
Multi-University Research Teams: Shifting Impact, Geography, and Stratification in Science The shift toward cross-institutional collaboration suggests a fundamental transformation in the production of high-impact science. Elite universities are more intensely interdependent, playing a higher-impact and increasingly visible role in SE and SS. The dominant role of elite universities suggests several ideas for future research, including scale and resource advantages, social networks, journal leadership, and other factors such as matching based on status or quality, that promote a widening rather than a narrowing of stratification in science through the vehicle of multi-university partnerships.
Finding cohesive clusters for analyzing knowledge communities In summary, successful knowledge communities have systematic characteristics. They use knowledge and rhetoric in diametrically opposite ways: Successful use of knowledge means using broad, rapidly repositioned and community-specific knowledge. Successful use of rhetoric means using narrow, unchanging language, which is common to many communities.
The Chilling Effect: How Do Researchers React to Controversy? These findings provide evidence that political controversies can shape what scientists choose to study.
H-index in the Brazilian Academy of Sciences - comments and concerns This study points to the need of developing countries such as Brazil to invest in national scientific journals in order to make them gradually part of the mainstream journals.
IDENTIFYING THE "INVISIBLE COLLEGES" OF THE INDUSTRIAL & LABOR RELATIONS REVIEW: A BIBLIOMETRIC APPROACH Our bibliometric analysis has shown that researchers publishing their work in ILRR have, as a group, heavily cited the econom- ics literature for over three decades. Against that stable background, however, we find suggestive evidence of an emergent change in the mix of ILRR articles: human resource management-related work may be making inroads at ILRR. Until it does, bibliometric analysis will offer one exceptionally objective way to monitor a field in continued flux.
Experience, Time Investment, and Motivators of Nursing Journal Peer Reviewers Nursing journal peer reviewers express rewards and challenges similar to those reported elsewhere for biomedical journal reviewers.
At what age do biomedical scientists do their best work? In conclu-sion, high-quality scientific productivity in the biomed-ical fields as a function of investigator’s age plots an inverted U-shaped curve, in which significant decreases take place from around 40 yr of age and beyond.
The Interdisciplinary Influence of Library and Information Science 1996-2004: A Journal-to-Journal Citation Analysis Although the other-field citations to LIS journals have increased from 8 percent of all citations in 1984, to 13 percent in 1994,35 and to 27 percent in 2004,36 this rise in cita- tions cannot be attributed to the journals used in Meyer and Spencer's analysis.
Classification of Scientific Networks Using Aggregated Journal-Journal Citation Relations in the Journal Citation Reports Our results demonstrate that the affinity propagation method can provide a reasonable classification scheme for either a complete database or an incomplete database.
The Age-Dependent h-Type AR<SUP>2</SUP>-Index: Basic Properties and a Case Study This article studying the AR2-index consists of two parts: a theoretical part and a practical illustration.
WEB CITATIONS IN THE NURSING LITERATURE: HOW ACCURATE ARE THEY? Considering that more than a fourth of the Web citations in this study were no longer available, authors need to be cautious about using the Web as a primary source of information for their publications.
MPACT and citation impact: Two sides of the same scholarly coin? This study shows that MPACT indicators are measuring something distinct from citation counts.
Asian and Pacific Region Authorship Characteristics in Leading Library and Information Science Journals This research is significant because it adds an international dimension to existing authorship studies. Comparative data between library and information science journals illustrated significantly different authorship patterns. Thus, information science journals more closely conform to a scientific publications pattern, whereas library science journals are closer to the humanities model of single authorship.
The Potential Impact of 'Public Access' Legislation on Access to Forestry Literature This study provides evidence that federal public access legislation would have a significant impact on the accessibility of forestry literature published in leading journals in the field.
An Empirical Analysis of the Amount of Publication Fees On the basis of this estimation, the calculated authors' fees differ greatly across the various disciplines.
A Comparison of Subject and Institutional Repositories in Self-archiving Practices Within the subject of physics, data collected from self-archiving in a SR and an IR seem to not support the subject culture theory that scholars' familiarity with self-archiving through practices in a SR will ensure their enthusiasm about self-archiving in the repository of their own institution.
Subject change between citing and cited literature on digital libraries The results of the present work provide significant insights into the evolution of digital libraries by identifying the core journals, examining their characteristics, as well as subject changes for both citing and cited literature using some bibliometric techniques.
Structure of research on biomass and bio-fuels: A citation-based approach According to the analyzed results, bio-diesel and hydrogen production are the most rapidly developing domains. It is not plausible that a single technology can overcome the current limitation of bio-energy production especially for clusters categorized into (III) global link and (IV) specific & global. Research categorized there should be developed by utilizing knowledge from other scientific domains and involving researchers and engineers from those domains.
Internationalisation, Mobility and Metrics: A New Form of Indirect Discrimination? The paper concludes that mobility is not an outcome in its own right and must not be treated as such (as an implicit indicator of internationalisation). To do so contributes to differential opportunity in scientific labour markets reducing both efficiency and equality. The challenge is to ensure that policy recognises and celebrates that diversity augmenting what exists rather than attempting to replace it with a ‘one size fits all’ approach.
Trends in Funding for Research on Pain: A Report on the National Institutes of Health Grant Awards Over the Years 2003 to 2007 Declining support for pain research disproportionate to decreases in the NIH budget signals a need for measures to promote funding for meritorious applications.
The impact of economics on management This article investigates the impact of economics research on management journals by looking at the citations of the 71 journals in the JCR management category in 2005. I examine these three potential explanations using various analyses; the second explanation, which suggests that the management field becomes more mature and therefore cites other disciplines less over time, is the only one that is supported by the data.
GOOGLE SCHOLAR VISIBILITY AND TOURISM JOURNALS The measure introduced in this study complements existing methods and provides perhaps the widest cross-disciplinary ranking of tourism-related journals.
Modelling successive h-indices The successive h-indices, introduced in [SCHUBERT, 2007], have been modelled in a Lotkaian framework.
Intellectual structure of Antarctic science: A 25-years analysis The USA is the lead country in Antarctic science research. Its sound policies, higher per capita domestic expenditure on R&D, making both universities and research institutions equal partners in research and development activities, and emphasis on collaborative projects have made it the leader in the Antarctic science research. The isolates may be encouraged to participate in collaborative projects to address bigger multidisciplinary issues collectively.
Do editors and referees look for signs of scientific misconduct when reviewing manuscripts? A quantitative content analysis of studies that examined review criteria and reasons for accepting and rejecting manuscripts for publication None of the criteria or reasons that were assigned to the nine main areas refers to or is related to possible falsification or fabrication of data.
Content assisted web co-link analysis for competitive intelligence In summary, the results from our proposed method of keyword assisted co-link analysis match very well with results obtained by separate market research [ALVARION, 2006] and the company classification shown in Appendix 1. This has demonstrated a practical application of using content assisted co-link Web mining analysis for competitive analysis and business intelligence research. As an exploratory study, the project showed that the method is promising.
A bibliometric study of psychological research on tourism In sum, this bibliometric study of scientific output in the psychology of tourism provides an overall picture of the field and its evolution.
PhD theses in Spain: A gender study covering the years 1990-2004 In summary, the numbers of male and female students who successfully complete their PhD studies are becoming more balanced.
A variation of the calculation of the first author cocitation strength in author cocitation analysis With regard to the stated research questions, we can conclude that the application of the experimental method generated a cluster solution clearly different from the one produced by the standard method.
The proper use of citation data in journal management These endeavors provide positive feedback and constructive criticism for the editors and aid in the continued improvement of the journal. Therefore, publication of high-quality original research articles is, and should be, the primary mechanism for elevation of IF for this cate-gory of journals.
"Publish or Perish" as citation metrics used to analyze scientific output in the humanities: International case studies in economics, geography, social sciences, philosophy, and history Because of the broader range in data sources, we have seen that the use of Google Scholar results in more comprehensive citation coverage in the humanities. To calculate metrics in the humanities, the most interesting way seems to be to search Google Scholar with Publish or Perish and then to clean the results using CleanPoP, while keeping in mind that a part of these results represents "extensive" scientific production and impact [15]. This preliminary study which I have just presented is going to lead to two developments during the coming months.
A new generation of relational charts for comparative assessment of citation impact Both the three-level hierarchical subject-classifica-tion scheme based on the ISI Subject Category system and the institutional profile clusters developed at SOOI/KULeuven were used to determine the appropri-ate field-depth for the calculation of subject-normalized citation indicators.
The use of citation indicators to identify and support high-quality research in Poland The results show that applying scientometric indica-tors which, more so than the "impact factor", evaluate the quality of research, a reliable, fast and independent results can be obtained.
Research Productivity of Graduates from 3 Physician-Scientist Training Programs To advance the biomedical sciences we must attract, train, and retain future physician-scientists.
Quality of Estonian science estimated through bibliometric indicators (1997-2007) Although the productivity of Estonian scientists is still far behind the most advanced R&D countries, the quality of publications improved considerably during the last eleven years.
Shifts in the Use of Population Health, Health Promotion, and Public Health A Bibliometric Analysis "Our results indicate a shift in the usage of these concepts over time."
Finding open access articles using Google, Google Scholar, OAIster and OpenDOAR Despite the increasing number of institutional repositories and their harvesting by such services as OAIster, it is apparent that finding OA articles in the three subjects selected here was greatly facilitated by the use of Google and Google Scholar.
South African research in the context of Africa and globally This article presents the results of an effort to establish a baseline with which one can compare the impact of the changes that are arising within the South African research and development landscape. The study shows that the volume of research publications in most disciplines is increasing, with a few exceptions. It appears that South Africa’s growing research productivity does not reflect global trends.
How interdisciplinary is a given body of research? This paper describes the first empirical implementation of our revised integration (I) and specialization (S) measures of interdisciplinarity.
International publications from the French geriatric teams: Evolution in the course of last 22 years This bibliometric investigation points out the growing interest of the French geriatrics in clinical research, mostly oriented toward nutrition and dementia in the elderly.
Inside Pasteur's quadrant: knowledge production in a profession We have argued here that the discipline of education in American higher education has the potential to be defined in a different manner from what has been attempted over the last century. Rather than an attempt to mimic traditional disciplines that fit within what Donald Stokes (1997) defined as Edison's or Bohr's quadrants, educational researchers ought to consider ways to develop research within the use-inspired concept of Pasteur's quadrant. Instead of repeatedly trying to instil a privileged methodology or theoretical approach into the profession as the way to claim status and inevitably to end up failing, we have suggested a much broader agenda that orientates education away from the traditional notion of the education profession as a disciplinary investigation of discrete phenomena, and toward an interdisciplinary study focused on solving problems.
New Zealand trends in animal behaviour research Ethology in New Zealand, as represented in the five leading animal behaviour journals, was found to be a diverse, dynamic and growing field.
A longitudinal analysis of nanotechnology literature: 1976-2004 After identifying the nanotechnology papers documented in the SCI database by keywords for the interval 1976-2004, we conducted a longitudinal research study using bibliographic analysis, content map analysis, and citation network analysis. The network topological analysis shows the relatively high clustering coefficients of both the country citation network and the institution citation network from 1976 to 2004, indicating the existence of citation communities in the two networks. In future work, we plan to investigate the evolution of co-authorship and respective collaborations in the nanotechnology papers from the SCI database.
Web 2.0 authorship: Issues of referencing and citation for academic integrity It concludes that the conceptual basis of referencing and citation as expressed in current systems and standards needs reform in order to bring academic integrity to the use of these new forms of authorship. Academic authors should be able not only to reference but also to produce original work in these forms, knowing that such work is cited in a manner enabling recognition and critical appraisal by others. There is a need for a concerted collaborative effort by academics at the discipline level to refine referencing and citation practices so as to reflect changing theoretical and practical perspectives on academic authorship that arise from the phenomenon of web 2.0 authoring.
Improving the peer review process with information technology This paper analyzes the basic processes of peer review and proposed changes to the review process using an IT enabled structured communication approach.
Strategies for Institutional Repository Development: A Case Study of Three Evolving Initiatives The approaches taken at the three institutions were quite different in their content and service orientations, with an innovative service model driving one, an equally innovative content model at play at another, and the third functioning as a more mixed model, with a greater emphasis on policy and best practices. Core challenges in the near future will be implementing systematic techniques for populating repositories, perhaps with mediated deposit workflows, and developing value-added service layers. For smooth integration of IRs into current academic library operations, librarian positions will need refinement to accommodate IR activities, liaison librarian roles will need to be updated, and adequate technical training will need to be offered by library education programs.
Trends in the global funding and activity of cancer research The first is the vast interconnected nature of the global cancer research effort, an effort that is growing all the time. Bureaucracy and over-management remain constant dangers to progress. Finally, never has there been a more urgent need for a 'third culture' to drive the engagement between research community and public (Snow, 1963).
Sample Size and Precision in NIH Peer Review It is clear from our analysis that NIH needs to adjust their peer review system to account for low precision evaluations. Our data demonstrate that funding decisions will vary widely with the number of reviewers in considering proposals that are closely scored. We posit that this analysis should be considered in the revisions of NIH scientific review.
Does the Committee Peer Review Select the Best Applicants for Funding? An Investigation of the Selection Process for Two European Molecular Biology Organization Programmes The results of the regression analyses show that the mean scientific performance of approved applicants is higher subsequent to application than the mean performance of rejected applicants. That means, there is a statistically significant association between selection decisions and the applicants' scientific achievements, if quantity and impact of research publications are used as a criterion for scientific achievement.
Articles by Latin American Authors in Prestigious Journals Have Fewer Citations The study shows a significantly lower IF in the group of the subsets of non-collaborative LA articles and thus that country affiliation of authors from non-developed LA countries does affect the IF of a journal detrimentally.
Harmonic Allocation of Authorship Credit: Source-Level Correction of Bibliometric Bias Assures Accurate Publication and Citation Analysis In conclusion, I emphasize the decisive importance of source-level bias correction in bibliometric research evaluation, and suggest that the harmonic h-index provides a transparent measure of scientific merit that would critically enhance the accuracy and credibility of automated ranking procedures. To enable source-level correction of inflationary and equalizing biases would require implementation of easily accessible options, similar to the options for source-level correction of self-citation bias recently added to the ISI and SCOPUS databases.
THE EVOLUTION OF THE JOURNAL OF APPLIED ORAL SCIENCE: A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS Based on a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of the articles published in the JAOS between 2005 and 2007, it may be concluded that: • The number of submitted manuscripts remained the same, whereas the number of rejected manuscripts increased considerably;
The Relationship Between the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center-A Profile in Synergy What began as a regional medical school, one Pitt-managed hospital (WPIC), and a voluntary consortium of five independent, affiliated teaching hospitals has evolved during the past 25 years into a global health enterprise and a leading biomedical education and research institution.
Science at the Interstices: An Evolution in the Academy Ultimately, implementing administrative models that set higher standards for synergy and aligned incentives may be the key to unleashing the true potential of our research enterprises, even in an atmosphere of constrained national resources for biomedical science.
The State and Evolution of Information Systems Research in Canada: A Scientometric Analysis By examining research disseminated through the IS Division of ASAC over three decades, our study fills a significant gap with respect to the state and evolution of IS work published in Canada form 1974 to 2007.
Measuring Individual Research Productivity: A Review and Development of the Integrated Research Productivity Index In summary, the results of this study suggest that the popular indices used to measure individual research productivity have their limitations and on the whole are highly overlapping.
A three-phase model proposal for the evolution of scientific communication: from first print periodicals to current electronic communication system Information produced in the context of research and development constitutes a public good, since it most frequently counts on public financial resources: consequently, access must by guaranteed to all who need it. Therefore, open access electronic journals, together with institutional and thematic digital repositories, will continue strong. Formal systems of scholarly communication, in developing countries like Brazil or in the most prosperous nations still have to transcend several barriers until the electronic journal and eprints services reach the place visionaries described for scientific communication in the electronic age.
Institutional Research Productivity in Science Education for the 1990s: Top 30 Rankings This study provides campus administrators with a ranking of science education programs; thereby, providing another source of data when making decisions about the quality of their science education program. As a benchmark study, the work reported here provides a baseline for future studies and has practical benefits for other researchers (Robinson et al. 2001) as well as providing newer science education researchers realistic expectations for their research productivity (Boice 1992).
Academic publishing in the Nordic countries - a survey of logistics and supply chain related journal rankings This study indicates that international (especially Anglo-Saxon) journals are deemed important in an evaluation of faculty research per-formance.
THE INTELLECTUAL STRUCTURE OF SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: A BIBLIOMETRIC APPROACH The citation analysis indicates an explosion of interest across disciplines and journals. There appear to be multiple broad streams of research that are developing relatively independently of one another. While there is significant convergence in thought within the logistics literature as to the meaning of supply chain management, the convergence across the full spectrum of academic interest still appears to be lacking.
Mapping the invisible colleges of R&D Management The conclusions suggest how the absorptive capacity model might be more effectively utilized in future R&D Management research. The findings illustrate how the scope and intellectual base of R&D Management have evolved over the 20-year observation period. I hope that my results will suggest new areas of inquiry and, hopefully, a continuance of the broadening of the research topics that R&D Management both receives and even eventually publishes.
Use of the checklist method for content evaluation of full-text databases - An investigation of two databases based on citations from two journals A citation-based checklist addresses the extent to which a collection or database would meet the needs of researchers. This research shows that both databases provide full-text entries for only a fraction of the articles cited by LRTS and Collection Building authors in 2004. Some questions for future research should be men-tioned.
The internationalization of real estate research Evidence related to the internationalization of academic real estate research is presented.
Gendered academic careers: Specializing for success? In this study we examined whether and how the extent of research specialization influences two important components of academic careers: productivity and visibility. Specialization's noteworthy effects on productivity – a key determinant of promotion prospects and earnings – suggest that specialization is an important aspect of scholars' research programs that could, and should, be considered explicitly by both individual and institutional actors. Finally, although we emphasize the unique contributions of the extent of research specialization on gendered career processes, the significant random effects in our models suggest that there remains ample room for additional explanation.
Improving the peer-review process for grant applications - Reliability, validity, bias, and generalizability The authors propose a new approach, the reader system, which they evaluated with psychology and education grant proposals and found to be substantially more reliable and strategically advantageous than traditional peer reviews of grant applications.
Open access initiative and the developing world The open access initiative has taken great stride in its effort to provide equal access to knowledge to all people irrespective of where they live.
Library and Information Science research in Botswana: An analysis of trends and patterns Clearly, LIS research in Botswana is impacted by historical, social and cultural factors, and this paper has shown how. The conclusion is that Botswana has a relatively young history of library and information services, as well as library education; that the research activities have not been informed by a research agenda; and that there has not been significant collaboration between practitioners and academics primarily because for practitioners, research and publication is not viewed as essential to their job progression. There is a need to conduct a LIS research landscape study that hopefully will identify the research areas where concerted effort must be expended.
An analysis of Ghana library journal: A bibliometric study The number of published articles on library and information science research in Ghana as revealed by the study is limited, but may not reflect the total research published over the seven-year period, as what the study came out with reflects the output of researchers who chose to publish their research results in the Ghana Library Journal.
Multi-level science mapping with asymmetrical paradigmatic proximity We tried to show the way science mapping could benefit from an asymmetric proximity measure between terms.
Evaluating research productivity: a case study of the rice scientists in India and Sri Lanka The study also indicated a policy insight for training Sri Lankan rice scientists up to PhD level for higher research productivity.
Biochemistry research in Thailand: Present status and foresight studies In general, Departments of Biochemistry in Thailand have high impact in research in some particular areas, e.g., drugs, protein, enzyme, etc., as measured by their individual publications in the ISI-WOS database. Publications by Thai biochemists have high impact comparable to the average impact factor of publication in international journals of biochemistry and molecular biology category. We hope that this study may serve as a model for other disciplines of science and technology in Thailand and help to enhance the capability of Thai researchers.
Scientometric analysis of chemical engineering publications Thus, USA con- tinues to maintain its leadership position with regard to impact in the field. Analysis of the output of selected Indian universities/organizations against that of the top universities in the world, indicated that the records of top institutions from India are not comparable to the best universities in USA, but are comparable to the best in Asia and are significantly better than the best universities in China. The records of top institutions from India (IISc and MUICT) are poor compared to those of MIT and Minnesota in terms of both PFY and CFY.
What does it take for a Canadian political scientist to be cited? Our goal in this study has been to identify what kind of articles written by Canadian political scientists are most cited. Some of the results confirm our expectations. Other findings are more surprising.
Aggregated interdisciplinary databases and the needs of undergraduate researchers Librarians should learn more about user experiences in order to influence the development of these products.
World orofacial pain research production: A bibliometric study (2004-2005) This study complements subject reviews of orofacial pain research and provides a more complete picture of the research activity in this field.
Pay peanuts and get monkeys? Evidence from academia Using data from a university research assessment exercise in New Zealand, I find that discipline research quality is indeed negatively related to the value of labor market opportunities: the greater a discipline's average salary in US universities, the weaker its research performance in NZ universities. Paying (relative) peanuts attracts mainly monkeys, even in a profession where job motivation is frequently claimed to be derived from sources untainted by base financial considerations.
Testing the calculation of a realistic h-index in Google Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science for F. W.!Lancaster Google Scholar has no option for elementary functions, such as num-bering the result lists, marking records, truncating, or sorting the results of a search by decreasing citation counts, nor does it have a built-in, au-tomatic h-index generator.
F. W. Lancaster: A bibliometric analysis The bibliometric analysis in this article paints a picture of Lancaster's works and their intellectual influence, though it may not be 100 percent complete. Lancaster as a prolific scholar has achieved an outstanding academic record that few in the library and information science field can match. Not only is the quantity phenomenal, the high quality is also witnessed by thousands of citations spreading through a long span of time and space, by the large numbers of prestigious citing journals, and by the broad disciplines in the citing journals.
The number, scope and geographic distribution of clinical researchers in Canada In conclusion, the previously undocumented number of clinical researchers funded by a major, federal health research funding agency in Canada is alarm-ingly small.
Plant Science research productivity in Chile during the past 20 years In brief, this study reveals a steady increase in scientific production within the discipline of Plant Science that is fulfilling the needs of not only the scientists driving the research, but also the needs of industry. It would be interesting to establish in 10 years time if the current scientific-policy, funded by the royalties obtained from the mining industry, will boost the current productivity within the plant science discipline.
Research Productivity of Members of IADR Behavioral Sciences and Health Services Research Group: Relationship to Professional and Personal Factors Gender and time spent in research were the best predictors of research productivity in this accomplished population. Controlling for gender, the best single predictor of research productivity remained percent time spent in research. These data should provide a platform for further discussion of research in our dental schools.
Open Access Journals: Knowledge and Attitudes among Cuban Health Researchers Although the health sector was the first to adopt a strategy of open access to scientific and technical information to provide all Cuban institutions with equitable access to scientific information, this study found scarce knowledge about the Open Access Movement's initiatives and terms. It was also found that our researchers may be using open access publications solely as readers or consumers of information, while not exploiting open access publishing opportunities for their work, thereby expanding their audience and visibility.
INTERNATIONALIZATION OF MALAYSIAN MATHEMATICAL AND COMPUTER SCIENCE JOURNALS Both journals have successfully maintained the regularity of publishing their volumes on time. The results also indicate that being covered by the ISI or SCOPUS might improve international contributions but it does not necessarily improve citation counts to articles published. Internationalization will come at a price as it might result in national contributions being marginalized.
NUTRITION LITERATURE OF BANGLADESH: A BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY This study found that scientific productivity in the field of nutrition experienced a significant rise during the period 1987–2006. Such studies would be useful in devising appropriate policies to alleviate the nutrition status of Bangladesh.
THE MALAYSIAN JOURNAL OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SCIENCE 2001-2006: A BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY This paper has analysed publications in, and citations to, the first eleven volumes of the Malaysian Journal of Library and Information Science. The analysis shows that there have been statistically significant changes in the types of article, in the numbers of references per article and in the lengths of the articles. Citations to the journal are currently dominated by papers from a small number of authors working in the area of bibliometrics.
Audience Matters: A Study of How Authors Select Educational Journals The study revealed that authors in the field of education place great emphasis on a journal’s readership and topical affinity with the author’s manuscript, both of which represent the function of a journal as a medium of communication rather than a springboard to professional fame.
The impact of geographic location on the development of a specialty field: A case study of Sloan Digital Sky Survey in Astronomy The low level of overlap would suggest that geographic location does indeed have an influence in the choice of research topics in a given field.
General trends in world biogeographic literature: A preliminary bibliometric analysis The analysis shows that publications on biogeography have increased substantially during the last years, especially since 1998.
Where are our universities going? A review, twenty years later We conclude that both funding mecha-nisms have failed to steer our universities in a more desirable direction in terms of the supply of skills needed by the country.
Comparative analysis of university-government-enterprise co-authorship networks in three scientific domains in the region of Madrid The data resulting from the social network analysis conducted provided insight into the structural characteristics of the networks generated and their evolution. Although the scope of this research was partial and preliminary, the study showed that university researchers may play an essential role in establishing research and development networks involving universities, industries and public sectors, thereby furthering technological and institutional change in the Community of Madrid. Although the survey was limited to Madrid and three sectors, a comparative study could be conducted to analyse the similarities and differences with others Spanish autonomous communities (or regions); this study could also be enlarged to include data from the analysis of research hospitals outputs, public bodies, projects or patents.
Facebook for Scientists: Requirements and Services for Optimizing How Scientific Collaborations Are Established In addition to quantitative and factual information about potential collaborators, social connectedness, personal and professional compatibility, and power differentials also influence whether collaborations are formed.
Relationship between Quality and Editorial Leadership of Biomedical Research Journals: A Comparative Study of Italian and UK Journals Journals from Italy scored worse for quality and editorial leadership than did their UK counterparts. Editorial leadership predicted quality for the entire set of journals. Greater appreciation of international initiatives to improve biomedical reporting may help low-quality journals achieve higher status.
Innkeeper at the Roach Motel "Successes to date—and nothing in this article should suggest that there have been none—suggest a number of roads forward for institutional re-positories."
Perceptions and Experiences of Staff in the Planning and Implementation of Institutional Repositories We found IR staff expressing high levels of enthusiasm about the roles that an IR is or will be playing in their learning communities; however, they did not view the IR as a stand-alone repository. Most interviewees agreed that developing policies was critical for an IR to set the goals and to communicate with various stakeholders, but the policies needed to be lenient and flexible. The lack of clear service models indicates that IR staff are still testing the waters and assessing where IRs fit in the mix of other online library services, such as the online catalog, e-journals, and database search engines.
The "Wealth of Networks" and Institutional Repositories: MIT, DSpace, and the Future of the Scholarly Commons MIT's staff changes reflect the evolution of a commons-like model outlined by Benkler in the Wealth of Networks.
Co-authorship networks in South African chemistry and mathematics Scientists in both fields tend to produce very similar quantities of papers, and Fig. 1(a) shows that the distributions of the number of papers, per author, are nearly identical in the two fields.
Measuring Co-Authorship and Networking-Adjusted Scientific Impact The proposed indices provide a simple overall impression of co-authoring behaviour.
Systematic Variation in Reviewer Practice According to Country and Gender in the Field of Ecology and Evolution Here, we demonstrate that referee gender and region can have implications for the way in which manuscripts are reviewed.
Replication in the Deception and Convergence of Opinions Problem Here, we have observed that replication does buy us a way out of the deception problem, but, as we have seen, its price is not so low as previously thought.
The Effects of Aging on Researchers' Publication and Citation Patterns The results presented in this paper show the existence of two important turning points in the research career of professors.
HOMI JEHANGIR BHABHA: HIS COLLABORATORS, CITATION IDENTITY, AND HIS CITATION IMAGE MAKERS In this study we have characterized H.J. Bhabha's publication profile, his coauthors, his most cited works, his citation identity, and citation image makers.
An analysis of Malawi's publication productivity "Our results suggest there is growth in scientific publishing in Malawi but the main contribution is from foreign researchers residing in Malawi."
EVALUATING SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTS BY MEANS OF CITATION-BASED MODELS: A FIRST ANALYSIS AND VALIDATION We proposed integrated models for evaluating papers, authors, and journals based on citations, co-authorship and publications.
Peer review in scholarly journals: Perspective of the scholarly community – Results from an international study The survey thus paints a picture of academics committed to peer review, with the vast majority believing that it helps scientific communication and in particular that it improves the quality of published papers. They are willing to play their part in carrying out review, though it is worrying that the most productive reviewers appear to be overloaded. Overall, there was substantial minority support for post-publication review as a supplement to formal peer review, but much less support for open review as an alternative to blinded review.
Rebuttal to commentary Any overstatement of the number of publications produced in the EU25+ countries would only serve to reinforce the conclusions of the original article.
The New Generation of Citation Indexing in the Age of Digital Libraries As a result, we have concluded that none of the three tools can satisfy all of a researcher's citation tracking needs.
Scientometric analysis of a sample of physics‐related research output held in the institutional repository Strathprints (2000‐2005) The scientific output recorded in Strathprints has grown throughout this period, especially during the last three years, and we observe an increase in the number of authors, centres and countries per document. The time from a document's deposit and its first access is less than 15 days. There is no relationship between the journals with the highest average number of citations in WoS per document and those with the highest number of citations in/from Strathprints.
E-theses and Indian academia: A case study of nine ETD digital libraries and formulation of policies for a national service This article proposes the construction of a reservoir of extensive doctoral research and an Indian portal to enable preserving of scientific and techno- logical research materials in the country and a global view of Indian institutional research assets.
The intellectual structure and substance of the knowledge utilization field: A longitudinal author co-citation analysis, 1945 to 2004 We conclude that the received view that social science disciplines are in a state where no accepted set of principles or theories guide research (i.e., that they are pre-paradigmatic) could not be supported for this field.
Nanotechnology publications and citations by leading countries and blocs In sum, the EU bloc and the US continue to have the largest number of nanotechnology publications as of mid-year 2006.
Techniques for analyzing literature search results In conclusion, a transcript containing bibliographic citations is actually a starting point rather than a conclusion in providing information about a given subject.
Waking OA's “Slumbering Giant”: The University's Mandate To Mandate Open Access In short, it's a win/win/win situation for universities, researchers, and students if universities get around, at long last, to fast-forwarding us all to the optimal and inevitable by mandat-ing Green OA self-archiving.
Those who don't look don't find: disciplinary considerations in repository advocacy By mapping empirical findings against both diffusion of innovations theory and writings on disciplinary differences, this paper shows that repository advocacy addressing the university academic population as a single unit is unlikely to be successful. Rather, advocacy and implementation of a repository must consider the information seeking behaviour and social norms of each discipline in question. Addressing these concerns will be the first step in successful repository advocacy.
Highly‐cited articles in the <i>Australian Dental Journal</i> Regardless of which actual paper occupies the top positions, the identification of citation trends and citation classics in dentistry provides an interesting look at which research findings, scientific articles and authors have contributed important and climate mate-rial to the Australian dental profession over time.
ASIS&amp;T scholarly communication survey: Open access authors The information science research community, and ASIS&T members in particular, are very aware of open access.
How to sponsor ground-breaking research: a comparison of funding schemes Our comparison of selected funding initiatives for high-risk and ground-breaking research shows that several of these programs strive to remedy specific deficiencies in national research systems with respect to the exploration mode in science, such as the lack of core funding for university professors in the United States, or the persistent asymmetry in the institutional support that junior and senior professors receive in Germany. Consequently, we invite science policy makers to reconsider the design of established schemes and to engage in a debate about how future initiatives for ground-breaking research should be organized. Rather, they might be better ad-vised to set up a new agency with a dedicated mis-sion for such funding.
University and Discipline Cluster Ranking Systems and the Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences A robust system of tiered journals, book publishers, and conferences, when included with other measures of esteem, performance, visibility and the testimony of expert peers, would begin to take us toward a more HASS-inclusive and therefore more sustainable and acceptable ranking system for the global university system.
Macedonian Medical Journals Have Very Limited Scientific Influence Macedonian medical journals have very limited scientific influence and their Editorial Boards are obliged to improve quality of their published manuscripts, and to adhere to international standards for scientific journals, which will result in their greater visibility and scientific influence.
Author bibliographic coupling: Another approach to citation‐based author knowledge network analysis Based on each author's research areas that have attracted a sufficient number of other authors, an author BC analysis of the IS field in this preliminary study provided a realistic picture of the state of research in the IS field.
Usage of different Web Impact Factors for Ranking Australian Universities This result indicates that weighted inlink counts based on a university’s total staff might be the most favourable model when using staff-related WIFs for ranking universities.
Multi-authors' self-citation: A further impact factor bias? In conclusion, we are delighted that Cortex is doing well, however, as a community of neuropsychologists, we should carefully consider possible biases before embracing the use of IF to evaluate our work and to rank our outlets.
Scientometric mapping of vacuum research in nuclear science &amp; technology: a global perspective In this study, an attempt has been made to find out quantitatively an over all view of the literature published on vacuum science and technology and its applications in nuclear science and technology as reflected in INIS database during 2002-2006. Authorship and collaboration trend was towards multi-authored papers as 80.3 percent of the papers were collaborative is indicative of the multidisciplinary nature of research activity. The highly productive institutions were: Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute (Japan) with 366 publications, University of Tokyo (Japan) with 274 publications, Hiroshima University (Japan) with 245 publications, Osaka University Japan (Japan) with 224 publications and Chinese Academy of Science (P-R-China) with 123 publications.
A resource-based view on the interactions of university researchers Our study confirms that academic rank and network activity are strongly related. Networks are a crucial resource for a scientific career, but they also grow ‘naturally’ with increasing academic rank. Based on our empirical results we wish to discuss the implications of our research. We recommend making a clearer distinction between the demand and supply of knowledge in future research.
On indexing in the Web of Science and predicting journal impact factor Using data from Thomson Scientific's WoS, we calculated IFs for a set of journals.
Evaluation of information providers and popular search engines on the base of postgraduate students' perspectives The fact that 63.4 per cent of respondents use online databases shows current trends towards online resources at Iranian universities and the need to acquire up-to-date and reliable information. We may not be able to make absolute and unconditional judgements about IPs on the basis of the findings of this study, but we can recommend that librarians pay more attention to the IPs that have received high scores according to the current study participants' votes. A possible limitation of this study includes not taking into account offline databases.
Studying Journal Coverage in Google Scholar The study shows that the majority of the journals on the five lists queried can be retrieved in Google Scholar.
Search Regimes and the Industrial Dynamics of Science In the last half century, and accelerating after the 1970s, we have seen the emergence of a large number of new fields and of some new disciplines in which the search regime is characterized by extremely high rate of growth, high degree of diversity and new forms of complementarity. These results suggest that the notion of search regimes might be generalized. First, science policy studies might address more systematically the way in which different institutional settings and policies are able to cope with the dynamic properties of search regimes.
Library portal images that positively influence their users' perception of the portal "Do images exert an effect on users? It appears that, based on the results presented here, they do."
Patterns of Information Search and Access on the World Wide Web: Democratizing Expertise or Creating New Hierarchies? The results discussed in this paper indicate the need for a more nuanced view of the efficacy of search engines and how they provide access to knowledge on the Web. This may be the consequence of the Web tending indeed to reduce the significance of off line hierarchies in accessing information – tending to democratize access around the world. Alternatively, this could indicate a more fine-grained winner-take-all effect whereby centres of expertise progressively refine their specializations and thus gain a 'winner-take-all' status within a narrower area of expertise.
Reactive tendencies of bibliometric indicators: Trends in the alphabetization of authorship in economics and information science Thus, the results of the comparative study of credit assignment practices do not falsify the hypothesis about a decrease in the alphabetic principle among authors in IS compared to authors in economics. A logical follow-up to this study would thus be one that sought to eliminate possible third variables (e.g. seniority), and one that expanded the investigated period back in time to check for the time order of occurrences. Furthermore, a survey or interviews could provide valuable insight in to the awareness of assigning attribution to publications and would further add to a determination of causation.
The academic impact of Chinese humanities and social science research To sum up, this paper is an attempt, using the CSSCI (2000-2004), to analyze and evaluate the academic impact of Chinese humanities and social science research in terms of researchers, papers and works, institutions and regions.
Automatic extraction of social networks by topics of interest The presented proposal provides the following improvements with respect to previous works: The process is fully automated.
A New Frontier of Informetric and Webometric Research: Mining Web Usage Data The studies reviewed above show that Web usage data do contain useful information but they are under studied in informetrics and Webometrics research relative to other forms of data. More studies in this area are needed to gain more knowledge and insights into how these new data sources can complement traditional sources and how we can take advantage of these new data sources. Thus, mining Web usage data is a new frontier of informetirc and Webometric search.
Webometric Ranking of World Universities: Introduction, Methodology, and Future Developments This kind of rankings using web indicators should be used to measure universities' performance in conjunction with more traditional academic indicators.
Ranking Approach for Search Engine Result Sets for a Semi-Automated Generation of Occurrences in Topic Maps The paper describes a set of ranking mechanism, which is available for pre-ranking result set entries in the prototype Merlino to facilitate users decision for a relevance ranking.
An insight into the Matthew effect in Mexico The results lead us to assume that if maximum recognitions, both national and institutional, are awarded on the basis of productivity and of the impact of the products of scientific work, there are also other factors that intervene such as the Mathew effect. Despite this, the recognition of women scientists is not equal, or remotely close, to the recognitions received by their male colleagues.
Self-citation can inflate h-index This calls for exclusion of self-citations from the h-index, and likely also from any other citation indexes, to achieve a more objective evaluation of the published research impact of individual scientists.
ASIS&amp;T membership survey 2008: Responses from ASIS&amp;T members For the most part, responses given by the set of ASIS&T members are consistent with the general survey responses. Strong support exists among members for ASIS&T taking a leadership role in the open access movement.
The External Funding of Academic Finance Research Our study has relevance for every stakeholder in the university's research mission in finance. Our findings are important for each stakeholder in the university's research mission, but are of particular importance to finance academics directly. Success at grantsmanship, and more aggressive solicitation of research sponsors, presents a unique challenge for the profession.
The Australian and New Zealand Journal of Audiology: Patterns of Publication Since 1979 and Trends Toward the Future The IF of the ANZJA could have an effect on its scientific integrity. The IF has the potential to overshadow the ANZJA by research investigators and clinical investigators choosing to publish high-quality manuscripts elsewhere. This trend would lead to a reduction of manuscripts and consequently lower IFs for the ANZJA.
Zeitschriftenrankings für die Wirtschaftswissenschaften - Konstruktion eines umfassenden Metaindexes It is applicable both for researchers in the field of economics and business administration (including their respective subfields) and includes also journals which are published in German.
Citation Analysis of Graduate Dental Theses References: Implications for Collection Development The graduate dental students, over the five-year period studied, cited journal literature (88%) more often than all other literature forms (12%). This citation analysis study provided data that are useful for making evidence-based dental library collection development and management decisions. There are further research opportunities that should be considered and conducted.
Journal impact factors,h indices, and citation analyses in toxicology Overall, toxicology journals have low impact factors compared to other scientific journals. As academic promotion boards increas-ingly use semiquantitative methods of determining academic productivity (such as the impact factor and h index of the jour-nals in which a person has published), it could be expected that the toxicology journals in which many people in the fields of medical and clinical toxicology publish will see decreased sub-missions, as authors attempt to get their work published in jour-nals with higher impact factors.
Close enough but not too far: Assessing the effects of university–industry research relationships and the rise of academic capitalism From interviews with 84 biological scientists at nine universities we find scientists view UIRRs and university IP policies in complex and often conflicting ways.
An interview-based study of the functions of citations in academic writing across two disciplines While the computer scientists used citations to direct their audience to further reading more often, the sociologists' texts featured more cases of critical citations.
The Australian Research Quality Framework: A live experiment in capturing the social, economic, environmental, and cultural returns of publicly funded research The RQF certainly went a long way toward developing an optimal methodology for capturing the social, economic, environmental, and cultural returns of publicly funded research.
A Comparative Citation Analysis of Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar Although scholars may not want to replace Web of Science with Scopus, Google Scholar, or even Google, it is evident that for business and economics, the four tools should be used together to get a more complete picture of the scholarly impact of an article. GS would be a useful tool for researchers not able to access the very expensive WoS or Scopus. The results of this study show that for economics and business journals there are alternative tools for assessing the value of a scholarly article and can be a variety of ways of thinking about scholarly impact.
An empirical study of the accessibility of web references in two Chinese academic journals Only 44.2% of web references published between 1999 and 2003 can be accessed.
Institutional operating figures in basic and applied sciences: Scientometric analysis of quantitative output benchmarking The present study is the first large scale analysis of global research activity and output over the last 50 years. The presently described assessment of operating figures at the national and international level can be used to identify single areas of research that are heavily focused. Further research on qualitative output benchmarking is needed to improve current policy settings for research evaluation.
SUS/AAS abstracts: what is the scientific impact? These data suggest that SUS and AAS presentations constitute high-quality research, Trends towards higher PR, PC and IF for plenary sessions indicate that the review process properly stratifies research.
The effect of government contracting on academic research: Does the source of funding affect scientific output? These results have numerous implications. The results challenge the naive idea that researchers in university settings are conducting basic research unfet-tered by outside influence.
How Institutional Incentives and Constraints Affect the Progress of Science 1 I have argued that as long as scientific resources are scarce, the economics of science will have an important role to play in science policy.
Mapping the Literature of Food Science Revisited: 2003–2005 Food science is a multidisciplinary field, drawing research and tools from a number of fields, some in the basic sciences (chemistry, microbi-ology), while others of a more applied or technology orientation (engi-neering). The results of this study provide strong indica-tions that two sets of relationships that can be statistically verified are a specific versus interdisciplinary focus and a division between theory and application. Other future work might include a more expanded survey of the food science literature, with the top-ranked 25 journals being selected for study based upon Eugene Garfield's Impact Factor calculation.
A longer paper gathers more citations This apparent potential to rig citations simply by adjusting a paper's size, place and timing of exposure sounds worrying at a time when citation statistics are increasingly being used, both formally and informally, as indicators of performance.
Gene's worlds: Comparing Eugene Garfield's co‐citation and tri‐citation image PFNets over time Adding ego as the context in which the co-citation counts are obtained appears to provide a more specific, nuanced view of the associations made by citing authors.
Connective collective action online: An examination of the hyperlink network structure of an NGO issue network This study sought to accomplish two goals. First, following Shumate and Dewitt (2008), we identified NGO hyperlink networks as connective goods, or the set of interorganizational links that enable members and nonmembers to reach like-minded organizations in order to enhance the visibility of the network's goals. Second, this research theorized that generalist NGOs play different roles within the connective good. While ICTs have made connectivity easier, more research is needed to understand how connective forms of collective action occur online.
Re-interpretation of influence weight as a citation-based Index of New Knowledge (INK) The INK index standardizes between fields with different citation styles because in fields in which the articles have fewer references (which lowers the denominator), they will also, as a result, have fewer citations (lower numerators), other things being equal (e.g. self-citation behavior). The INK index is capable of comparisons between published pieces of various types (e.g. short communications, regular articles or reviews). Finally, we note that the INK could be mathematically combined with other scientometric indicators, for example with the h-index, to yield a combined index which would exhibit the advantages of both.
Index medicus for the Eastern Mediterranean region Future developments of the Index will include covering more journals and adding other types of health and biomedical literature, including reports, theses, books and current research.
A user view of the factors affecting quality of thesauri in social science databases This analysis scientifically proved what researchers intuitively suspected: the thesaurus issue has four main facets (structural, functional, formal, and external).
General patterns of tag usage among university groups in Flickr In answer to our research question, from the results presented in this investigation it seems that tags in university image groups tend to be useful for image retrieval purposes. In support of this claim the majority of tags are of types that are useful to the Flickr community, and image uploaders take care to assign multiple tags to their images (at least four for the majority of images). This study is merely a first step into investigating the potential of Flickr and social tagging generally.
Collaboration and Productivity: an investigation into ‘Scientometrics’ journal and ‘UHasselt’ repository A comparison of both the cases confirm the assertion that different “environments" have different production numbers per author as well as different levels of collaboration (and where high production goes together with high level of collaboration). These conjectures may be confirmed further through experimental research. This also needs further investigation.
Seven Myths in Bibliometrics About facts and fiction in quantitative science studies Myths arise from reality.
Visualizing the structure of Iranian chemistry research in SciSearch using author co-citation technique Since 1990, Iranian chemistry research, as represented in the ISI-indexed journals, has grown at a rate of roughly 26%.
Academic content, research productivity, and tenure "The results of this investigation indicate that course content does not influence the total number of publications at the time of the tenure decision."
Current Funding Practices in Academic Science Stifle Creativity Unless the problems of grant awards and top down science as I've described them can be addressed and fixed, the situation will continue to deteriorate, possibly with a mass exodus of Americans from science.
Research papers in the crosshairs Currently, it causes a great dilemma for the libraries, as the intermediary link of the informational society, to meet the quantitative and qualitative criteria affecting the selection of journals. Presently, the new ranking called the "Hirsch index for periodicals", which this article is meant to introduce, can be of great help in selecting the proper journal stock for libraries and librarians responsible for its configuration.
Inefficiency and Bias of Search Engines in Retrieving References Containing Scientific Names of Fossil Amphibians Consequently, all seven search engines were unsatisfactory for retrieval of references for our scientific research.
Journals as constituents of scientific discourse: economic heterodoxy The analysis shows not only whence journals draw their strengths, but also how knowledge between journals and neighboring sub-fields is diffused. This can be important for editors, authors, and others. Using tools developed in scientometrics and social network analysis, we are able to provide encompassing pictures and indicators of a journal's indispensibility, of a set of journals in the field of heterodox economics.
Association between co-authorship network and scientific productivity and impact indicators in academic medical research centers: A case study in Iran Star shape network structure and dependency on a single big member is a common feature observed in our case study.
The private contractual funding of academic laboratories: a panel data analysis We find that contractual public funding crowds out simultaneous private funding. Private funds are attracted by the most active laboratories within the academic sphere while best ranked publishing laboratories attract less. Post-docs increase private support substantially because of 'who is doing the job' issues.
Scientific Output and Impact: Relative Positions of China, Europe, India, Japan and the USA It is unsatisfactory that the main producers of statistics on research output, the EU and NSF in the USA, use different counting methods giving differences in the values for the scientific output of EU and the USA. However, there is no doubt that the share in the total number of publications is stagnating or decreasing slowly for both the EU and the USA, although they show no absolute decline in publication activities. There is a risk that we concentrate our discussion on what can be easily measured, i.e. publications and citations, instead of what really matters.
Garfield’s demon and “surprising” or “unexpected” results in science The distribution of the statements of surprise is not random in scientific literature (chemistry journals ranked highest in the number of papers claiming "surprising" or "unexpected" results) and may reflect the level of maturity of a discipline.
URL decay in MEDLINE—a 4-year follow-up study URL decay continues unabated, but URLs published by organizations tend to be more stable.
Journal ranking of world scientific corpus by Normalized impact factor As we have seen, Standard impact factor of field of science (SIF) grows steadily in world science as a whole. Normalized impact factor (NIF) is a tool for comparison of journals across fields of knowledge, which is very important in assessing national contributions to world science. The traditional IF favored law, Psychology and Psychiatry, and was too 'harsh' to such low-cited fields as Ethics, History, Demography, Women's Studies, Urban Studies, etc. NIF gives a more balanced picture.
Distributions of Multiple Authors: A Case Study of two Journals (JASIST and Scientometrics) The number of authors per paper in both the journals is increasing; it therefore indicates the trend towards collaboration with more than two authors. There is a clear decline in number of papers with authors from different countries. The percentage of authors from different institutions has increased from both the cases.
The long and winding road Universities should undoubtedly offer an institutional repository. Usually the university library runs this repository. The article lists some key points that should be considered when an organisation plans to start and run an institutional or disciplinary repository.
Scientists who engage with society perform better academically First, we have clearly shown that scientists engaged in wider dissemination also perform better academically, refuting the idea that wider 'dissemination activities are carried out by those who are not good enough for an academic career' (Royal Society, 2006). Finally, another contradiction between our study and common views among scientists is the idea that wide 'dissemination activities are negative for the career'. We feel that the institutions now have a duty to invent ways of evaluating and rewarding the scientists who are active in widely disseminating their work.
Institutional repositories as portents of change: Disruption or reassembly? Conjectures and reconfigurations Attempts so far to identify the types of change to scholarly publishing that Open Access policies (OA) and Institutional Repositories (IR) will initiate are ambiguous and conjectural. Resorting to Actor-Network Theory, an alternative way of modelling or representing OA/IR within scholarly publishing is suggested. ANT accommodates ideas of change, but would re-specify or reconfigure "disruption" as a "one-off" in terms of a continual "reassembly" of an existing network.
The Relationship between Scholarly Communication and Science and Technology Studies (STS) The domain of science and technology studies (STS) that is concerned with the content of scientific knowledge is known as the sociology of scientific knowledge (SSK).
The Institutional Repository Rediscovered: What Can a University Do for Open Access Publishing? The success or failure of self-archiving mandates should not cloud the fact that the university has the power to make a better repository, one that goes beyond self-archiving to serve faculty’s core needs.
Open Access, Equity, and Strong Economy in Developing and Transition Countries: Policy Perspective Recommendations for countries deciding on their open access policies should include the following points: Policies mandating open access to publicly funded research enhance access to and greater use of research findings, increase the efficiency of research and deve-lopment, accelerate use and innovation, and stimulate economy.
An Empirical Analysis of the Amount of Publication Fees On the basis of this estimation, the calculated authors' fees differ greatly across the various disciplines.
The Access/Impact Problem and the Green and Gold Roads to Open Access: An Update To reach 100% OA, self-archiving needs to be mandated by researchers' employers and funders, as they are now increasingly beginning to do.
Journal Prices Revisited: A Regression Analysis of Prices in the Scholarly Journal Market The aim of this paper was to gain a deeper understanding of pricing of scholarly journal publishers, as journals are the heart of scholarly communication. We found the largest influence to be size of the journal. On a more general level, this work can be seen as a basis for further research in the area of cost and business models of scholarly communication.
Mixing and Matching the Green and Gold Roads to Open Access—Take 2 "Six years following the initial Budapest meeting, the Open Access movement has demonstrated considerable strength and can point to some important successes. This paper has suggested returning to a three-year-old suggestion, which was to mix and match the Green and Gold roads, but it is argued now in terms of the need to examine the power system of science much more closely and with caveats against simplistic arguments, especially when they are coupled with an elitist vision of the researcher or the scholar. Brazil therefore harbors a model that, by its efficiency and its coherence, has become the inspiration for about nine other countries in the region. It may soon attract the attention of the whole world and will thus demonstrate that Open Access can indeed help the development of autonomous scientific capacity."
An Integrated Approach to Evaluate Faculty Members' Research Performance This integrated approach, based on objective numerical criteria, shows promise as a useful method for management of the research enterprise of medical schools.
Metrics or Peer Review? Evaluating the 2001 UK Research Assessment Exercise in Political Science Our findings suggest, unequivocally, that a metrics-based model, using objective, transparent indicators drawn from a range of readily available measures, will yield results which are very close to those of a peer-based evaluation model. Such a stronger reliance on quantitative indicators, of which bibliometrics is a central measure, will, most importantly, obviate the need for a large peer review committee and the consequent indirect biases that it introduces into the system. Most importantly, it would do so at significantly reduced cost.
Comparative Journal Ratings: A Survey Report The high degree of expert consensus, especially at the top of the list, across the three countries is encouraging.
Metrics versus Peer Review? To my mind, that looks like a continuation of the centrality of peer review for some time to come.
Where There are Data ... Quantifying the Unquantifiable All are dependent on materials derived from publications in certain journals only. Peer review is the only way.
Gradgrinding the Social Sciences: The Politics of Metrics of Political Science The purpose of this article has been to highlight that apparently 'objective' bibliometric data are the sum of 'subjective' judgements and thus socially constructed. Bibliometrics should not therefore be accorded superior status to quality judgements arrived at by expert panels informed by generic and discipline-sensitive metrics and the peer review of publications. This article therefore supports the development of a range of metrics to aid the panel process, and recognises the importance of the novel citation study and comparative journal rankings presented in this Political Studies Review symposium as steps towards this.
Who Is Citing Whom: Citation Network Analysis Among HRD Publications from 1990 to 2007 The current study has sought to discover underlying structure of interrelationship among HRD texts and identify the prevailing issues and trends in a set of connections among HRD publications to contribute to the foundational study in HRD.
Asian University Rankings in International and Development Economics: An Application of Zipf's Law A salient feature of the Asian ranks found here is that newcomers like City University of Hong Kong ranks atop the field of international economics. The results of the university ranking also establish that Zipf's law applies to another area of economics—research-based school ranks. This would provide an excellent guide to predicting research productivity even without estimating regression-type models that may employ the government's educational reform, teaching load, professor's salary, and so on, as explanatory variables.
NanoSI: exploring nanotechnology research conflation and nano-innovation dynamism in the case of Japan In this paper, nanotechnology has been identified as an expanded and conflated area of general scientific disciplines in many Asian countries and more precisely in Japan.
Differences in publication and dissemination practices between disciplinary and transdisciplinary science and the consequences for research evaluation Our general conclusion is that there is a need for multidimensional research evaluation in order to be able to recognize both transdisciplinary and discipli-nary research in an adequate way. Indicator-specific benchmarks need to be deter-mined for each field of research. Rising costs linked with more complex re-search evaluations seem justified, if this leads to a better understanding of the richness of modern sci-ence and, as a consequence, to more effective and efficient public funding of research organizations, research groups and individual scientists.
A model for national planning under new roles for government: case study of the National Iranian Nanotechnology Initiative This supports the claim in this article that in national planning (particularly in the science and technology area) different government roles and using different types of tools should be considered. It considers three classifications simultaneously, gives a holistic overview of the roles and tools of the government, prevents a blinkered view of national planning and overemphasis on one role or some types of tools, and thus increases the effectiveness of these plans.
Time-dependent Lotkaian informetrics incorporating growth of sources and items In this paper we studied the aspect of time-dependence in the evolution of a Lotkaian system.
Building open access in Africa The absence of the expectation that information should flow in and out of Africa and other developing regions, a true global economy cannot be realised since the global economy rides on the wheel of information.
Deja vu: a database of highly similar citations in the scientific literature The Déjà vu database is the first of its kind to publically present cases of highly similar citations in Medline.
Bias in the journal impact factor The two-year window used to estimate the JIF creates an unequal sample for different journals, and introduces a bias that means the JIF does not provide a comparable indication of impact across different disciplines.
Redistributed random sampling method for categorizing materials research publications from SCI database: Metallurgy and polymer subfields The results proposed in this work indicated that the Redistributed Random Sampling (RRS) and Directly Random Sampling (DRS) methods were suitable, less laborious and sufficiently accurate for categorization of large number of materials science research articles.
Is the United States losing ground in science? A global perspective on the world science system "The contribution of United States scientific institutions to refereed publications indexed by the Institute for Scientific Information has continued to rise in sheer numbers over the past decade, as have most countries. At the same time that the USA and other scientifically advanced countries have maintained slow growth, some countries that are newly developing their own scientific systems are making spectacular gains in numbers of publications contributed to refereed journals. Far from losing ground in science to new entrants, the USA and other scientifically-advanced countries are gaining new colleagues and partners as well as access to new resources as other countries develop their scientific capacities."
Incremental citation impact due to international co-authorship in Hungarian higher education institutions The results of our study clearly suggest an answer “yes” to the question formulated in the title of the paper of HERBERTZ [1995]: "Does it pay to cooperate?", at least as the returns measurable in the number of citations are concerned.
The most highly cited Library and Information Science articles: Interdisciplinarity, first authors and citation patterns Regarding disciplinarity, the incidence per 100,000 IS&LS of highest cited articles was much lower for articles solely in IS&LS than for those in IS&LS and at least one other subject (9.9 compared with 185.7). Hence the promotion of interdisciplinary research in IS&LS may be conducive to improving its quality of research. This indicates that high quality ideas and methods in IS&LS often are exploited many years after they were published.
Growth cycles of knowledge In this paper we presented a description of knowledge more realistic than the simple exponential growth.
Similarity measures for document mapping: A comparative study on the level of an individual scientist It could be shown that for identifying similar contents in a variety of documents the Inclusion Index should be preferred over the Cosine or Jaccard Index.
Fluorine research in South Africa and four benchmarking countries: Comparative mapping and assessment The latter finding means that in South Africa fluorine research is underrepresented in the country's research efforts.
Comparing the scientific quality achieved by funding instruments for single grant holders and for collaborative networks within a research system: Some observations The data show strong evidence of a balance between different forms of funding in terms of the incidence of excellence. Such a balance is likely to arise to some degree from the professional and effective management of the funding allocation by the Science Fund and by appropriate use of the funds themselves by the scientists who carry out the research.
Subfield-specific normalized relative indicators and a new generation of relational charts: Methodological foundations illustrated on the assessment of institutional research performance The results lead to the conclusion that instead of any linear ranking of universities, a more detailed, complex analysis is necessary to grasp and to reflect even this one, however important, aspect of performance among the manifold of university activities.
Subspecialty Impact Factors: The Contribution of Pediatric Anesthesia and Pain Articles Ped IFs were consistently less than the JIFs in which they were published and the Pain IFs, except for the British Journal of Anaesthesia 2005 in the latter case.
The limits to internationalization of scientific research collaboration International research collaboration is clearly an important phenomenon; the majority of all collaborations involving a Dutch organization are international.
The Burden of Knowledge and the "Death of the Renaissance Man": Is Innovation Getting Harder? In all, the micro-evidence presented in this paper, together with other available micro-evidence and the aggregate data trends cited previously, suggest general and multi-dimensional patterns that may collectively be understood from the knowledge burden perspective. The knowledge burden mechanism suggests that the nature of innovation is changing, with negative implications for long-run economic growth. Future improvements in knowledge transfer rates could potentially overcome growth in the knowledge stock.
An analysis of the most cited articles in software engineering journals-2002 The analysis here is intended to highlight and acknowledge the articles attracting most citations within software engineering. Insights into what is viewed as important to build upon may provide valuable insights into both what research is important and where the field of software engineering is heading. The analysis of the most cited software engineering journal articles in a specific year has been made to a yearly tradition for Information and Software Technology, and to invite the most cited authors to contribute to a special issue or section of the journal.
Reward or persuasion? The battle to define the meaning of a citation The SCI is an example of a technology that was designed for one purpose, but redefined by its users for another.
National vs. international journals: views of medical professionals in Croatia Our study demonstrated the unique position of national journals in the medical profession.
The bibliometrics of atmospheric environment Atmospheric Environment has grown considerably since its parent journal began in 1958 and doubled its output over the most recent decade. The style of its titles, reference lists and diagrams has changed also, but bibliometric evidence would suggest that the articles published in Atmospheric Environment attract significant and long term interest from its own authors (journal self-citation ~ 30%) and scientists more generally (impact factor 2.549 for 2007 from Journal Citation Reports 2008).
The Sad and Bleak Future for Urology Funding at the National Institutes of Health The future of federal appropriations for NIH is in a period of significant and possibly catastrophic downturn.
Thirty Years of Family Medicine Publications in Israel (1975-2004): What, Where, and How Much? Publishing and research are important to the development of family medicine as an academic profession, in which Israeli family physicians show significant productivity.
Author-Choice Open-Access Publishing in the Biological and Medical Literature: A Citation Analysis This article illustrates that the open-access citation advantage, widely promoted in the literature, is considerably overstated for the biological and biomedical literature; and secondly, that some of the citation advantage can be explained by variables other than access. Lastly, there is strong evidence to suggest that the citation advantage has declined moderately over the last few years. We believe that the most plausible explanations for our results are (a) the increasing ease of redistributing digital information, and (b) that earlier studies may be showing an "early-adopter effect."
Differences in Impact Factor Across Fields and Over Time We find that an increasing number of citations in the reference lists of published papers is the greatest contributor to impact factor inflation over time. Differences in the fraction of citations to JCR-indexed literature is the greatest contributor to differences across fields, though cross-field differences in impact factor are also influenced by differences in the number of citations per paper and differences in the fraction of references that were published within two years. By contrast, the growth rate of the scientific literature and cross-field differences in net size and growth rate have very little influence on impact factor inflation or on cross-field differences in impact factor.
Exploring the h-Index at Patent Level Based on the assumption that a patent that is highly cited contains a technology of particular merit, the technological indicators...have been constructed. This article presents an alternative to other citation-based indicators, i.e., the patent h-index, which could be used to measure the technological importance and quality or impact for countries and companies.
A Google Scholar h-Index for Journals: An Alternative Metric to Measure Journal Impact in Economics and Business We showed that there is substantial agreement between the ISI JIF and the GS h-index for most subdisciplines.
Scholarly Hyperwriting: The Function of Links in Academic Weblogs The high number of links in our corpus and the variety of functions for which they are used suggest that scholars are fully aware of the critical role of links in running a success-ful scholarly blog. Understanding how links work and using them as a discursive strategy form part of the electronic liter-acy skills required to fully exploit the potential of blogs for scholarly communication.
The Publication and Citation Impact Profiles of Angewandte Chemie and the Journal of the American Chemical Society Based on the Sections of Chemical Abstracts: A Case Study on the Limitations of the Journal Impact Factor Therefore, a single measure of journal citation impact such as the JIF is insufficient for characterizing the significance and performance of wide-scope journals.
Use of astronomical literature-A report on usage patterns In terms of its audience, the ADS has not only changed quantitatively, but also qualitatively. Since 2005 there is a growing role as a source of science education of the general public. It indicates that increased access to electronic information is being used and in this sense there is a narrowing of the "Digital Divide" for these regions.
Library Catalog Analysis as a tool in studies of social sciences and humanities: An exploratory study of published book titles in Economics This paper explored the use of Library Catalog Analysis, defined as the application of bibliometric or informetric techniques to a set of library online catalogs, to describe quantitatively a scientific-scholarly field on the basis of published book titles.
Convergent validity of bibliometric Google Scholar data in the field of chemistry-Citation counts for papers that were accepted by Angewandte Chemie International Edition or rejected but published elsewhere, using Google Scholar, Science Citation Index, Scopus, and Chemical Abstracts Our study therefore supports, on the one hand, the convergent validity of citation analyses based on data from the fee-based databases and, on the other hand, the lack of convergent validity of the citation analysis based on the GS data.
Stabilisation operationalised: Using time series analysis to understand the dynamics of research collaboration The analysis of the two cases suggested that different components of time series analysis of ICT-data related to different processes of collaboration.
Document-document similarity approaches and science mapping: Experimental comparison of five approaches The results show that it is possible to achieve a very good approximation of the classification by means of automatic grouping of articles.
Real and rational variants of the h-index and the g-index While there is no universally true relation between these variants, it is shown that in a citation context the real h-index is often smaller than the rational h-index.
Can the highly cited psychiatric paper be predicted early? It appears doubtful that data available at 3 weeks after publication for psychiatric articles are useful in predicting citation counts at 2 years.
Why do statistics journals have low impact factors? Based on the analysis of citation diffusion patterns, it has become clear that statistics journals enjoy slower diffusion than do journals in other disciplines.
Research collaboration and productivity: is there correlation? Our study has revealed some salient characteristics of collaboration in academic research. In general, there is no clear evidence that correlation exists between the resort to extramural collaboration and the overall performance of a research institution, even though there are clear differences with regard to the several types of collaboration (general, international, public-private) and the peculiarities of the specific fields of scientific research. However, there are sound and reasonable arguments remaining to support policy measures in favor of networking and collaborations among research groups.
Classifying higher education institutions in Korea: a performance-based approach In this study, a performance-based approach was applied and institutional performance was classified using Hierarchical Cluster Analysis. From the point, the classification results emerging from the performance-based approach were shown to be equivalent to that of conventional classifications using predetermined benchmarks. This classification has diverse applications for academic research and policymaking as well.
What Does It Take to Get Promoted in Marketing Academia? Understanding Exceptional Publication Productivity in the Leading Marketing Journals We believe that the findings provide new insights that are important to the development of the field. Furthermore, we believe that the findings ask market- ing faculty to question the stewardship role regarding the marketing discipline. Specifically, our results add greater specificity to the extant scientometrics literature.
The Impact of Electronic Journals on Use of Print in Geology As expected, after geology e-journals became established, use of e-titles far out-stripped the use of print titles.
Evaluation of Moroccan research using a bibliometric-based approach: investigation of the validity of the h-index During the last decade, the scientific research output of Morocco has shown little significant growth.
A new reference standard for citation analysis in chemistry and related fields based on the sections of Chemical Abstracts Overall, the sections of Chemical Abstracts seem to be a promising basis for reference standards in chemistry and related fields for four reasons: (1) The wider coverage of the pertinent literature, (2) the quality of indexing, (3) the assignment of papers published in multidisciplinary and general journals to their respective fields, and (4) the resolution of fields on a lower level (e.g. mammalian biochemistry) than in journal classification schemes (e.g. biochemistry & molecular biology).
An evaluation of research performance in management of 168 Taiwan universities The results show that public universities, in general, performed better than private ones. Universities with specific missions had comparable performance to general comprehensive ones.
An analysis and comparison of scientometric data between journals of physics, chemistry and engineering For all the scientometric indicators of this study except the cited half-life, there is no significant difference between the essential journals of physics and chemistry indicating similar citation behavior among the scientists. Significant mean difference is generally observed for most of the scientometric indicators between engineering and physics or between engineering and chemistry demonstrating the difference in citation behavior among engineering researchers and scientists in physics or chemistry. The three subjects of this study present the same strength of the correlation between number of source items and number of citations, between number of citations and impact factor, and between cited half-life and citing half-life.
Status of physics research in India: An analysis of research output during 1993-2001 If extra mural funding is any indicator for judging country's priorities in science and technology, then certainly physics has been losing its importance in the country over time. Excellence in physics is still confined to select few institutions in the country despite wider institutional participation in research. There is disparity in quantity and quality of publications output by leading institutions.
Co-authorship networks in social sciences: The case of Turkey In general, our results underline the need to strengthen domestic networks of SSH researchers. Therefore, developing and maintaining knowledge diffusion mechanisms is vital to strengthen the research base of countries that face such challenges. Finally, increasing the density of the domestic network of Turkish SSH researchers would foster the emergence of robust national science networks able to fully participate in the ERA.
The multi-dimensionality of journal impact Earlier studies, as well as the present analysis have shown that scientometric distributions, in general, and citation distributions of scientific journals, in particular, can best be described on the basis of multi-parameter distribution models. For the general representation of journal impact a two-indicator model is necessary and, as previous studies and the above analysis have shown, for practical application sufficient as well. The somewhat stronger correlation between the two indicators for low-impact journals, however, suggests that in cases of very low citation impact the traditional mean-values-based measures provides already sufficient information about the reception of these journals.
Hirsch-type indices for characterizing networks The normalized degree h-index thus appears useful as an empirical indicator of centralization, although the theoretical background of its behavior is still waiting for elaboration.
Status of open access in the biomedical field in 2005 This study showed that 27% of articles in the biomedical field in 2005 were accessible as OA articles, including “restricted OA” articles.
Mapping the health research landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa: a study of trends in biomedical publications Although SSA is often cited as being at the low end of the spectrum of health research publication [8, 9], this analysis shows an upward trend among first authors publishing in the top-ten producing nations, with the exception of Zimbabwe.
The Psychology of Referencing in Psychology Journal Articles We make suggestions about referencing for authors, editors, and bibliographic database designers.
Masked Reviews Are Not Fairer Reviews In summary, masked review is a method that is designed to address a problem (bias) for which there is surprisingly little evidence.
The inside scoop: Acceptance and rejection at the journal of international economics Our main conclusions are that overall the JIE seems to be doing a good job in identifying quality.
Allocative efficiency in public research funding: Can bibliometrics help? For evaluation of the quality of research outputs (of a specific institution, in a given disciplinary area) the two methods are thus substantially equivalent. Indeed, bibliometric analysis of the publications selected from the hard science areas for partic- ipation in the VTR shows that Italian universities, in the main, did not identify and/or present their supposedly best publications. Comparing to the peer review process, the bibliometric approach permits: (i) avoiding the weakest phase in peer review, meaning the selec- tion of articles by individual research institutions; (ii) assessing research productivity, both in quantitative and qual- itative terms; (iii) significantly reducing the costs and times for implementation.
Threshold citation analysis of influential articles, journals, institutions and researchers in accounting This study emphasizes the quality of research works in the ranking of influential institutions and authors in accounting research.
Shifts in Guidelines for Ethical Scientific Conduct: How Public and Private Organizations Create and Change Norms of Research Integrity This retrospective analysis demonstrates that the institutional logics of the three periods are not incompatible with one another.
Nanotechnology innovation system: Understanding hidden dynamics of nanoscience fusion trajectories Promoting nanoscience fusion through scientific fields attracts much interest of policy makers because such pattern confirms the importance of collaborative research networks between divergent scientific fields as well as institutions in respect of nano-scale.
Quality of manuscript reviews in nursing research We created a process for evaluating the quality of reviews in nursing research.
Oracle, Where Shall I Submit My Papers? "In this study, we have shown that our intuitive hypothesis, “the quality of a conference is highly correlated with that of its PC members”, holds relatively well."
New Relations Between Similarity Measures for Vectors Based on Vector Norms On the "trajectories" ||X|| = a||Y|| with a > 0 constant, we studied the relations among these similarity measures and showed that J is a convexly increasing function of C, hereby presenting a model that explains Figure 1, given in Leydesdorff (2008).
A New Approach for Detecting Scientific Specialties From Raw Cocitation Networks We have shown that there are several important advantages in using the algorithm of Blondel et al. (2008) for community detection in cocitation networks. We have established that the resulting communities detected from our network consistently correspond to what we would intuitively recognize as scientific specialties or invisible colleges (if we restrict ourselves to the active researchers in the cocitation network). These techniques could be of great use to historians or sociologists of science, by tracking the emergence, demise, proximity, or fusion of specializations as well as the evolution of scientific paradigms (Chubin, 1976; Mullins, 1972; Mullins et al., 1977; Small, 2006).
"Backstage Solidarity" in Spanish- and English-Written Medical Research Papers: Publication Context and the Acknowledgment Paratext We conclude that "backstage solidarity" (E. Goffman, 1959, p. 177; also see B. Cronin & S. Franks, 2006, p. 1915) significantly differs from one context to another, and that the communicative and sociocultural conventions of academic contributorship are not only discipline-dependent but also language- and context-dependent.
How Much and Where? Private Versus Public Universities' Publication Patterns in the Information Systems Discipline This article captures and analyzes the publication behaviors of the tenured IS professors at 31 leading private research universities and their 31 public counterparts. We find that the two university segments differ substantially in terms of the average IS tenured-faculty size at private versus public schools, the journal publications per capita for tenured IS professors at private versus public schools, the intensity with which they publish in specific journals, the breadth with which they publish in specific journals, and the rankings of journal importance for the private versus public worlds.
A Global Map of Science Based on the ISI Subject Categories The mapping of science could, therefore, be comprehensive and reliable on a large scale albeit imprecise in terms of the attribution of journals to the ISI subject categories.
Simulating Growth of the h-Index In most cases the lifetime-achievement h-index grows linearly in time.
Some Comments on "A Proposal for a Dynamic h-Type Index" by Rousseau and Ye Our view is that the linear form for the development of an author's h-index, as argued by Hirsch (2005, 2007) and Burrell (2007a), should in general be regarded as the "typical scenario" and that deviations from this should be investigated scientometrically, as suggested by Burrell (2007b), rather than by simply fitting a curve.
The Matthew Effect Defined and Tested for the 100 Most Prolific Economists I find that often-cited papers are cited more often, and that often-cited authors are cited more often. This implies that there are "increasing returns to scale" in influence, and that Merton's (1968) Matthew effect is real and can be found in data. Future research should seek to define and apply correction factors for citation numbers.
Do Astronomical Journals Still Have Extensive Self-referencing? Therefore the availability of all these journals online and through search engines that tell us the most pertinent papers for our research have not reduced this tendency toward self-referencing in astronomical journals.
Quantitative analysis of Spanish university scientific output in the area of Legal and Forensic Medicine: International exposure As in other biomedical areas in Spain [RAMOS & AL., 2005], universities have been the main participants in Legal and Forensic Medicine research since they are responsible for 64% of the publications recorded, although some forensic doctors appear as co-authors in certain collaborative contributions. There are three main nuclei of scientific production in this field, Santiago de Compostela, Granada and Murcia, again mainly in the universities of these cities. In general, the outlook is bright for legal-medical research in Spain, although the asymmetry between different universities could be regarded as a cause of concern to those outside the Spanish scientific community.
The authorship and country spread of Operation Research journals "Interestingly, the results show that authors are inclined to publish papers in their home-country journals."
The top 40 citation classics in the Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology The papers in Table 1 provide valuable insight to the development of the subspecialty of information science.
Scholarly collaboration between Europe and Israel: A scientometric examination of a changing landscape In this study we have shown that the cooperation share of the EU countries with Israel increases over time, and that there is a decline in the share of the US, which is still the major country collaborating with Israel.
Median age difference of references as indicator of information update of research groups: A case study in Spanish food research At first glance, our results seem not to support our hypotheses on the properties of median age difference as indicator of the level of information update of research groups. It should be remembered that this work presents only a single case study and is exploratory in nature. The number of papers and references studied and the six-year interval analyzed is probably too small to draw any really concrete conclusions about the validity of the proposed indicator.
Testing bibliometric indicators by their prediction of scientists promotions Our study shows that the consequences would be dramatic, changing roughly half the promotions every year. The differences could then be explained by the consideration of additional activities (team management, risk taking ...), by unsatisfactory peer evaluation (preferential promotion of friends, visible colleagues...) or by the opposite: human expertise capable to judge whether automatic measures are really meaningful.
Does the human capital of teams of natural science authors predict citation frequency? After controlling for subject area and journal differences, the results of this study confirm what has often been asserted: articles co-authored by diverse teams and by higher quality authors are cited more frequently.
Optics: a bibliometric approach to detect emerging research domains and intellectual bases Topological clustering method can be used not only for the detection of emerging research field and entire structure of research such as interrelationships among subdomains of the research field.
Using the h-index for assessing single publications The h-index of single publications is a rather robust indicator, i.e., insensitive to a wide range of incidental features of the publications. The characteristic difference between the two journals clearly reflects the significance of 'indirect citation influence'. The h-index of single publications does not answer these questions, but the answers would be rather useful in its interpretation and effective use.
Electronic journals and changes in scholarly article seeking and reading patterns With the growth of electronic journals, the continued increase in the number of journals and articles published yearly, and alternative sources of scholarly articles, many information seeking and reading patterns of science faculty are changing. Articles are identified and located through a variety of information-seeking methods, including browsing, online searching, following citation links, and getting recommendations from colleagues, yet the proportion of articles located by searching is increasing. Academics and scientists continue to show the value of scholarly articles to them by the total time they spend reading and by the range of purposes of reading. The current trend of more readings in less time per reading can only go so far, however.
Visualization of scientific co-authorship in Spanish universities From regionalization to internationalization The network charted on the grounds of an analysis of collaboration among peers working in comparable, institutionally similar organizations appears to be based on geographic proximity. The present results suggest further lines of possible ongoing research.
A longitudinal analysis of alternative document models The consensus seems to be that the most reliable ADMs have been the directory and domain models, although the hybrid range models have also had some success (Thelwall and Wilkinson, 2003b).
Open Access and Global Participation in Science The influence of OA is more modest than many have proposed, at ~8% for recently published research, but our work provides clear support for its ability to widen the global circle of those who can participate in science and benefit from it.
Fate of Manuscripts Previously Rejected by the American Journal of Neuroradiology: A Follow-Up Analysis "Results from this study suggest that publications initially rejected from AJNR have a significantly lower citation frequency than those accepted by AJNR."
The use of bibliometrics to measure research quality in UK higher education institutions Profiling methodologies, based on normalized citation counts, appear to be the most likely route to developing comprehensive and acceptable metrics. They should also prove useful in differentiating excellence for benchmarking, but the strategy for normalizing the raw citation data prior to analysis will be central and critical. In all this it should be recognized that it will not be possible to detect changes in UK behavior and outcomes for some years. By then, the UK may be set on a pathway from which it is difficult to extricate itself.
The use of bibliometric indicators to help peer-review assessment The use of bibliometric indicators requires great vig-ilance but, according to our experience, they without any doubt enrich the committee's debates.
Rank-normalized journal impact factor as a predictive tool Thus the application of the rank-normalized journal IF as a proxy of real citation frequency and, accordingly, as a predictive tool in the a priori qualification of recently published publications is a rational time- and cost-saving alternative (or at least a significant supplement) to traditional informed peer review.
Extending co-citation analysis to discover authors with multiple expertise The CAP effectiveness in discovering multi-expertise authors is evaluated by the benchmark of ACM CCS. The CAP algorithm can yield results better than 90% in terms of Precision and better than 75% in terms of Recall. In brief, the CAP algorithm can precisely discover the authors published papers across other domains without relying on the ACM CCS classifier.
Attracted to open access journals: a bibliometric author analysis in the field of biology The paper argues that authors from developing countries are not attracted to open access more than authors from developed countries.
Preferential publication of editorial board members in medical specialty journals "There was a significant excess of publications from medical journals' own editorial boards, although it is not possible to determine whether this is due to bias in the peer review process or selective submission by editors."
Inter-disease Comparison of Research Quantity and Quality: Bronchial Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Summarizing this first country-specific comparative benchmarking analysis for obstructive pulmonary diseases it can be concluded that (1) asthma research dominated in the past 20 years; (2) COPD research gained importance in the field since the end of the 1990s; (3) there are large differences present in the research output between the two high-income countries examined.
journal publications from politics departments in ireland 2003-2007: an update using the hix method These figures suggest that on the basis of Hix’s method, political science in Ireland is in an increasingly healthy position.
Mapping Excellence in National Research Systems The Case of Italy The proposed methodology was tested on the entirety of six scientific macro areas of the Italian public research system (676 organizations) and permitted the tentative identification of 877 TSCs and 157 COEs.
Citation Levels and Collaboration Within Library and Information Science Returning to the research question 1, collaboration is clearly associated with higher citation (contrary to Hart, 2007). Moreover, the collaborative rates and levels of the highest four citation strata increased in unison over time, whereas the collaborative rates and levels of the un-cited articles remained low and stable. The study on influential information scientists found that although, on average, they had high collaborative levels, the collaborative level for some authors was less than a fifth of that of other authors, which indicates that although collabora- tion is associated with research quality, it is not a requirement.
Toward a Consensus Map of Science We propose that the one-dimensional (Figure 6) and two-dimensional (Figure 4b) consensus maps of science be adopted for educational purposes.
Comparative Study on Methods of Detecting Research Fronts Using Different Types of Citation This article reports a comparative study to investigate the performance of methods for detecting emerging research fronts among co-citation, bibliographic coupling, and direct citation networks.
Do Open-Access Journals in Library and Information Science Have Any Scholarly Impact? A Bibliometric Study of Selected Open-Access Journals Using Google Scholar IF analysis of scholarly OA journals on the basis of citations found by Google Scholar is an unexplored area of bibliometric study.
Webometric analysis of departments of librarianship and information science: a follow-up study We have been unable to identify any such relationship owing to the very incomplete, and potentially misleading, nature of the inlink data that can be collected at the departmental level (although this may be less of a problem when data is aggregated over an institution or country).
Comparing bibliometric country-by-country rankings derived from the Web of Science and Scopus: the effect of poorly cited journals in oncology Section 2 provided evidence that the oncological journals in Scopus that are not covered by WoS tend to be nationally oriented journals, i.e. journals that serve mainly national reading audiences and that are not (yet) fully integrated into international networks and that may use publication languages other than English. It is important that the users of citation databases - including Scopus – for bibliometric purposes are aware of this type of paradoxical effect if one adds poorly cited journals to the index. A possible approach would be to distinguish, in the assessment of research performance based on bibliometric indicators and rankings, between a national and an international perspective.
The non-linear dynamics of meaning processing in social systems In summary, functional differentiation changes the social system so that a double contingency between functionally differentiated, that is, differently coded, subsystems of communication becomes possible.
Career Factors Help Predict Productivity in Scholarship Among Faculty Members in Physical Therapist Education Programs Career factors generally predict the largest proportion of explained variance in scholarly productivity. Large numbers of questions remain regarding the status of scholarship and scholars in physical therapy. The study provides ample direction for future inquiry regarding the sta-tus of scholarship and of scholars in physical therapy.
Scientific Achievement and Editorial Board Membership On the one hand, our data indicate that, compared to their counterparts in psychology and sociology, neither the AMR nor the AMJ editorial boards is distinguished by the volume of its contributions to our discipline’s scientific literature.
Editorial Judgments, Quality Scholarship, and the Academy of Management's Journals The conclusion that we have a “Hollywood model” suggested by the anonymous referee quoted near the end of the Bedeian et al. article seems a bit extreme, particularly given the other viewpoints and data provided herein. I concur with the Bedeian et al. suggestion that publishing in our field requires trust; authors must trust editors and editors must trust reviewers, but editors also serve as judges and must be objective, emphasizing both quality and fairness in the process.
Successful Authors and Effective Reviewers Balancing Supply and Demand in the Organizational Sciences Our data fail to support the implied conclusion of Bedeian et al. (2007) that the reviewers of AMJ are less accomplished scholars than the would-be authors of AMJ are. We hope these data, along with that of Bedeian et al., provide a starting point for dis-cussion about alternative “is now” and “should be” levels of balance regarding scholarly credentials of reviewers for our leading journals. We agree with Bedeian et al. that success as an author is the primary consideration that should go into selection for editorial boards of scientific and professional journals, but that this is not the sole criterion.
Publication trends in the medical informatics literature: 20 years of "Medical Informatics" in MeSH There is a steadily growing presence and increasing visibility of medical informatics literature over the years.
The h Index - Help or Hype? The longer I was reading the 'index science' literature the more I became convinced that the above-mentioned quotations hit the nail on the head, including the last one claiming that the original h index may “contain a small kernel of truth”.
Pain research from 1975 to 2007: A categorical and bibliometric meta-trend analysis of every Research Paper published in the journal, Pain This exercise yielded a particularly rich portrait of the nature of pain research, and trends within it, over the past 32-plus years.
Alzheimer's Disease Research: Scientific Productivity and Impact of the Top 100 Investigators in the Field "The spirit of Lotka's law [16], which suggests that in any given scientific field the majority of the work is done by a small percentage of the total investigators, seems to hold true in AD not only in terms of the quan-tity of research but also in terms of the quality of the science. There are two interesting directions for future research that naturally follow the work presented in this paper. The first involves conducting a similar, but more granular, analysis of scientific leadership within the AD research community in which the identification of excellence within the principal AD lines of inves-tigation is emphasized."
International Differences in Nursing Research, 2005-2006 Although this study had several limitations, especially with regard to potential biases in the sample of studies from non-English-speaking countries, this analysis of over 1,000 nursing studies indicates many important inter-country differences in the focus, methods, and authorship patterns of nursing research published in leading journals.
Visibility of Latin American Nursing Research (1959-2005) These results provide a diagnosis of the scientific ac-tivity developed by Latin American nurses, that is, the intellectual growth (Traynor & Rafferty, 2001) of the dis-cipline in the region in terms of production.
Implementation and Impact of a Translational Research Training Program in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine An explicit TRTP appears to increase collaboration between basic and clinical investi-gators.
Synthetic hybrid indicators based on scientific collaboration to quantify and evaluate individual research results The formulation of new convergence indicators has revealed the patterns of ties between actors as an invaluable aid to understanding networking on the individual scale.
The effects of open access on un-published documents: A case study of economics working papers Summing up, the results of this study have shown that the impact of working papers is relatively low in the field of economics. Consequently, the result of this study does not provide evidence of an open access advantage for working papers in economics. The results of this study do raise the question of field specific weighting schemes of publications as publications that typically receive little or no credit in bibliometric assessment of research performance may be highly recognised in some fields.
Science indicators and science patterns in Europe The results presented in this work indicate that institutional dimension is a paramount factor in scientific ranking. Our conclusions further indicate that aspects related with geographical position are the dominant factors dictating both the relative importance of scientific areas in European countries and the time evolution of scientific productivity. We believe that the patterns outlined in this work should be, in future analyses, contrasted with others obtained from social, economic or historical indicators.
Monotonicity and the Hirsch index Theorem 3.1. An index f satisfies A1, A2 and A3 if, and only if, f is the Hirsch index.
Funding incentives, collaborative dynamics and scientific productivity: Evidence from the EU framework program To conclude, the evaluation of policy intervention is complex. Our results demonstrate that the design and assessment of such policy interventions requires an appreciation of how collaborative structures change over time, notably during periods covered by pre-, during- and post-funding of research networks. First, our results lead us to suggest that policymakers need to pay close attention to the nature of the pre-funding structures of collaboration since these can be a relevant variable for improving the effectiveness of funding schemes oriented to networks of researchers.
Research collaboration and research output: A longitudinal study of 65 biomedical scientists in a New Zealand university Our analyses generate the following two headline results. First, both international collaboration and within-university collaboration are significantly related to the quality of an individual paper, even after including a full set of scientist dummies or controlling for the clustered nature of observations. Second, our longitudinal data analyses have shown that while within-university collaboration is related to future quantity of research output, only international collaboration is related to "real" research output of a scientist that takes quality and authorship into account. Our causality analyses also show that research collaboration causes research output more than research output causes research collaboration.
Turning Working Papers into Journal Articles: An Exercise in Microbibliometrics This study has unveiled a fine-grained process of adapt- ing WP to their new context as journal article by deleting and adding literature references.
Scaling Rules in the Science System: Influence of Field-Specific Citation Characteristics on the impact of Individual Researchers Our results show the existence of a size-dependent cumulative advantage for receiving citations, which has been previously described at the country, institution, and group levels, and also was observed at the individual level in this study.
The Decline in the Concentration of Citations, 1900-2007 Because of the multiple measures used and the clearly doc- umented method associated with the simplicity of the proto- col used here, the present article provides clear and practically irrefutable evidence that, at the macro level, the concentra- tion of citations received has been decreasing in NSE, MED, and SS.
Mapping world-class universities on the web The world-class university network graph is comprised of national sub-networks that merge in a central core where the principal universities of each country pull their networks toward international link relationships.
Mathematical study of h-index sequences We can then conclude that one cannot avoid the time-consuming task of calculating the natural h-sequence h1,..., htm (and similarly for the g- and R-index) of a researcher except in the case the researcher has a (more or less) constant publication production per year. Hence, we can conclude that, apart from constant paper production, h*(t) cannot be used to study h(t) which is a pity since h*(t) can be generated from the WoS in an automatic way while h(t) (the sequence which is the more natural one) must be calculated in a time-consuming manual way. It is our advise as also Burrell did (Burrell, 2007b) – that the WoS produces such h-sequences in an automatic way.
"Publishers Did Not Take the Bait": A Forgotten Precursor to the NIH Public Access Policy The author concludes that a more nuanced approach to copyright, the digital information environment, and the support of an energized user community auger well for the success of the NIH policy, but that it is still too soon to tell.
Using detailed maps of science to identify potential collaborations This paper has presented a method for identifying targets for future collaboration between two institutions, and has shown its utility in two different applications: identifying specific potential collaborations at the author level between two institutions, and generating an index that can be used for strategic planning purposes.
Mapping the structure and evolution of chemistry research Maps showing the growth, distribution, and knowledge flows between Chemistry, Biology, Biochemistry, and Bioengineering have been generated from journal-level data, and show many of the changes that have taken place over the past 30 years. Large trends can be seen, suggesting that Biochemistry and Bioengineering are moving steadily into Chemistry territory, and are having a large influence on the general knowledge base. Chemistry's impact on the knowledge base is growing, but at a slower rate.
Everything about genes: Some results on the dynamics of genomics research The picture arising from the indicators presented here, is that genomics research worldwide seems to be stabilizing, and coming in a period where new branches or subfield are coming up.
On Hirsch's h, Egghe's g and Kosmulski's h(2) Within the confines of the model, we find that all three of an author's indexes are (approximately) directly proportional to the current career length and hence that they are proportional to each other.
A comparative analysis of publication activity and citation impact based on the core literature in bioinformatics The field of bioinformatics proved a young, emerging field characterised by a powerful, from the late 1990s on, by an almost exponential growth of literature. The structural analysis resulted in the identification of nine sub-disciplines with individual national profiles. International collaboration resulted in general to a powerful increase of the otherwise already high citation impact.
Structure and research performance of Spanish universities Our study provides a general overview of the behaviour and characteristics of Spanish universities showing differences between public/private and generalist/ /specialised universities. Relationships between structural, input and output indicators are put forward. The performance and characteristics of the different universities within each area are being studied at present and more elaborate results will be presented in the next future.
Open access scientometrics and the UK Research Assessment Exercise The UK RAE is merely one glimpse of the possibilities opened up by OA scientometrics [SHADBOLT & AL., 2006]. The data-mining potential of an OA corpus is enormous, not just for research evaluation by performance assessors, but for search and navigation by reseacher-users, students, and even the general public. The main allies in demonstrating to the research community the benefits of providing that primary OA database today are the self-same scientometric tools that are waiting to mine it.
Local government web sites in Finland: A geographic and webometric analysis We found that interlinking correlates quite strongly with geography. The most interesting finding, however, is that the interlinking tends to be motivated by official cooperation that geographic closeness has made possible, in contrast to STUART & THELWALL's [2006] UK study. As a result, we can conclude that it is possible that interlinking can be used to map official cooperation and networks based on cooperation between municipalities and cities in Finland.
Funding of young scientist and scientific excellence First of all, we can confirm that the DFG and the Emmy Noether Programme reviewers indeed selected successful individuals and that a gratifyingly high number of the approved individuals were appointed to a professorship or had found a career position in research that they themselves described as satisfactory, either during the programme itself or after the funding has ended.
Are multi-authorship and visibility related? Study of ten research areas at Carlos III University of Madrid Multifactorial ANOVA analysis confirmed that both the number of countries and the number of institutions involved in the preparation of a paper have a positive effect on the number of citations. Nonetheless, in this paper no relationship was observed between the number of authors signing a paper and the number of times it was cited; consequently, the involvement of more than one author did not entail a larger number of citations. The analysis of the relationship between multi-institutional and multi-national authorship on the one hand and citing journal visibility on the other showed that such multi-authored papers were cited more often in journals in the first two quartiles (Q1 and Q2) than intra-institutional or national papers.
A New Map for Knowledge Dissemination Channels The resultant forty-three journals in Table 3 have published the heaviest concentrations of articles authored by these IS researchers.
Open Access Publishing In Science Our study shows that the overall attitude toward Open Access among scientists is very positive. However, in the short-term performance related concerns and the wait-and-see attitude of the majority of researchers prohibit the broad adoption of this publishing model. If broad diffusion of this new publishing model ever occurs, it will be a rather long-term development.
Scientific journal publishing: yearly volume and open access availability We believe our results are the most reliable so far published and, therefore, should be useful in the on-going debate about Open Access among both academics and science policy makers. Altogether the proportion of openly available papers from the yearly output is 19.4%. The method is replicable and also lends itself to longitudinal studies in the future.
An evaluation of the process and initial impact of disseminating a nursing e-thesis Analysis of process and impact elements of e-thesis dissemination is likely to have more than intrinsic value. The advent of e-theses housed in web-based institutional repositories has the potential to transform thesis access and use. Nursing scholars can exploit and evaluate such opportunities.
PEER REVIEWER TRAINING AND EDITOR SUPPORT: RESULTS FROM AN INTERNATIONAL SURVEY OF NURSING PEER REVIEWERS We concluded from this research that many reviewers' needs for training and support are not being met and that both reviewers and nursing editors could profit from a better understanding of the process.
Paying for Knowledge One Page at a Time: The Author Fee in Physics in Twentieth-Century America As we have seen in this historical case study of the page-charge pricing mechanism, the journal has had in the past and continues to have a fungible economic status. The interpretation of the journal as a public or nonpublic good and, thus, either deserving or not deserving of a subsidy (in the form of the page-charge pricing mechanism) changed over time and eventually became a moot point as dominant economic metaphors changed. A greater appreciation of this fact is sorely needed as we contemplate changes for the future financing of scholarly communication.
University decision making and prestige: An empirical study This paper has addressed a number of issues related to the respective rankings of universities in Canada In doing so, a number of observations and conclusions can be made.
The Hirsch-index: a simple, new tool for the assessment of scientific output of individual scientists The case of Dutch professors in clinical cardiology The h-index is more simple to calculate and is certainly more relevant than using the impact factor of scientific journals for individual papers and authors and may become a suitable parameter for 'past performance' of an individual scientist.
The integration of open access journals in the scholarly communication system: Three science fields The main conclusion to be drawn from the table thus seems to be that any statement indicating a uniform advantage or disadvantage for OAJs is questionable.
Scholarly Publishing: Reforms for User Friendliness and System Efficiency This paper proposes ten different ideas or measures for institutional reform in scholarly publishing. The underlying intent is to make academic publishing a user-friendly operation and an efficient system that serves individual scholars for a productive, successful, and satisfactory academic career.
The Editorial Boards of Spanish Scholarly Journals: What Are They Like? What Should They Be Like? It may be concluded, therefore, that the editorial board is the entity that performs the majority of the work on a journal and is responsible for most of the journal's functions, in close collaboration with the executive editor.
On the fairness of using relative indicators for comparing citation performance in different disciplines This result fur-ther confirms the validity of the analysis performed in Radicchi et al. (Radicchi et al. 2008).
The competitive funding of university research: the case of Finnish science universities In Finland the present higher education policy and research policy combines certain de-regulative and service-based financing measures.
The Career Consequences of a Mistaken Research Project: The Case of Polywater CHOOSING A MISTAKEN research project results in fewer future citations for a scientist.
Research Productivity in Business Economics: The Case of Marketing In summary, there are several problematic issues with the approach FHH use to calculate departmental productivity scores and subsequently derive departmental rankings from the latter.
Research Productivity in Business Economics: A Reply Thus, we agree with Diamantopoulos and Wagner (2009, this issue) that, to set better incentives for young researchers, future research productivity rankings should increase the relative weights attached to top journals.
E-print depositing behavior of physicists and astronomers: An intradisciplinary study The article used interviews and a questionnaire survey to study the e-print depositing behavior of physicists and astronomers.
Using Link Resolver Reports for Collection Management Overall, the SFX report was extremely helpful during the collection assessment process.
Surgical Resident Research Productivity Over 16 Years Resident research productivity at a single university-based program with an elective research time does not appear to be deteriorating over time. A majority of research performed by residents is clinically oriented; however. basic science research does not appear to be decreasing. Careful scrutiny to resident research productivity is needed to ensure productive future academic surgeons.
Impact of ICT in Environmental Sciences: A citation analysis 1990-2007 Despite its clear limitations, the present study points out current directions in the development of environmental modelling and software. The entire world of ICT, as defined here, is still expanding in both the general and the Environmental Sciences. Moreover, there are specific technologies where Environmental Sciences are guiding the development and EMS appears to be at the forefront of many of these research trends.
Using citation analysis to develop core book collections in academic libraries Since it is based on scholarly activity, citation analysis is a collection development method that could be used in all academic libraries.
The hyperlinking pattern of open-access journals in library and information science: A cited citing reference study The findings suggest that 8 out of 17 OA journals in LIS have significant research impact in the scholarly communication process.
Bibliometric Analysis of Obstructive Sleep Apnea Research Trends This study provides a bibliometric analysis showing that the annual number of publications related to OSA has been increasing at a much faster rate than the overall scientific literature during the past 16 years in a growing number of specialized journals. Analysis of key words (KeyWords Plus®) suggests research trends and areas for future research. The subject category of clinical neurology ranked second in terms of the number of publications related to OSA. This suggests that OSA is a research area of increasing concern to neurologists.
ESTIMATION OF CITATION-BASED SCHOLARLY ACTIVITY AMONG RADIATION ONCOLOGY FACULTY AT DOMESTIC RESIDENCY-TRAINING INSTITUTIONS: 1996-2007 Using the h-index as a partial surrogate for research productivity, it appears that radiation oncologists in academia today comprise a prolific group, however, with a highly skewed distribution. According to the present analysis, the h-index correlated with academic ranking. Thus, it potentially has utility in the process of promotion decisions. Overall, women in radiation oncology were less academically productive than men; the possible reasons for the gender differential are discussed.
The Relation Between Pearson's Correlation Coefficient r and Salton's Cosine Measure In this paper we have presented a model for the relation between Pearson's correlation coefficient r and Salton's cosine measure. We have shown that this relation is not a pure function, but that the cloud of points (Cos, r) can be described by a sheaf of increasing straight lines whose slopes decrease the higher the straight line is in the sheaf. The algorithm enables us to determine the threshold value for the cosine above which none of the corresponding Pearson correlation coefficients on the basis of the same data matrix will be lower than zero.
The f Index: Quantifying the Impact of Coterminal Citations on Scientists' Ranking The results confirm that the new index can discriminate those individuals whose work penetrates many scientific communities.
FISHES, PONDS, AND PRODUCTIVITY: STUDENT-ADVISOR MATCHING AND EARLY CAREER PUBLISHING SUCCESS FOR ECONOMICS PHDS This paper is the first to examine the effect that the student-advisor match has on a student's early career productivity.
Charting taxonomic knowledge through ontologies and ranking algorithms The application of ranking algorithms on the ontological network encoded in the taxonomic literature also shows a way to make the tacit knowledge inside taxonomic literature available to a wider community of users. In this way, it may also help to preserve our scientific heritage in taxonomy, accumulated in centuries of careful and systematic work. In our experiments we showed that the application of a ranking algorithm on an ontology is helpful in dealing with the inaccuracies encountered in real-world ontolo-gies which basically represent opinions rather than 'truth'-here applied to systematic biology and paleontol-ogy.
Post-Soviet science: Difficulties in the transformation of the R&D systems in Russia and Ukraine To summarise, we have seen how the largest post-Soviet states have yet to create the relevant institutions and proper instru-ments needed for the effective transformation of their R&D systems. Unfortunately, the R&D sectors in both countries remain largely unreformed and underutilized. Both Ukraine and Russia urgently need not only a serious trans-formation within the R&D system, but also important changes in the wider environment.
Organizational and institutional influences on creativity in scientific research Therefore, senior research management should be aware that highly creative research can be more difficult to under-take in large research groups, and that path-opening solutions in science seem to emerge more readily from small research units.
World-wide collaboration among medical specialties in smoking research: production, collaboration, visibility and influence We can conclude that Psychiatry-Psychology was the most productive specialty in smoking during the period studied, although it generated fewer collaboration studies with other specialties, having low influence and visibility indicators.
Benchmarking university-industry research cooperation worldwide: performance measurements and indicators based on co-authorship data for the world's largest universities We conclude that these UICs offer an interesting new source of empirical data for domestic and international comparisons of research universities but, pending further validation studies, university-level UIC statistics should preferably be used only within non-evaluative multi-dimensional benchmarking frameworks rather than for university league tables.
The percentage of reviews in research output: a simple measure of research esteem This confirms the hypothesis that the frequent review writers are also influential researchers. The percentage of reviews has the great merit of simplicity and ease of use. PR can realistically only be used for evalua-tions of nations, or of large research institutes, with outputs in the given time window of several hundred papers.
Mapping of plant-based medicine research in China and India The study indicates that China has taken a lead over India in terms of scientific output.
Assessing technical and cost efficiency of research activities: a case study of the Italian university system The comparative analysis of methodologies being used for research productivity measurements in universities and public research institutions calls for careful study.
Using bibliometrics to support the procurement of NIHR biomedical research centres in England This was an ambitious procurement process, allocat-ing £450m of R&D funding for a five-year period.
PUBLIC RECOGNITION OF MAJOR WORKS IN PSYCHOLOGY: RISE AND FALL OVER TIME The author therefore concludes that de Solla Price's (1986) conclusions apply to cognitive psychology, and that even the most acclaimed publications receive only a brief period of recognition before being gradually forgotten as research progresses.
Authorship and Ethical Considerations in the Conduct of Observational Studies The academic community, the institution, and, most importantly, our patients will all benefit.
Analysis of research output parameters: Density equalizing mapping and citation trend analysis The present approach of comparative output benchmarking can be used to assess institutional operating figures at the national and international level and to analyze imbalances in health and research funding.
The Scholarly Database and its utility for scientometrics research The Scholarly Database addresses a central need for the large-scale study of science: access to high quality, centralized, comprehensive scholarly data sets.
Properties of Hirsch-type indices: the case of library classification categories Yet, if the data for Tongji University library are representative for those in other libraries, use of the h-index provides basically the same information as the g- or the R-index.
Trends in Russian research output in post-Soviet era The key issues we address in this paper with regard to policy are: a strong necessity to build a national science citation database; the necessity to use various data sources for bilbiometric R&D evaluation: comprehensive national database and international (ISI), and to interpret the indicators with great care; the need to carefully revise the MHES methodology: how the contribution of Russian R&D should be evaluated, what method should be used and which indicators have to be implemented.
Applying bibliometric mapping in a high level science policy context The main objective of this paper is to illustrate how bibliometric mapping techniques may be used to address science policy related questions. We were, however, able to characterize the relationships between faculties at the three universities of technology on three different aspects. These three aspects, collaboration, infrastructure and research similarity, provide a broad view of the potential of the 21 faculties regarding potential collaboration or merger of activities.
Is HIV/AIDS in Africa distinct? What can we learn from an analysis of the literature? In conclusion, the following diseases and factors produced high/strong co-occurrence patterns with HIV/AIDS: Opportunistic infections: Tuberculosis, Pneumonia, Kaposi's sarcoma, Herpes Simplex, Candidiasis, and Mycobacterium Avium Complex. Although it highly probable that HIV/AIDs in Africa is distinct from this study, it is important to caution that the observations made in this study are not conclusive, as it would require a study of the relationship between these terms in other countries (outside Africa) to validate the findings. In this way, intervention programs can be drawn to address the most common infections and/or factors that aggravate the AIDS situation in Africa in general, and Eastern and Southern Africa, in particular.
The state of science and technology in Africa (2000-2004): A scientometric assessment The African Continent is lagging substantially behind the rest of the World both in science and technology. African countries have to do two things simultaneously if they wish to do so. More research-trained students have to be graduated and graduates have to be enticed to remain in their countries. Finally we suggest that it is time that the African Continent joins the rest of the world through the production of national and Continental science and technology indicators reports.
Aggregation properties of relative impact and other classical indicators: Convexity issues and the Yule-Simpson paradox We have shown that some classical bibliometric indicators, direct and relative impact measures for countries or other players in science, may exhibit undesirable statistical properties, or at least properties that pose questions of interpretation in evaluation and benchmarking contexts.
Research quality and diversity of funding: A model for relating research money to output of research Our contribution indicates that gender of the researcher or project leader is of low importance for quality of research. The research potential of the suggested methodology is quite large given that departments from several different universities could be included and compared. Future research should also address the endogeneity of research funding and research output.
Do new SCI journals have a different national bias? The data presented here should reassure bibliometricians that their Science Citation Index has been an accurate indicator in measuring national shares of publications over recent years. However, addition of new journals to the database in the 1990s seems to have not distorted the national shares during an era when those shares were sharply changing. Thus these shifts are real and not an artifact of the measurement methods used.
Citation structure of an emerging research area on the verge of application It is too soon to say whether any of these developments signals a significant breakthrough, a clear path toward applications, or the reaching of a dead end.
A structural analysis of benchmarks on different bibliometrical indicators for European research institutes based on their research profile This research shows that it is valid to group likewise institutes on basis of their research profile in order to create different benchmarks that can be used in evaluative studies.
Strength and weakness of national science systems: A bibliometric analysis through cooperation patterns Over the full period 1981–2005, we find a strong change in the patterns of scientific output on a global scale. While (international) cooperation is regarded to generate high(er) impact scores in comparison with publications that result from one institute (and thus one country) only, we find in this study that publications resulting from international and national cooperation seem to have lower impact scores. A remarkable finding remains the fact that the USA, despite its huge annual output, is still leading as can be concluded by the fact that their single address publications have the highest impact, and the fact that their first-authored international cooperation publications have a higher impact than the impact score generated by all international cooperation publications in which the USA is involved.
Introducing the Current Contribution Index for characterizing the recent, relevant impact of journals A new indicator was introduced for characterizing the contribution of journals to the recent, relevant knowledge of a corresponding field or subfield. The Current Contribution Index (CCI) offers an alternative for the evaluation of the impact of scientific journals. For analyzing the recent impact of journal papers published recently, the GF indicator, whereas studying the recent impact of the body of information of all relevant papers, the Current Contribution Index may be applied.
Mapping institutions and their weak ties in a specialty: A case study of cystic fibrosis body composition research We have shown that Derwent Analytics software can be used to extract institutions from ISI files. The study presented here illustrates the need for 'smarter' institution extraction software. What is necessary is the development of institution extraction software that can reliably connect authors to their affiliations.
An analysis of the connection between researchers' productivity and their co-authors' past attributions, including the importance in collaboration networks Very little correlation was observed between the number of papers of newcomers and the past activity of their co-authors. On the other hand, whether the newcomers continued or ceased producing papers was related to the past activity of their co-authors. Furthermore, we will analyze co-authorship networks of other domains, and examine whether our findings can be generalized.
Image Manipulation as Research Misconduct Sensitivity to, and thus detection of, image manipulation is increasing in the scientific community. The norms for appropriate manipulation of images are still being established. If not used as a preventative measure, these techniques can at least be used as part of the investigative process in misconduct cases.
The e-Index, Complementing the h-Index for Excess Citations Although simple, the e-index is a necessary h-index complement, especially for evaluating highly cited scientists or for precisely comparing the scientific output of a group of scientists having an identical h-index.
Arab nations lagging behind other Middle Eastern countries in biomedical research: a comparative study The Arab world is producing fewer biomedical publications of lower quality than other Middle Eastern countries.
Evaluation of the scientific impact, productivity and biological age based upon the h-index in three Latin American countries: the materials science case We observe a very positive trend in the publication rate and impact in materials science in all of these Latin American countries, but they still rank quite far from the impact of first world countries such as Canada, with an h-index of 93, Japan with 121, and Germany with 138. Even though there are scientists in all of these countries with a very large impact (for example, there are materials scientists in the region with an h-index as large as 44) it is quite necessary to increase the number of more experienced ones (related to a large h-index, at least significantly larger than the country average). Another suggestion would be to encourage the hiring of young scientists which have developed a strong international experience.
Collaboration and "Visibility" of Health Research in the Western Pacific Region Intraregional collaboration is low. An “insular” collaboration pattern with several big centers of research with little connection between them. High-visibility research is mostly done with the involvement, through collaboration, of extra-region high-income countries.
The unique approach to institutional repository: Practice of National Taiwan University The practical approach to the construction of an institutional repository at NTU has been proposed. The approach can make NTUR quickly acquire a large volume of digital objects. This makes NTUR a much more content-rich repository with comparison to other similar IR systems.
Errors of omission and their implications for computing scientometric measures in evaluating the publishing productivity and impact of countries The two factors that define the level of distortion in the assessment and ranking of the research achievements of countries are the rate of cited reference enhanced records and the rate of presence of country affiliation data. Irrespective of the reasons for the very high rate of omission of country names or codes, it should be realised and prominently mentioned in any scientometric country reports. If one does not know this he or she sure may be able to count, but certainly won't be able to interpret the metrics correctly.
The Structure and Development of Polar Research (1981-2007): a Publication-Based Approach Our study reveals a number of rather interesting patterns with regard to polar research efforts.
Libcitations: A Measure for Comparative Assessment of Book Publications in the Humanities and Social Sciences We have shown, however, that libcitation measures discriminate informatively among departments and give principled reasons for saying that one, or neither, has had more cultural impact than the other.
Definition and Identification of Journals as Bibliographic and Subject Entities: Librarianship Versus ISI Journal Citation Reports Methods and Their Effect on Citation Measures The main conclusion to be reached is that not only do the library and citation subject analyses of journals corroborate each other but that they can be utilized together to clarify and correct each other. From this perspective the JCR methods appear seriously flawed. This paper has shown how these errors of journal definition and identification seriously affect the JCR citation measures of journal worth.
A Bibliometric Evaluation of Research Performance in Different Subject Categories As presented in Figure 4, one can clearly observe that Group A achieved the best performance among Groups B, C, and D.
Generalizations of Egghe's g-Index Note that for the identity-function s(k) = k, our character-ization Theorem 1 indeed boils down to the characterization of Egghe's g-index in Proposition 1. The following Theorem 2 demonstrates that our character-ization in Theorem 1 is tight: We cannot drop any of the four characterizing axioms, without losing the uniqueness conclu-sion.
A Case Study of the Modified Hirsch Index hm Accounting for Multiple Coauthors In conclusion, I believe that the modified index hm is the fairest way of appropriately taking multiple authorship into consideration if one attempts to quantify the impact of a scientist's cumulative research contribution (Hirsch, 2005) by a single number.
Do We Need the h Index and Its Variants in Addition to Standard Bibliometric Measures? Based on our findings, we propose the use of any pair of indicators (one relating to the number of papers in a researcher's productive core and one relat-ing to the impact of these core papers) as a meaningful approach for comparing scientists.
A bibliometric overview of infectious diseases research in European countries (2002-2007) In conclusion, the production of scientific papers on infectious diseases during the last six years was greater in the EU than in the United States.
How Scholarly Is Google Scholar? A Comparison to Library Databases This analysis showed that Google Scholar yielded more scholarly content than library databases, with no statistically significant difference in scholarliness across disciplines. Despite these findings, Google Scholar is not in competition with library databases. The enhanced discoverability of information in Google Scholar makes it a great tool for librarians as well as library users.
An Assessment of British Science over the Twentieth Century Despite these changes, Britain's position has remained remarkably stable. The raw data and data that adjust for population and gross domestic product (per capita or total) indicate that Britain is consistently one of the top scientific performers.
A Retrospective Evaluation of European Financial Management (1995-2008) First, despite being a fairly new journal, EFM has achieved a highly respectable status. We consider EFM the best European finance journal. With the continuous effort of the editorial leadership, EFM is moving closer to premier journal status in finance.
Reference Sources in Research Literature The general conclusion is that references that are available online are increasing in usage while the remaining references are decreasing.
Science journal editors' views on publication ethics: results of an international survey "Most editors of science journals seem not very concerned about publication ethics and believe that misconduct occurs only rarely in their journals."
Bibliometrics of global malaria vaccine research The last two decades have witnessed considerable growth in research output in this field, while a successful malaria vaccine still remains elusive. Interestingly, the countries like the USA, the UK and Australia that lead in the quantity, quality and citation of this output are often not those directly affected by malaria. The recent growth in published literature on malaria vaccine research indicates further scope for research and development until a successful vaccine is developed.
An Exploratory Analysis of History Students' Dissertation Acknowledgments This study, an exploratory attempt to learn more about the culture of history doctoral students through an analysis of their dissertation acknowledgments, has both confirmed findings of researchers studying historians' information needs and highlighted characteristics of the culture of history doctoral students that may not have been previously known.
The Retrospective Analysis of Bibliographical Trends for Nine Biomedical Engineering Journals from 1999 to 2007 It is postulated that the changes in bibliographical trends can be classified as editorial and non-editorial influences.
Four stages of a scientific discipline; four types of scientist Understanding the four different evolutionary stages of a scientific discipline might be instrumental for many scientists in optimizing their career path, in addition to being useful in assembling scientific teams, precluding conflicts and maximizing productivity. The proposed model of scientific evolution might also be instrumental for society in organizing and managing the scientific process.
Operations research methodology life cycle trend phases as recorded in journal articles The results of this paper have supported the proposition that article contributions to GP methodology literature could be accurately forecast using a regression model based only on a limited sample of a life cycle trend. The existence and use of life cycle trends in the OR methodology research have ramifications on new directions for research, research funding, and OR textbook content.
Scholarly journal information-seeking and reading patterns of faculty at five US universities The surveys of faculty in five US universities provide abundant evidence of the continued substantial usefulness and value of scholarly journals and articles.
Multicentre randomised controlled trials in obstetrics and gynaecology: an analysis of trends over three decades The inflationary trend in multicentre RCTs requiring funding and collaboration represents the increasing complexity of medical research necessary to underpin evidence-based practice.
Using Extended R-Impact to Assess Journal Influence A model-based impact factor RPIF(T) is introduced to eval-uate the importance or contributions of a journal to scientific disciplines.
Relative R-Impact Based on Normalization Method The paper proposes a new method to evaluate journals’ and articles’ impact in the same as well as different fields.
Using Tricitation to Dissect the Citation Image: Conrad Hal Waddington and the Rise of Evolutionary Developmental Biology The results reported here suggest that the use of both coc- itation and tricitation analyses of an author’s citation image, as well as comparison of his or her image with the list of authors who are frequent citers, can provide useful insights into the intellectual structure of the field(s) to which the focal author has made significant contributions. Tricitation filters out the more general influence of image authors who are highly cited outside of the focal author’s ego-context. Analyses of successive time periods can be used to study the rise and decline of research fields and the focal author’s influence and involvement.
Comparing of Science Bibliometric Statistics Obtained From the Web and Scopus The above results provide strong evidence that scientometrics based on bibliometric methods is a sound undertaking at the country level. Despite the fact that the WoS and Scopus databases differ in terms of scope, volume of data and coverage policies (Lopez-Illescas et al., 2008), the outputs (papers) and impacts (citations) of countries obtained from the two databases are extremely correlated, even at the level of specialties as the subsets of data in nanotechnology suggests. Hence, the two databases offer robust tools for measuring science at the country level.
How are New Citation-Based Journal Indicators Adding to the Bibliometric Toolbox? Unlike the impact factor, the SJR indicator and the h-index are nonparametric, that is, they are not based on normaliza-tion to the arithmetic mean of the values in the document sets.
Early Patterns of Scientific Production by Mexican Researchers in Mainstream Journals, 1900-1950 We consider that the historical bibliometric approach used in the present study, made possible by the online availability of mainstream production records from the beginning of the last century, has proved a valuable adjunct in the description of the development of Mexican science from 1900–1950 and particularly for the identification of the mechanisms that were instrumental to the integration of Mexico into international scientific community standards during that period.
Arizona Literature Mapper: An Integrated Approach to Monitor and Analyze Global Bioterrorism Research Literature Monitoring global bioterrorism research is increasingly important and represents a crucial challenge to governments and research communities around the world. This research has made several contributions to addressing that challenge. First, our evaluation results underscore the need for domain-specific knowledge mapping systems that are critical to obtaining a comprehensive understanding of the current status of a particular research domain (e.g., bioterrorism) in an effective and efficient manner but not well supported by existing general-purpose search systems (e.g., PubMed).
Citation analysis of Ted Nelson's works and his influence on hypertext concept The present study confirms that Nelson's works have received many citations from publications in various disciplines, indicating their significance. The journals in SSCI cited Nelson's works most and the citation is significantly higher than that for SCI and A&HCI journals, which rank second and third, respectively. This suggests that Nelson's works have the greatest impact on the fields of social sciences. The largest category of citing literature on Nelson's works is computer science, as expected, which contributes 23.2%.
Influence of individual researchers' visibility on institutional impact: an example of Prathap's approach to successive h-indices The application of the Hirsch index, Schubert's idea of successive h-indices and in particular Prathap's approach has been shown to lead to interesting new insights for the evaluation of Cuban institutions related to brain research. Both indicators were strongly related in the studied sample. We are confident though that in the near future, successive h-indices will be used as practical tools to measure the performance of the intellectual capital of research institutions, universities, scientific societies, countries, and other higher order units.
Gender differences in research productivity: A bibliometric analysis of the Italian academic system Males do demonstrate a higher average productivity with respect to that of females for all the performance indicators considered. However one of the new and interesting facts is that it is above all in the quantitative dimension of output where the major gap is recorded. The performance gap also seems to reduce with career advancement. The authors will attempt to respond to this suggestion in future work.
Comparing two "thermometers": Impact factors of 20 leading economic journals according to Journal Citation Reports and Scopus The same citation indicator, impact factor, was obtained for 20 economic journals from two databases, Thomson Scientific's Journal Citation Reports and Elsevier's Scopus. Results were compared and found to be not equal to each other. In general Scopus showed higher numbers of cites (+11.3%) and higher impacts (+0.12 for the mean IF and +0.23 for the median). This approach will help us in calibrating our bibliometric “thermometers" to more accurately measure science degrees.
Patents and publications as sources of novel and inventive knowledge Our analysis could show that the main source of new technical knowledge is knowledge stemming from patent documents. The latter generally disclose a substantial part of new knowledge, while scientific (nonpatent) sources frequently refer to dispersed pieces of knowledge that relate to the inventive step. Knowledge discovery systems with the capability of identifying logically connected but bibliographically distant research domains seem to be particularly useful when searching the landscape of scientific research where knowledge is highly distributed.
Is China also becoming a giant in social sciences? Although the social sciences have appeared in China for about 100 years, the visible growth in terms of international publications just started several years ago: Chinese publications especially publications from the Mainland were almost invisible in the international community before 1999. China has not yet taken off in the internalization of social sciences. The development of social sciences is slower than that in natural sciences in China [ZHOU & LEYDESDORFF, 2006]. In all, the Asian group does not yet reach the standard set by the USA and the EU-15 with their high impact and visibility and with their stable RCR>1 values.
History of the journal impact factor: Contingencies and consequences The evidence presented here strongly suggests that Martyn and Gilchrist were the actual creators of the impact factor as we know it. The JCR and its JIF measures, although the result of historically contingent events and highly subjective choices, have had a profound effect on the way research, journals, and even scientists are evaluated around the world today. Given the existing knowledge of the limits of the dominant measure of journal impact, and given that there is every reason to believe that journal impact indicators will continue to be misused and manipulated, it has become increasingly pressing to ask what we should do at this juncture.
Brazilian computer science research: Gender and regional distributions The field of computer science in Brazil seems to be reasonable egalitarian regarding gender, given the low number of female computer scientists.
Scholarly communication in transition: The use of question marks in the titles of scientific articles in medicine, life sciences and physics 1966-2005 The analysis we conducted revealed that formulating the titles of scientific publications as questions is increasingly becoming a widespread phenomenon. Such a clear increase in the use of question marks in the formulation of titles for scientific articles is a clear sign for us of changed scholarly communication that also manifests itself in the structure of titles. Further studies are required in this area in order to analyse in more detail whether and how language and nationality are related to the use of the question mark in the titles of scientific publications.
A Method for Comparing Scholarly Journals as Service Providers to Authors "All in all, we believe that the method we propose, taking a "service to authors" perspective as a basis for benchmarking scientific journals, is useful and can provide information that is valuable to prospective authors in selected scientific disciplines."
Researchers' perceptions of citations This study has investigated researchers' perceptions of citations.
Looking for Landmarks: The Role of Expert Review and Bibliometric Analysis in Evaluating Scientific Publication Outputs When attempting to assess the quality and importance of research papers, we found that sole reliance on bibliometric indicators would have led us to miss papers containing important results as judged by expert review. Tools that link expert peer reviews of research paper quality and importance to more quantitative indicators, such as citation analysis would be valuable additions to the field of research assessment and evaluation.
Recognition and weak ties: is there a positive effect of postdoctoral position on academic performance and career development? Through this analysis of post-doctoral mobility we have shown that the role of mobility on academic productivity and career devel-opment is complex.
Combining curriculum vitae and bibliometric analysis: mobility, gender and research performance The paper points at a double process where there are on the one hand selection processes at universities picking out 'the winners' and on the other hand self selection processes where researchers enhance their own performance by being mobile.
CV analysis as a complementary methodological approach: investigating the mobility of Australian scientists The pilot exercise found CVs to be a useful source of information on the career trajectory, capital ac-cumulation strategies and mobilities of research par-ticipants, complementing data collected through a survey on geographic mobility and the building of DKNs.
An assessment of selection processes among candidates for public research grants: the case of the Ramon y Cajal Programme in Spain This methodological exercise may be considered as a step towards designing tools that support and complement the peer-review and selection systems by taking quick, objective decisions by speeding up an initial screening phase.
The Researcher as a Consumer of Scientific Publications: How Do Name-Ordering Conventions Affect Inferences About Contribution Credits? This lack of strong norms has detrimental effects in terms of assigned contribution credits.
How interdisciplinary is nanotechnology? Our results suggest that nanotechnology research encompasses multiple disciplines that draw knowledge from disciplinarily diverse knowledge sources.
From the science of science to Scientometrics visualizing the history of science with HistCite software In this paper I have examined the very early days of Scientometrics and discussed the influence of Derek de Solla Price and John Desmond Bernal on the development of the field.
Towards an explanatory and computational theory of scientific discovery We have introduced an explanatory and computational theory of transformative discovery in science.
Scientific discovery and topological transitions in collaboration networks We show that regardless of the detailed nature of their developmental paths, the process of scientific discovery and the rearrangement of the collaboration structure of emergent fields is characterized by a number of universal features, suggesting that the process of discovery and initial formation of a scientific field, characterized by the moments of discovery, invention and subsequent transition into "normal science" may be understood in general terms, as a process of cognitive and social unification out of many initially separate efforts.
Spatial scientometrics: Towards a cumulative research program Our objective was to provide an analytic framework for spatial scientometric research.
Discrete and continuous conceptualizations of science: Implications for knowledge domain visualization As argued in this paper, science mapping has not yet sufficiently connected with thorough reflection on the conceptualization of science.
Untangling the web of e-Research: Towards a sociology of online knowledge In this article, we have discussed a number of ways to view the potential transformations of science promised by e-Research.
The dynamics of exchanges and references among scientific texts, and the autopoiesis of discursive knowledge By considering publishing as the autopoietic operation of the science system, one can operationalize the dynamics between the context of justification and the context of discovery as a measurable process. A model based on scientific literature enables us to specify these emergent systems, their structures, their boundaries, and their couplings with other socially relevant networks (e.g., markets) in terms of uncertainties in relevant distributions.
Multi-authorship and its impact on the visibility of research from Puerto Rico The results of the study show that the establishment and furtherance of local and international co-authorship favour the visibility of the papers published and consequently can be regarded to be a valid strategy in the context of the research and development effort in Puerto Rico. As a general rule, the results obtained infer that scientific cooperation, particularly the international partnering that Moed (2005b) sustains has been rising in recent decades, favouring the greater impact of papers published, is observed in and is a determinant of research visibility in the Puerto Rican science system. Consequently, and inasmuch as the University of Puerto Rico is the institution with greatest weight in the island's scientific production, the results of studies of this nature may serve as an argument to further research policies that tend to strengthen the bonds with the international scientific community.
An econometric property of the g-index In this paper we have highlighted that compatibility with the Lorenz concentration order is a desirable feature to have for an impact measure. We have shown that, essentially, only the g-type indices (such as g and g(2)) satisfy this property. We feel that this “econometric” property of g-type indices is remarkable and its use should be further investigated.
An attempt of data exchange between the institutional repository and the information environment for the management of scientific research-ARP In this paper, we have presented our attempt to integrate IR with the information environment for the management of scientific research, i.e. to exchange data between the institutional repository based on DSpace and the Academy Resource Planning System (ARP) of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, which is the information environment for management of scientific research in CAS. This made it convenient for DSpace to reuse data in other application systems and hence relieve the burden of librarians. Our work on IR based on DSpace will continue: We are thinking about how to release the burden of submitting items into DSpace. We have planned to do further tests in extracting metadata from pdf file and doc file when submitting an item, and in integrating IR with personal knowledge management tools and other information systems to approach the goal of integrating IR with scientific information environment.
Citation analysis of PhD thesis at Wuhan University, China In developing a collection development strategy for the Wuhan University library, care should be taken to make sure that the top twenty most frequently cited journals in each discipline (listed in Tables A1-A4) are readily available in order to introduce students at an early stage in their research to the outstanding publications in the field. The study also may be used to guide collection maintenance, including withdrawal of unused material, to cancel unused or underused subscriptions, and to monitor circulation and in-house use. Libraries should look for ways to make resources accessible to the widest possible audience.
An analysis model of creating a core journal collection for academic libraries The proposed model is expected to be applicable to any academic library where online journals and their own usage are available.
The effect of masking manuscripts for the peer-review process of an ophthalmic journal Reviewers were more favourable when they allegedly knew or suspected the author's identity.
The citation impact outside references - formal versus informal citations The number of informal citations is often many times higher than the number of formal citations, especially when the name of an author or his contributions have become household words. Thus, informal citations are mainly deployed instead of (and not in addition to) formal citations. As a major consequence, citation rankings of pioneers may be greatly misleading.
Nanobiotechnology as an emerging research domain from nanotechnology: A bibliometric approach As a summary of this paper, we investigated the structure of the citation network in nanobiotechnology to reveal the current status of research. It was found that nanostructures, drug delivery and biomedical applications, bio-imaging, and carbon nanotubes and biosensors were the principle research domains. The taxonomic structure obtained by our analysis can offer an implication on the framework of research fund.
Global stem cell research trend: Bibliometric analysis as a tool for mapping of trends from 1991 to 2006 Synthetically analyzing three kinds of keywords, it can be concluded that application of stem cell transplantation technology to human disease therapy, especially research related on "embryonic stem cell” and “mesenchymal stem cell" is the orientation of all the stem cell research in the 21st century. This new bibliometric method can help relevant researchers realize the panorama of global stem cell research, and establish the further research direction.
Empirical series of journal h-indices: The JCR category Horticulture as a case study This shows that the journals (in Horticulture) do not exhibit a linear increase in the value of the h-index as argued by Hirsch, at least in the case of scientists' lifetime achievement.
Evaluating reliability of co-citation clustering analysis in representing the research history of subject This paper concluded that co-citation clustering analysis was a useful method in representing the research history of subject, especially for the information researchers, who do not have enough professional knowledge.
A comparative study of first and all-author co-citation counting, and two different matrix generation approaches applied for author co-citation analyses We can confirm that inclusive all-ACA produce more coherent groupings of authors, whereas the present study cannot clearly confirm previous findings that first-ACA identifies more specialties, though some vague indication is given. Most crucially, strong evidence is given to the determining effect that matrix generation and transformation approaches have on the mapping of author co-citation data and thus the interpretation of such maps. Evidence is provided for the seemingly advantages of the Drexel approach.
International differences of productivity in scholarly management knowledge The results clearly demonstrate that both the countries' level of economic development and the size of their economies have a positive and statistically significant effect on the production of scholarly management knowledge. In addition to economic determinants, the linguistic variable appears to be a relevant factor. This underscores the need of conducting detailed case studies to understand the processes that have shaped business higher education in those countries that perform too well above or too low below what can be expected on the sole basis of linguistic and economic factors.
Scholarly research in LIS open access electronic journals: A bibliometric study The analysis of data clearly indicates that OA e-journals in LIS are rapidly establishing themselves as a most viable media for scholarly communication.
A new input indicator for the assessment of science & technology research? We have hypothesized that English proficiency may be a potential input indicator of research performance in Brazil. According to these results, the “writing skill” variable plays a role in productivity only for English-language international journals. Therefore, the possibility of considering English proficiency as an S & T input indicator for countries should be explored.
Publications: German economic research institutes on track "A significant increase can be observed in the German economic research institutes' publications in peer-reviewed journals since the year 2000."
Webometric analysis of Iranian universities of medical sciences The study revealed that Iranian universities of medical sciences did not have much impact on the web and were not well known internationally. The major reason relies on linguistic barriers. Some of them also suffer from technical problems in their web design. Therefore, the policy makers of the Iranian universities and also the managers of their websites should pay more attention to their work and make the websites active and rich in a way to be attractive and usable not only for their students, professors, and staff, but for all Iranian and non-Iranian users of the Internet.
Analysis of the influence of the two types of the journal articles; theoretical and empirical on the impact factor of a journal According to the results the theoretical articles receive twice as many citations as the empirical articles which should be taken into account.
Networks of scientific journals: An exploration of Chinese patent data Science and technology are closely connected, interacting and interdependent.
Are more and better indicators the solution? We propose that evaluations that are based on indicators need to be pushed back. After a careful selection process, researchers need to be given the opportunity to pursue the research they consider to be fruitful. To improve the decision processes, scholars from a different field of research should be enlisted in the evaluation committees.
Bibliometric Analysis of Ultrasound Research Trends over the Period of 1991 to 2006 Periodic performance of bibliometric analysis of the ultrasound journals may reveal research trends. The most represented topics of ultrasound research are Doppler, prenatal diagnosis, MRI, contrast medium, and vascular studies. In addition, the results provide a measure of the activities performed by an institution's faculty, and this could affect the allocation of funding in terms of identifying a proven record of success.
A Principal Component Analysis of 39 Scientific Impact Measures Our results indicate that scientific impact is a multi-dimensional construct.
A More Than One-Hundred-Fold Higher per Capita Rate of Authorship of Five Democratic Nations Versus Their Relatively Undemocratic Neighboring Nations Among 6,437 Articles in 14 Medical Journals: Does Democracy and Civil Liberties Promote Intellectual Creativity and Medical Research? In conclusion, five democracies exhibit a remarkably higher relative frequency of medical publications than their relatively undemocratic neighbors.
Medical teachers' attitudes towards science and motivational orientation for medical research Members of the medical faculty differ in motivational orientation for research depending on their academic status, and their motivation is associated more with requirements for academic advancement than with research.
Scholarly publishing and open access in the Nordic Countries Nordic publishers face particular problems, publishing for a limited audience in local languages and mainly in the field of arts, humanities, and social sciences.
Learned society members and open access Individual members of learned societies are supportive of OA publishing in principle, though less so in practice.
The Economics of New Faculty Hires in Basic Science Investments in basic science research, even when successful, may require significant financial subsidies from academic health centers. Despite the success of the studied cohort of 25 basic science investigators in obtaining research grants, the school was unable to recover fully its indirect cost support and did not recover any of its investment in start-up packages. In the end, the school had to contribute 40 cents from other financial sources for each extramural grant dollar generated.
Research impact within the international arid literature: An Australian perspective based on network theory The analysis showed that impact based on how articles contribute structurally to the flow of knowledge within the literature offers an alternative metric to citation counts.
Misleading Rankings of Research in Business While the ranking by Fabel et al. (2008) lacks face validity (as pointed out in the reply by Diamantopoulos and Wagner, 2009), we discuss the reasons for this lack of face validity. Taking into account the adverse consequences for salary and funds allocated to individual researchers, the question remains as to why Fabel and colleagues wanted to be so quick in publishing a ranking despite its known incompleteness of data. Therefore, we should be aware that any ranking can only provide a small piece of the overall performance picture.
Misleading Rankings of Research in Business: A Reply Putting all points together, Albers’ comment is 'misleading' for the reader. His arguments are at minimum distorted. Rankings should be read with great care, because they provide very special information. But they do correct prejudice and 'face-validity'.
Research Productivity in Business Economics: A Second Reply The result is the same:² there is not a single case where the additional publication data entered through self-reporting would require to withdraw or to qualify any of the conclusions drawn in Fabel et al. (2008, 2009).
ASSESSING THE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY OF A BRAZILIAN HEALTHCARE INSTITUTION: A CASE STUDY AT THE HEART INSTITUTE OF SAO PAULO, BRAZIL A simple and practical methodology to evaluate the scientific production of health research institutions includes searches in the LILACS database for national journals and in MEDLINE and the Web of Science for international journals.
An Institutional Postdoctoral Research Training Program: Predictors of Publication Rate and Federal Funding Success of Its Graduates Weighting publications by whether they were peer-reviewed and by authorship position appears to have little benefit over a simple counting of the number of publications.
Are Two (or Three or Four ... or Nine) Heads Better than One? Collaboration, Multidisciplinarity, and Publishability Overall, a paper's chances of being accepted for publication were virtually unaffected by whether it was submitted by a single author or by two or more authors.
Simulation study of the inventory effect of the scientific paper publishing process From the simulation results of inventory changes in the scientific paper publishing process, we find that the inventory effect is likely to result in statistical error of the scientific paper output indicator.
Investigation of the accuracy of search engine hit counts These results show that researchers should take into account the impact of the number of words in queries on hit count estimates.
Sequential result refinement for searching the biomedical literature We developed a method to select a subset of articles likely to be highly cited five or more times using three predictors: JIF, MPACT, and the number of authors.
Patterns of co-authorship in international epidemiology There is a high rate of local co-authorship in both low/middle- and high-income study countries.
Leading institutional contributors to the elite economic journals This article presents an assessment of the top academic institutions worldwide based on the quantity and diversity of their appearances in the Blue Ribbon Eight journals. Instead, the results presented here should be viewed as an historical appreciation of these many prestigious institutions, and their consistently high quality faculties.
Accuracy of references in the ophthalmic literature Based on two studies, reference accuracy in the ophthalmic literature is lower than the average shown for other medical specialties, while falling well in the range established in the systematic review cited above [3]. This study showed that those journals that had reference checking methods in place had a lower reference error rate than those who left it up to the author. Librarians or others who are very familiar with medical literature and citation standards should be involved in this phase of the editorial process.
A bibliometric analysis of research related to ocean circulation Articles comprised 92% of the documents, and two power functional relations existed between yearly cumulative number of articles and the year, one is from 1991 to 1994, and the other one is from 1994 to 2005, with exponents of 1.01 and 1.62.
The h-index and its alternatives: An application to the 100 most prolific economists I propose two alternatives to the h-index.
An axiomatic characterization of the ranking based on the h-index and some other bibliometric rankings of authors As we have shown in the introduction, there is no objectively best or true ranking. If the user knows what he wants to do with the ranking, then it should be possible for him/her to decide, for each axiom, whether it is desirable or not. Further research should help complete this table. It should also help ranking designers better understand what users need.
The relationship between reviewers' quality-scores and number of citations for papers published in the journal Physics in Medicine and Biology from 2003-2005 Making the reasonable assumption that average citation rate over the first few years after publication is a proxy for impact factor, we showed that the impact factor for Physics in Medicine and Biology could likely be increased by using the reviewers' scores to reject papers of lower quality.
Bibliometric characteristics of the journal Science: Pre-Koshland, Koshland and post-Koshland period Our article may be considered as an example showing how a scientist can make a lasting impression. Certainly, as Science's editor-in-chief Koshland exerted a huge influence on all aspects related to the journal's content and lay-out. This study is offered as a tribute to Daniel Koshland: he served Science, we measured Science.
Co-authorship and citation networks in Spanish history of science research This paper is an approach to the study of scientific production in history of science using bibliometric techniques focused on the analysis of productivity and collaboration indicators from social network analysis.
Differentiating, describing, and visualizing scientific space: A novel approach to the analysis of published scientific abstracts Combined, the analyses will highlight the utility of the procedure for scientific document indexing, structuring university departments, facilitating grant administration, and augmenting ongoing research on scientific citation. Combined, the results validate the utilization of Latent Semantic Analysis as a tool for cultural differentiation, and enable its further application to domains where the cultural groupings are genuinely unknown. As a consequence, beyond the applications for the analysis of science demonstrated here, Latent Semantic Differentiation holds the promise of a broader research program in statistical cultural analysis.
Collaboration and publication: How collaborative are scientists in South Africa? We examined the publication patterns of South African scientists since 1945 which revealed their characteristic scientific activity and collaborative dimensions. Most importantly, South African scientists worked collaboratively with the domestic and international science community spread all over the world, producing joint publications. The findings suggest that collaboration has had a positive impact on the productivity of South African scientists.
What do patent examiner inserted citations indicate for a region with low absorptive capacity? First, the few patents with applicant citations imply that examiner citation analyses overestimate the weight of the explicit knowledge base of patents in regions such as the Valencian Community and hide one of the region's weaknesses: the scarcity of qualified personnel at firms, which makes it more difficult for firms to use explicit knowledge. Third, we can see that the largest part of the knowledge base of Valencian firm patents is foreign in origin. To sum up, the traditional use of patent citations in regions with low absorptive capacity to trace knowledge flows and science-technology links has many flaws, as we have shown in the case of the Valencian Community.
Status of India in science and technology as reflected in its publication output in the Scopus international database, 1996-2006 The study shows that science and technology in India continues to be on growth track, logging 7% average annual publications growth rate in 1996–2006, but peaking to 10.7% in 2002–2006.
A geostatistical analysis of geostatistics The results of this investigation show that geostatistics is an active scientific field in which the number of publications is still increasing.
Journals that increase their impact factor at least fourfold in a few years: The role of journal self-citations In conclusion, in the sample of journals whose impact factor increased by at least fourfold over a period of a few years between 1998 and 2006, we found no proof of widespread manipulation of the impact factor through the massive use of journal self-citations.
The evaluation of scientific productivity in Brazil: An assessment of the mental health field We have confirmed that national productivity in mental health is in a rise, both in quantity and quality.
Outperform your neighbors Figure 1 reassuringly supports the conceivability of the suggested ranking order by demonstrating the strong correlation between the two indices, i.e., the consistency of the countries' 'neighborhood eminence' whether economy or science is concerned. Nevertheless, even in this rudimentary form, it may give an additional dimension to country rankings, and later its more refined versions are hoped to be used in various fields of international comparisons.
Accuracy of references in burns journals Significant numbers of citation and quotation errors still appear in current burns literature. This study of burns journals showed the prevalence of citation errors of 13.3% and a prevalence of quotation errors of 13.7%. No observable underlying factors were identified in this study.
Does Publication in Top-Tier Journals Affect Reviewer Behavior? These results indicate that the likelihood of getting a paper accepted for publication may depend upon factors in addition to scientific merit. Scientific age apparently has no influence, but our results suggest that selection of referees should be balanced on a per manuscript basis by publication record in the top-tier journals.
Citations to trials of nicotine replacement therapy were biased toward positive results and high-impact-factor journals Citations were biased toward trials with positive results and toward trials published in high-impact-factor journals. This phenomenon may produce a biased evaluation of the effectiveness of treatments by readers of the scientific literature.
Changing author counts in five major general medicine journals: effect of author contribution forms Based on the presented objective and indirect evidence, required author contribution forms were not associated with a decrease in author counts. In summary, the author contribution disclosure requirements instituted by four of the five leading general medical journals did not lead to a drop in either the absolute number of authors that differed from the fifth journal, which did not require explicit disclosure of each author's contribution, or in their rate of change of authors per article. Using author counts as a surrogate marker, we could not find indirect evidence that this strategy has worked to keep honorary authors off the list.
Is There Life After Death? The combined evidence from our study and that of Trimble (1986) suggests that prominent scientists generate an influence upon their field based not only upon their scientific work, but also upon their personal power, which is mediated by their presence.
Use of the h index in neurosurgery Clinical article Overall, the robustness of the h index appears to overcome many of its potential drawbacks and provide an accurate assessment of an individual's contribution to a given field. Within the field of academic neurosurgery, clear differences of h indices between academic ranks exist. On average, an increase of the h index by 5 appears to correspond to the next highest academic rank, with the exception of chairperson.
Google Book Search: Citation Analysis for Social Science and the Humanities In summary, GBS is clearly a valuable new source of citation data for the social sciences and humanities.
How to Normalize Cooccurrence Data? An Analysis of Some Well-Known Similarity Measures Our analysis has revealed that there are two fundamentally different types of direct similarity measures. Consequently, for most applications of direct similarity measures in scientometric research, we advise against the use of set-theoretic similarity measures and we recommend the use of a probabilistic similarity measure.
Universality of Citation Distributions-A Validation of Radicchi et al.'s Relative Indicator cf = c/c0 at the Micro Level Using Data From Chemistry The consideration of the sd in the calculation of the z-scores leads at the micro level to an improved approximation of the subfield-specific distributions to a universal curve, which was not the case when using cf values.
The Delineation of an Interdisciplinary Specialty in Terms of a Journal Set: The Case of Communication Studies In summary, one can delineate a specific journal set in the cited dimension of an aggregated journal-journal cita- tion matrix by using a few of the categories because this matrix is nearly decomposable into its constituent groups. The prevailing impression remains that “communication studies" cannot yet be indicated as a stable set but that the set is in transition towards the establishment of a specialty of its own. The cluster of journals in communication studies will gain in terms of further coherence as more scholars contribute to these specialist journals with degrees in communication stud- ies itself instead of backgrounds in the political sciences or in social psychology.
Reference accuracy in four rehabilitation journals Errors in references still appear in current physical therapy and rehabilitation literature, but most are not severe.
Motivations for Web-Based Scholarly Publishing: Do Scientists Recognize Open Availability as an Advantage? The goal of this study was to examine why scholars publish in OA journals and the extent of their motivations.
Characterizing the Top Journals in Strategic Management: Orientation, Style, Originality, and Readability The analysis performed yielded several conclusions. In general, the top journals in the SM forum offer an increasingly clear re-search orientation together with a basically academic style. HBR is prominent for its readability, which is some way ahead of the remaining top publications. Our goal was to confirm whether, with respect to orientation and style, the appraisal of the independent experts who assessed the journals concurred with the objective information provided by the journals themselves.
The Impact of National Institutes of Health Funding on US Cardiovascular Disease Research NIH influence on U.S. cardiovascular research expanded in the past decade, during the period of NIH budget doubling.
Where There's a Will There's a Way?: Survey of Academic Librarian Attitudes about Open Access This study indicates that librarians support the concepts of open access and, more important, believe that that these concepts are related to their work as librarians.
Variations in article seeking and reading patterns of academics: What makes a difference? It can be concluded with confidence, as evidenced in these studies, that faculty of all disciplines, work responsibilities, and ages read articles for a variety of purposes and locate them by many methods and sources.
Distinguishing Citation Quality for Journal Impact Assessment A new method is proposed to differentiate the citation quality for assessing journal impact.
Measuring the research contribution of management academics using the Hirsch-index The main conclusion of this study is that the h-index does provide a valuable and reliable measure of the research productivity of academics over a period of time. It would also appear to be a valid way of evaluating the quality of journals, but less so for assessing research groups. Overall, it may be that no one single measure can adequately reflect the full research performance of an individual or group and so it may be necessary to use a combination of measures, including the h-index.
Does Open Access in Ophthalmology Affect How Articles Are Subsequently Cited in Research? Unlike other fields of science, open access thus far has not affected how ophthalmology articles are cited in the literature. In conclusion, it appears that open access in some ophthalmology journals, whether such journals are completely open access or subscribe to a mixed model, has not influenced the manner in which ophthalmology research has been cited.
The Dynamic Interest in Topics within the Biomedical Scientific Community In conclusion, the longtail distribution is the foundation of the scientific output of the scientific community and can be used to examine different aspects of science practice.
EVALUATION OF SCIENTIFIC PERIODICALS AND THE BRAZILIAN PRODUCTION OF NURSING ARTICLES Nursing is committed to project to the world its production in journals of a certain sort: Brazilian periodicals that have began the submitting process in databases acknowledged by the international scientific community like Web of Science, MEDLINE and SCOPUS and also in international periodicals of impact, gradually increasing the dissemination of nursing science produced in Brazil in expanded scenarios. The role of researchers is to develop quality research. Graduate programs should adopt policies that encourage and support quality production.
Does it mean anything if your own name is wrong in your published paper? I believe that in most if not all cases, the papers' authors are responsible for the identified errors and not the journal or PubMed (i.e., National Library of Medicine) staff.
Towards objectivity in research evaluation using bibliometric indicators - A protocol for incorporating complexity We as ecologists should accept complexity not only in our research but also in our research evaluation and should encourage scientists of other disciplines to do so as well.
Synthetic Organic Chemistry research: Analysis by scientometric indicators The top G7 nations though publishing high volumes and receiving higher number citations are showing stagnating or declining growth. In the Asian aggregated data, China outperformed Japan and India. Indian R&D systems though producing a good volume of research literature have to improve quality and global visibility of Synthetic Organic Chemistry research output.
International scientific collaboration of China with the G7 countries Parallel with the exponential growth of the Chinese publication output, collaboration publication output China with the G7 countries also showed exponential growth. Therefore, Chinese scientists should be encouraged to carry out various forms of international collaborations, especially with the developed countries in the West, to continuously improve the level of scientific research in China. In order to advance the level of basic research in China's rapid development and increase China's influence in world science, the government should continue to focus on giving key support to those industry and interdisciplinary areas where international collaborations have established.
The internationalization of Chinese scientific journals: A quantitative comparison of three chemical journals from China, England and Japan The comparison of regional distribution of the editorial board members, regional distribution of authors, regional distribution of citation countries and citation patterns for the 3 journals indicates that Chemical Communications is an international journal. Chinese Chemical Letters needs to improve in all aspects. The Chinese scientific journals must be managed according to the internationalization journals model of management, extensively invite foreign scholars to join the editorial board, increase the portion of the journal papers by foreign authors and vis versa to Chinese scientists.
Characteristics and link structure of a national scholarly Web space: The case of South Korea The webometric analysis of a national scholarly Web space is very useful in understanding the communication characteristics of scientific knowledge on the Web as long as a detailed investigation is performed on the different types of subspaces.
A Hirsch measure for the quality of research supervision, and an illustration with trade economists Using this approach, Harry Johnson was the 'best' research supervisor in international trade. Jagdish Bhagwati is the 'best' supervisor alive when measured over a lifetime, while Tony Venables scores highest on an annual basis.
Correlation between quality and quantity in scientific production: A case study of Iranian organizations from 1997 to 2006 The results regarding the correlation between the quality and quantity of publications in institutions showed that there is a positive and meaningful correlation between quantitative and qualitative scales.
35 years and 160,000 articles: A bibliometric exploration of the evolution of ecology Our analysis supports the first part of his claim: Ecology has grown immensely since 1970, possibly because of the increasing prominence and financial security he describes.
Analysis of the medical and biological pain research literature in the European Union: A 2006 snapshot In summary, this study gives an interesting, though limited, global perspective of the European Union scientific community's contribution to research on pain in 2006. Our work highlights some general data on the characteristics of the EU-27 publishing behaviour. we have also provided the scientific community a view of the European contribution to pain research and the policy makers some indication for the need to continue and (perhaps) increase support in this growing area of research.
Web 2.0 and its dimensions in the scholarly world All the research questions posed in the beginning of this writing have been addressed with a data set of 1718 scholarly documents collected specifically for this project. First, Web 2.0 is a rapidly developing area with contributions from not only the IT sector but also other disciplines such as medicine, sociology, and physics. But we believe, according to our findings, that Web 2.0 is of the user, by the user, and more importantly, for the user.
Measuring the influence of clinical trials citations on several bibliometric indicators Our findings reveal, on the one hand, that the effect of clinical trials on both CD and JIF can be important for two of the journals: NEJM and Lancet. Less important are the effects observed for JAMA, AIM and BMJ. On the other, we find that RhI and SRI are more robust to the contribution of clinical trials.
Ranking of departments and researchers within a university using two different databases: Web of Science versus Scopus It was concluded that the difference in the number of citations found did not correspond to the difference of coverage of WoS and Scopus.
Emerging ties: Factors underlying China's co-publication patterns with Western European and North American research systems in three molecular life science subfields The number of joint labs/sub-organisations, which was used as an indicator for the intensity of directed institutional support for research collaboration, could not be shown to help explain the variations in the number of international co-publications in 2005.
Hierarchical linear models in psychiatry: A bibliometric study The results show evidence of an increasing interest in using HLM in Psychiatry, yet contrary to ALLARDYCE & BOYDELL's [2006] perception, establishment of multilevel modeling does not seem to have occurred until the beginning of the current decade. A good reception of the HLM strategy is evident both in the USA and in Europe; the latter further revealing the existence of research groups specially interested in their application, mainly in the Netherlands at University of Maastricht and in England at the Institute of Psychiatry's Division of Psychological Medicine and Psychiatry, as evidenced by the application of Lotka's law and the institutional distribution of articles.
Citations versus limitations of citations: beyond Hirsch index The H index keeps record of the "history" of citations and the quotient Q = H/h is a measure for the quality of a scientist based on the history of his/her citations.
A new family of scientific impact measures: The generalized Kosmulski-indices This article introduces the generalized Kosmulski-indices as a new family of scientific impact measures for ranking the output of scientific researchers.
Fairness as Appropriateness Negotiating Epistemological Differences in Peer Review This article makes several contributions to the literature on peer evalua-tion.
Forty years of the Journal of Librarianship and Information Science: A quantitative analysis, Part I The application of simple quantitative techniques in the analysis of publication data can improve our under- standing of the directions in which academic journals have been and are being taken by their editors.
Highly cited leaders and the performance of research universities This study examines whether university performance is linked to leadership. It uncovers evidence, both quantitative and qualitative, consistent with the idea that leaders who are better scholars may be able to help improve the later research performance of their universities.
Mathematical derivation of the impact factor distribution The CLT can be applied to prove the shape of the rank-order distribution of IF(r) and In(IF(r)).
Modeling a century of citation distributions We have constructed a complete dataset of all citations to papers published between 1900 and 2006, highlighting the similarities and differences in citation practices in MED, NSE and SS.
Research on the evaluation of academic journals based on structural equation modeling Compared with other evaluation approaches, structural equation modeling is a revolutionary approach. This evaluation method is on the basis of the simulation of the complex relationship among the evaluated object's own internal elements, and it can calculate and simulate some unobservable elements, many of which are often first-level indicators.
Scholarly journal evaluation based on panel data analysis Panel data analysis is an efficient method for indicator selection of scholarly journal evaluation.
A scale-independent analysis of the performance of the Chinese innovation system To sum up, we interpret these findings to mean that the scientific outputs and impacts of China show a real tendency of catching up with its economic growth. These good prospects may be due to the effective policies of scientific research that have been taken by the Chinese government. Moreover, GOVERD has a stronger positive non-linear impact on patent productivity than BERD.
Critical thresholds for co-citation clusters and emergence of the giant component We have seen that in most instances the giant component emerges independent of the starting seed document if the coefficient of similarity is sufficiently small.
New seniority-independent Hirsch-type index The present hpd index is a useful parameter, which can be applied to compare the citation records of scientists in different ages. The hpd can be easily calculated from easily available data. The hpd can also be used in assessment of the scientific journals and institutions.
Extent of type I and type II errors in editorial decisions: A case study on Angewandte Chemie International Edition We found that 15% of all manuscripts were overestimated (accepted manuscripts that did not perform as well as or worse than the average rejected manuscript), and 15% were underestimated (rejected manuscripts that performed equal to or above the average selected manuscript).
Macro-level indicators of the relations between research funding and research output Nations differ in terms of their research portfolios and their economic structures. These statistics suggest the assumption under the Lisbon objective that government spending in R&D can be considered as a motor of economic growth is not warranted by the data. In our opinion, institutional incentives and constraints at lower levels of organization can be expected to prevail over national or transnational S&T objectives.
Some comments on Egghe's derivation of the impact factor distribution We have provided some critical comments on the mathematical analysis of IF rank-order distributions recently presented by Egghe (in press).
The Impact of Boundary Spanning Scholarly Publications and Patents In summary, we quantified through a bibliometric analysis the effect of interdisciplinary information flows.
Content-Based and Algorithmic Classifications of Journals: Perspectives on the Dynamics of Scientific Communication and Indexer Effects Erroneous classifications are cancelled as noise at the aggregate level, but may disturb the evaluation locally.
Sound Research, Unimportant Discoveries: Research, Universities, and Formal Evaluation of Research in Spain In summary, in answer to the first research question, the metric of top-cited national papers indicates that, comparable to scientific advanced countries, conventional bibliometric indicators overestimate the capacity of the Spanish R&D system to produce important achievements.
Scientific publishing: a case study of Libyan scientists In summary, this investigation suggests that Libyan scientists are a community that works in research teams, largely comprised of scientists in Libya, but, which, on the other hand, is participating in the dissemination of the findings of their research to wider audiences. Due to the general lack of exploration of scientific communication in Middle Eastern countries, this paper makes a useful contribution. Accordingly, further research should embrace: further research in the Libyan scientific community which examines access to scientific publications, and the impact of any barriers to access on research and dissemination of research findings; and the development of comparative data for developed and other developing countries on the aspects of scholarly communication studied in this project, as a basis for benchmarking scholarly communication in Libya against scholarly communication in other countries.
Characteristics of open access scholarly publishing A multidisciplinary study The findings suggest that OA scholarly publishing is dominated by PDF format documents and non-hyperlinked citations in the eight studied disciplines. Based upon the results, we have a better understanding of the common characteristics of OA scholarly publishing and citation network. This can in practice be used for design and development of web-based scientific data mining tools like autonomous or automatic web-based citation indexes.
International visibility of Iranian ISI journals A citation study The results demonstrate that the total citation/visibility rate for Iranian international journals (0.74) is significantly lower than non-Iranian international journals (3.21).
an outline of the bibliometric indicator used for performance-based funding of research institutions in norway It is particularly important that institutions with different research profiles can be compared based on all their research activity, and thus the different publication patterns among fields are comparable with the Norwegian model.
Co-authorship Network Analysis: A Powerful Tool for Strategic Planning of Research, Development and Capacity Building Programs on Neglected Diseases Network analysis was found to generate new and valuable information relevant to the strategic planning, implementation and monitoring of the Program.
The first-mover advantage in scientific publication In conclusion, the strong first-mover advantage predicted by theories of the scientific citation process seems to be quantitatively substantiated by empirical citation data, at least in some areas.
A negative trend of biomedical research in Libya: a bibliometric study This study showed a decline in biomedical research publication in Libya. We propose that the lack of a research culture among the Libyan medical professionals is one of the factors contributing to this decline, which coincided with the departure of expatriate doctors from Libya. Raising awareness of the importance of research and improving research skills among Libyan medical professionals may help to reverse the current trend.
Dental research in Iran: a bibliometric analysis of electronically available literature A number of encouraging trends were identified, which is a reflection of improvements in quality of domestic electronic dental literature.
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (2002-2006) Although an institution’s score can be improved by the presence of top scholars, this is not the only important factor in achieving a high ranking.
Life-Science Research Within US Academic Medical Centers The research function of AMCs is active and diverse, incorporating a substantial proportion of faculty who are conducting research and publishing without sponsorship. First, contrary to popular belief, the “valley of death" for translational research actually appeared to be quite fertile within AMCs.
Don't Get Skewed Over by Journal Rankings First, the appropriate measure of central tendency is the median rather than the mean (See also, Calver and Bradley, forthcoming).
Ranking accounting journals using dissertation citation analysis: A research note "Our study thus further substantiates the caution in Bonner et al. (2006) about using journal rankings wisely within our accounting discipline."
Comparisons of Citations in Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar for Articles Published in General Medical Journals Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar produced quantitatively and qualitatively different citation counts for articles published in 3 general medical journals.
A characterization of the scientific impact of Brazilian institutions The present analysis ultimately suggests that via the "effective temperature" T, we can provide a new performance metric for the impact level of the research activity in Brazil, taking into account the number of the publications and their citations.
The π-index: a new indicator for assessing scientific impact Selecting scientists and publications that may influence science seems to be an essential problem for scientometricians, science managers and science politicians.
Disciplinary differences in the use of internet discussion groups: differential communication needs or trust problems? "This paper tests empirically the often-stated claim that the successful use of a new ICT is dependent on the social context of its use."
Accuracy of references cited in articles published in Indian Journal of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology: A pilot study Results of this pilot study suggest that improving accuracy of the references is important. Solutions to this problem are suggested.
Trends in Female Authorships, Editorial Board Memberships, and Editorships in Educational Psychology Journals from 2003 to 2008 In conclusion, overall female involvement increased in educational psychology journals from 2003 to 2008; however, this progress did not match the male-female ratio in organizational memberships.
The Content of Educational Psychology: an Analysis of Top Ranked Journals from 2003 Through 2007 The results showed a consistency of research categories suggesting that in spite of reports to the contrary, there is a collective agreement among educational psychologists demonstrated by the empirical research in the field. The results of the content analysis identified cognition/reasoning, learning/memory, affective/motivation/beliefs, and teaching as a research core. By focusing on these areas and framing them around problems of educational practice, educational psychologists would eliminate irrelevance as a characteristic of their discipline and move it closer to regaining its status of a "Master Science."
RIMS: THE RESEARCH IMPACT MEASUREMENT SERVICE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW SOUTH WALES RIMS is now integral to the measurement of research outputs at UNSW, and has significantly raised the profile of the Library throughout the academic community. The rapid uptake of RIMS products and the positive feedback from the UNSW researchers and faculty administrators indicates that this service has become invaluable, and has significantly elevated the profile of the University Library in the UNSW community. It is expected that further evolution and refinement of RIMS will occur as the impacts of the ERA and new funding environment becomes apparent.
The evolution of recent research on Catalan literature through the production of PhD theses: a bibliometric and social network analysis Catalan literature is a discipline which, after an initial expansion with the restoration of democracy in Spain, has suffered a period of stagnation.
An assessment of world-wide research productivity in production and operations management This finding generally concurs with Young, Baird and Pullman's work, while it generally contradicts Malhotra and Kher's work.
Where does nanotechnology belong in the map of science? These results affirm the multidisciplinary nature of research into nanoscience and nanotechnology, although the integration scores make it clear that much non-nano research is also comparably interdisciplinary.
Winning the tournament for named professorships in management We use tournament theory to explain the process within which selection of named professorships takes place.
Empirical observations on New Public Management to increase efficiency in public research-Boon or bane? All in all, we conclude that the public science sector reforms implemented in most of the Western economies were heading into the right direction by providing greater performance incentives and increasing allocative efficiency in resource spending.
Research productivity in the era of the internet revisited For the management of distributed research teams, the results of this study indicate that, even though the use of email, and espe- cially emailing lists, can help in the everyday coordination and allocation of tasks (especially in cases where coordination prob- lems emerge), it cannot substitute for the important role meetings play in research productivity.
Do gender, nationality, or academic age affect review decisions? An analysis of submissions to the journal Biological Conservation Overall, we did not find evidence supporting a change in the present review system, although the low rate of acceptance of papers from certain non-English-speaking countries is an issue that needs to be addressed. We believe that these types of audits of the editorial system are necessary, so that all submitting authors feel that the editorial process is fair, unbiased and rigorous. Programs that encourage long-term partnerships between researchers from different countries might be one useful approach.
Bulls and bears: the stock market and clinical pathology research Based on data from the previous bear market, which was the longest and deepest of the post 1950 era, and the subsequent bull market, which led to the all-time high in the Dow Jones Industrial Index, funding for clinical pathology research does not seem to be affected by bull or bear markets.
THE SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION OF FULL PROFESSORS OF THE FACULDADE DE MEDICINA DA UNIVERSIDADE DE SAO PAULO: A VIEW OF THE PERIOD OF 2001-2006 Our results indicate that it is possible to analyze the scientific production of a learning institution by the number of papers published by full professors, taking into account not only their academic position and influence, but also the fact that publication is an opportunity to stimulate joint projects with other members of the same institution. Despite some limitations, the bibliographic record data in this study can be useful in analyzing the scientific production of a group of professors from the FMUSP and for establishing a basis for comparison with other institutions in Brazil. In addition, this data could possibly be used to evaluate the output of scientific production in the entire field of health.
The influence of self-citation corrections and the fractionalised counting of multi-authored manuscripts on the Hirsch index This leads to the conclusion that the additional effort in determining the modified sharpened index hms is worth performing in order to obtain a fairer evaluation of the citation records.
A Cluster Analysis of Scholar and Journal Bibliometric Indicators We proposed different clustering techniques to group bib-liometric indicators used in the quantitative assessment of research quality and compared the results with PCA. Our methods can be applied to reduce the complexity of the space of bibliometric indicators when it contains many depen-dent metrics. With respect to the evaluation of individual scholars, the clustering method discovers a base of metrics composed of the following indexes: 1. Number of papers, measuring scholar productivity. 2. Total number of citations, measuring absolute (size-dependent) impact of the scholar. 3. Average number of citations per paper, measuring relative (size-independent) impact of the scholar. 4. m-quotient, measuring enduring impact over time.
Managing Polysemy and Synonymy in Science Mapping Using the Mixtures of Factor Analyzers Model The MFA model can help in creating understanding of the use of language in science, which can benefit multidisciplinary research and interdisciplinary understanding, and assist in the development of multidisciplinary taxonomies of science. This work utilized a model which jointly estimated a model of clustering and factoring; however, both the clustering and the factoring model used in the MFA model assume normally distributed data. Additional evaluation of the MFA model is needed.
A Decision Support System for Public Research Organizations Participating in National Research Assessment Exercises This work presents a bibliometric support system for the selection of publications to assist universities and other public research laboratories in the selection of research outputs that they submit for participation in national evaluation exercises. The support system for product selection developed in this study permits minimizing errors determined by technical limits, meaning the limits that organizations encounter in attempting to compare the real quality of research products among differ-ent sectors of the same discipline, and then choose those with a greater chance of receiving positive judgments. The authors hope for a rapid and generalized adoption of this approach, especially in nations where the evaluation of research is taking its first timid steps, such as in Italy.
Applying Centrality Measures to Impact Analysis: A Coauthorship Network Analysis We find that all four centrality measures are significantly correlated with citation counts; nevertheless, some inconsistencies occur.
A Rationale for the Hirsch-Index Rank-Order Distribution and a Comparison With the Impact Factor Rank-Order Distribution In this article we used a dataset of 206 mathematics journals in the WoS. We presented a theory proving that the rank-order distribution of the h-index has a different shape: h(r) is a decreasing power law and hence is convexly decreasing. The log-log graph of h(r) shows a linear decrease (as it should for a power law) except for large ranks r. We can give a partial explanation for this.
Fractionalized Counting of Publications for the g-Index The proposed modification of the g-index has been shown to provide a reasonable way of taking multiple authors into account by fractionalized counting of the articles according to the inverse of the number of authors. Then the two equivalent definitions of the original g-index can both be applied in an analogous way for the determination of the modified index. In my opinion such a consideration of the number of authors is an appropriate way to share the credit between the authors in a fair manner.
International Collaboration Does Not Have Greater Epistemic Authority I find that both international collaboration and local collaboration are positively and significantly associated with a paper's impact, but international collaboration does not have more epistemic authority than local collaboration. This result suggests that previous findings based on hierarchical coding might be misleading. Two important implications emerge from this research. First, there seems to be a need to correct the underappreci-ation of local collaboration in science.
A Citation Analysis of College & Research Libraries Comparing Yahoo, Google, Google Scholar, and ISI Web of Knowledge with Implications for Promotion and Tenure C&RL articles are a significant resource for those who are seeking to understand or research the issues facing academic libraries and the profession, more specifi-cally.
Citation network analysis of organic LEDs We found that most papers belong to two main clusters: organics and polymers, and detected emerging subclusters in these clusters.
Method for Establishing Authorship in a Multicenter Clinical Trial The model used in the HF-ACTION study provided a transparent and equitable way to include all study person-nel in the process of disseminating the results of the study.
Is there global inclusion of authors in the five leading advertising journals? A regional comparison 1998-2007 The results of our research identify that there were substantially more international authors contributing to the advertising literature between 1998 and 2007 than occurred when advertising was examined previously by Barry (1990) or Henthorne et al. (1998). Overall, the results for the five advertising journals or the smaller set of three North American-focused journals suggest that global inclusion in the advertising area appears to be increasing, which is consistent with the trend identified by others within marketing more generally (Wilkie & Moore 2003; Stremersch & Verhoef 2005; Polonsky et al. 2006). There are a diverse range of avenues for additional research in this area.
Asymmetric information distances for automated taxonomy construction This paper presented a novel approach for automatically organizing selections of keyword into taxonomies. In addition to being an important step in the ontology creation process, these techniques can be hugely useful to researchers seeking a better understanding of the overall research landscape associated with the collection being studied. That said, the methods described in this paper were only intended as an early demonstration of the proposed approach, and in spite of the above-mentioned problems, we believe that the results described here already demonstrate the potential of the approach.
Contributions in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from China and other top-ranking countries: a 10-year survey of the literature In conclusion, the USA leads all other countries in research productivity in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. Also, the results of this study imply that China falls behind developed countries in the quality of articles. Therefore, it is important for China to further increase its research activity toward the production of high-level research.
Hybrid clustering for validation and improvement of subject-classification schemes The hybrid clustering using textual information and cross-citations provided good results and proved superior to its two components when applied separately.
Nanotechnologies and Nanomaterials in the Modern World Thus, fullerenes are outpacing CNTs by the number of ongoing research projects (RFBR database), the evaluation of Russia's publication contribution (SCI database), and the number of patented inventions (Rospatent database).
The Croatian national open access journal platform So far, the main achievements include assisting publishers in the process of electronic publishing, and improving accessibility to Croatian scientific output.
The Web's rich tapestry Publishers looking to open up metadata, following the principles of linked data, may see some immediate benefits in terms of better design and higher usage of their websites, whilst also facilitating the creation of a marketplace of services that may operate on that data and related content. Ultimately, however, it will be difficult to predict how the ubiquitous availability of highly structured and interlinked data will fundamentally change the patterns of research, as well as those of many other human activities. Just as the Web is 'like television, only better', the Semantic Web will be like the Web, only better.6
OA and IP: open access, digital copyright and marketplace competition In a world where digital copies are ubiquitous and open access is already part of life for the scholarly world, we have to rethink the scope of copyright for the future. If there is competition, ultimately the best business model will win.
Practising what we preach: working together to further scientific collaboration Despite these unknowns, one thing is clear: social tools such as 2collab will be a big part of the future world of research, and developers must seek ways to make the most of the combination of user-generated con-tent (such as comments, tags, and ratings) with peer-reviewed content, to create more collaboration opportunities.
Political Science Journals in Comparative Perspective: Evaluating Scholarly Journals in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom Our results suggest that there is a strong basis for cross-national integration in scholarly journal communication, though methodological differences among the three countries may be an impediment.
Determinants of Political Science Faculty Salaries at the University of California The salaries of political science faculty within the UC system appear to be determined to a large degree by a combination of research performance, as judged by lifetime or annualized cita- tions, and a norm of an upward path for salary over time. Gender effects or subfield effects appear to be essentially nonexistent once controlled for seniority and research visibility. Thus, at least taken as a whole, UC political science departments have done a very good job in addressing gender-equity issues once the two key sal- ary determinants of seniority and research visibility are taken into account.
The h-index for countries in Web of Science and Scopus For this sample, in spite of differences between WoS and Scopus in the number of papers from each country, the rank position of the countries by the h-index was almost the same.
Countries positioning in open access journals system: An investigation of citation distribution patterns This article discovered some aspects of countries contribution to and performance in the OAJ subsystem. Firstly, it demonstrated that a relatively broad range of countries participate in OA movement whether by universally sharing and maintaining their OAJs, or by submitting their scientific outputs. Whatever may be the cause, given the high number of the countries' outputs in their national OAJs this finding show that increasing the quantity of scientific outputs is a sine qua non not per se adequate to improve the scientific performance.
An author co-citation analysis of information science in China with Chinese Google Scholar search engine, 2004-2006 However, we find ourselves in a serious situation that studies in China are comprehensive but not intensive because most scholars focus on theoretical studies rather than empirical studies.
A bibliometric study of bioinformatics research in South Africa The practice of bioinformatics in South Africa has been growing steadily over 15 years.
Flow and social relationships of knowledge in science, technology and innovation: A patentometric study of UNICAMP's technological production In general, one concludes that the proposed objectives have been achieved. Through the patentometric analysis of UNICAMP's production of patents, it can be verified that the sources of information cited in UNICAMP's patent documents have the goal of providing cognitive support; 64 % correspond to the sources of scientific information, represented by periodicals, books and theses. The relationship between UNICAMP and the local and regional agents of knowledge is practically non-existent.
A comparison of methods for detecting hot topics Our work does not only provide a method to evaluate trend prediction performance for scientometrics, but also provides insights and reflections for past and future trend observation studies.
Mapping review networks: Exploring research community roles and contributions This study of the Singularity Theory community possesses interesting research implications concerning support work in science and the degree to which it should be accounted for in performance evaluations. Role-based assessments can tell us whether or not critical roles are being carried and where changes might be introduced to create improvements. Different roles have to be performed by scientists at different times throughout the development of a specialty/invisible college, and all roles must be in balance to ensure that the community is functioning successfully.
The authorship and internationality of Industrial Engineering journals A simple calculation of the correlation coefficient indicates that the number of articles of a journal is independent of its internationality and the quality, as expressed by the impact factor.
The contribution of star scientists to overall sex differences in research productivity The series of analyses conducted confirm this hypothesis.
Knowledge linkage structures in communication studies using citation analysis among communication journals In this research, we found that the impact of social and experimental psychology journals on communication studies is so large that they can be considered as a major source of theories and methods for the authors in communication journals.
Do types of collaboration change citation? Collaboration and citation patterns of South African science publications "The key finding of the present analysis is that the citation impact of the South African publications varies across different collaboration types, disciplines, and sectors of the contributing authors."
Sustainability of incentives for excellent research - The German case Therefore, we conclude that third-party funds should be used with great care, if at all.
Increasing dominance of English in publications archived by PubMed In conclusion, the dominance of English in biomedical publications archived by the most commonly used database is impressive and increasing. This fact may have several consequences, favourable or not, in various aspects of scientific production. Despite the above limitations, the conclusion of our study that English has become the predominant language in the field of biomedical publications, as reflected in the PubMed database, is clear-cut.
Visibility and responsibility of women in research papers through the order of signatures: the case of the University of Extremadura, 1990-2005 The percentage of women at present contracted by the University of Extremadura is 37%, while the percentage of papers in which those women intervene, with respect to the total authorship of the scientific production of the University of Extremadura during the period 1990–2005, is very low, since on no occasion is this percentage over 16%. In general, women have a higher tendency to occupy the first position and a lesser tendency to occupy the last. All of this permits us to infer that women have been incorporated into research with a certain delay with respect to men, and they have developed or are developing their doctoral theses, but they are still a little behind in directing works, either because of this delay in incorporation or due to other obligations which permit less dedication.
Internet practice and professional networks in Chilean science: Dependency or progress? As contrasted with the relatively low Internet access and use reported in prior studies of developing regions, Chileans scientists are digitally well connected. The most consistent predictors of network profiles concluded in our study are Internet experience and use. Since this present study did not include academic departments outside of Concepcion, future research should test if access to professional networks by region, gender and age in the university sector coincides with the symmetry we found among research institute scientists.
The invariant method can be manipulated We have shown that the invariant method is subject to manipulation: a journal's rank can be improved by making additional citations, possibly to other journals. A manipulation-free ranking should let them focus on genuine quality.
How old is the Web? Characterizing the age and the currency of the European scientific Web This study characterizes the age distribution of the ERA Web space.
Performance Measurement and the Governance of American Academic Science The U.S. academic research system exhibits traits of changed governance regimes and changed performance measurement systems at the national level but with problematic impacts following upon adoption of each, and limited connection between the two.
Comparative study of h-index sequences In this paper we presented four examples of h-index sequences for which a Lotkaian model was given. We have that the consecutive h-index sequences have increasing values when compared to each other which is confirmed in the example given on these h-index sequences of this author.
Institutional self-citation rates: A three year study of universities in the United States Despite the limited three year window, the ISCR exhibits similar temporal patterns of author and journal self-citation rates.
Quality is in the eye of the beholder? An evaluation of impact factors and perception of journal prestige in the UK Across groups, number of peer-reviewed publications, and the research contribution of the department (RAE rating) were predictive of perceptions of prestige, whilst only RAE rating was predictive of accuracy in determining perceived difficulty in publishing (based on the assumption that is it more difficult to publish in highly ranked journals). These findings confirmed our expectations that academics from more competitive environments would be more accurate in determining prestige and difficulty. Overall, this study provides a snapshot at a time when this is a salient issue for academics.
A citation analysis of Catalan literary studies (1974-2003): Towards a bibliometrics of humanities studies in minority languages The consumption of bibliographic information by researchers into Catalan literature has the same general characteristics as in other humanities disciplines.
Editorial delay of food research papers is influenced by authors' experience but not by country of origin of the manuscripts Although these results are time and discipline limited, it can be concluded that authors' publishing experience causes a faster review and acceptance of their papers and that neither country of provenance nor cross-national research influence the time involved in editorial acceptance of the papers.
Creation of journal-based publication profiles of scientific institutions - A methodology for the interdisciplinary comparison of scientific research based on the J-factor The journal-based normalisation method presented here has some advantages over normalisation on a subject-category level: Each article is counted once only, which means that all types of distortion caused by assigning the same article to several subject categories are therefore avoided.
The influence of the applicants' gender on the modeling of a peer review process by using latent Markov models The findings on the effect of gender on the B.I.F. peer review process are heterogeneous.
Neo-colonialism and research collaboration in Central Africa The prevailing situation in Central Africa is one of low levels of economic development, as reflected in GDP, that are coupled with significantly low levels of research production which, in turn, are characterised by relatively high levels of neo-colonial ties. Thus, greater dependency on foreign participation and neo-colonial ties is required in order for regional and continental integration to be established. Moreover, it is recommended that Central African countries develop strategies to ‘tap' the scientific network of former colonial countries in order to diversify the pattern of international collaboration at the same time.
The evaluation of scientific production: Towards a neutral impact factor In short, the empirical analysis performed in the three previous sections clearly shows that the direct use of the impact factor compiled by the Institute for Scientific Information, as employed by university administrative managers in general, provides highly questionable results, since it incorporates significant biases which work in favour of certain fields/journals to the detriment of others.
The impact of internet resources on scholarly communication: A citation analysis Citations to Web resources in scholarly publications have been steadily increasing during the last decade. The data also revealed that the citedness is related to the credibility of institution or author's reputation. On the one hand, we need to develop strategies for how to make quality information on the Web known and used by researchers; on the other hand, we also need to develop criteria and measurement for helping researchers how to determine trustworthy Web resources.
A comparative study of the difference in research performance in biomedical fields among selected Western and Asian countries This study recalled the definition of the activity index (AI), the attractivity index (AAI), the normalized mean citation rate (NMCR) and the transformed normalized mean citation rate (tNMCR).
An investigation on mathematical models of the h-index Thus, all data suggest that the Glänzel-Schubert model is a better estimation of the h-index, so that it is feasible to apply the Glänzel-Schubert model to estimate the h-indices of countries and other information sources [CSAJBÓK & AL., 2007].
A measure of authors' centrality in co-authorship networks based on the distribution of collaborative relationships This research has proposed a new measure of authors' centrality based on the extensity of authors' collaborative relationships in co-authorship networks, namely the extensity centrality. Based on the results of our experiment, the significance in application is that the collaborative pattern of those scholars having both high extensity centrality and high degree should be advocated. As for the further researches, we will examine the distribution of an author's different subjects of a large domain and the distribution of different subjects in the whole co-authorship network.
Paretian publication patterns imply Paretian Hirsch index This truncated distribution is a good base of evaluation of the h-core and partially eliminates the valid objection that the Hirsch-index can not differentiate between different citation patterns.
A new index for the citation curve of researchers The w-index has been introduced to address the limitation of just having a point estimate as is the case with the h-index. The new index better captures the production of a researcher, since it takes more of the citation curve into account than the h-index. The w-index provides a more balanced view between citations and actual production of articles/papers.
Scientific production in Computer Science: A comparative study of Brazil and other countries Thus, Brazil has a good production considering Latin America, but regarding the other countries, Brazil is not well positioned.
Rejecting and resisting Nobel class discoveries: accounts by Nobel Laureates The above instances illustrate the fact that persistence may be needed to obtain recognition for work that is innovative and revolutionary. Scientists who challenge dominant paradigms should be prepared to face skepticism and rejection. Editors and referees of scientific journals should be aware of critical analyses of peer review in order to avoid the “reviewer's nightmare” of rejected discoveries that are later awarded the Nobel prize.
Performance and its relation with productivity in Lotkaian systems Four different types of “performance” of an IPP have been given and interpreted in several IPP examples, hereby introducing also new h-type indices.
A comparison of Scopus and Web of Science for a typical university Overall, it may me stated that the core set of the documents present in both Scopus and WoS are the most cited but the sets present only in one of the databases should not be disregarded as they will include many publications of high impact.
USING A PUBLICATION ANALYSIS TO EXPLORE MISSION SUCCESS Our findings indicate that a self-study of publishing activities yields useful results about programmatic strengths and weaknesses.
Case Studies of e-Infrastructure Adoption The authors' recommendations to European Union (EU) policy makers point the way to promoting e-Infrastructure development and wider application in the SSH.
A Meta-Analysis of Ethics Instruction Effectiveness in the Sciences The answer appears to be that ethics instruction is at best moderately effective as it is currently conducted. First and foremost, it appears that a cognitive decision-making approach to instruction is most effective, followed by ethical sensitivity, which focuses on the social-interactional nature of ethical problems. We hope that the present study will provide some practical guidance for future course development and evaluation.
The contribution of limited-resource countries to the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meetings These data show that the contribution of LRCs to ASCO annual meetings is very low.
A theory of self-selection in a market with matching frictions: An application to delay in refereeing times in economics journals If the assortativeness of matching is a very important factor in evaluating a publication outcome, the delay in FRT can actually be efficiency improving. Therefore, we may have to be more cautious about the common assertion that the delay should be reduced. The main message of this paper is that matching friction in the assignment market can facilitate self-selection.
Prestige Among Graduate and Professional Schools: Comparing the US News' Graduate School Reputation Ratings Between Disciplines There are two broad conclusions from the five regression analyses in this study.
Reviewing and Revision Times for The Astrophysical Journal From a study of the editorial log for one-eighth of a year of submitted manuscripts, we learn that the ratios of rejected/withdrawn/accepted articles is 6/5/88%, respectively. Author revisions average 21% longer than referee reviews. Neither referees nor authors process important articles faster than other articles.
Positional Effects on Citation and Readership in arXiv There is no direct analog in other on-line resources for the positional effects on readership considered earlier here, both due to the nature of the arXiv daily announcements and the central notification role arXiv plays for entire research communities.
Visual Overviews for Discovering Key Papers and Influences Across Research Fronts Our preliminary case study with 6 participants produced evidence that this visualization method for research fronts is interesting to researchers highly experienced in data analysis.
PageRank for Ranking Authors in Co-citation Networks In this study we selected the 108 most highly cited authors in the field of IR from the 1970s to 2008 to form the author co-citation network. We calculated the ranks of these 108 authors based on PageRank with damping factor ranging from .05 to .95.
A Relation Between h-Index and Impact Factor in the Power-Law Model We have shown a direct relation between any h-index and the corresponding impact factor in the power-law model. This relation is, however, not a function. It is shown that this model corresponds, at least to a large extent, to real data.
Developing a New Collection-Evaluation Method: Mapping and the User-Side h-Index These results may help to identify actual usage and strengths of subject classes in library collections through visualized maps.
Loads of Special Authorship Functions: Linear Growth in the Percentage of "Equal First Authors" and Corresponding Authors Increasing numbers of corresponding authors and equally contributing authors may lead to increased stress on teamwork if not properly acknowledged in research evaluation exercises.
Computing Journals and their Emerging Roles in Knowledge Exchange This study presents the results of inter-connection and relative standing of 50 computing journals. The study's findings will motivate the researchers to appreciate the importance of jour-nals as synthesizers, a role generally unnoticed by them. The results are also valuable to the editors as it will help them decide on the nature of research published in the journals.
Different - not just by label: research-oriented academic careers in Germany The grantholders are more successful in gaining professorships in a short time than those who are not approved. Therefore, funding has an effect, but this might work in several different ways. It will probably take a few years to establish alternative academic career paths at German universities.
Are there really two types of h index variants? A validation study by using molecular life sciences data All in all, with the findings in this study all results to the h index and its variants could be validated that are reported in Bornmann et al (2008a, 2009b).
Quantitative and qualitative approaches, to the study of mobility and scientific performance: a case study of a Spanish university Through this quantitative and qualitative approach, we concluded that there is a strong relationship between mobility, productivity, visibility and international collaboration.
Assessment of humanities and social sciences monographs through their publishers: a review and a study towards a model of evaluation Obtaining answers to this question from the two most concerned groups, analyzing and contrasting them will permit us to make decisions regarding: • How to determine if a publisher is prestigious or not; and • What good practices can be expected from publishers.
Multi-authored publications: their influence in the distribution of the financing costs in world licenses First, the costs distributions are completely different and could be easily manipulated in order to defend the interests of individual institutions. The effort involved in calculating costs distributions by using fractional counting is considerable and problematic for very large licensing projects: there are no citation databases considering fractional counts. New publishing models are basing on the distribution of the financing costs among all participating authors, affiliations or countries according to the number of their scientific publications.
International publication output and research impact in social sciences: comparison of the Universities of Vienna, Zurich and Oslo This bibliometric study on social sciences recommends the University of Oslo as a benchmark for the University of Vienna.
Impact vitality: an indicator based on citing publications in search of excellent scientists A novel indicator is proposed to help identify excellent scientists by referring to a sustained increase of publications that cite their work.
The field factor: towards a metric for academic institutions The field-adjusted production based on the FAP model is a viable alternative for national schemes of performance-related funding. First and foremost the model can be evaluated according to these parameters: • Cost efficiency • Validation of data • Citation counts • Normative direction. Finally, the normative direction in the two models should be compared. Incentives in the Norwegian model are not really clear-cut.
Israeli research institutes: a dynamic and evaluative perspective Our findings show that the Israeli institutes publish papers that attract more citations than the field average.
New journal selection for quantitative survey of infectious disease research: application for Asian trend analysis A survey of 100 selected journals is more sensitive than the SCI Infectious Disease Category from the viewpoint of avoiding underestimating the number of infectious disease research articles of Asian origin.
Publications in mathematical economics and econometrics: ranking of Asian universities and an application of Zipf's law A major finding from ranking Asian universi- ties suggests that scholars in Asia have a com- parative advantage in math-oriented research, and hence their specialisation in quantitative economics enhances research output in this area.
The theorem of Fellman and Jakobsson: A new proof and dual theory In this paper we gave a new, short proof of the well-known theorem of Fellman and Jakobsson on the relation between L (g) and L (φ°g), where g is the rank-frequency function of a system and φ is a transformation.
Can literature analysis identify innovation drivers in drug discovery? Bibliometrics provides a set of methods for quantitative analysis of the scientific literature — the repository of knowledge that is important to drug discovery.
From lab to market? Strategies and issues in the commercialization of nanotechnology in China In summary, in probing how China's upgraded and up-scaled R&D capabilities in nanotechnology can support commercialization, two pathways have been identified: spillover from academia and spillover from foreign enterprises. The pathway from academic R&D to commercial applications in China, at least as far as small technology-driven firms are concerned, is strewn with obstacles.
Publication in infectious diseases journals from Chinese authors: 10-year survey of literature Our analysis determines the research output in the infectious diseases research field of the 3 main regions of China. Also, the results of this study imply that China lags behind the developed countries in conducting infectious diseases research. It is therefore important for China to galvanize research activity towards preventing and treating infectious diseases.
A Report from the International Mathematical Union (IMU) in Cooperation with the International Council of Industrial and Applied Mathematics (ICIAM) and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS) Clearly, JIF manipulation is a part of questionable research practices since it aims at changing the system of rewards in science. JIF manipulation also illustrates a change of motivation in scientific work. One is attempting to change some bibliometric indicators, rather than seek to improve a research quality. Thus, if more weight is given to paper count and a single bibliometric indicator rather than quality of science, administration practices can add to deterioration of academic ethics.
The Hirsch h Index in a Non-Mainstream Area: Methodology of the Behavioral Sciences in Spain In this field, but perhaps also in other fields where the average h is low, little justification is found for the use of the h index as a fair measure of research performance that can aid in funding or promotion decisions. From these results, we find little justification for the use of h as a criterion for grant awarding or for decisions on academic placement or tenure in fields where h shows these characteristics.
A Citation Analysis of Risk, Insurance, and Actuarial Research: 2001 Through 2005 Consistent with the two previous Colquitt (1997, 2003) studies as well as other studies of risk and insurance journals, the JRI holds its position as the core journal among the risk and insurance group. IME is to the actuarial group what the JRI is to the risk and insurance group, being the most influential of all journals in its group. Its regular position as a top three actuarial journal is impressive, considering it was first published in 1997.
WHERE CREDIT IS DUE Assessing the Visibility of Articles Published in Gender & Society with Google Scholar The current analysis suggests that Gender & Society deserves even more credit as its articles are far more influential than the ISI journal impact scores suggest.
Business School Research: Measuring Value Contribution Through Citations of Journals in Patents This paper has proposed that patent citations to journals be used as the basis for one dimension of deter-mining the relevance, impact, and resulting value of business school research. The high number of citations I found indicates the substantial value that business school research is gen-erating. Finally, the use of patent citations can provide a new approach to journal ranking.
Currents and trends in the archaeological sciences In sum, much of the JAS's success can be attributed to its broad interdisciplinary appeal and the awareness of its editors to adapt the journal's format to emerging interpretative paradigms, new scientific tools and the rapidly changing face of academic publication. Its inclusion in the globally recognised Elsevier Science Direct platform has also been preponderant in its recent growth. For example, since joining Elsevier in 2003, the JAS has improved its JCR impact factor every year (2004 = 1.186; 2005 = 1.316; 2006 = 1.322; 2007 = 1.439; 2008 = 1.779), underscoring the journal's success as a leading forum for archaeological science.
Study of the Spanish R&D&I Plan 2004-2007 in energy The public funds transferred by the Spanish Government to R&D activities in energy projects in incipient technologies are based in thematic priorities that cover a vast quantity of aspects that must be reconsidered, specially reinforcing the R&D activities in the renewable energy technologies more related to the Spanish industrial development in this sector. Also, the amount of public funds must be increased, in parallel to the importance of the Spanish industry in renewable energy in the international context. The R&D activities in some renewable technologies as bioclimatism, hydropower, geothermal and marine energy are below an adequate level because it is considered not adequate to carry out only one research project in the period under study.
Tools for producing indicators from a bibliometric study of scientific production: the case of fruit and vegetable publications by the French National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA) The analysis presented highlights the overall magnitude of research dedicated to fruits and vegetables at INRA.
Better Than Buffett? A Report on the Success of the American Head and Neck Society Research Grant Program In this study, we showed that the AHNS-RGP has been successful in its goal of fostering research and career development in head and neck oncology, based on 3 critical metrics.
Will you cite me? The emerging strategy of academic publishing The lesson one can draw from this study is that even great ideas may take a long time to be acknowledged.
A student's guide to searching the literature using online databases Knowing how to use an online database for literature searches can lead to a significant amount of information in a relatively short period of time if performed in a systematic fashion.
Examining the robustness of web co-link analysis These results suggest that the co-link analysis method is fairly robust. The results also suggest that the web co-link analysis method is probably fairly widely applicable to major industries of major countries. On a practical level, the co-link analysis of business websites allows us to gain information on business competition.
A comparative analysis of social sciences citation tools Web of Science has long been the only tool for citation analysis. Scopus and Google Scholar, while still new to the market, are complementary to Web of Science and in some cases can provide a more nuanced view of the importance of scholarly articles in the social sciences. This study has shown that Scopus and Google Scholar have the potential to identify other sources that might better measure the output of a scholar in the social sciences.
Database source coverage: hypes, vital signs and reality checks The decision to almost double the number of A&H journals reinforces the concept of enhancing the breadth of source coverage, obviously at the expense of depth of coverage.
International Graduate Science Training and Scientific Collaboration Our results suggest that involvement in collaborative work is the norm for the population of Filipino knowledge producers we studied, with an average of two collaborative projects, most frequently in domestic, but non-local places.
Can Local Citation Analysis of Master's and Doctoral Theses help Decision-Making about the Management of the Collection of Periodicals? A Case Study in Psychology and Education Sciences The main outcomes of this analysis of citations in the master's and doctoral theses kept in the library of psychology and education sciences at Louvain university were:
Past performance, peer review and project selection: a case study in the social and behavioral sciences "In sum, we have found a negative answer to the council's question of whether it selects the 'best' researchers and proposals in terms of past performance and anonymous reviews."
Dimensions of scientific collaboration and its contribution to the academic research groups' scientific quality Based on the empirical case analyzed, the conclu-sion is that scientific collaboration contributes to the performance level of the ARG, especially when per-formance is related to the groups' scientific quality.
Should we use the mean citations per paper to summarise a journal's impact or to rank journals in the same field? Journal citations conform to the textbook situation in which the median and the mode are better measures of central tendency than the mean because of the excessive influence of a small number of extreme values on the mean [SOKAL & ROHLF, 1995].
A geometric approach to the construction of scientific impact indices In this paper we proposed a geometric approach to construction of scientific impact indices.
Structural equation model with PLS path modeling for an integrated system of publicly funded basic research In the present study, we analyzed the structural relations among the resources, environmental factors, accumulative advantages, outputs and outcomes in the context of `publicly funded basic research. Our empirical study based on the fitted SEM with PLS Path modeling brings the following interesting findings. An extended model development and estimation is left for further studies.
Is science becoming more interdisciplinary? Measuring and mapping six research fields over time These findings suggest that science is indeed becoming more interdisciplinary, but in small steps - drawing mainly from neighboring fields and only modestly increasing the connections to distant cognitive areas. The study of the six research domains examined here is not only interesting on its own right to track the evolution of interdisciplinarity over time, but it also provides essential benchmarks for future investigations.
Did professionalization afford better opportunities for young scientists? The professionalization of the sciences did make it a little easier for scientists to make significant contributions at a younger age. But, it is easy to exaggerate the effects of professionalization. Older and middle age scientists continue to play an important role in making significant discoveries throughout the history of modern science.
The productivity of Mexican astronomers in the field of outflows from young stars Our study shows that Mexican institutions have a strong group active in the field of outflows from young stars.
A multidimensional extension to Hirsch's h-index This paper has proposed a multidimensional extension to Hirsch h index and has shown that the additional components are useful to distinguish individuals with the same h.
Patterns of scientific and technological knowledge flows based on scientific papers and patents From the results acquired from the above, we conclude that the absorption of scientific knowledge and the diffusion of technological knowledge showed different patterns by period when and field where technological knowledge was created, and this difference means that technological innovation takes different forms by period and field. The speed of knowledge diffusion differs by technology field, and this implies that the time required for investment in basic research to be connected to technological innovation differs by field and we need to adopt different approaches by technology field to the establishment of national innovation system.
Tracing the role of individual journals in a cross-citation network based on different indicators This study has shown that a well-defined set of structure indicators can be used to analyse the "communication characteristics” of individual journals within the cross-citation network. Language barrier and lacking internationality (as reflected by their publications and not by the constitution of their editorial boards) proved one of the main hindrances for integration into the communication network. The divergence between strongly interlinked and high-entropy journals was, on the other hand, somewhat unexpected.
Regional analysis on Chinese scientific output The regional distribution of scientific publications in China is highly skewed; a few regions are very productive while most are not.
Surviving bad times: The role of citations, self-citations and numbers of citable items in recovery of the journal impact factor after at least four years of continuous decreases We identified the factors that contributed to the increase in JIF after several annual of decreases.
The International Publication Productivity of Malaysia in Social Sciences DEVELOPING A SCIENTIFIC POWER INDEX The present study constitutes an attempt to quantify and describe the publication record of Malaysia in the social sciences, a baseline assessment of the state of the art that may help illuminate policy decisions to promote research within the country. This growing international collaboration improves the knowledge level of Malaysian scholars and helps Malaysian researchers to better merge into international community. However, an over-reliance on collaborators in developed countries, although successful so far, may limit future development of research in Malaysia.
Alternative metrics to measure journal impacts: entering in a "free market" era On the other hand, discomfort of the scientific community provoked by Thomson's appar-ent inconsistencies shown recently (see Rossner et al., 2008, but see also ThomsonReuters, 2008 for a reply), together with the easy and free access to these new metrics, may accelerate their widespread use by authors, editors, and librarians as alternatives to this traditional institute that had a monopoly until recently.
Perspectives of clinician and biomedical scientists on interdisciplinary health research Despite having some positive views about the value of inter-disciplinary research, scientists, especially biomedical scien-tists, expressed reservations about the funding agencies' level of support of such research.
Fifteen Good Years This is hopefully useful to both researchers and editorial teams. Researchers may benefit by considering the findings of this study when developing and then targeting their own research plans, while editorial teams may consider the results of this analysis when making decisions that enhance the quality and scope of the journal. This study hopefully serves as a good base for future attempts to expand knowledge about Management International Review, both in depth and breadth.
Discipline-specific forecasting of research output in Australian universities Our article provides a vital bridge in the existing literature between those studies comparing institutions in the broad and those focused upon specific subject areas. Our results, which are highly robust, provide evidence of recent discipline level output across most Australian universities, enabling institutions to analyse the performance of each subject area both across that university and with cognate disciplines in other universities. Besides its diagnostic value, it also provides an accurate forecasting tool, indicating the relative importance of different explanatory variables in planning future output, of which staff numbers and student-staff ratios are the most potent.
THE INFLUENCE OF ECONOMICS ARTICLES ON BUSINESS RESEARCH: ANALYSIS OF JOURNALS AND TIME TRENDS The data support the second and fourth explanations. Different research spillover occurs but lasts no more than two years.
EVALUATING THE PERFORMANCE OF SOUTH AFRICAN ECONOMICS DEPARTMENTS This paper indicates that there has been some improvement in the state of economics at South African universities since 2003 when the previous survey was conducted.
Programmers, Professors, and Parasites: Credit and Co-Authorship in Computer Science Given the above analysis of various research organizations' publishing policies, the current publishing situation in computer science, and successful practices in other fields, however, the following basic set of principles are proposed for any new policy:
A Study on Journal Self-Citations and Intra-Citing within the Subject Category of Multidisciplinary Sciences From this study, an important finding is that extravagant journal self-citations or intra-citing within the subject category are easily notable.
The "how'' and "whys'' of research: life scientists' views of accountability Our findings suggest that the boundary-setting between science and non-science is not as stark as the deferral to regulatory authorities or social systems evident in the more contested embryonic stem cell research. To encourage accountability to society, we advocate that academic institutions increase awareness of societal considerations from the very start of life scientists' careers and increase the robustness of the peer review process to evaluate the value of research projects to the public.
An Indicator of Research Front Activity: Measuring Intellectual Organization as Uncertainty Reduction in Document Sets Our claim is that the information generated from the configuration of title words and cited references in consecutive years provides an indicator of this process of sociocognitive self-organization.
Assessing the Scholarly Impact of Information Studies: A Tale of Two Citation Databases-Scopus and Web of Science Results showed that when analysis is based on smaller citing entities, such as journals, conference proceedings, and institutions within and beyond the field, the two databases produce considerably different results, whereas when analy-sis is based on larger citing entities, such as research domains and countries, the two databases produce very similar pictures of scholarly impact. In the former case, the use of Scopus (for journals and institutions) and both Scopus and Web of Science (for conference proceedings) is necessary to more accurately assess or visualize the scholarly impact of IS, whereas in the latter case, assessing or visualizing the scholarly impact of IS is independent of the database used.
Access to Scientific Literature in India The different types of evidence used in this article strongly suggest that there is a problem of access to scientific literature in India. In the long run, having all scientific publications freely available to the world from the day of publication may be a desirable goal. In the short run, however, it is more important to make scientific publications freely available for developing countries because this is where the problem really lies.
Hirsch Index Rankings Require Scaling and Higher Moment This work showed that both number of publications NT, as well as average number of citations per publication per scientific field E{X}, is needed for meaningful h-index rankings, apart from the measured h-index of each researcher. Furthermore, we provided a scaling and ranking methodology based on the h-index expected value and standard deviation, which can be calculated through the h-index probability distribution (several examples were provided, assuming knowledge of Nr and E{X}). Future work should focus on multiparametric methods that alleviate poor practices, such as citing papers that have not been actually read (Simkin & Roychowdhury, 2006), introductory citations without real significance to the presented work, gratuitous authorship, citation coalitions, and disproportional citations to well-known researchers (“Mathew effect”; (Merton, 1968).
Diffusion of scientific credits and the ranking of scientists In this paper, we propose a measure for ranking scientists mimicking the spread of scientific credits among authors.
Influence of Information Technology in Growth and Publication of Indian LIS Literature The present study attempted to find out the impact of IT upon the growth of LIS literature published in major Indian Periodicals.
The Differences Among Disciplines in Scholarly Communication A Bibliometric Analysis of Theses This study shows that there is a relationship among the source type used, obsolescence rates of the sources, publication language, and number of authors in the citations of theses. The results show differences among fields and disciplines in terms of use of sources and literature obsolescence. All in all, we must conclude that while preparing collection policies, it is necessary to pay attention to interdisciplinary differences and to reflect users' typical choices of sources for each discipline.
Predicting citation count of Bioinformatics papers within four years of publication The use of models capable of predicting the citations that an article will receive in the first few years after publication can be a useful tool for publishers' assessment process. This method can actually inform publishers about which articles will have a bigger impact in the future before they are published. In the future, our target will be to build new models that incorporate other paper-based features (title, keywords, conclusions, etc.), new author-based features (h-index, number of papers, number of citations, etc.) and new journal-based features (impact factor, immediacy index, category, etc.).
Determinants of Citations to the Agricultural and Applied Economics Association Journals This manuscript investigated whether citation patterns to the AJAE have changed the past 15 years, identified differences in citations between the two AAEA journals, and investigated factors correlated with citations. We found that even though the AJAE was online and therefore more readily accessible in the 2000s than in the early 1990s, there is no statistical difference between citations-per-year in the first three years after publication between the 2000s and 1990s. Our analysis suggest that signals of paper quality (as measured by self-citations and immediate citations) have a substantive effect on citation rates.
Submission Patterns, Submission Policies, and Revealed Preferences for Agricultural Economics Journals In this article, we documented the interrelatedness of a set of five agricultural and environmental economic journals. We find, across the entire sample of respondents, that the AJAE is the most preferred journal. Results also reveal that submission patterns are sensitive to changes in jour- nal policies.
Mapping the Structure of Research: Business and Management as an Exemplar In summary, the self-organizing map has substantial utility for management researchers and practitioners in the following ways:
Scientific Periodicals in Iran: A Systems Approach This survey of the current status of scientific journals in Iran reveals that the major orientation of this system is not towards development of scientific communication, facilitation of the entry of new new journals, or reinforcement of the natural process of growth of these scientific periodicals. The authors suggest ways to improve the status of scholarly periodicals in Iran.
Clustering Research Activity in Communication Doctoral Programs: Relationship of Publication Productivity and Department Size to Disciplinary Reputation and Prestige Results suggest that these data are principally based on peer perceptions of faculty publication activity, that more specialized publication activities tend to be perceived more favorably, and that the number of publishing faculty in a program is strongly related to positive perceptions of faculty quality. The outcomes of this study, particularly the MRA analyses, attest to the vital importance of publication productivity to perceptions of departmental quality. The present study suggests that adding faculty to the department who do not publish in the field's periodical literature not only fails to contribute to perceptions of a department's prestige, but also appears to be an indicator of its decline.
Global ranking of knowledge management and intellectual capital academic journals This study was the first of its kind to develop a ranking system for academic journals in the field. Such a list will be very useful for academic recruitment, as well as tenure and promotion decisions. In conclusion, part of the long-term vitality of the field of KM/IC rests with the attraction of new academic researchers.
A follow-up ranking of academic journals A major finding of this study is the emergence of a clear tiering (i.e. clustering of top journals) in the field when both approaches are considered. This is a very important development for KM/IC academic researchers seeking promotion and recruitment in universities. The results of this study support a specialized ranking list of KM/IC journals that academic researchers may use for reward and recognition purposes.
Mapping the Structure and Dynamics of Psychological Knowledge: Forty Years of APA Journal Citations (1970-2009) Psychology is a diverse field. However, as our results suggest, it is also a discipline with clearly articulated and established scientific goals, as well as a discipline with clear division of labor.
The Hirsch Index in Manufacturing and Quality Engineering This paper shows some of the many potential applications of the h-index. Even though h is originally derived from bibliometrics, it could be profitably used for different specific problems in manufacturing and Quality engineering, so as to synthesize and enrich the most commonly used metrics. The great advantage of h is to aggregate the information related to two observable quantities into a single number, without losing the reference to real data.
Journal rankings and the ABS Journal Quality Guide This article has highlighted a rapid expansion in recent years in numbers of researchers, refereed journals and types of research within the business and management field.
The Role of Endocarditis, Myocarditis and Pericarditis in Qualitative and Quantitative Data Analysis Scientometrics can be a useful tool for prioritizing relevant research, although more reliable qualitative factors, for instance, those that exclude self-citation and “mass coauthoring" should be investigated. These results indicate that future research of heart inflammation may no longer be influenced predominantly by a small number of countries.
The State of Environmental and Resource Economics: A Google Scholar Perspective Google Scholar is a remarkable new and useful tool for identifying influential works in environmental and resource economics, and it is rapidly becoming the bibliographic tool of choice for most researchers.
Evaluating Environmental and Resource Economics Journals: A TOP-Curve Approach The TOP-curve approach appears to have several advantages over the ISI impact factor.
Aspects of the scientific cooperation of Estonia and Germany in view of bibliometry With respect to collaborative publications with researchers from foreign countries, joint scientific publications of Estonian with German researchers rank fourth after the USSR, Finland, and Sweden, but before the USA, England, and Russia.
Manuscript rejection in ophthalmology and visual science journals: identifying and avoiding the common pitfalls Understanding why original research work is rejected can be invaluable to an author's publishing career. The categories that emerged from this content analysis are reflected in other literature on the topic, therefore the flaws in manuscripts rejected by Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology appear to be both common and avoidable. Armed with this knowledge an author may strive towards a more 'rejection-proof' manuscript when submitting to ophthalmology and visual science journals.
Publication and citation analysis of the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Ophthalmology and Clinical 0mp; Experimental Ophthalmology over a 10-year period: the evolution of an ophthalmology journal CEO has substantially increased the number of publications, citation counts and inter-national sources compared with its well-established predecessor, ANZJO, over the assessed periods. CEO also appears to have a higher international pro-file with increasing citations counts from more countries. This evolution from a regional, to a more international, journal has been substantial and is reflected by a significant increment in JIF, and a modest increase in overall JIF-ranking, for CEO.
Where is the Quality? Political Science Scholarship in Australia Scholars at ANU produce more high-quality political science research than those at any other institutions in Australia on each measure. The extent to which the field is oriented towards the UK represents a remarkable continuity running through the entire history of the discipline in Australia. The more the metrics are used as a policy tool by the government and universities (be they ERA numbers or any other centralised equivalent), the less useful these numbers will become as an indication of what is really going on with research quality and productivity.
The Snowbird Charrette: Integrative Interdisciplinary Collaboration in Environmental Research Design The results of this experiment indicate that IGERT groups outperformed disciplinary groups among students in the first years of graduate study, but that the reverse occurred among students in the third year and beyond.
Journal Reading and Publishing Patterns of Cuban Health Researchers This study allowed us to discern some patterns of behaviour on the part of Cuban biomedical researchers when they use scientific publications and diffuse the results of their own research.
ArticleRank: a PageRank-based alternative to numbers of citations for analysing citation networks In this paper, we have described a modification of the PageRank algorithm that can be used as an alternative to the number of citations for the analysis of citation data.
Research quality assessment in education: impossible science, possible art? This article explores some of the problems and possibilities, with particular reference to the UK Research Assessment Exercise and discussion around the proposed new Research Excellence Framework and the ongoing work of the Framework 7 European Education Research Quality Indicators project (EERQI).
Measuring the institution's footprint in the web The proposed approach suggests the publication of truly electronic journals, rather than digital versions of printed articles. The current set of Webometrics indicators offers a wide range of opportunities for improving our knowledge of the academic system, how it is organized and works and to better monitor the persons and organizations involved. It is expected that these actions could generate larger web-based audiences, reduce the costs of publication and access and allow third parties to take advantage of the knowledge generated, without sacrificing peer review, which should be extended (pre- and post-) and expanded (closed and open).
A Bibliometric Study of Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships and QSAR & Combinatorial Science For 28 years, Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships and then QSAR & Combinatorial Science have published many of the key papers in the development of QSAR and related specialisms in computational chemistry.
CONSTRUCTING IMPACT FACTORS TO MEASURE THE INFLUENCE OF SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AND LOGISTICS JOURNALS The resulting constructed impact factors provide a context for capturing trends over time to evaluate the relative influence of these journals. They also provide an objective way of comparatively ranking these ten journals over an extended period, as well as a platform for comparing the influence of supply chain management and logistics journals with that of journals in more general fields like management and business. The information in our study should be useful to the academic community since it may facilitate the choice of appropriate research outlets. Academicians in the field can also support such a campaign by continuing to submit high quality articles that contribute to the development of theory and practice to the supply chain management and logistics journals in question.
A simple method for excluding self-citation from the h-index: the b-index A novel and simple way of correcting h-index values to remove self-citations has been proposed.
Calculating the h-index and other bibliometric and scientometric indicators from Google Scholar with the Publish or Perish software
Comparison of journal title coverage between CINAHL and Scopus This analysis shows a significant overlap of journal titles indexed in Scopus and CINAHL, but it is not nearly as large as the overlap between Scopus and MEDLINE or EMBASE/Excerpta Medica or even as large as the overlap with PsycINFO, as shown in the Gavel and Iselid study [5].
An Integrative View of the Institutional Repositories in Hong Kong: Strategies and Challenges By now, its combined IRs have archived over 101,000 items with respectable deposit rates.
Promoting the Visibility of Educational Research through an Institutional Repository In these very early stages of its development, the Research Repository has begun to demonstrate its value to The Hong Kong Institute of Education in both supporting and promoting Institute-based research.
Research Online: Digital Commons as a Publishing Platform at the University of Wollongong, Australia It is vital that repository staff sit down with journal editorial staff and determine exactly how they prefer to undertake the publishing process.
The relationship between the research activity of Iranian medical universities and their web impact factor Bearing the results obtained in mind, it seems that the web links are designed with the purpose of providing unofficial scientific and non-academic relations to guide and direct the users to access the Iranian medical universities' web sites. Therefore, the results show that the WIF index may not be an appropriate index for medical university web site validation. It appears that the number of in-links is a better index for evaluation. The university officials and academic staff members must pay more careful attention to the web sites under their direction, and convert these web sites into a valuable source for the students, academic staff members and clerks and for the whole Iranian society and the world and so bring them out of inactivity.
The situation of open access institutional repositories in Spain: 2009 report This is the first detailed study of Spanish institutional repositories. The key stimulants for establishing, filling and maintaining were, in order of importance, the increase of visibility and citation, the interest of decision-makers, simplicity of use and search services. On the other hand the main inhibitors identified were the absence of policies, the lack of integration with other national and international systems and the lack of awareness efforts among academia.
A comparative network analysis of the Korean Society of Journalism and Communication Studies (KSJCS) and the International Communication Association (ICA) in the era of hybridization This research examined the structure of divisions within South Korean and the Western academic organizations that study communication. This research confirmed the hybridization of communication scholarship in South Korea in comparison to the West. To summarize, the similarities between the two organizations reflect the globalization trend and the rapid development of the information technology industry, but the sources of differences are the historical journalism-centered development of communication scholarship in South Korea and relatively balanced growth of the ICA.
Citation Analysis of Transportation Research Literature: A Multi-Dimensional Map of the Roadside Universe In this study, it was revealed that transportation landscape and environmental design research reported in three journals can be ordinated into 13 dimensions, explaining about 75% of the research activity.
Are elite universities losing their competitive edge? The decline in elite university fixed effect is due to the reduced importance of physical access to productive research colleagues, which in turn seems due to innovations in communication technology.
SOME CLUES ABOUT NEAR-TERM IMPACT Download frequency can give a clue about short-run impacts. If available, assessments of near-term impacts could offer valuable inputs to the evaluations that occur when merit review, promotion, tenure, and hiring decisions are being made. Download frequencies may also offer insights for scholars endeavoring to understand current or emergent trends in the field.
A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF THE GLOBAL LITERATURE IN THE CORROSION FIELD FROM 1992 TO 2007 In the present study, the evolution and quality of global corrosion research from 1992 to 2007 have been analyzed quantitatively using bibliometric methods.
Early-career scientific achievement and patterns of authorship: the mixed blessings of publication leadership and collaboration Our findings regarding number of authors support the value of collaborative teams in scientific publica-tion.
Maintaining the Competitiveness of the American Fisheries Society Journals: An Assessment Based on Influence and Cost-Effectiveness We conclude by suggesting ways to increase the influence of AFS journals without compromising their accessibility and affordability, and offer advice about methods and frequency for future journal evaluations.
EFFECT OF BIBLIOGRAPHICAL CLASSIFICATION ON THE IMPACT FACTOR OF SCIENCE- AND ENGINEERING-BASED JOURNALS From the present study, the JIF computation is still regarded as important and relevant as a form of assessment on the quality of scientific journals.
COST OF THE NSERC SCIENCE GRANT PEER REVIEW SYSTEM EXCEEDS THE COST OF GIVING EVERY QUALIFIED RESEARCHER A BASELINE GRANT We observe that it would be cheaper for the Federal Government to send each professor of science or engineering a direct grant for $30,000 per year, and leave judgment of who is qualified to do the research to the universities (through hiring, promotion, and tenure), than to distribute the money budgeted by NSERC for Discovery Grants through this agency.
A 9-YEAR ANALYSIS OF BIBLIOGRAPHICAL TRENDS FOR JOURNALS IN THE SUBJECT CATEGORY OF GENERAL AND INTERNAL MEDICINE In the current study, the bibliographical trends of 15 journals in the subject category of the “Medicine, General & Internal" in the JCR listing were reviewed.
The world wide web of research and access to knowledge Instead, we argue that gatekeepers such as search engines which shape online visibility, combined with competition for limited attention space at the leading edge of research, leads to a different model of how access to knowledge and information is being shaped.
Evaluating the Improved Research Capacity of EPSCoR States: R&D Funding and Collaborative Networks in the NSF EPSCoR Program Our descriptive analysis of the federal academic R&D obligations demonstrates faster growth in EPSCoR states' share of federal academic R&D in recent years, illustrating a slight lessening of the gap between EPSCoR states and other states. Our research finds that scientists who have participated in EPSCoR projects perform better in many capacity-relevant characteristics than their colleagues in the EPSCoR states who have not. Perhaps most importantly, our results provide an important first step in identifying relevant evaluative issues for EPSCoR.
The Intellectual Foundations of Education: Core Journals and Their Impacts on Scholarship and Practice The lack of consensus on core journals, coupled with the generally low impact scores of our final list, suggests that in considering the balance of diversity versus unity, education research appears to be skewed in favor of diversity (if not a persistent sense of what could be characterized as disarray). This inherent diversity within the field might also be a primary factor in explaining the relatively low journal impact scores for education journals in general. We hope that our preliminary empirical analyses provide some basis for a discussion of possible ways to increase the impact of education research on both scholarship and policy and practice.
An analysis of the value of supply chain management periodicals A clear global consensus is forming on the top journals for SCM. However, the emergence of Operations Management/Operations Research Journals into the rankings is an important trend. Finally, it will be important to, once again, repeat this study in another five years to assess trends and changes in the use of SCM-related periodicals for research, teaching, and outreach.
Assessing logistics maturation through author concentration The research presented here verified that logistics is more highly concentrated than other traditional business disciplines. However, this concentration appears to have been decreasing for the last 16 years, and our research suggests that concentration may well continue to decrease, at least in the near future.
A Relative Impact Ranking of Political Studies In Ireland The main results of this exercise suggest that while the top Irish department's scores from this exercise compares quite favourably to the score of the best research department in the UK, there is also a very big range of scores significantly below this standard in Ireland, even controlling for the fact that some are much newer, with younger staff profiles than others.
Influence of research funding and science policy on university research performance: a comparison of five countries The analysis suggests that there is no straightforward relation between the competitive funding environment and research performance. However, the model of state steering does have an effect. The institutional steering model, which emphasizes university independence from the state, seems to be the most beneficial to research performance. The role of multiple micro-level (university departments, research groups) and meso-level (universities) factors should not be overlooked when studying the variations in research productivity. In further research, the macro-level (countries) analysis presented here together with the analysis of these two levels could provide a more comprehensive picture of university research performance.
Defining regional research priorities: a new approach The study shows that quantitative bibliometric in-formation on research areas is necessary but not sufficient to define strategic research areas.
Comparing the organization of public research funding in central and eastern European countries In a nutshell, there is no best organization of public funding of research; each model entails its own advantages and disadvantages, as well as trade- offs between different goals (e.g. performance vs. innovation); further, the functionality of the different models largely depends on their embeddedness in specific national contexts and thus what works in one country could not perform as well in another country. All this opens further interesting avenues both for scholarly research and for the development of public policies.
Competition for public project funding in a small research system: the case of Estonia The results of this study show a very high and growing degree of market concentration for public research funding that can to some extent be considered specific to such a small country as Estonia. The system has been good in ensuring quality control and mobilizing resources for research. On the other hand, the serious deficiency of the Estonian system is that the principle of supporting existing research excellence does not ensure that the research corresponds to the needs of the country's economy.
When and how to use bibliometrics as a screening tool for research performance Scientific activity is multi-dimensional and therefore dimensions other than publication output should be taken into account.
Characterizing the European university system: a preliminary classification using census microdata This suggests a structural linkage between the poor performance of European universities in research-based rankings and the lack of differentiation.
THE IMPACT OF THE PERFORMANCE-BASED RESEARCH FUND ON THE RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY OF NEW ZEALAND UNIVERSITIES This study has shown that the greater scrutiny the PBRF has placed on the research activities of the New Zealand universities has been associated with a significant increase in research productivity at most universities, measured by the number of articles and reviews listed in the Web of Science per FTE research staff. This increase in Web of Science research publications has not been at the expense of other types of research output. However, using a distance function approach, which can directly model multiple input and multiple output technology and obtain measures of technical efficiency and productivity change, may offer better insights into the overall effect of performance-based funding on university performance.
Global Citation Patterns of Open Access Communication Studies Journals: Pushing Beyond the Social Science Citation Index The overall citation pattern for the open access international journals, as measured in a variety of ways, did fall within the range of expected outcomes based on the literature and the ISI data.
Journals for Computer-Mediated Learning: Publications of Value for the Online Educator The results of this study provide insight into current and emerging leaders in scholarly publishing for the field of computer-mediated learning. This information is essential to guide online educators seeking quality information concerning pedagogy, best practices, and scholarly developments in the field. Advancing the field of computer-mediated learning by offering a list and ranking of the scholarly journals guides educators toward an informed selection of the journals they will read and, as importantly, offers the ever growing number of scholars a cohort of journals to consider when submitting high quality manuscripts.
Google Scholar Search Performance: Comparative Recall and Precision These findings suggest that for at least some topics, GS performs better than many subscription databases.
Legal Scholarship, Electronic Publishing, and Open Access: Transformation or Steadfast Stagnation? A sociotechnical systems view, which considers the complex interactions between technology and disciplinary cultures, is helpful for understanding how electronic publishing technologies have affected the field of legal scholarship.
Factors Related to Publication Success Among Faculty Development Fellowship Graduates In summary, although few fellows published the re-sults of their scholarly projects, 44% of our fellowship graduates published at least one paper. Factors including lack of time and assistance, inability to finish the proj-ect, and rejection of a submitted paper were commonly reported barriers. Fellowship training can provide important skills in skill building, modeling, and developing mentoring relationships, but is clearly not sufficient to ensure publication success.
Bibliometric analyses of biomedical research outputs in Lebanon and the United Arab Emirates (1988-2007) Biomedical research outputs quickly recovered in Lebanon following a long war (1974-1992) mainly supported by uninterrupted activities in private higher education institutes. In the UAE, the plateau phase for biomedical research output size could be due to the limitation of most of the research in the country to Al-Ain University. This situation may only improve when other institutes offering biomedical programs engage also in research activities.
ECONOMETRIC MODELS USED FOR THE CORRUPTION ANALYSIS The utilization of the model with simultaneous equations to analyse the corruption has some advantages concerning the parameter estimation.
THEORY BUILDING TRENDS IN INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT RESEARCH: AN ARCHIVAL REVIEW OF PREFERRED METHODS The archival data indicate articles published over the past sixteen years in major international management journals employ methodologies skewed towards “quantitative” and “conceptual” research.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the International Literature in Supercapacitors "This study shows that research activities and publishing output in the field of supercapacitors has been increasing significantly especially in the last four years." "Excellent results have been achieved by countries such as France, Japan, Poland and Canada which are often among the first five in different indicators." "Analysis of the results also shows that countries such as Poland and Taiwan are surprisingly present in many of the rankings in this bibliometric analysis while the United Kingdom and Germany do not hold a prominent position in the top-ranked countries."
Publish or perish? Evaluation of a writing week Mentoring, time, and a culture encouraging research and dissemination of findings strongly influence an academic department's research publishing output. Writing week provided dedicated time, support and professional assistance to focus on academic writing for publication in peer reviewed journals. Skills and confidence gained during writing week hopefully will be long lived, leading to more productive academic staff.
Clickstream Data Yields High-Resolution Maps of Science "Maps of science resulting from large-scale clickstream data provide a detailed, contemporary view of scientific activity and correct the underrepresentation of the social sciences and humanities that is commonly found in citation data."
Self-Archiving Journal Articles: A Case Study of Faculty Practice and Missed Opportunity The study confirmed that faculty self-archiving practice is often not aligned with publisher policy and identified how this practice is not aligned with policy. Libraries and institutions of higher education must increase faculty understanding of copyright law and work to bring faculty self-archiving practice into closer alignment with publisher policy. Many of the journal articles that have already been self-archived by Carnegie Mellon faculty cannot simply be harvested for deposit in the repository because of the lack of alignment with publisher policy.
Author Collaboration and Productivity at the University of Zambia, 2002-2007 The study has also established a positive relationship between author productivity and author collaboration. The more collaborative an author is, the more productive that author is.
Research Assessment of Iranian Medical Universities, an Experience from a Developing Country "Developing countries have mostly new established universities, which should be compared with each other by a certain list of research indicators in a separate category."
Italian performance in cancer research Italy's performance in cancer research over the eight years to 2008 was better than expected considering its GDP and population.
A Journal Ranking for the Ambitious Economist There is no such thing as “the” correct journal ranking. All journal rankings, even those using the seemingly objective LP procedure, are sensi-tive to the subjective decisions of their construc-tors.
A Survey of the Current Status of Web-Based Databases Indexing Iranian Journals None of the currently available indexing sites are capable of presenting Iranian research to the international scientific community. The government should intervene by enforcing policies designed to facilitate indexing through a systematic approach. The policies should address Iranian journals, authors, and indexing sites.
Bibliometric assessment of cancer research in Puerto Rico, 1903-2005 Although a growth in the number of cancer publications is observed in these journals, it does not parallel the increase in proportional mortality. A better understanding of the cancer publications in Puerto Rico is essential to establish priorities, define future areas of research, and develop cancer control strategies. In conclusion, our study showed that most cancer-related publications in the PRHSJ and the BAMPR, two Puerto Rican biomedical journals, from 1903 to 2005 were original articles, were written in English, and were from authors affiliated with academic institutions. With regard to publication trends, the growth observed in cancer publications in these journals for the complete study period did not parallel the increase in the cancer proportional mortality in Puerto Rico.
Medline-based bibliometric analysis of gastroenterology journals between 2001 and 2007 Global gastroenterology publications displayed a continuous growth in the new millennium. The change was most striking in certain journals. Regular bibliometric analyses on the trends and specific topics would help researchers publish more efficiently and allow editors to adjust the policy more accurately.
A bibliometric analysis of the Punica grantum L. literature This study provides future direction for researchers, facilitates discussion within multiple disciplines, and assists information providers in formulating policy guidelines for the selection and acquisition of information resources.
OPTIMAL DIVERSIFICATION IN ALLOCATION PROBLEMS The theoretical results of the Propositions 1-2 and the presented associated numerical examples show the possibilities to use the diversity measure, in certain conditions, generally, for the determination of the corresponding joint probability distributions and, particularly, for the solving of some special problems of allocation or of transportation.
A SINGLE JOURNAL STUDY: MALAYSIAN JOURNAL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE This single journal study helps characterize MJCS in various lights [68].
AUSTRALIAN LIBRARY & INFORMATION STUDIES (LIS) RESEARCHERS RANKING OF LIS JOURNALS The finalisation of the list of Australian LIS journals has been a busy but rewarding exercise for many involved. ERA have announced that something resembling this entire exercise will be repeated in a few years to update the journal lists. By then, the Australian LIS researcher community should be better prepared, and hopefully more of those interested and affected will participate.
Cough as a Symptom and a Disease Entity: Scientometric Analysis and Density-Equalizing Calculations We detected a marked increased in cough-related research starting in the 1990s.
A profile of the impact of Acta Botanica Brasilica: reflections on how to improve visibility and recognition of a scientific journal The data shown in this paper reveals that Acta has historically had a national focus and that its recent increase in visibility indicates that there is a growing demand for Brazilian-built knowledge on botanical issues, both nationally and internationally.
The top 100 cited articles in urology These top-cited articles in urology identify topics and authors that contributed to major advances in urology. Observational studies and randomized controlled trials in oncology published in high-impact urological or medical journals constitute the most common type of highly cited publications.
The topic of instructional design in research journals: A citation analysis for the years 1980-2008 Although the nature of this study is descriptive, it is hoped that the results can provide educators and researchers in the field of instructional design with some insightful ideas about publishing trends for research studies in instructional design related journals.
Using Social Network Analysis to Analyze Relationships Among IS Journals Overall, results indicate that the IS discipline is still somewhat fragmented and is still a net receiver, as opposed to a net provider, of information from allied disciplines.
Mapping techno-literary spaces: adapting multiple correspondence analysis for literature and art Multiple correspondence analysis provides useful interpretative tools that can further our understanding of the conceptual context in which information technology use by literary authors occurs.
Open access publishing in Indian premier research institutions The study reveals that a small portion of research publications of Indian research institutes is published in open access journals, the majority in journals of Indian origin.
Papers featured in the World Journal of Gastroenterology from 2006 to 2007 The papers in WJG have a high number of citations, and have been cited in numerous journals by authors from various countries. The results imply that WJG has an influential academic profile in gastroenterology around the world. With a high self-citation rate, and citations in papers from different countries and different journals, it appears that WJG is already on the right road and its academic impact and profile are expanding gradually.
Strategic faculty recruitment increases research productivity within an academic university division Strategic recruitment resulted in increased and sustained research pro-ductivity.
Where Should we Submit our Manuscript? An Analysis of Journal Submission Strategies This analysis is helpful to authors in clarifying the incentives they face in choosing an appropriate outlet for their research.
Retrieval of very large numbers of items in the Web of Science: an exercise to develop accurate search strategies The exercise allows us to obtain the same in two different ways: a) searching with overlapping, and subtracting items overlapped at the end; and b) searching without overlapping and adding the items overlapped at the end.
Citation practices amongst trainee teachers as reflected in their project papers The findings suggest a need for deliberate and concerted efforts from course lecturers or teacher trainers to inculcate student teachers to accustom themselves to a variety of reference sources and instill a culture of avoiding citation errors.
The cautious faculty: their awareness and attitudes towards institutional repositories The study, based on a small set of survey data, has presented findings on faculty awareness and their use of open access repositories, the advocacy undertaken, and reasons that may influence faculty's motivation for IR contribution, which will lead to the actual deposit into the IR.
The Malaysian Journal of Computer Science: a bibliometric study The analysis reported here has demonstrated that the journal has met at least some of these objectives. In particular, it is clear that it forms a key communication route by which local (i.e., Malaysian) universities can publish their academic research; however there is considerable scope for enhancing the international aspect of the journal, in terms of both articles and citations.
A Citation Analysis of Sub-Saharan African Library and Information Science Journals using Google Scholar This study has shown that citation data from Google Scholar may be used to evaluate non-ISI indexed journals, in this case sub-Saharan African LIS journals. The findings of this study reveal that the publication of LIS journals is a relatively recent practice in sub-Saharan Africa compared to LIS journals in the developed countries. In view of the findings of this study, the following recommendations are proffered: Irregularity and delays in the publication of journals should be addressed by existing journal publishers in Africa because these problems affect the visibility and impact of their affected journals.
Hot Topics and Popular Papers in Evolutionary Psychology: Analyses of Title Words and Citation Counts in Evolution and Human Behavior, 1979-2008 Lastly, we summarize recent research that suggests evolutionary psychology is not only surviving, but also thriving, as a new interdisciplinary science.
Susceptibility to Fraud in Systematic Reviews Lessons from the Reuben Case Carefully performed systematic reviews proved robust against the impact of Reuben reports. Quantitative sys-tematic reviews were vulnerable if the fraudulent data were more than 30% of the total. Qualitative systematic reviews seemed at greater risk than quantitative.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Korean Journal of Parasitology: Measured from SCI, PubMed, Scopus, and Synapse Databases The KJP has published important articles during the last 5 decades, and the influences of the KJP to the parasitology resear-chers should be definitely acknowledged.
Systematic Differences in Impact across Publication Tracks at PNAS Our findings suggest that PNAS "Contributed" papers, in which NAS-member authors select their own reviewers, balance an overall lower impact with an increased probability of publishing exceptional papers.
Lotkaian informetrics and applications to social networks Finally, Lotka's law is applied to the study of performance indices such as the h-index (Hirsch) or the g-index (Egghe).
Versatile weighting strategies for a citation-based research evaluation model In this paper we have analyzed the performance of a method for evaluating scientific literature [5, 6] on a large synthetic dataset. We showed that the model analyzed in [5, 6] is tunable and that versatile weighting strategies can be applied to meet the different needs of different users.
Bibliometric Analysis of Atmospheric Simulation Trends in Meteorology and Atmospheric Science Journals In this study on atmospheric simulation publications listed in SCI, significant points on worldwide research performance from 1992 to 2007 were obtained. It can be concluded that atmospheric simula-tion research related to "ozone", "climate", "circula-tion", "transport”, “parameterization”, and “assimila-tion" are major directions of atmospheric simulation research in the 21st century.
MEASURING SCIENTISTS' PERFORMANCE: A VIEW FROM ORGANISMAL BIOLOGISTS We call the proposed method "rule-based peer review," because the evaluators would be peers at least in a broad sense (belonging to the same scientific discipline) and would follow rules to establish the value of distinct products, rather than freely following their opinions.
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION POLICIES IN LATIN AMERICA: DO THEY WORK? Although the STI leaders surveyed in this study were in-charge of the definition and execution of policies in their respective countries, their response provides a clear vision of the difficulties they themselves faced while executing their responsibilities. The growing and already existing dissatisfaction with the application of the liberalization process and other reforms of the 1990's, calls for a new development agenda that must include STI to be successful and such situation calls on politicians and decision makers to structure new conditions and rules for governance of STI in such a way that research and innovation are stimulated and guided by the search for solutions to the challenges. Due to the impossibility of forecasting Complex Innovation Systems, adaptive and reflexive governance principles are needed.
Gender Diversity in Editorial Boards of Management Journals Our study's findings contribute to current knowledge in four ways.
Bibliometric analysis of the Adriatic-related oceanography and meteorology publications The overall number of articles on the topic "Adriatic" increased quasi--linearly between 1994 and 2008, while the number of O and MAS articles increased additionally after 2001.
Bibliometric analysis of journal articles published by Southeast Asian chemical engineering researchers Bibliometric analysis is shown to be an important means for determining journal articles publication trend among Southeast Asian CE researchers. Overall observation indicates that journal articles publication trends among Southeast Asian CE researchers are highly dissimilar. It is the opinion of the author that findings of such study are useful indicators for journal publishers to determine the publishing behaviour of CE researchers as well as for each country's science policy makers to formulate appropriate research policies and directions.
Scientometric analysis of transport phenomenon literature, 1900-2007 The present work explores the characteristics of transport phenomenon literature from 1900 to 2007 based on the database of SCIT™ Expanded and its implication using the scientometric techniques. The study reveals that the literature on transport phenomenon grows exponentially with an annual growth rate of 8.67% for the last century. The observed author productivity does not apply to the general form of Lotka's law by the K-S goodness of fit test.
Fifteen years of Jurnal Syariah (1993-2007): a bibliometric study This study has demonstrated that despite its fifteen years of existence and multidisciplinary approach, contributors and citations of this journal has not yet international. Henceforth, this article provides significant suggestions and strategies for the future of the Jurnal Syariah. The Jurnal Syariah must consider these options in order to attract International contributors.
Mapping the Iranian ISI papers on Nanoscience and Nanotechnology: a citation analysis approach While N&N in Iran is a multidisciplinary field, the dynamic nature of nano causes it to afford the sources for itself, gradually; and it is inevitable that the relationships among N&N and other disciplines appear to be mutually.
Trends in Research and Publication: Science 2.0 and Open Access This paper has reviewed some recent trends in research and publication that have the potential to fundamentally transform the way researchers, scientists and engineers carry out their work.
DO THE INSTRUCTIONS TO AUTHORS OF PAKISTANI MEDICAL JOURNALS CONVEY ADEQUATE GUIDANCE FOR AUTHORSHIP CRITERIA? The authorship guidance provided by instructions to authors of PMDC indexed journals is less than satisfactory and needs substantial improvement.
Worldwide outlook of geology journals: challenges in South America The situation of Earth Science journals in South America is not good. It is not simply a question of low resources, but a serious issue of poor administration. Tackling these shortcomings is here regarded as the main challenge for editors of such journals: to obtain good manuscripts from local authors is certainly a key issue today. Other important challenges for the continuity of local scientific publishing in Earth Sciences are to find a way of effectively measuring the real impact in the regional and international field, and to keep pace with new advances in publishing and communications technologies.
Chemistry in China - a bibliometric view China has become a leading nation in publishing papers in chemistry and is challenging the position of the USA to become the largest producer. The Chinese chemical community is active in collaborating with international partners especially the USA, Japan, and Germany. In terms of institutional performance, institutions from Chinese Academy of Sciences have distinctive contributions to the most highly cited papers.
Affiliation of Authors in Transportation and Logistics Academic Journals: A Reevaluation Together, these findings suggest a lessening of the dominance of the traditional U.S.-based logistics and supply chain management programs.
Institutional repositories in Canadian post‐secondary institutions This study looked to determine if IRs were implemented in Canadian post-secondary institutions and if they were, what type of KOS were also incorporated in them. This survey of KOS in IRs in Canada shows how little work has been done to incorporate them. Further research should be carried out to investigate information organization and representation issues in the context of institutional repositories.
Library collections contribute to doctoral studies The availability of references in the dissertations that we examined was fine in the collections of both libraries: 75 per cent in University A and as much as 84 per cent in University B. From our point of view it is important to emphasise that the university libraries and their collections have a significant role in contributing to the doctoral studies and completion of academic dissertations because they offer access to adequate information resources.
Scientometrics and patent bibliometrics in RUL analysis Based on literature and observations, this article presents evidence that bibliometrics and scientometrics can contribute to have foresight view based on the methodology for calculation of ordinary depreciation, functional and economic obsolescence and actual and expected age of a technology-based intangible asset with a great value.
Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology (2000—2007): a bibliometric study Overall, the study has revealed some changes in our discipline – more scholarly articles, more contributors from around the globe, and more collaboration between researchers. From the perspective of the present study, we may conclude that there is a substantial increase of research in the LIS discipline, with authors from all over the globe trying to disseminate their research output through a reputable peer-reviewed journal. A suggestion for further research is to compare the findings of this study with a review of other related journals in the field of LIS.
Scientometric analysis of Latin American environmental studies In sum, the scientometric analysis performed under pattern identification through published literature (Chen, 2004; Chen, 2006) allowed to identify Latin American groups acting in the field of environmental pollution that perhaps could be nodes in establishing a network of environmental studies in the region.
Percentile Rank and Author Superiority Indexes for Evaluating Individual Journal Articles and the Author’s Overall Citation Performance ASI allows for the evaluation and comparison of authors across different specialties, across different time periods, taking into account quite recent publications.
Measuring research quality using the journal impact factor, citations and ‘Ranked Journals’: blunt instruments or inspired metrics? The results of the present study indicate weak but positive correlations between the ‘gold standard' measure of the quality of a research paper—a peer review score—and impact factor, NCPP and journal rank.
Evaluating Scholarship Productivity in COAMFTE‐Accredited PhD Programs The purpose of this article is to provide the field with one snapshot of the scholarly productivity of current MFT doctoral programs. Hopefully, the data and thoughts presented will stimulate more dialogue about the role of research in doctoral programs and within the field of MFT.
Full-text publications in peer-reviewed journals derived from presentations at three ISSI conferences To sum up, most than a quarter of the presentations at the three ISSI biennial meetings were ultimately published in peer-reviewed journals and cited in international databases.
Of what benefit and to whom? Linking Australian humanities research with its ‘end users’ Very few humanities projects are funded under the Linkage Projects scheme.
Expansion of scientific journal categories using reference analysis: How can it be done and does it make a difference? The methodology proposed in this paper for expanding scientific subfields using reference analysis is promising.
High quality medical journals and impact factors There is no best method to calculate the impact of a journal, but IF may be a better way. So do the academic impact of a region or a country.
Rankings and Trends in Citation Patterns of Communication Journals "The results also show that ISI citation data can be very misleading when used to assess communication authors and journals."
Chemistry publication – making the revolution By publishing lots of data, available for ready re-use by all scientists, we can radically change the way science is communicated and ultimately performed.
Reviewer and editor biases in journal peer review: an investigation of manuscript refereeing at &lt;I&gt;Angewandte Chemie International Edition&lt;/I&gt; This means that effects of potential sources of bias were revealed in this study for both referees' recommendations and editors' decisions.
Does Citation Analysis Reveal Association Between h-Index and Academic Rank in Urology? Our results indicate that, when retrospectively applied, the h-index is closely associated with academic standing at the nation's top urology programs and, with additional validation, might be a valuable metric for appraising the contributions of academic urologists. When retrospectively applied, the h-index appears to be highly associated with academic standing at the top urology programs in the United States. Although it is by no means a complete or definitive measure of an academician's merit, additional studies may validate its use as one objective measure that could aid in the appraisal of an individual's contributions to academic urology.
Making friends in high places? This suggests to me that collaboration with peers from different institutions and/or countries is better in Hawaii than in Chile, but that both benefit from the concentrations of telescopes.
Student Centrality in University–Industry Interactions The implications for policy and theory are discussed.
References to e‐texts in academic publications The study indicated a need for further investigation of changing academic practices in general and citation practices in particular. The findings have implications for the development of standards and institutional support for research in the humanities. The study points to the need for a further investigation of influences of existing practices and traditions on the way in which scholars interact with and use electronic texts both as primary and secondary sources.
Towards sustainable academic research: should social scientists write less? My case is that too much is written and the proliferation of literature is damaging the social sciences, academia and indeed society at large.
The Future of Academic Publishing: Application of the Long-Tail Theory As universities struggle with the new publication model for researchers, they must be proactive in meeting their new role as publisher.
Visual analysis of obesity‐related query terms on HealthLink The findings of this study provide insights into health consumers' internet-based information-seeking behaviour on obesity-related topics. These findings could be used to enhance online search system design and health-related thesaurus construction. Finally, the findings can help health and medical professionals to better understand patient terminology or vocabulary related to obesity.
Methods of Demonstrating Article and Journal Impact With so many tools at his or her disposal, the business reference librarian is well equipped to assist the researcher in preparing this important element of his or her dossier. Several databases exist to supplement the citation data found in Web of Science, including the free Google Scholar—although the results in Google Scholar should be carefully checked. Even when a journal is not covered by Web of Science and thus has no official journal impact factor computed by ISI, there are methods for demonstrating its prestige, such as considering its acceptance rate and showing how it ranks in published lists of journals in the field.
Incubation, birth and growth There are, no doubt, other parameters of potential interest for a sociocultural ac-count of Target, or any other journal, as well as any attempt to sketch the history of the discipline as a whole.
Clasificación Web de hospitales del mundo: situación de los hospitales en la red Esta clasificación muestra estos vacíos y, si bien internet se ha convertido en un medio indispensable para muchos, entre ellos el colectivo sanitario, hay un elevado número de profesionales que no contemplan la presencia en la web como parte indispensable de sus tareas²¹. Confiamos en que la publicación de los resultados obtenidos redunde en una mejora de las sedes web de las instituciones hospitalarias de cara a ofrecer una mejor información, comunica- ción y servicios no sólo a la comunidad científica, sino también al medio socioeconómico en el que se encuentran. En definitiva, el estudio pretende motivar a todas las instituciones para que adopten una política decidida de publicación electrónica que lleve a una mejora de su presencia en la web y no sólo describir cuáles son los mejores hospitales del mundo empleando datos de la web, que ha sido tan sólo un objetivo secundario.
Mapping the web relations of science centres and museums from Latin America From the analysis of the pages with inlinks to the set of 18 Latin American science centres and museums websites and from the Clustering Analysis using the Web co-link data it is clear that the representative Brazilian institutions are isolated from other Latin American institutions on the Internet.
Research intelligence involving information retrieval – An example of conferences and journals The research is intended to help researchers identify new trend in their research fields, and focus on the urgent topics.
The Real Cost of the NSERC Peer Review is Less than 5% of a Proposed Baseline Grant The real cost of peer review is less than 5% of the baseline grant amount.
Outcomes associated with ophthalmology, optometry and visual science literature in the Science Citation Index from mainland China, 2000–2007 The present study contributes to the knowledge of scientific publications on OOVS in mainland China. Our analysis also disclosed other information, i.e., subject and author counts of publications. It implies that more complicated and co-operated OOVS researches were conducted recently.
Graph theory application and web page ranking for website link structure improvement Two conclusions can be drawn from the study. First, website structure was improved in two phases: (1) ranking and prioritising web pages to identify target pages and (2) adding direct links from other web pages to target pages and also applying graph theory definitions to measure and illustrate the improvement.
Web Analytics: A Picture of the Academic Library Web Site User The high number of visits suggests the OSU Libraries' Web site has valuable content; further study is needed to prove if this is true. An analysis of the Web log data is not complete without usability studies to supplement the findings with observations of user behavior. This complete picture will lead to solid actionable objectives for serving library patrons through the Web site.
Establishing a central open access fund The case study demonstrates that a great deal of cooperation among departments is needed in order to establish a central fund for open access publishing.
Realizing Societal Benefit from Academic Research: Analysis of the National Science Foundation’s Broader Impacts Criterion These findings suggest that considering potential societal benefit as a broader impact may not lead to more actual societal benefits and that many potentially useful results may not be disseminated beyond the scientific community.
Comparing citations and downloads for individual articles at the Journal of Vision Overall correlation between total downloads and total citations of Journal of Vision articles is 0.74. Citations and downloads increase with article age in a characteristic way, but relative to downloads, citations are delayed by about 2 years and reduced by a factor of about 45. Download statistics provide a useful indicator, two years in advance, of eventual citations. Downloads are also a useful measure in their own right of the interest and significance of individual articles.
The Change in Publication Rates at Undergraduate Institutions during the Last Three Decades The conclusion seems to be clear—most institutions sur-veyed have seen an increase in the rate of publication over the past three decades.
How citation distortions create unfounded authority: analysis of a citation network Citation is both an impartial scholarly method and a powerful form of social communication.
Implementation of the National Science Foundation’s “Broader Impacts”: Efficiency Considerations and Alternative Approaches BIC is well established at NSF, and in the decade it has been in place is likely to have had major positive societal impacts in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and beyond. Despite these unintended consequences of current BIC policy, there are numerous approaches involving some form of local “institutionalization” of the responsibility and implementation of BIC objectives that could result in more efficient expenditure of scarce research funding and actually improve the quality of both STEM and BIC objectives.
The problem of “Who” In our digital world, this AID would be a great aid in figuring out "who" did what.
Broad Impacts and Narrow Perspectives: Passing the Buck on Science and Social Impacts Social Objectives through Institution-building
The luck of the referee draw: the effect of exchanging reviews Random elements, such as the order in which referees submit their reports, should not play a role in peer-review decisions.
Publishing in top journals—A never-ending fad? Publishing in the top journals of Management Studies is a fad, but it shows no sign at all of decline.
A comparison of citer and citation‐based measure outcomes in the social sciences There are strong positive correlations between most citation and citer-based measures.
Why are top universities losing their lead? An economics modelling-based approach We have described a simple conceptual model of research output production.
The International Publication Productivity of Malaysia in Social Sciences: Developing a Scientific Power Index "The present study constitutes an attempt to quantify and describe the publication record of Malaysia in the social sciences, a baseline assessment of the state of the art that may help illuminate policy decisions to promote research within the country."
The Publication/Citation Process at the Micro level: A case study The analysis shows that, for the author under study, the number of publications increases approximately linearly over time; the number of received citations increases approximately quadratically.
Hirsch‐Type Index Values for Organic Chemistry Journals: A Comparison of New Metrics with the Journal Impact Factor Although the use of different performance measures re- sults in somewhat different rank orders of the journals, the high correlations between the measures found in this and other studies indicate that the development of the journal h index and its variants has resulted in hardly any empirical incremental contribution against each other and the JIF. Apparently, these findings indicate a redundancy among the various indicators to measure scientific performance in em- pirical application. Future research on the h index should no longer be aimed at developing new variants, but should instead test the validity of the existing ones.
Publications for evaluations: The impact of soil science and soil scientists The criteria for each of these factors are to be established and will be different for each position and institute, university, or country.
Author self‐citation pattern in science The findings showed that the four disciplines had significant differences in citation patterns, either self-citations or other citations.
An empirical study on the utilization of web academic resources in humanities and social sciences based on web citations This study shows that there is an observable impact of web-based sources on scholarly journals in Humanities and Social Science in China.
Information provided by Spanish university websites on their assessment and quality processes In our opinion, the results of this study are not as good as might have been expected, and universities must therefore turn their attention to providing their web pages with the contents that any Internet user interested in quality assessment in university institutions would expect to find there. The main weaknesses found on Spanish university websites refer to aspects of quality assessment, correctness and completeness and navigability, while their main strengths are authorship and accessibility. The template designed for this study could be used as a diagnostic tool to ascertain website quality, by helping to detect weak points and guiding those responsible for decision making on this issue.
Peer review of grant applications in biology and medicine. Reliability, fairness, and validity The agreement between external reviewers on the merits of applications turned out to be higher than expected with an Intraclass Correlation Coefficient of 0.41 and thus fair reliability.
Current Scientific Impact of the Institutes, Faculty of Medicine, University "Ss Kiril and Metodij", Skopje, Republic of Macedonia In conclusion, I can say that current scientific impact of the academic staff employed at the Institutes at the Faculty of Medicine, University "Ss Kiril and Metodij", Skopje, Republic of Macedonia is very heterogeneous with three groups of institutes: institutes with higher scientific impact; institutes with intermediate scientific impact, and institutes with low scientific impact. The current scientific impact of the Institutes can be used as an indicator for scientific support from the national Ministry of Education and Sciences, as well from international scientific funds (FP7, NIH and others).
Analysis of BioOne Journal Collections: Their Quality, Indexing Coverage, and Scholarly Content We concluded that the majority of the ti-tles in BioOne collections are refereed and scholarly, indexed in several of the major indexing and abstracting journals in the field of agriculture and life sciences, and available via several major document delivery vendors.
How much and where do Mexican scientists publish their research in environmental science? The recent increase in the number of papers published in environmental science in Mexico is the result of two factors, including the relatively recent introduction of major policy initiatives promoting scientific research and the creation by the Federal Government of the National System of Researchers and the National Council of Science and Technology, which are two key institutions promoting the science development in Mexico. The importance of publishing in international indexed journals with high IF is a way of guarantee the high-quality of the studies and contributes to the developing of science of Mexico to finally to accelerate the progress of the society.
Information Science in the web era: A term‐based approach to domain mapping Our results show that mapping domain knowledge structures at the term level offers a more detailed and intuitive picture of the field as well as capturing emerging trends.
Bioline International It has not just survived but grown, and is a true model of how much can be done with relatively modest resources, given extensive collaboration. It plans to continue to bring scientific information from the developing world to the attention of the entire world, as well as giving scientists and researchers from the developing world additional forums in which to publish their research.
The role of correspondence sections in post-publication peer review: A bibliometric study of general and internal medicine journals Leading general and internal medicine journals applied more restrictive conditions for letter submission in 2007 as compared to 2002.
The Scientific Contributions of Arab Scientists to the International Research: a Study of the Indicators for Select Arab Countries The results of the study indicated the leading position of Egypt among other Arab countries in many of the subject fields. Also, it was indicated that there were negative correlations between density of publications in some of the journals and their quality. Finally, the study revealed the increased gap between the research productivity of some developed countries and the Arab countries in chemistry which is a major publication field.
How Subtle Changes in Navigation Links Affect Users' Search Strategies Overall these results suggest that users maintain a strong memory of link location and page structure, even after delays of up to three weeks after a single use. Future research should focus on breaking down user scan paths and fixations to a finer level of granularity, at the level of a specific link in the navigation or word in the content. This would allow us to determine how precise a user's memory of link location or target information really is.
But what have you done for me lately? Commercial Publishing, Scholarly Communication, and Open-Access Our conclusion is that, in the electronic era, open-access electronic journals have an overwhelming cost advantage over commercial publishers. In addition, open-access is consistent with our mission as scholars to increase and spread knowledge and also feeds our personal and professional interests much more directly. What we can do is undertake the hard work of creating credible open-access alternatives.
Is commercialization good or bad for science? Individual-level evidence from the Max Planck Society Analyzing a new dataset on top-tier scientists in a German non-university public research organization, this study found empirical evidence for a positive relationship between the inventive activities of scientists on the one hand and their performance as researchers on the other.
Twenty years of productivity in ETR&amp;D by institutions and authors The results suggest several relationships between the most productive institutions and the most productive authors. These data may indicate a work style, and possibly a preference, among the most productive authors in this study for working with graduate students and/or other faculty members.
Preliminary findings that can be used when assessing the advantages and limitations of using bibliometric data in the assessment of Economics research The low correlations in Economics between subject-specific SSCI-indexed research outputs and RAE 2008 scores show that in neither case is simple research productivity, in terms of SSCI articles per member of staff, close to being equivalent to the “gold standard" peer review results.
Intellectual capital or signal? The effects of scientists on alliance formation in knowledge-intensive industries We conclude that scientists serve more than just a research function in knowledge-intensive industries.
Interdisciplinary research detection by citation indicators We measured and evaluated indicators of interdisciplinarity in sustainability science.
Mapping library and information science: Does field delineation matter? The major overall intellectual structure as indicated both by major specialties identified and by the overall interrelationships between them as mapped out via ACA, remains largely the same when the source papers are from two journal sets that differ in about one third of the journals included.
International Collaboration Networks of Chinese Scientometrics China has made initial progress in the internationalization of scientific research and international collaboration, especially in scientometric field; however, the internationalization of scientific research and international collaboration of scientometrics in China still need to be further developed, for the number of Chinese institutes and scholars who are active on the international scholarly stage, and of foreign institutes and scholars who cooperated with them is still limited.
Tracing the links between science and technology: An exploratory analysis of scientists’ and inventors’ networks The preliminary findings from this exploratory analysis of the research networks linking the communities of scientists and inven-tors potentially help to improve our understanding of the processes driving the transfer of knowledge from science to industry, and open up several avenues for further research.
Using co-outlinks to mine heterogeneous networks Our work has shown the use of clustering based on co-outlink analysis to identify the relations among “families” of websites.
Re-addressing gender bias in Cortex publications The balanced number of male first author and female first author papers published in Cortex in 2007/2008 suggest that Cortex is not currently subject to a gender imbalance. However, there does seem to be a current difference between the number of authors for male and female papers, with females tending to have a higher number of co-authors than males. Given the tendency for authors to self-quote (Della Sala and Brooks, 2008) one may expect to find a higher number of citations to female publications; this is an area for future research to consider.
A monodimensional scientific performance measure: the h index, can be substituted by simple multidimensional descriptors? Despite the apparently deep analysis which has lead to the adoption of h index as a SP measure, surely that there are many ways 2D or higher dimensional to describe refined SP indices.
Australian Education Journals: Quantitative and Qualitative Indicators The research reported in this paper contributes to the current discussion about the influence of different citation sources on citation-based assessment, the appropriateness of citation sources in different disciplines, and the usefulness of new citation-based measures. The results of this study do raise concerns regarding the use of citations data in ranking Australian education journals. The implication, indeed the direct message, for academic librarians is that this is but one more example of how they might become increasingly important partners in the research enterprise.
Analysis of bibliographic references in <i>Zootecnia Tropical</i> A number of conclusions may be drawn from this study of livestock production-related scientific activity in Venezuela reported in ZT.
Dublin Core Metadata Element Set usage in national libraries' web sites The survey actually provides some unexpected results about national libraries' attention to DCMES.
Database Coverage and Impact Factor of Open Access Journals in Pharmacy OA pharmacy journals represent a promising new means to access domain specific information in both resource-poor countries and libraries facing a budgetary crunch.
Rainmakers: The Most Successful Criminal Justice Scholars and Departments In Research Grant Acquisition This approach, looking at research grant productivity, can be seen as an additional, viable means of evaluating both individuals and departments.
Open Access Economics Journals and the Market for Reproducible Economic Research Open access economics journals should adopt mandatory data+code archives en masse. Doing so will give them a competitive advantage with respect to traditional economics journals. Whether OA journals are serious about competing with traditional journals can be determined by the extent to which they adopt mandatory data+code archives. It is inconceivable that even one-half of traditional journals could publish replicable results (or, at least, have mandatory data+code archives) by the end of 2010; it is quite conceivable that all OA journals could do so by then.
Can you earn a Ph.D. in economics in five years? About one in four potential economics Ph.D.s earns a degree within five years. Importantly, we believe, controlling for the endogeneity of financial aid suggests that aid has little effect on either attrition or completion independent of the differences in personal characteristics between students who are and are not awarded financial aid. Avoiding situations where no students have access to shared offices seems to be important for both retention and degree completion, and might be singled out as the most obvious policy change that we could recommend for those programs that do not currently provide space for their first-year economics Ph.D. students.
Expanded Assessment Study Examining the Citation Patterns from Traditional and Nontraditional Institutions and Their Effect upon the Quality of Doctoral Dissertation Reference Lists The current expanded study revealed a significant degree of variabil- ity in the quality of the reference lists within the various doctoral educa- tion programs at the nontraditional institution.
Open Access Models and their Implications for the Players on the Scientific Publishing Market "In this paper we focused on the different OA models and their implications for scholars, publishers, libraries and funding organizations."
Are “Least Publishable Unit” Brief Communications Articles Still Appearing Sooner After Acceptance in this Era of E-Publishing Ahead of Print? Evidence from Three Bellwether Pairs of Life Science Journals that Feature Separate Editions for Full-Length Articles and Letters Papers The classic dilemma of having to wait so long that one's letters paper might not be noticed in a timely manner (that is, months would pass by) if it were instead submitted as a full-length paper, has resolved itself.
Topological Analysis of a Tourism Destination Webspace: The Importance of Hyperlinks Graph theoretic methods (analysis and simula-tion of random walks) applied to a tourism desti-nation's webspace have allowed us to provide more arguments to the stated importance of the presence of hyperlinks on websites' pages.
Holding a post-doctoral position before becoming a faculty member: does it bring benefits for the scholarly enterprise? It is concluded that the post-doctoral period not only fosters a greater production of scientific outputs later in the academic career, but also leads to a greater integration into international scholarly communities.
A remark on limit properties of generalized h- and g-indices Therefore, contrary to the authors' statements, one cannot think of the ha- and ga-indices as generalizations of maximal number of citations (x1) and total number of citations (∑_18₁) of an individual.
The Journal Impact Factor Denominator These examples based on citable (counted) items indexed in 2000 and 2005 suggest that the current approach for identification of citable items in the impact factor denominator is accurate and consistent.
Measuring Academic Output: The<i>H</i>-Index Needless to say, I was gratified to find out how well AJNR did when compared with such respected journals as AJR and Radiology. Our contributors and readers can rest assured that AJNR's contents are being handled by the most qualified neuroradiologists.
Benchmarking biology research organizations using a new, dedicated tool In conclusion, benchmarking biology research organizations proved feasible with the instrument that was specially created for this purpose.
Gender Effects in the Peer Reviews of Grant Proposals: A Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Comparing Traditional and Multilevel Approaches The most important result of our study is that for grant applications that include disciplines across the higher education community, there is no evidence for any gender effects in favor of men, and even some evidence of an effect in favor of women after controlling for critical explanatory variables (discipline and country).
Quality in Conference Publishing Failing to adopt a set of meaningful best practices regarding conference publishing and overall conference management can lead to degradation of conferences, conference papers, and an erosion of the reputation of the published material in the digital libraries that host these publications. Nevertheless, the collective experiences of the authors as conference attendees, as organizers, and as members of a committee that oversee an operation that produces hundreds of proceedings each year permit the offering of some preliminary best practices that can lead to improvement in conference quality.
Peer review delay and selectivity in ecology journals This analysis provides quantitative evidence for a positive correlation between the standing of ecology journals and the amount of submissions that these journals receive. Authors, particularly if not yet established, should be aware of the relationships reported here as they are likely to have an impact on the fate of their publications and, ultimately, on their careers. Given the relationships reported here between time to acceptance and impact factor, not only authors but also reviewers can act to re-shape the current wide disparity between the reputation of a few famous journals and the small notoriety of the many other publication outlets.
Predicting Web Page Status Our results show that local page characteristics provide significant signals about global page status information, and hence can be valuable in appli- cations where such information is needed but not readily available.
Redes de colaboración científica internacional en tabaquismo: análisis de coautorías mediante el Science Citation Index durante el periodo 1999-2003 We found a positive correlation between international and inter-institutional collaboration and the number of citations received by articles on smoking research. The number of citations per year remained constant throughout the 5-year study period.
New quality and quantity indices in science (NewQIS): the study protocol of an international project As a conclusion, the use of the presently described approach to assess research quantity and quality may be used to 1) establish an objective basis for the evaluation of science 2) provide a visualizing platform for non-specialists or non-scientists who coordinate funding and funding policy at governmental or non-governmental levels.
To Name or Not to Name: The Effect of Changing Author Gender on Peer Review We found no evidence for differential rating on the basis of author gender, nor did we find evidence of same gender preferences; in both instances, our findings contradict previous studies (Paludi and Bauer 1983, Lloyd 1990). The different tendencies in the likelihood of rejection by female referees does suggest, however, that not all individuals approach peer review using the same set of criteria. Moreover, referee training for biologists, explicit and transparent protocols for selection of referees, and journal-specific criteria for referees and authors could improve the process of peer review.
Impact Factor in Institute for Scientific Information (ISI): Quality and Quantity of Scientific Publications Impact factor is considered as one of the significant indicators in scientometrics which should be applied appropriately. However, it is still open to discussion whether it is a suitable criterion to measure the quality of scientific products. Therefore, IF cannot be considered as the suitable indicator for measuring the articles or journals, rather it should be used along with other indicators.
University patenting activities and their link to the quantity and quality of scientific publications Our results show that the patenting output of the leading universities in the world (based on ARWU and WUR rankings) are indeed significantly related to their research output quantity (as measured by peer-reviewed journal publication output quantity) and research output quality (as measured by citations per faculty).
On Commodification and the Governance of Academic Research By focusing on the commodification of science as a process and the elucidation of the properties of science as commodity, the paper connects the broad more case driven discussions about commercialization and commodification in science to the broader social theoretical discussion about commodification.
Building world-class research university: The Brain Korea 21 project As the results indicate, the BK 21 program was successful in building research universities domestically; but these uni-versities still cannot be considered equivalent to world-class research universities such as Harvard, University of Tokyo, and others. Nevertheless, the accomplishments of the 1st BK 21 program should not be underestimated. Further studies on the program design of the BK 21 project might provide detailed information on these issues.
On the need to distinguish between author and journal self-citations So here we have a problem. The same label means different things, and this needs to be sorted out. I suggest that we use the term self-citation to describe authors citing their own works.
Withstanding the test of time: The 1978 semantic word norms Therefore, Table 2 provides a window into the use-fulness of normative data, as well as a strong general ar-gument for the archiving of norms.
Commercialization of the University and Problem Choice by Academic Biological Scientists I have argued that a Bourdieuian perspective allows us to see how the commercialization of the university affects (and is itself produced through) faculty problem choice by shifting the focus of academic life scientists to a greater interest in research that generates patents or commercializable find-ings and away from research based on scientific curiosity and potential contributions to scientific theory. Problem choice constitutes a critical juncture at which the various influ-ences upon scientific research are open to investigation. Further attention to how faculty translate these influences into the setting of their research agendas could strengthen this new perspective that challenges the description of commer-cialization as an external force impinging on the practice of scientists and corrupting the objectivity of academic inquiry.
In search of relevance: the changing contract between science and society We conclude that science's search for relevance is not new, but that its meaning changes together with changing ideas about the potential benefits of scientific research. First, an enhanced understanding of the changing societal position of university research is crucial for making sound policy in the field of science and innovation.
Rethinking the size of scientific specialties: correcting Price’s estimate Hence, rather than consisting of 100 scientists, I have suggested that specialties are probably somewhat larger, perhaps somewhere between 250 and 600 scientists. I believe we are now further ahead in our estimates of the size of specialty communities.
Online use and information seeking behaviour: institutional and subject comparisons of UK researchers The study's key finding in respect to subject and institutional differences was that they were sometimes considerable, a finding which points to the danger of generalizing about usage and information seeking at the broad subject level.
Use of open access journals in biomedicine in Greece The bibliometric analysis of the trends in publishing among Greek journals was helpful in identifying some of the likely changes. A combination of quantitative and qualitative techniques will therefore help to assess whether the impact of open access publishing on Greek biomedical research and scholarly communication in Greece will be positive or negative.
Collaboration among Library and Information Science websites of Associations and Societies (LISAS), using webometric methods Findings of this research provide a picture of various LIASs status in terms of their website quality and performance.
Insights into the relationship between the <i>h</i>‐index and self‐citations In conclusion, it is clear that differences in self-citation behavior make a difference in the h-index outcome, as has been reported earlier (Kelly & Jennions, 2006; Schreiber, 2007a,b; Enqvist & Frommen, 2008).
Type-token &amp; Hapax-token Relation: A Combinatorial Model We have found a mathematical model which simulates type-token relation, based on probability and combinatorics, to simulate the sequence of elements without structure; it gives us a possibility of gaining new insights to the structure of a text.
Bibliometric study of Indian S&amp;T publications as reflected in Indian Science Abstracts Suggests initiating certain steps to boost up the visibility and Impact Factor of Indian journals in all the subject fields.
Designing a Model for Description of Theses and Dissertations Information on a Large Scale Designing these items helps IranDoc as the national archive of these documents to describe theses and dissertations as an integrated collection. Furthermore this model can be assumed as the basis for designing a further step: analyzing information of theses and dissertations to produce more valuable information for govern-ment policy making, library collection develop-ment, etc.
Are We Ready for an Impact Factor? The findings uncovered through this process suggest several things.
Evaluating social science and humanities knowledge production: an exploratory analysis of dynamics in science systems On the basis of these results, we find that a small minority of the respondents prefers a closer relationship of SSH to society, government and industry, and other institutional centers of authority, whilst interdisciplinarity in particular is regarded as having an overall positive influence on the future of SSH in the Netherlands. Consequently, the idea of a clear distinction between Mode 1 and Mode 2 knowledge production, i.e. traditional knowledge and knowledge carried out in the context of application, is not supported by our data. Curiosity-driven research and use-driven, i.e. the desire to seek new understanding and knowledge about nature and the desire to use that knowledge in a practical way, appear to be naturally co-existing and in closely interaction.
Comment: Citation Statistics The Committee's report provides a much needed criticism of common misuses of citation data. The probabilistic methods outlined above permit meaningful comparison of scientists working distinct areas with minimal value judgments. The interpretation of these citation records and their relationship to intrinsic scientific quality remains a subjective and value-based issue.
Political Influence behind the Veil of Peer Review: An Analysis of Public Biomedical Research Funding in the United States I find that research performers from states with members on the HAC LHHE subcommittee receive 5.9–10.3 percent more NIH peer-reviewed funds.
How are statistical journals linked? A network analysis The network generated by interlock-ing editorship seems compact. It might be interesting to analyze network changes brought about through the inclusion of other journals not listed in the statistics and probability category of the Journal of Citation Report Science Edi-tion such as Survey Methodology, Journal of Official Statistics, and Psychometrika.
Blogometrics The ranking of blogs included in this study is positively correlated with an external ranking based on their productivity (popularity), whereas the department ranking presented here comports quite well with department rankings in Coupé (2003) and Roessler (2004) that are developed with more traditional measures, such as the impact of the scholarship of an economics department's faculty.
The multilayered nature of reference selection Our multilayered selection of references is a new perspective that clarifies several aspects.
Score‐based bibliometric rankings of authors "We presented an axiomatic analysis of some bibliometric rankings: the scoring rules."
Are you an invited speaker? A bibliometric analysis of elite groups for scholarly events in bioinformatics From this analysis, we confirm that elite-group membership in scholarly events, at least in the field of bioinformatics, can be utilized as an alternative marker for a scholar's prominence, with invited speaker being the most important prominence indicator among the elite groups.
Motivations for Web-Based Scholarly Publishing: Do Scientists Recognize Open Availability as an Advantage? "The findings present insights into how scientists perceive OA publishing as a form of scholarly information dissemination."
Mapping the Structure of Research: Business and Management as an Exemplar This tool offers new researchers, both students and junior faculty, a way of accelerating the build up of domain knowledge regarding which journals are and are not a fit with their research interests and agenda. The SOM can assist in bridging the lack of agreement and insufficient domain knowledge that adds great variability into the assessment of the relevance and quality of journals into the tenure and promotion process. This approach can create a better understanding of the interdisciplinary nature of the field and the relative distance and proximity of different fields.
Indeed: Cost of the NSERC Science Grant Peer Review System Exceeds the Cost of Giving Every Qualified Researcher a Baseline Grant The conclusion expressed by our title holds.
The structure of the hyperlink network formed by the Web pages of Japanese public libraries We conclude that Japanese public libraries have formed a network on the Web that is strongly affected by traditional cooperation, but also incorporates some new types of cooperation from the perspective of cliques.
Analysis of query keywords of sports‐related queries using visualization and clustering This study examined a public search engine query log file to gain insights into the information-seeking behavior of Internet searchers on the most popular sports-related topics entered by users.
Citation analysis of PhD thesis at Wuhan University, China The age distribution table of cited journals could be used to guide the library's journal management policies in the areas of accessibility, storage and weeding.
Promoting the Visibility of Educational Research through an Institutional Repository "While the above analysis may indicate a modest initial take-up of the HKIEd Research Repository when compared to typical Library Web traffic overall, what it does suggest is that the making available of academic research through this means can have an immediate impact on making research more visible."
Communicating chemistry We believe that a broad involvement of practising chemists is needed to reflect on the opportunities provided by new technological capabilities to improve science communication in chemistry, to examine and critically appraise innovative proposals and prototypes, and to develop models that may go beyond what is being discussed by stakeholders invested in the present system.
The problem of “Who” In our digital world, this AID would be a great aid in figuring out "who" did what. No matter what system is going to take over, unless such a unique ID could not exist, we will have serious problems in correctly identifying authors, researchers, research institutions and thus, evaluating contribution of each of these bodies to the scientific enterprise – we could never find out "who" did what.
An Integrative View of the Institutional Repositories in Hong Kong: Strategies and Challenges As Hong Kong progresses as a contributor to global knowledge discovery, the need to share its research output both regionally and worldwide is equally important. By now, its combined IRs have archived over 101,000 items with respectable deposit rates. Indeed, continuing efforts are needed to win the support of academics and researchers and their contributions to Hong Kong IRs.
REPOSITORY COLLECTION POLICIES: IS A LIBERAL AND INCLUSIVE POLICY HELPFUL OR HARMFUL? By seeking out a variety of content types, the library is able to initiate, renew, or redefine its relationship with faculty, departments, and administration, generating critical support for scholarly communication and repository initiatives.
Analyzing Knowledge Communities Using Foreground and Background Clusters Viewing communities as tight foreground clusters embedded into a diffuse background facilitates community analysis, since the future levels of citation of papers within communities are significantly higher than for those in the background.
Measuring Research and Development in Developing Countries: Main Characteristics and Implications for the Frascati Manual "The characteristics of developing countries, briefly described in this article, have a number of implications for the work of the UIS and the use and validity of the Frascati Manual."
Research in Arab Countries (North Africa and West Asia) The paradox in this part of the world is that one comes across obvious S&T talent, pulling the output upwards (Maghreb); while no specific goal is commonly ascribed to research. The social inscription of science remains unsteady and the proper function of research is vague. Nevertheless, there has been huge progress during the last three decades. And there are signs of a dawning interest of the governments for research. The key question is now the building of scientific communities, supported by the society: the clearing of a 'space for science'.
Scientific Production in Arab Countries: A Bibliometric Perspective What bibliometrics brings out is a situation of change with strong con- trasts in the Arab region.
Quality of life returns from basic research The paper concludes with a call for more strategic attention to dimensions of impact other than knowledge outcomes and for participatory planning for research.
Societal output and use of research performed by health research groups Therefore we conclude that scientific and societal evaluation should be considered to be synergistic in terms of learning for the future, accountability and advocacy.
Density-equalizing mapping and scientometric benchmarking of European allergy research The present study represents the first detailed bibliometric analysis of European allergy research.
Specialization and promotion in an academic discipline We found that specialization has strong and significant effects on the "risk" of tenure, but not in the way we expected: specializing over the course of one's assistant professorship actually decreases one's risk of tenure, which encompasses both the likelihood of tenure and time until tenure, if it is granted.
Citation analysis for the 1995 FAO Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries The results obtained in the citation analysis provide information about the target audiences that are using and citing the Code and where they are publishing their own information. The upward trend in citations by works categorized as "science" is notable and may indicate that scientists have become increasingly aware about the Code and are showing greater interest in relating their research to the issues addressed by the Code. In promoting more responsible fisheries the challenge is to reach a wider target audience and to gather information on the use of the Code by more diverse stakeholder groups, including those at the grassroots level.
Intelligent scientific authoring tools: Interactive data mining for constructive uses of citation networks In this paper, we have proposed a general system architecture and a concrete tool as part of such a system for supporting scientific authors in their use of, and contribution to, Web-based science.
Research on Social Work Practice A Bibliometric Evaluation of the First Decade Articles published during RSWP's first decade had an impact.
Productivity in Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Scholarship in Counseling Psychology: Institutional and Individual Ratings for 1990 Through 2008 Overall, these results suggest that the inclusion of LGBT issues in counseling psychology-oriented journals continues to increase. These results can be helpful to students who are seeking to identify gradu-ate training programs that are affirming of LGBT issues. Finally, future research should examine the factors that facilitate research productivity in LGBT issues among counseling psychologists.
Analysis of the Hirsch index's operational properties The original contribution of this work is to analyze h defining its operational properties and discussing them in detail, with the help of examples. Finally, an additional indicator (f) that complements h taking into account the age of the publications is suggested. Future activities will focus on the use of h-based performance indicators in other fields, like manufacturing or Quality engineering.
Citations to scientific articles: Its distribution and dependence on the article features This paper reports on the distribution of citations of articles and how they depend on some of their own features.
Characteristic scores and scales based on h-type indices In this paper we have noticed that the h-type indices only indicate one level of high-impact articles.
q<SUP>2</SUP>-Index: Quantitative and qualitative evaluation based on the number and impact of papers in the Hirsch core In this paper, we have presented a new index, the q2-index, which is based on two indices which stand for very different dimensions of the scientist's research output: the h-index, which describes the quantitative dimension of the papers in the h-core, and the m-index, which depicts the qualitative dimension of the papers in the h-core.
How to modify the g-index for multi-authored manuscripts Therefore in conclusion I favour the gm-index slightly above the gf-index.
The difference between popularity and prestige in the sciences and in the social sciences: A bibliometric analysis We have measured the difference between the bibliometric concepts of popularity and prestige across disciplines, as captured by the impact factor and the Eigenfactor, respectively. We found that, although the two bibliometric measures are generally statistically correlated, they also significantly diverge in some cases, in particular for the hard sciences. For these journals, the Eigenfactor metric, as well as its average per article, can be useful yardsticks to evaluate and compare the overall importance of science and social science journals.
The Hirsch spectrum: A novel tool for analyzing scientific journals The results of a preliminary analysis, which is carried out considering 10 journals in the Quality Engineering and Quality Management field, are shown.
Can epidemic models describe the diffusion of topics across disciplines? Incubation periods on the order of 4–15.5 years support the view that, whilst research topics may grow very quickly, they face difficulties to overcome disciplinary boundaries.
Citation speed as a measure to predict the attention an article receives: An investigation of the validity of editorial decisions at Angewandte Chemie International Edition The editorial decisions at AC-IE are thus valid not only with regard to impact but also with regard to the speed with which knowledge is disseminated in the chemical community.
Ranking marketing journals using the Google Scholar-based hg-index This study contributes significantly to marketing research and practice.
Hirsch-type characteristics of the tail of distributions. The generalised h-index The functional approach allows to define or re-define Hirsch-type indices and to shed light of relations among them.
Using the Web for research evaluation: The Integrated Online Impact indicator We found that IOI citations are numerous enough to make a difference in research intellectual impact assessment and could be used as additional source for monitoring research performance.
Are leading papers of better quality? Evidence from a natural experiment Our estimates show that approximately two thirds of the additional cites that leading papers get seem to be due to the effect of going first, while only one third can be considered a genuine quality effect of the editors' discretionary choice. Hence, given that most editors rank articles on the basis of their personal quality assessment, even objective citation counts have an important subjective component. In the future, citations may become a better measure of quality than the reputation of a journal.
Publishing affects funding in neurology The principle of performance-based funding in addition to funding based on project applications has been well received, and it stimulates more and better research.
On the Relationship Between Interdisciplinarity and Scientific Impact Our results show that although there is no clear correlation for all disciplines combined between the degree of interdisciplinarity of articles and their citation scores, there are nonetheless some disciplines in which higher levels of interdisciplinarity are linked with higher citation rates, and other disciplines where high levels of interdisciplinarity correlate with a lower citation rate. This suggests that there might be an optimum of interdisciplinarity beyond which the research is too dispersed to find its niche and under which it is too mainstream to have high scientific impact. This clearly shows that the relationship between interdisciplinarity and scientific impact is highly determined by the citation characteristics of the disciplines involved, as articles citing citation-intensive disciplines are more likely to be cited by those disciplines and, hence, obtain higher citation scores than would articles citing non-citation-intensive disciplines.
Testing the Trade-off Between Productivity and Quality in Research Activities The analysis reported here actually demonstrates the existence of a strong correlation between quantity and quality of research production: Scientists who are more productive in terms of quantity also achieve higher levels for quality in their research products.
Revisiting the g-Index: The Average Number of Citations in the g-Core The present analysis has shown that the g-index comprises in its definition information about not only the size of the core but also the impact of the papers in the core.
"Publish or Perish" in the Internet Age A study of publication statistics in computer networking research The larger goal of this study is to generate discussion about our publication system, and work towards a vision to transform our publication system for better scalability and effectiveness.
Behavior-based analysis of knowledge dissemination channels in operations management Understanding the important channels for OM knowledge sharing and for fostering generation of new knowledge about OM is not an idle historical exercise. It contributes to the gravitas of OM as a discipline. This offers compelling confirmation that OM does not stand in the shadows of other disciplines, but is a strong discipline in its own right.
Funding of US Biomedical Research, 2003-2008 After a decade of doubling, the rate of increase in biomedical research funding slowed from 2003 to 2007, and after adjustment for inflation, the absolute level of funding from the National Institutes of Health and industry appears to have decreased by 2% in 2008.
The 'peer reviewer as collaborator' model for publishing Making the process more attractive to the reviewers improves the efficiency of the process and benefits everyone involved in it.
Whose metrics? Citation, usage and access metrics as scholarly information service Scholarly societies and publishers devel-oping metric research information services, or planning to do so, are therefore advised to give more weight to the perspective of the scholar above that of the institution or the funder, and to focus on the whole discipline (or broad subject area) and not only on building services atop one's own publications or databases.
Paying for open access.? Institutional funding streams and OA publication charges If OA publishing models are to become widely accepted and adopted, research funders, institutions, and other agencies need to put in place policies, procedures, and workflows which support them. Setting up institutionally co-ordinated arrange- ments for the funding of OA publication fees and ensuring such funds are properly resourced are important steps in this direc- tion. It is essential that institutions and others monitor activity in this area and share their experiences with other key players in the scholarly communication community in order to ensure good practice norms emerge and achieve widespread acceptance.
Editorial Judgments: A Praxeology of 'Voting' in Peer Review Peer review involves social control of professional judgments, because they are made public, even though much of what occurs takes place behind closed doors.
Legitimizing basic research by evaluating quality The new insight is intended to support the assumption that the process of evaluating basic research quality would have increased value.
Bibliometric Analysis of Chinese Research on Cyclization, MALDI-TOF, and Antibiotics China is playing an increasingly large role in scientific research, and this paper has charted the development of its research in three important areas of chemistry. Analysis of Chinese publications demonstrates the increasing productivity of Chinese researchers; however, the impact of this work (as denoted by citation-based indicators (such as C, CPP, PNC, and the h-index) is still noticeably less than that of major international competitors such as Germany, Japan, and the USA, although the gap is decreasing rapidly. However, international collaborations have, to date, not had as much impact as might have been expected from previous studies of academic collaboration; and national collaborations tend to have less impact, on average, than single-institution research owing to the crucial role played in research by the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Does Paying Referees Expedite Reviews?: Results of a Natural Experiment Time-series evidence from a natural experiment on refereeing manuscripts at the Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics (JARE) from 2000 to 2003 suggests that payments to referees can expedite review and FRTs.
Rheumatoid arthritis: scientific development from a critical point of view The present study represents the first detailed scientometric analysis of research quality and quantity on rheumatoid arthritis.
In those fields where multiple authorship is the rule, the h-index should be supplemented by role-based h-indices This article introduces the idea of focusing on a scientist's role as contributor to a research article in the calculation of an h-type index. It introduces the idea of role-based h-indices and in particu-lar of the major contribution h-index, denoted as h-maj, as an index which takes only the major con-tributions of a scientist into account.
The introduction of the 5-year impact factor: does it benefit statistics journals? In this paper, we investigated the effects of the new 5-year impact factor (IF5) used in the JCR (Thomson) citation database.
Scientific linkage of science research and technology development: a case of genetic engineering research The results showed that the development of genetic engineering technologies was heavily dependent on the science researches, especially the works done by public sector, in terms of numbers of journal articles cited in the selected patents and the origin of the cited works. It confirms the previous findings of Narin and McMillan's works (Narin et al. 1997; McMillan et al. 2000) and provides the evidence that the science research was the driving force behind technology development. Similar examinations need to be done in different technology areas to establish the commonality of the scientific linkage.
Constructing a new patent bibliometric performance measure by using modified citation rate analyses with dynamic backward citation windows Our dynamic CW based measure effectively solves the problems by using annual CW values in patent CR analyses.
Beyond citation analysis: a model for assessment of research impact Assessment of research impact using traditional citation analysis alone is not a sufficient tool for assessing the impact of research findings, and it is not predictive of subsequent clinical applications resulting in meaningful health outcomes. The Becker Model can be used by both researchers and librarians to document research impact to supplement citation analysis.
Comparison of the h index with standard bibliometric indicators to rank influential otolaryngologists in Europe and North America In conclusion, the h index is a simple yet powerful indicator as it combines productivity and impact. Overall, the US editorial panel have a higher h index. The h index is a powerful indicator that has many advanta- ges over other bibliometric measures and it offers an evalu- ative measure for assessing the research output of scientists. This simple measure is useful for rewarding grants, funding allocation, institutional appointment and promotion.
Children's Digestive Health and Nutrition Foundation: Building on the Past, A Foundation for the Future Collectively, these data strongly suggest that CDHNF has been successful in providing meaningful support and encourage-ment for junior NASPGHAN members to pursue academic careers. This success rate also suggests that the peer review mechanism established for these grants is highly successful in identifying young individuals with both high research potential and scientific thinking. The outstanding success rate, as evidenced by the outcome of CDHNF grantees, is a clear mandate for us all.
Referencing in the Humanities and its Implications for Citation Analysis Finally, it is acknowledged that the use of ref- erences is connected to stylistic, epistemological, and organizational differences, and these differences must be taken into account when applying citation analysis to humanistic disciplines.
An Index to Measure a Scientist's Specific Impact A new index, the specific impact index, or s-index, was derived based on the assumption that papers age exponentially with an aging rate of 0.1/year.
Is Scientific Literature Subject to a 'Sell-By-Date'? A General Methodology to Analyze the 'Durability' of Scientific Documents In this article, we present a general methodology for the bibliometric description and classification of documents, describing the phenomenon of durability as measured by their citations.
Knowledge Diffusion Through Publications and Citations: A Case Study Using ESI-Fields as Unit of Diffusion Two aspects of diffusion have been studied: diffusion by publications, originating from the fact that a group publishes in different journals, research areas, and fields; and diffusion by citations, originating from the fact that the group's publications are cited in different journals, research areas, and fields. Our case study of mathematical articles published by scientists active at Tongji University (Shanghai, China) illustrates that a change in university policy and structure (from an engineering university to a comprehensive one) might influence both types of diffusion. It is shown that diffusion to nearby fields, such as engineering and physics, occurred from the beginning, while diffusion to biological fields is just beginning (under the influence of the new president who is a biologist).
Journal Maps on the Basis of Scopus Data: A Comparison with the Journal Citation Reports of the ISI By providing aggregated journal-journal citation data, both the Scopus and the ISI databases enable us to map journals and to delineate specialties, while this cannot easily be done using Google Scholar.
Influence of Adding or Deleting Items and Sources on the H-Index We modeled (in a general source-item relation in IPPs) the influence of adding or deleting self-citations on the h-index of an author, and we proved the experimental finding of Gianoli and Molina-Montenegro (2009) that this influence is larger for the lower h-indices.
Distribution of Ranks of Articles and Citations in Journals The work reported here suggests new perspectives in the study of the distribution of citations and articles in journals.
The Impact Factor's Matthew Effect: A Natural Experiment in Bibliometrics The intrinsic value of a paper is thus not the only reason a given paper gets cited or not, there is a specific Matthew Effect attached to journals and this gives to papers published there an added value over and above their intrinsic quality.
AGE AND GREAT INVENTION Great minds produce their greatest insights at substantially older ages today than they did a century ago.
Characteristics of la literatura: A Reference Study of Spanish and Latin American Literature These data indicate that the scholarly monograph continues to be vital to the research of scholars in the field of Span-ish and Latin American literature, and its importance seems to have actually increased in recent years.
Relationships between Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Statistics and Bibliometric Indicators: A Principal Components Analysis This macro analysis demonstrated that tra- ditional ARL measures of library services, library expenditures, and library collections are not reliable predictors of research influ- ence or impact at the individual researcher and article levels. More quantitative research must be done to authentically assess academic libraries' influence on research outcomes. Further research using different data sets and a variety of statistical tests and measures-includ- ing canonical correlation and power law equations-must be performed to genu- inely quantify libraries' influence on their parent universities at the macro level.
The manuscript reviewing process: Empirical research on review requests, review sequences, and decision rules in peer review Countless decisions in journal publishing are based on peer review. Although the data used refer to a chemistry journal, the results are applicable to all other journals, which work with the traditional system of closed peer review - independent of the discipline. The acceptance of a hoax article by the Open Information Science Journal in June 2009 after the publisher said it had been peer-reviewed (Gilbert, 2009) shows that much more research on the black box of peer review is needed.
Highly cited works in neurosurgery. Part I: the 100 top-cited papers in neurosurgical journals A review The most cited articles in neurosurgical journals are trials evaluating surgical or medical therapies, descriptions of novel techniques, or systems for classifying or grading disease.
Ranking university departments using the mean h-index If performed on a pan-European basis, such rankings could spur healthy competition and could provide a strong motive for meritocratic hiring practices.
Discovery of factors influencing patent value based on machine learning in patents in the field of nanotechnology Since patents represent the technological change or inventive activity and output, using patinformatics and patent bibliometrics can help take information from patents to target innovative efforts.
A model showing the increase in time of the average and median reference age and the decrease in time of the Price Index Using an exponential growth model for the number of references in a certain year we proved, as a mathematical consequence of this model, that the average and median reference age is an increasing function of time.
Identification of referencing and citation processes of scientific journals based on the citation distribution model According to the theoretical analysis and parameter identification results of observed reference or citation distributions of journals, some conclusions are obtained:
Diversity and network coherence as indicators of interdisciplinarity: case studies in bionanoscience We suggest that the combination of these two approaches may be useful for comparative studies of emergent scientific and technological fields, where new and controversial categorisations are accompanied by equally contested claims of novelty and interdisciplinarity.
Detecting, identifying and visualizing research groups in co-authorship networks A functional representation of research groups was obtained from co-authorship-based links through a suitable combination of result-based studies and administrative information from the university itself (input).
Comparing Google Scholar and ISI Web of Science for Earth Sciences The amount of earth science content is comprehensive in Google Scholar.
Use of Scopus and Google Scholar to measure social sciences production in four major Spanish universities In this article, we have focused on showing that the profile for Social Sciences researchers is different from that of their counterparts in other sciences (mainly in comparison to Experimental Sciences).
Ranking Israel's economists This paper provides a comparison of all 191 academic economists in Israel on the basis of their research impact, as reflected by citations on their work. In general, there is a link between a researcher's academic rank and the number of citations that the researcher's work received. But there are also some non-negligible dis-crepancies in the promotion considerations of various researchers.
Interlocking editorship. A network analysis of the links between economic journals The network generated by interlocking editorship is at first sight very compact, given that about 90% of the journals considered are linked directly or indirectly forming a compact subnetwork.
hg-index: a new index to characterize the scientific output of researchers based on the h- and g-indices In this paper we have presented a new index, called the hg-index, which is based on the h- and g-indices and that fuses both measures in order to obtain a more balanced view of the scientific production of researchers and that minimizes some of the problems that they present. An empirical example shows the good behaviour of this measure.
Why it has become more difficult to predict Nobel Prize winners: a bibliometric analysis of nominees and winners of the chemistry and physics prizes (1901-2007) Our comprehensive bibliometric analysis of the profile of Nobel Prize winners in chemistry and physics from 1901 to 2007, showed that the changing dynamic of science due to its rapid increase in size since at least the 1960s, had the effect of diluting potential winners in a massive group of central scientists, from which it has become nearly impossible to pick up only three winners using bibliometric tools.
More axiomatics for the Hirsch index The resulting characterization seems to indicate that the Hirsch index can be obtained by postulating sufficiently strong monotonicity requirements and by imposing appropriate bounds to that monotonicity. Propositions 4 and 7 can be seen as obtained from the strategy of weakening monotonicity and, in exchange, adopting independence conditions stating when the index should remain unaltered: whereas A1 is the axiom setting the bounds, the A2 axioms express a necessary condition for the index to be monotonic in a particular case and A3 and A4 are independence axioms identifying changes in a research output that should not affect the index.
Effects of scholar's gender and professional position on publishing productivity in different publication types. Analysis of a Finnish university Earlier research has shown that publishing productivity accumulates in a small group of scholars, that the productivity is higher for scholars in the highest positions, and that men publish more than women.
Towards a multipolar science world: trends and impact The evidence on scientific publications and workforce clearly demonstrates that despite the continued dominance of the US and the increasing importance of the EU, the TRIAD is in relative decline. Other geographic sources of science outside the TRIAD are rising, both in quantity, but also, although still to a lesser extent, in quality. Especially China drives this non-TRIAD growth. The data show a slow but real process of increasing convergence, with the catching-up of non-TRIAD countries and the sources of new scientific knowledge more evenly spread across the globe.
Revisiting the "Quiet Debut" of the Double Helix: A Bibliometric and Methodological note on the "Impact" of Scientific Publications The object of this paper was two-fold: first, to show that contrary to what seem to have become a widely accepted view among historians of biology, the famous paper by Watson and Crick on the structure of DNA was widely cited as compared to the "average paper" of the time on a continuous basis right from the very year of its publication and that the citations came from more and more journals over the period 1953–1970.
Research in an emerging "big science" discipline: the case of neutron scattering in Spain The study of neutron scattering scientific output on the five dimensions proposed has proved useful to gain an in-sight into the state of development of the discipline in Spain.
The 2008 summary of scientific productivity of chemical engineering, civil engineering and mechanical engineering professionals in Taiwan 802, 278 and 968 papers were authored with 237, 163 and 433 corresponding authors from domestic chemical, civil or mechan- ical engineering institutes.
Collaboration networks and scientific impact among behavioral ecologists Authors with a high scientific impact, measured here using an estimate of their h-index, were those who tended to collaborate widely with others, those who formed strong bonds with collaborators, and those who were less likely to be part of a clique.
Impact factors of the sport sciences journals: Current trends, relative positions, and temporal stability In summary, journals included in the "Sport Sciences" subject category seem to have consistent IF values with some evidence of growth. Based on the aggregated mean IF of the Science edition disciplines, "Sport Sciences" is classified slightly below the middle. Finally, our results do not suggest that North American journals in the field of "Sport Sciences" have higher IFs than the European ones.
THE VISIBILITY OF INFORMATION SCIENCE AND LIBRARY SCIENCE RESEARCH IN BIBLIOMETRIC MAPPING OF THE LIS FIELD Based on citation data from research articles published in scholarly LIS journals, there is evidence for relating information science and library science together in a joint field of LIS, with IS and LS being the two main subfields. There are, however, big differences between the two subfields, not the least visible in the author-level citation analyses, where the connections are quite weak. But rather than seeing them as reflecting a division of IS and LS, they can be seen as strong indicators on the interdisciplinary nature of LIS, not only in the wide range of different research interests visible in the analyses but also in variations in, for example, citation practices, reflecting general differences in the organization of IS and LS research, respectively.
The open access movement and Cuban health research work: an author survey It is generally observed that Cuban researchers are not very familiar with the initiatives and strategies of the open access movement, the publication in open access journals or the deposit of scientific papers into subject-based or institutional repositories.
Productivity in educational psychology journals from 2003 to 2008 Our findings revealed that institutional and individual productivity in educational psychology journals has been remarkably consistent in terms of the top performers (the University of Maryland, College Park, and Richard E. Mayer, respectively) over the past 18 years.
Citation analysis of orthopaedic literature; 18 major orthopaedic journals compared for Impact Factor and SCImago Citation analysis shows that specialized orthopaedic journals have specific self-citation tendencies. The SJR excludes self-citations in its calculation and therefore enhances the underestimation in ranking of specialized journals. The SJR corrects for self-citations, which increases the gap in overall ranking between specialized and general journals, this reflects a difference in field of interest rather than quality.
Research Material Selection in the pre-web and post-web Environments: An Interdisciplinary Study of Bibliographic Citations in Doctoral Dissertations Doctoral students have made changes in their information choices over the time periods considered. The use of journals, a primary resource for the majority of these disciplines, increased in most areas. This implies that a certain amount of flexibility exists in the materials selection process and that there are multiple paths for researchers to follow in supporting their information needs.
Assessing Asian Scholarly Research in Library and Information Science: A Quantitative View As Reflected in Web of Knowledge These findings show the increasing contribution made by Asian scholars to the international LIS literature, and the quality of that research.
Academic Search Engine Optimization (ASEO) OPTIMIZING SCHOLARLY LITERATURE FOR GOOGLE SCHOLAR & CO Therefore, we believe that academic search engine optimization (ASEO) should be a common procedure for researchers, similar to, for instance, selecting an appropriate journal for publication.
A comparison of human capital levels and the future prospect of the nanotechnology industry in early sector investors and recent emerging markets Human capital does play an important role and is a necessary component that leads to higher outputs in nanotechnology but human capital is not sufficient and other factors for success should be considered. The lack of well-developed supports may reduce the emerging markets' ability to catch-up or leapfrog established markets despite the abundance of human capital.
The w-Index: A Measure to Assess Scientific Impact by Focusing on Widely Cited Papers In terms of both simplicity and accuracy, the w-index or w(q)-index can be widely used for evaluation of scientists, journals, conferences, scientific topics, research institutions, and so on.
A Longitudinal Study of Scholars Attitudes and Behaviors Toward Open-Access Journal Publishing As expected, the analysis has discovered a steady increase in the number of scholars participating in OA journal publishing alongside the increase of scholars' awareness of the new scholarly communication.
Relationship of the h-index, g-index, and e-index In the current brief communication, an alternative definition without introducing fictitious articles with zero citation was suggested to calculate the g-index, which then has definition in any case. The relationship of the h-, g-, and e-indices presented here shows that the g-index contains the citation information from the h-index, the e-index, and some papers beyond the h-core.
Mobility versus job stability: Assessing tenure and productivity outcomes Our analysis has addressed a key issue in the study of academic science: the relationship between performance and reward. Our results question the assumption mainly based on US evidence that mobility enhances career. Further research is needed to analyze the relationship between mobility and performance at later stages of careers and to test whether the same patterns found here persist.
Analyzing interdisciplinarity: Typology and indicators In this paper, we have demonstrated a hybrid analytical framework that marries the conceptual and empirical aspects of interdisciplinary analysis that have remained separate to date. Our approach thus contributes to empirically and practically justified concepts of IDR, to realistic categories of IDR for scientometric analyses, and to indicators of IDR that serve the pragmatic needs of science policy.
Fate of manuscripts declined by the British Journal of Surgery Rejection of a manuscript by BJS does not preclude publication, but rejected manuscripts are published more often in surgical subspecialty journals and journals with a lower impact factor, although the occasional exception exists.
The πv-index: a new indicator to characterize the impact of journals The main goal of the study was to find a simple indicator (πν-index) which may characterize the eminence of journals by calculating the cumulative influence of highly cited papers.
Indicators for a webometric ranking of open access repositories Results suggest the need to take into consideration other file formats and the usage information, an option is not feasible today.
A citation analysis of Iranian journals to open access (OA) articles and journals Totally, there were 16,219 citations all over 15 journals. It is notable that amount of citations to the OA journals are 1%. Also, findings show that there was huge difference between the journals which had citing to DOAJ (0.3%) and without citing to DOAJ (99.7%). According to the consequence of the OA journals in both scientific and financial aspects of information creating, researcher expect that organisations and those who give information to other recognize these kinds of journals and their first precedence in teaching, searching and putting into affective activities should be reproduction essential training for more and better usage of these journals.
Citations to the "Introduction to informetrics" indexed by WOS, Scopus and Google Scholar The results clearly show that the databases supplement each other.
Does a country's scientific 'productivity' depend critically on the number of country journals indexed? We conclude that in the context of a five fold increase in the number of journals indexed over 20 years, the simplistic notion of ‘scientific productivity' as equivalent to papers indexed needs to be re-examined.
Self-citations at the meso and individual levels: effects of different calculation methods Author and co-author self-citations provide valuable information on the scientific communication process, but external citations are the most relevant for evaluative purposes. External citations measure the impact of research beyond the original producers. As a final recommendation, studies considering self-citations at the individual level should make clear whether author or total self-citations are used as these can affect researchers differently.
Toward an objective, reliable and accurate method for measuring research leadership The traditional method for measuring leadership should be seriously questioned because of the vast number of omissions and its failure to find the multidisciplinary programs that are unique to each university or nation.
The journal download immediacy index (DII): experiences using a Chinese full-text database Returning to the list of problems we set out to study we first mention that the general shape of download curves as observed earlier by Wan et al. (2005) is confirmed in this new study. The relationship between the DII and other indicators suggests that the DII can be considered as an independent indicator, but that it also has some predictive value for other indicators, such as the h-index. It is especially useful for those journals that cannot yet have an impact factor as their citation history within the database is too short (1 or 2 years).
Comparison of citation and usage indicators: the case of oncology journals Our article aimed at investigating the similarities and differences between citation and usage data. It was shown that downloads and citations have different obsolescence patterns. While the average cited half-life was 5.6 years, we computed a mean usage half-life of 1.7 years for the 2006 Science Direct data.
Automatic term identification for bibliometric mapping In this paper, we have addressed the question how the terms shown in a term map can be selected without relying extensively on the judgment of domain experts.
In-depth analysis on China's international cooperation in science International collaboration measured by scientific publications has been increased obviously in China. But the growing speed of the number of internationally co-authored publications does not catch up with that of China's total publications. International collaboration increases China's overall citation impact. But such raising effect is weakening.
Journal Impact Factors for evaluating scientific performance: use of h-like indicators This paper introduced a 'new' measure similar to the h-index, one based on the JIFs of papers rather than on the numbers of citations to them.
Effects of civil war: scientific cooperation in the republics of the former Yugoslavia and the province of Kosovo The civil war affected the republics in different ways.
Delineation of the genomics field by hybrid citation-lexical methods: interaction with experts and validation process Three main results were obtained in this test of “lex + cite” methods.
Identification and characterisation of technological topics in the field of Molecular Biology It is a challenge to identify emerging technologies. “Molecular Biology” is a broad field and by applying the complementary methods presented here, it can be better characterised and described.
Journal cross-citation analysis for validation and improvement of journal-based subject classification in bibliometric research The hard-clustering algorithm for the journal cross-citation analysis provides important information for studying the cognitive structure of the journal cross-citation network. For the final classification, we should therefore combine the results with the “intellectual” approach. In the future, we would deepen the "migration" analysis through a hybrid clustering algorithm combined with both of citations and texts information.
Scientific Publications in Anesthesiology Journals from Mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong: A 10-Year Survey of the Literature The total number of articles from China published in highly cited anesthesiology journals increased markedly from 1999 to 2008, with articles from mainland China increasing substantially after 2004, whereas the number of publications from Hong Kong decreased. The average impact factor was similar for all 3 regions, ranging from 2.2 to 2.8. Anesthesia & Analgesia published more articles from Chinese authors from all 3 regions than any other journal.
Citation Analysis and Impact Factor Trends in the Ergonomics Journal List, 1975-2007 Overall, this study suggests that, between 1975 and 2007, citation counts and impact factors have been steadily increasing in the field of ergonomics and human factors.
Authors' and Editors' Perspectives on Peer Review Quality in Three Scholarly Nursing Journals Given the inexperience of many nurse authors, it is incumbent upon editors and reviewers to provide guidance and support. Manuscript reviews could be improved by increasing the consistency of numeric ratings, narrative comments, and recommendations regarding disposition of the manuscripts. Nevertheless, the results of this study reaffirm the worth of the peer review approach.
How Long is the Peer Review Process for Journal Manuscripts? A Case Study on Angewandte Chemie International Edition Taking the example of the journal AC-IE, this study investigated the length of time required for the peer review process.
Bibliometrics as Weapons of Mass Citation We appeal to scientists of all countries and disciplines to unite against the tyranny of bibliometrics.
Scientific output of Dutch medical students Based on the results of our survey, we conclude that medical students in the Netherlands are productively involved in research during their studies. Due to publication delay, the true number of papers is likely to be higher than we counted, but the bibliometric index chosen gives a robust estimate of the effect on the output of the scientific climate of a medical school. Using such an index on a larger scale may stimulate medical faculties to recognize and cultivate academic talent among their students.
Quality, quantity, and impact in academic publication The present study investigated several basic questions about the relationships among publication quality, quantity, and impact in a cohort of psychology researchers.
Evaluating scholars based on their academic collaboration activities: two indices, the RC-index and the CC-index, for quantifying collaboration activities of researchers and scientific communities The research questions of “how powerful a researcher’s collaboration network is” and “how much collaboration exists to researchers outside of a community” were answered by defining the RC-Index and the CC-Index.
Emerging research fronts in science and technology: patterns of new knowledge development We show that there are fundamental differences in the structure of these two sorts of successful research fronts. This may affect the way science as a whole absorbs or splinters off new areas of research and may have important consequences for its evolution and development over time.
Are Iranian scientists recognized as their productivity enhances? A comparison of Iran's impact to global norms in different subfields of Science Citation Index during 2002-2005 Although Iran is very far from an ideal situation; these evidences can be considered as heralds of a successful movement towards a wealthy scientific future. In sum, according to the evidences provided in the present study, Iran has a long way to reach an ideal situation; however, few heralds proclaim that Iran is gaining momentum in its movement towards a scientific prosperity.
A network analysis of interdisciplinary research relationships: the Korean government's R&D grant program The analytical results reveal the hidden network structure of interdisciplinary research relationships and demonstrate that the quality of research performance might be enhanced not only by interdependent pressures placed on various research fields but also by accumulated research capabilities that are relatively difficult to access and reproduce by other research fields.
Scientific output and impact of postdoctoral scientists: a gender perspective When analysing the results for Ph.D. holders with at least one article published, no significant differences in the median number of articles published by male and female Ph.D. holders were observed. Our results also suggest a positive significant relationship between the median number of articles published before Ph.D. completion and the amount of postdoctoral scientific output. With regard to our second research objective—to analyse whether there are any dif-ferences in the impact of publications in terms of citations received according to gender— the results point to a stronger impact in the case of articles by women.
Bibliometric evaluation of the FP-5 and FP-6 results in the Czech Republic In conclusion, our study is the first to evaluate results of the FP projects in the Czech Republic and the impact of the participation in the FP on the publication activity of the researchers.
Mapping library and information science in China: a coauthorship network analysis We find that this network is a small-world network, which indicates that there are many shortcuts in the network, where authors can reach others or be reached with much less ties.
Assessing the quality of scientific conferences based on bibliographic citations In this article, we have presented a study about the relative performance of existing metrics designed for journal evaluation in the context of scientific conferences. Our experiments in two tasks—conference ranking and conference classification—show that the new metrics significantly outperform the journal-based ones in almost all evaluation metrics when compared to a “gold standard” generated by specialists. As future work, we intend to better analyze the impact of each incorporated characteristic in our metrics and how each of them influences the results.
Site co-link analysis applied to small networks: a new methodological approach As an alternative method to page co-link analysis, site co-link analysis seemed appropriate for this case study.
Models and orphans; concentration of the plant molecular life science research agenda This article provides scientometric support to the notion that the global plant molecular life science research agenda is concentrated on a limited number of organisms.
Can the centre-periphery model explain patterns of international scientific collaboration among threshold and industrialised countries? The case of South Africa and Germany Summarising all the results, we conclude that a theory of scientific collaboration based on the notion of marginality as well as peripheral, semi-peripheral, and central scientific units explains many of the features found in the German-South African collaboration pattern.
Tsallis q-exponential describes the distribution of scientific citations-a new characterization of the impact In this paper we propose the Tsallis q-exponential distribution to satisfactorily describe Institute of Scientific Information citations between 1945 and November 2008. Our study provides evidence that the citation distribution for all tested cases within this period could be the Tsallis q-exponential distribution. Finally, this manuscript provides a new ranking index for the impact level of the research activity for the 13 tested countries via the "effective temperature” T, a new characterization of impact.
Knowledge production and the structure of collaboration networks in two scientific fields Using data from the second phase of a panel study of research groups and their networks, we have shown that the relationship between network structure and the production of new knowledge is field specific. In a new science such as nanoscience, researchers can be more productive when there are more structural holes in their research networks; in an established field such as astrophysics, the effect is reversed: the fewer structural holes in the networks, the more productive researchers are. It seems that successful performance is dependent on the availability of necessary resources within the network, and on a fit between the type of task at hand and the existent network structure.
A comparison of bibliometric indicators for computer science scholars and journals on Web of Science and Google Scholar Our general advice is to use Google Scholar when the user is interested in finding papers and corresponding citations of computer science scholars and journals. Our advice here is to perform a (time-consuming) join of the publications and citations contained in the two databases and use the combined universe to compute the h index for scholars and journals.
Reliability-based citation impact factor and the manipulation of impact factor So the R-impact factor has a greater fairness than the impact factor when we evaluate journals whose cited half-lives are relatively short.
Regional research and foreign collaboration The regional-foreign network was dominated by three influential regional institutions, each with a characteristic collaboration context. The central node of this network was Gothenburg University with a wide scope of research and a high publication activity. The analysis of the influence of domestic institutions on the regional-foreign collabo-ration network showed that collaboration within the field of 2 Physics and Astronomy was characteristic for the pure regional-foreign network while the broad-field 11 Clinical Medicine held a similar position in the regional–domestic-foreign network. During the period of observation, two broad-fields, 11 Clinical Medicine and 2 Physics & Astronomy, dominated regional-foreign collaboration, and from 2002 and onwards, 2 Physics & Astronomy showed a notable decline while 11 Clinical Medicine increased its share of international collaborative publications and at the end of the period this field dominated regional international collaboration.
Using content analysis to investigate the research paths chosen by scientists over time We presented a methodology of Software-Assisted Content Analysis that is capable of extracting information on the characteristics of a scientist's productivity in terms of ranges of topics inquired (diversification of interests), intensity of interest in each given topic, and duration of interest over time.
Higher Education Literature Revisited: Citation Patterns Examined The results demonstrate that citation practices have remained relatively stable over time with regard to the format of cited items and the people and sources cited. The consistency applies, even with the electronic availability of a greater amount, and greater diversity, of materials. The professional discourse can be described, and there is a variety of additional work that can lead to a more complete description; what is offered here can move that work forward.
Rankings of information and library science journals by JIF and by h-type indices We reiterated the applicability of the h-type indices for ranking journals. The correlations between the different rankings are significant and very high, but a closer examination of the different rankings shows that they are not identical and there are considerable differences in the rankings for a number of journals. We recommend carrying out further studies in other categories as well.
Diffusion of latent semantic analysis as a research tool: A social network analysis approach LSA as a research tool has been used by many scientists of various scientific fields in the last decade. While the networks of journals cited in papers with LSA in their titles and topics are well connected, this is not the case for the network of LSA researchers. It appears that the diffusion of LSA is still ongoing and LSA has become an indispensable part of the scientific discourse.
A discussion of Prathap's h2-index for institutional evaluation with an application in the field of HIV infection and therapy We have shown that the h-type indices h₁, h1m and h2 play a different role in institutional evaluation.
Subject clustering analysis based on ISI category classification The Multi-level Aggregation Method generates a balanced clustering result of the ISI subject categories.
Combining commercial citation indexes and open-access bibliographic databases to delimit highly interdisciplinary research fields for citation analysis This paper has discussed some difficulties involved in using existing commercial citation indexes for field delimitation for citation analysis studies, and described an approach for overcoming them in the context of a case study that combines Scopus and PubMed in order to retrieve data for citation analyses in the stem-cell research field, a highly interdisciplinary biomedical research field. This multi-database approach has the potential to enable large-scale policy studies using citation analysis methods that are otherwise difficult to accomplish.
Measuring a journal's input rhythm based on its publication-reference matrix From the viewpoint of applications the rhythm indicators have another methodological significance: rhythm indicators can be applied to many rhythm studies.
Bibliometrics as a Performance Measurement Tool for Research Evaluation: The Case of Research Funded by the National Cancer Institute of Canada The bibliometric approach employed by the NCIC as part of its research grants evaluation allowed the NCIC to answer questions related to the performance of its research funding that could not be addressed objectively using alternative methods such as program documentation review, surveys, and key informant interviews.
How long does it take for the scientific literature to purge itself of fraudulent material?: the Breuning case revisited Conceding the limitations of a single case study, the present results suggest that the purge of fraudulent material from scientific literature takes much longer than assumed in the initial citation analysis. Retraction databases and widespread availability of computer software to check lists of references free of charge in any database or the internet are called for. Moreover, if a paper is never formally retracted, software for searching author names in the internet for fully investigated and proven scientific misconduct might be developed.
Who's on First? Listing Authors by Relative Contribution Trumps the Alphabet The discipline of political science should adopt the convention of listing authors by relative contribution/senior author.
Emerging Models of Collaboration in Political Science: Changes, Benefits, and Challenges In disciplinary terms, the last 60 years have seen a substantial increase in coauthorship. This shift has improved productivity and enhanced research quality, but simultaneously posed new challenges to established institutional and administra-tion norms in the field. Such collaborative enterprise offers the best pros-pects for moving the discipline forward in productive and inno-vative ways.
Navel Gazing: Academic Inbreeding and Scientific Productivity Overall, the analysis finds that inbreeding has a neg-ative impact on individual scientific outcomes. Overall, our analysis strongly suggests that a small presence of inbreeding can be beneficial to scientific productivity, but widespread inbreeding practices, especially if they reach the levels found in coun-tries such as Spain or Portugal, should be coun-tered and probably prevented. Further work looking at intermediate systems, such as in Spain or Portugal, could provide very valuable insights into the general-izability of these findings.
GENERAL-INTEREST VERSUS SPECIALTY JOURNALS: USING INTELLECTUAL INFLUENCE OF ECONOMETRICS RESEARCH TO RANK ECONOMICS JOURNALS AND ARTICLES Thus, it suggests that the intellectual influence of an econometrics article published in several econometrics/statistics journals is much higher than if it were published in the most prestigious general-interest journal (i.e., AER), and that using the existing economics journal rankings to evaluate econometricians' research productivity is an error-ridden system because it imposes a substantial downward bias against them. A relevant point to make is that journal ranking should not be used as the final measure of an article's quality. The issue on whether an article’s eventual impact is better judged by its citations or by the ranking of the journal that publishes the article is an important direction for further research, as it would help determine whether tenure/promotion/merit decisions in academic institutions should focus more on citations and less on journal publications.
Individual, country, and journal self-citation in soil science With few exceptions, self-citation rates in soil science are reasonable and comparable to the other biophysical sciences.
The Core Journal Concept in Black Studies This article began by establishing that there have been different criteria for determining Black Studies core journals over time.
Highly cited articles in library and information science: An analysis of content and authorship trends The highly cited journal articles identified in this study can provide students and researchers of LIS with a must-read list of articles. Furthermore, the high citation rate and subject distribution of the highly cited articles identified in this study can be used by students and researchers of LIS to focus their research interests (e.g. the subject areas of technology and research in librarianship/users), since it is likely that some students and researchers would want to align their work with the work that has had the most impact on a recent decade of the LIS literature. This study offers benchmarks for future research, in particular, to encourage the determination of highly cited articles and their characteristics in the LIS literature in the future and to compare those findings to those of the current study to explore changes in characteristics of the LIS literature and the LIS field itself.
Current Trends in Institutional Repositories for Institutions Offering Master's and Baccalaureate Degrees Master's and baccalaureate institutions are developing their repositories to fill new roles and support their unique needs. Students contribute nearly half of all repository content in the form of theses and dissertations, honors papers, and student journals. Master's and baccalaureate institutions usually have limited resources for repository development and operation, which has led to new operational styles involving other organizations and external vendors.
Ten-year growth in the scientific production of Brazilian Psychiatry: the impact of the new evaluation policies All psychiatric Post-Graduation Programs have increased their production, but by favoring quality over quantity, the new rules have proved to be more useful for discriminating among the scientific production. These data will provide important information for CAPES on how to evaluate the scientific production by giving different weights for the new Qualis classification, which will have a major impact on PGP appraisal.
REJECTION RATES FOR JOURNALS PUBLISHING IN THE ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCES The results in this article indicate that journal volume and quality (as measured by the citation indices) are not strongly related to rejection rate, a result also found by Coe and Weinstock (1983) for journals in the finance community and by Weller (2001, p. 71) in her synthesis of the literature. Instead, the results in this article reveal that the variability of rejection rates is most strongly related to the journal's business model: whether the journals are for profit or nonprofit, and whether they assess page charges.
Hindrance of Conservation Biology by Delays in the Submission of Manuscripts Because conservation papers experience a greater submission delay than papers in other fields and their long submission delays are not explained by number of authors, editor-adjusted submission dates, or time spent being rejected from other journals, it should be a high priority to determine and rectify the cause of this delay.
The Intellectual Structure of Product Innovation Research: A Bibliometric Study of the Journal of Product Innovation Management, 1984-2004 The present analysis of JPIM from 1984 to 2004 provides evidence for the maturation of new product innovation research.
Library School Programs and the Successful Training of Academic Librarians to Meet Promotion and Tenure Requirements in the Academy Considering the literature on tenure and faculty status for librarians, we believe that the necessity for publication is a strong influence for librarians in faculty and professional status-either for the achievement of tenure or for gaining promotion. However, it appears that the inclusion of research courses is benefiting the profession by enhancing its professional literature. For additional research, it would be useful to survey academic librarians to determine where they received training in research and publication.
Analysis of publications on paratuberculosis from 1995 to 2009 with emphasis on the period from 2005 to 2009 The expanding level of research activity in paratuberculosis, reflected by the growing number of publications in scientific journals during the last five years, demonstrate the importance of this infectious disease of cattle and small ruminants.
Visualization of the Chinese academic web based on social network analysis Arising from the research questions, the main contributions of this paper are as follows: the reliability of new in-link measured WIF has been proven; the SNA measures worked well on visualization of the Chinese academic web, especially on the representation of the comprehensive strength of the universities in mainland China; and the characteristics of the relationships among the universities were successfully worked out by SNA within a single national network rather than on the scale of an international/federal network.
Domain analysis with text mining: Analysis of digital library research trends using profiling methods This study investigated transitions within the research areas of digital library from the perspective of library and information science. This study provides comprehensive implications about the evolution of the main themes of DL research in the LIS field. Moreover, this study shows that text-mining methods can be used efficiently to visualize domain trend analysis.
Cybernating the academe: Centralized scholarly ranking and visibility of scholars in the developing world This paper has addressed how present scholarly ranking practices of prestigious organizations in the North negatively affect knowledge about research activities and the focus of scholars from the developing regions of the world.
Quantitative mapping of patented technology - The case of electrical conducting polymer nanocomposite Social network analysis on patent citation is demonstrated in this study to explore how patented technology development can be evolved from a patent citation network which visually represents the essential structure of technology evolution.
A scientometric analysis of knowledge management and intellectual capital academic literature (1994-2008) Based on the findings, many implications emerged that improve one's understanding of the identity of KM/IC as a distinct scientific field. Overall, there is a great danger that KM/IC may lose its practical side and become a pure scholarly discipline. One of the best approaches is to recommend that academic researchers increasingly collaborate with industry practitioners on various research projects.
The drivers of citations in management science journals Overall, this study provides some insights into the determinants of a paper's impact that may be helpful for particular stakeholders to make important decisions. There are, of course, limitations to the study. Finally, would it ever be possible to disentangle the paper/journal issue?
What have scholars retrieved from Walsh and Ungson (1991)? A citation context study In terms of its raw citation count, Walsh and Ungson's (1991) article would certainly qualify as a 'citation classic'.
Can national research assessment exercises be used locally to inform research strategy development? The description of a methodological approach to the UK RAE 2008 results with a focus on one institution The RAE 2008 data provide a broadly realistic and unadorned reflection of each HEI's profile across its portfolio of research groups. Although the data are collected with one purpose in mind─resource allocation—they can also be analysed with an eye to research strategy development. Even if what can be learned is limited, taking advantage of the RAE data may improve research strategy development.
Whose Web of Knowledge™ is it Anyway?: Citing Feminist Research in the Field of Higher Education Finally, our analysis is a first step in interrogating the post-publication process and impact of scholarly feminist work.
The Effects of Scholarly Productivity and Institutional Characteristics on the Distribution of Federal Research Grants Results indicate that, in addition to individual faculty member pro- ductivity, grant distribution is a function of institutional characteristics. Faculty members at private institutions are more likely to secure larger grant dollar amounts than faculty at public institutions. Institutional characteristics play a more significant role in effecting the dollar amount of grants than the number of grants.
Are MD-PhD Programs Meeting Their Goals? An Analysis of Career Choices Made by Graduates of 24 MD-PhD Programs Most MD-PhD program graduates follow career paths generally consistent with their training as physician-scientists. However, the range of their professional options is broad. In summary, this study shows that many MD-PhD program graduates are staying on the physician-investigator career track.
The publication echo: Effects of retrieving literature in PubMed by year of publication As a conclusion, we suggest using a query formulation that unambiguously retrieves literature from PubMed by the date of publication.
Methods for measuring the citations and productivity of scientists across time and discipline Scientific careers share many qualities with other competitive careers, such as the careers of professional sports players, inventors, entertainers, actors, and musicians [15,32,33].
Scientometric analysis of the world-wide research efforts concerning Leishmaniasis Although leishmaniasis is of limited geographic distribution it attracts a wide research interest.
Document clustering of scientific texts using citation contexts To conclude, our results show that citation sentences are a good alternative document representation, which provide additional topical information on the source document.
Cruciate ligament: density-equalizing mapping and scientometrics as a measure of the current scientific evaluation Self-citations lead to high average citations rates and distort further qualitative parameters (i.e. Impact-Factor, h-index). In this respect, the value of these parameters should be considered from a critical point of view. Furthermore, it might be useful to establish parameters which limit co-authorship and exclude self-citations to obtain more sustainable results.
An empirical analysis of nanotechnology research domains In this paper, the main output is a refine classification of nanotechnology domains including the horizontal comparisons and the regional strengths and weaknesses.
Toward a New Way of Mapping Scientific Fields: Authors' Competence for Publishing in Scholarly Journals Our empirical study shows the Spanish community to be characterized by high homogeneity or a narrow identity, as reflected by the limited number of scientists with prominent participation and the handful of journals in which the community interacts.
Maps on the Basis of the Arts & Humanities Citation Index: The Journals Leonardo and Art Journal Versus "Digital Humanities" as a Topic Our results suggest that the being-cited patterns in these cases do not indicate the provision of a knowledge base for new knowledge contributions at a research front, but may mean a source of cultural inspiration and influence.
Is Inequality Among Universities Increasing? Gini Coefficients and the Elusive Rise of Elite Universities Our results suggest an ongoing homogenisation in terms of publication and productivity patterns among the top-500 universities in the world. Our findings suggest that increased output steering from the policy side leads to a global conformation to performance standards. In terms of Marxist, neo-liberal, and Foucauldian accounts of NPM, these results seem to refute the thesis suggesting oligopolistic tendencies in the university system, at least in terms of output.
Patterns of Subject Mix in Higher Education Institutions: A First Empirical Analysis Using the AQUAMETH Database Despite its many limitations, this exploratory approach allows defining a classification of higher education institutions that accounts for a large share of differences between the analysed higher education institutions. The main result is the identification of a few classes of HEIs, which account for most of the differences between European universities concerning subject mix; thus, it has been possible to single out specialist and generalist institutions, with a rather clear-cut separation, and to show that there are basically two types of specialist institutions, the technical schools on one side, the institutions specialised in human and social sciences on the other. We therefore strongly suggest including the distinction between specialist and generalist institutions—and its operationalisation suggested in this paper in all typologies of HEIs and to compare only institutions in the same class, since differences between all kinds of indicators are indeed very large.
Global survey of factors influencing choice of surgical journal for manuscript submission "The majority of seasoned surgeons held the overall reputation of the journal as the most important factor followed by the impact factor when choosing a journal for manuscript submission."
Productivity and impact of astronomical facilities: A recent sample The authors conclude that it is of equal importance to recognize (a) that a very large number of papers also come from less famous facilities, (b) that a very large fraction of papers (and their authors) are concerned with the less highly-cited topics, (c) that many facilities are quite slow in achieving their eventual level of influence, and (d) that one really needs at least three years of citation data, not just one or two, to provide a fair picture of what is going on.
Interoperability of open access repositories in computer science and IT - an evaluation Although none of the repositories is 100 per cent visible, the picture is quite encouraging as most of the repositories are visible in popular search engines like Google, MSN and Yahoo.
Evaluating Iranian newspapers' web sites using correspondence analysis The present research findings provide an evaluation of Iranian newspaper web sites status in terms of their functions and performance on the web. Results show that most Iranian newspaper web sites do not act successfully on the web and need much attention. The persons in charge and web sites designers should pay much attention to them and make an attempt to abate the problems and disadvantages in order to gain users' satisfaction.
Using an institutional repository to address local-scale needs: a case study at Purdue University The paper finds that the local-scale projects that address the more immediate needs of researchers have the potential to increase the utility of institutional repositories and attract the submission of new content.
On the current obsession with publication statistics However, when the assignment of a large grant or a significant appointment is being considered, it is surely imperative to obtain a sound assessment rather than rely on statistics that are inherently unfair and easy to manipulate.
Why with bibliometrics the Humanities does not need to be the weakest link Indicators for research evaluation based on citations, library holdings, and productivity measures Over-all it appeared that Humanities research lends itself to bibliometric analysis no less than the other sciences. However, the analytic methods have to be adjusted to the specifics of the Humanities and to availability of current data. For assessment indicators to be representative, fair, and relevant, we had to stretch the use of available citation data beyond what is usually done in standard citation analysis.
Highly cited non-journal publications in political science, economics and psychology: a first exploration In principle, it has been shown that it is possible to identify top-cited publications other than WoS publications, particularly non-journal publications, within fields in the social and behavioral sciences. The present preliminary analyses yielded interesting insights into modern citing behavior and the importance of various types of documents in the three fields. Although the present study has been limited to three disciplines in the social and behavioral sciences, the approach seems suited for applications in other disciplines in which non-journal document types constitute an important part of the output, such as fields in the humanities, in other social and behavioral sciences, but also in fields such as mathematics, information science, parts of biology, and engineering.
Croatian scholarly productivity 1991-2005 measured by journals indexed in Web of Science The purpose of this research was to determine the productivity of Croatian scientists publishing from Croatian institutions across all scholarly fields through the status of journals they publish in as indexed by WoS.
Are highly cited papers more international? The results suggest that international collaboration is a less important factor contributing to high impact in research specialities, and stronger contributing to high impact in papers from small countries, and from the cities and institutions within them.
Applying the h-index in exploring bibliometric properties of elite marketing scholars The current paper has shown that the top producers in each of the four most prestigious journals in marketing have median h-indices between nine and 11.
Characteristic scores and scales in a Lotkaian framework Exact formulae for the Glänzel–Schubert CSS are given in the continuous infinite Lotkaian framework and their relation with the h-index is presented.
How much the shared ocean or lake basins connect the researchers in neighbouring countries? Although historical and other problems between neighbouring countries (including rivalry between them (Schubert and Schubert 2009)) are preventing collaborative research on the connecting topic, the existing collaborative research has a large impact on the research of the topic. In summary, the collaboration between the neighbouring countries on the specific mutual problem is following the benefits already documented for the general studies, and increasing the visibility and impact of the research in a country (Russel 1998; Glänzel 2001; Leta and Chaimovich 2002). Conclusively, the collaborative research is a demand for boosting the research in smaller and less developed countries, but the larger and developed countries have also the benefit from such collaboration. Hopefully, such collaboration will be stimulated even better in the future.
A bibliometric analysis of world volatile organic compounds research trends In this study dealing with VOCs SCI papers, we obtained some significant points on the worldwide research trends throughout the period from 1992 to 2007.
A content analysis of referees' comments: how do comments on manuscripts rejected by a high-impact journal and later published in either a low- or high-impact journal differ? As the results of the analysis show, the probability for the publication of a rejected manuscript in a high-impact journal is thus greatest when the areas "Relevance of contribution" (for the journal, scientific advancement, etc.) and "Design/Conception” (of the study) scarcely have negative comments in the reviews.
Acceleration of citing behavior after the millennium? Exemplary bibliometric reference analyses for psychology journals Thus, the talk that has been circulating among psychology colleagues and students on the potential millennium effects on citing behavior in the sciences (which can, however, become a self-fulfilling prophecy) are not confirmed—at least for psychology journals.
Uncovering excellence in academic rankings: a closer look at the Shanghai ranking Our results highlight some of the conceptual and methodological problems with ranking higher education institutions, and warn against the use of one-dimensional measures which can be misleading due to oversimplification. Our analysis shows that for the majority of the institutions in our sample, their ranking in the ARWU proceeds from the combination of two different and uncorrelated aspects of research performance. As a result, changing the relative weight placed upon these two factors significantly alters the ranking.
Positioning knowledge: schools of thought and new knowledge creation By applying performance measures to positioning in and around schools of thought, we reveal that where knowledge is positioned has a significant impact on its performance.
Swedish biomedical PhD examination: an international forum and a proposed procedure for Europe The Swedish thesis examination system offers a model for international cross-fertilisation.
Mapping of science journals based on h-similarity Journal clustering based on h-similarity and complemented with the prototyping routine provided well-conceivable results that are both compatible with and further refine existing taxonomies of science.
On the prevalence and scientific impact of duplicate publications in different scientific fields (1980-2007) The paper provides clear evidence that the prevalence of duplicate papers is low and, more importantly, that the scientific impact of such papers is below average.
Research Output in Immunology Journals from Chinese Authors: 10-year Survey of Literature In conclusion, China's immunology research developed rapidly in the last ten years. Also, the results of this study imply China falls behind the developed countries in the field. It is therefore important for China to galvanize research activity toward the production of high levels research.
Integrative Approach to Quality Assessment of Medical Journals Using Impact Factor, Eigenfactor, and Article Influence Scores The rank order of medical journals changes depending on whether IF, AIS or ES is used. All of these metrics are sensitive to the number of citable items published by journals. Consumers should thus consider all of these metrics rather than just IF alone in assessing the influence and importance of medical journals in their respective disciplines. The present study indicates that over the past 8 years most medical journals (77% evaluated in this study) have increased their IF.
Citations of ETR&D and related journals, 1990-2004 The results provide an in-depth, quantitative view of informal connections within the field via the citation record.
Citation Analysis and Bibliometric Research in the Field of Ergonomics This article has reviewed bibliometric research in the ergonomics field, ranging from seminal work on content analysis and citation indexing to some of the latest articles describing ergonomics journal lists and longitudinal impact factor trends.
Understanding the impact of public policy on cancer research: A bibliometric approach The difficulty in countries which have developed ‘bottom up’ public policy is that there is a more complicated connection between public policies, funding and research activity, i.e. there is less hypothecation along disease specific boundaries. In the pursuit of fair and equitable cancer research policies the application of scientometrics provides an important perspective.
A non-linear index to evaluate a journal's scientific impact This study tackled the definition of a bibliometric indicator that concludes the IF with the side performance indicators of a scientific journals namely the Immediacy Index (II), the Cited half life (Cd-hl) and the Citing half-life (Cg-hl). We introduced a new standard measure (threshold -1.5) for the evaluation of each journal, which has taken us towards the direction of using indirect comparison for the journals. We created a global factor called CD which includes the four (4) most significant factors, which, according to evaluated results, is considered to be sounder than those of IF.
Mapping of Indian neuroscience research: A scientometric analysis of research output during 1999-2008 India is far behind China, Brazil and South Korea in terms of publication output, citation quality and share of international papers in neurosciences. There is an urgent need to substantially increase the research activities in the field of neurosciences in India. There should be a substantial increase in international collaboration to increase the output and also to improve the quality of research.
Self-citation in Chinese biomedical journals However, a certain amount of self-citation is reasonable and necessary. To a certain extent, an absence of self-citation indicates that a journal lacks stability and continuity in content. It is both reasonable and necessary for good journals to have a certain amount of self-citation.
Write when hot - submit when not: seasonal bias in peer review or acceptance? In sum, the current analysis might be of value to contributors seeking to enhance their chances of getting their work published in a specific journal, and to editors who need to manage the rhythm of research endeavours and yet seek to do so in a manner that is both fair and stimulates quality.
Humanities and social science journals: a pilot study of eight US associations For this set of HSS journals the figures derived for cost/page published do confirm that an immediate switch to the OA (author/producer pays for publication of their peer-reviewed article) publishing model being deployed and experimented with more broadly within STM publishing would not be sustainable for this group of journals, if author fees are expected to cover the publishing cost/article.
The economic downturn and libraries: an international survey "Despite the potentially depressing story that might have emerged, the tone of the responses was upbeat."
Trends in worldwide nanotechnology patent applications: 1991 to 2008 The worldwide growth rate of the number of nanotechnology patent applications between 2000 and 2008 is about 34.5% (Fig. 1).
Scientific publications in cardiology and cardiovasology journals from Chinese authors in various parts of North Asia: 10-year survey of literature The total number of articles from the three major regions of China increased significantly from 1998 to 2007. The number of articles published per year from the ML have exceeded those from TW and HK. However, the quality of articles from TW and HK is better than that from ML.
Science Policy and the Internationalisation of Research in Portugal Portugal has made progress in several international dimensions of its science base. It has set international policy objectives for its academic and research community, along with instruments, programmes, and funds to implement them.
SUPERSTAR EXTINCTION Neither a mechanical story whereby ongoing collaborative teams struggle to replace the skills that have gone missing, nor a gatekeeping story where stars merely serve as conduits for tangible resources is sufficient to explain our results.
Sources of funding for Nobel Prize-winning work: public or private? Overall, very diverse sources amounting to a total of 64 different listed sponsors supported Nobel-related work. A few public institutions, in particular the U.S. National Institutes of Health (with n=26 funded papers) and the National Science Foundation (with n=17 papers), stood out for their successful record for funding exceptional research. However, Nobel-level work arose even from completely unfunded research, especially when institutions offered a protected environment for dedicated scientists.
On the meaning of the h-index One basic conclusion from this study is that the square root of the total number of citations that an individual receives very nearly coincides with twice his or her h-index.
Singaporean Social Science Journals: Creating a Regional Voice or Scrambling to Reach the Top? The result is a missed opportunity at applying some form of delinking strategy as recommended by Samir Amin in situations of dependency, be they economic or intellectual. Thus it would appear that Singapore's newfound status as a member of the semi-periphery or marginal member of the core has not resulted in journal strategies that seek to upset the current dominance of core social science.
Scientific Collaboration between Russia and the EU Countries: A Bibliometric Analysis In the field of social sciences, Russia continues to collaborate quite actively with five Eastern European states: Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Slovenia. Interestingly, Great Britain as the United Kingdom disappears altogether from the map of international collaboration in the field of social sciences.
In Search of the Classics: A Study of the Impact of JPIM Papers from 1984 to 2003 Impactful research and classic papers are the result not only of innovative ideas and meticulous research but also of active efforts on the part of researchers to diffuse their results in the community of practitioners and academics.
Mapping the Evolution of Scientific Fields From our investigation, we have shown that long lived communities tend to be larger, and are associated with a higher number of papers.
Reference Accuracy in Peer-Reviewed Pediatric Orthopaedic Literature Citation and quotation errors are common in the pediatric orthopaedic literature.
Scientific dishonesty-questionnaire to doctoral students in Sweden In this investigation less than 1/3 of the doctoral students in Sweden had heard about scientific dishonesty. The lack of a completely written policy concerning avoiding scientific dishonesty and other unethical conduct is obvious. Our recommendation is that such a policy should exist in every unit where research is conducted and all persons who are doctoral students should be informed about this policy.
The Future of Scholarly Journal Publishing among Social Science and Humanities Associations REPORT ON A STUDY FUNDED BY A PLANNING GRANT FROM THE ANDREW W. MELLON FOUNDATION As an initial in-depth business review of a sample of HSS journals, the report further clarifies some of the key differences between STM and HSS journals, articulates recent journal performance, makes tentative conclusions based on this sample, and proposes further questions that need to be answered to support a shift to OA business models that are sustainable across HSS journal publishing.
AN EXAMINATION OF TRENDS AND IMPACT OF AUTHORSHIP COLLABORATION IN LOGISTICS RESEARCH Collectively, these results demonstrate that scholars in the logistics field value collaborative research. Additionally, this research has examined the potential impact of collaboration on article citations. Future research could also examine the trends in authorship collaboration across a variety of disciplines.
Exploring a New Model for Preprint Server: A Case Study of CSPO CSPO is a state-led preprint server that may provide lessons for other countries especially developing countries.
Citer analysis as a measure of research impact: library and information science as a case study In this study we have provided an initial investigation into the idea of citer analysis, where the number of citers serves as the basis of research impact assessment and not the number of citations.
Patent activity on water pollution and treatment in China-a scientometric perspective This paper intends to study water pollution and treatment patents filed at China since 1985.
Making sense of the evolution of a scientific domain: a visual analytic study of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey research The integrative procedure is expected to empower and strengthen analytical and sense making capabilities of scientists, learners, and researchers to understand the dynamics of the evolution of scientific domains in a wide range of scientific fields, science studies, and science policy evaluation and planning.
The distribution of the uncitedness factor and its functional relation with the impact factor Based on the fact that, for a set of journals, IF (any impact factor, irrespective of the publication or citation period) as well as U (the uncitedness factor, i.e., the fraction of the papers in a journal that are not cited) are averages, the CLT could be applied to reach the following results:
The role of the h-index and the characteristic scores and scales in testing the tail properties of scientometric distributions This study has shown how appropriate tests can be used to test statistical reliability issues of the h-index as well as the h-index conformity of the h-core.
Challenges in the study of Cuban scientific output The results presented in this paper confirm the possibility to use Scopus in order to obtain a more objective picture of Cuban scientific output. The SJ&CR, in this case, offers an important set of indicators.
Citation expectations: are they realized? Study of the Matthew index for Russian papers published abroad We have studied visible traces of subtle processes in the universe of science communication that lead to reallocation of credit and redistribution of citations to scientific works. As for the macro-view, on the discipline (field) level, Matthew index appeared to be negative for chemistry and slightly above zero for physics. Matthew index stands in an important position, serving as a link between one method and another.
Can we talk? How the cognitive neuroscience of attention emerged from neurobiology and psychology, 1980-2005 The analyses support this hypothesis.
An advanced diffusion model to identify emergent research issues: the case of optoelectronic devices The approach of alternate utilisation of different bibliometric and/or informetric methods and scientific expertise helps validating and completing the results obtained at each step of the work as well as to get the experts personal input on the matter at hand.
Tracking modularity in citation networks This study analyzed basic process how clustering of citation network proceeds.
Does Urquhart's Law hold for consortial use of electronic journals? Hypotheses of the study were proved and, hence, the question in the title of this paper can be answered: “Urquhart's Law holds for the consortial use of electronic journals”. Findings of this study can be used in consortial collection development and management.
Web of Science with the Conference Proceedings Citation Indexes: the case of computer science This paper studied the effects of the extension of WOS with the Conference Proceedings Citation Indexes. The results based on WOS show a considerable increase in both publication and citation counts. We recommend further studies in this area examining the effects of conference publi-cations in Scopus and comparing the researchers' publication lists with the items indexed by the Web of Science.
Maps of science as interdisciplinary discourse: co-citation contexts and the role of analogy Analysis of the contexts by cue words, rather than technical terminology, helps reveal the authors' motivations and thinking in making the connection.
Co-inlinking to a municipal Web space: a webometric and content analysis Co-inlinking to municipal Web sites was shown to follow geographic patterns, and co-inlinking was strongest within the (geographically-organised) functional regions, suggesting that the main trend was for geo-political linking.
Rete-netzwerk-red: analyzing and visualizing scholarly networks using the Network Workbench Tool The article concludes with a discussion of related work that aims to provide practically useful and theoretically grounded cyberinfrastructure in support of computational scientometrics research, education and practice. Ultimately, a true marketplace-like cyberinfrastructure might result that makes it easy to share and use datasets, algorithms, and tools across scientific boundaries. Ideally, this marketplace is free for anybody to use and contribute to, enabling and harnessing the power of millions of minds for studies in biology, physics, social science, and many other disciplines but also for the study of science itself (Börner, submitted).
Bibliographic characteristics of the research output of pediatric anesthesiologists in Canada We describe the bibliographic characteristics of the research output of pediatric anesthesiologists in Canada.
On the robustness of alternative rankings methodologies: Australian and New Zealand economics departments, 1988 to 2002 This article evaluated the robustness of rankings of 25 Australian and seven New Zealand economics teaching departments for 1988 to 2002 and 1996 to 2002 using different rankings methodologies, and compared the results with the rankings obtained in Macri and Sinha (2006).
The effectiveness of the practice of correction and republication in the biomedical literature Correction and republication is a marginally effective biblioremediative practice. The data suggest that inappropriate citation behavior may be partly attributable to author ignorance. The scholarly community would surely benefit if measures to alert users about corrected literature were improved.
Analysis of Citations to Biomedical Articles Affected by Scientific Misconduct The judgment of scientific misconduct and the publication of subsequent corrigenda (notices of findings of misconduct, retractions or corrections) in PubMed did not seem to influence the number of citations to such affected articles, which were similar to those of a scientifically drawn comparison group.
Behind the shroud: a survey of editors in ecology and evolution Editors play a prominent role in the peer-review process, increasing the value of scientific studies by enabling publi- cation of those deemed to be of merit.
Is European Accounting Research Fairly Reflected in Academic Journals? An Investigation of Possible Non-mainstream and Language Barrier Biases Globally, the answer is negative, since the results show that papers presented at EAA congresses are significantly more diversified than the content of journals, both in terms of research domains and the geographical origin of authors.
Publication rates of Australian academic psychologists The publication rates have potential value in allowing academic psychologists to compare their publication rate with that of their peers, in helping universities make hiring and promotion decisions, and in helping organisations that provide research grants evaluate the publications records of grant applicants. Hence, one might conclude that publica- tion rates for academic psychologists are similar in Australia and the United States.
Credit where credit is due? Regulation, research integrity and the attribution of authorship in the health sciences This paper describes a broad range of beliefs, values and practice norms held by health science researchers with respect to attribution of authorship and author responsibility for scientific publications.
Do journals accept too many papers? Using a simple duopoly model, I have shown that how the error in the review process leads journals to choose a lower cut-off on observed quality than the one optimal for them collectively.
Patterns of web linking to heterogeneous groups of companies The case of stock exchange indexes The findings from the study suggest the possibility of using co-link analysis to distinguish information-based industries from traditional industries.
Culture of open access in the University of Kashmir: a researcher's viewpoint Researchers at the University of Kashmir mostly rely on web resources to carry out their research programs as they are effective tools for increasing the scope of their research in contrast to the immense restrictions faced in accessing information through the traditional print mode. Although the concept of OA has gained momentum in other parts of the world, it is still in the early stages among scholars at the University of Kashmir, thus signifying the need to increase their awareness of OA. Furthermore, library professionals have to play a key role in making researchers aware of the benefits of OA.
Solid-State Chemistry in France: Structures and Dynamics of a Scientific Community since World War II This case study has shown the mutability of the French community of solid-state chemists since World War II. This disciplinary comparison proffers three lessons at epistemic, social, and identity levels. First, chemists were more interested in the making of real matter—the original dirty piece of matter—whereas physicists focused on measuring and modeling subtle phenomena. Second, the degrees of making, realism, dirt, and individuality were inversely proportional to those of prestige.
Characteristics and publication patterns of theses from a Peruvian medical school In this study, most of the published theses were in Spanish, published in local journals and indexed in LIPECS. The percentage of published theses in biomedical journals at this university is comparable with those from developed countries. Finally, more studies should be performed to understand the lack of publication in undergraduates.
Citation analysis of identical consensus statements revealed journal-related bias The prominence of the journal where an article is published, measured by its impact factor, influences the number of citations that the article will gather over time.
Extending the Mertonian Norms: Scientists' Subscription to Norms of Research We have identified what appear to be two additional norm/counternorm pairs beyond Merton's original set: governance/administration and qual-ity/quantity. This finding provides further support for our recommendation that the orig-inal Mertonian normative set be expanded to include these two pairs. If researchers were, instead, to make use of principles and survey items as imperfect but useful indicators of some of the broadest normative concepts in sci-ence, then scientists' normative orientations, measured by these indica-tors, can contribute to analyses and discussions of ethical issues and re-lated aspects of scientific work.
Patterns of Citations of Open Access and Non-Open Access Conservation Biology Journal Papers and Book Chapters For scholarly publications in conservation biology, only book chapters had an OA citation advantage, and OA did not increase the number of citations papers or chapters received from authors in developing countries. Overall, OA is unlikely to result in a greater number of citations per publication for conservation biology authors unless they are invited to write book chapters. Additionally, it does not appear, on citation-based evidence, that OA publications are used more by researchers in developing countries. Nevertheless, OA may provide other benefits that could emerge in a multivariate analysis of a range of uses of papers and chapters other than citations.
How much influence do economics professors have on rankings? The case of Australia and New Zealand We compare the per capita research productivity of professors of teaching economics departments using a variety of criteria. We also compare the per capita research productivity of the professors with the productivity of all faculty members.
Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) grant impact on recipient academic career SAGES grants have a strong impact on recipient academic careers. Future funding, society activism, and publication are favorably influenced by these grants. SAGES should continue to support research with this successful mechanism as a necessary tool for the academic growth of recipients and development of research deemed important by SAGES.
The science of ecological economics A content analysis of Ecological Economics, 1989-2004 Aggregated contributions represent the daily workings of a field of study seeking to stake out its territory on the intellectual landscape. We clearly saw expression of an ecological economics worldview as described both in the Aims and Scope of the journal, and outlined in the broader debate on the topic of ecological economics. The addition of more submissions from social and biophysical scientists using social and biophysical theories and methods, including policy studies, would add fruit-ful breadth to Ecological Economics.
CROSS COUNTRY COMPARISON OF SCHOLARLY E-READING PATTERNS IN AUSTRALIA, FINLAND, AND THE UNITED STATES When university libraries provide access to substantial e-journal collections and adequate infrastructure, academic staff read many e-articles that help improve their research, teaching, and current awareness. In all countries, e-articles were an integral part of the academic process, with multiple purposes for reading and multiple methods used for locating articles. Although there were some differences in the amount of reading and patterns of reading among academic scholars in the three countries of Australia, Finland, and the United States, most differences can be accounted for by the academic discipline of the reader.
Parenting and research productivity: New evidence and methods Our findings suggest that children account for part of the productivity gender gap in sociology and linguistics.
Weighted Hybrid Clustering by Combining Text Mining and Bibliometrics on a Large-Scale Journal Database We proposed an ANMI-based weighting scheme for hybrid clustering and applied this scheme to a real application to obtain the structural mapping of a large-scale journal database.
Constructing Business Profiles Based on Keyword Patterns on Web Sites The method of analyzing product keywords on company Web sites was productive.
Contextual Cocitation: Augmenting Cocitation Analysis and its Applications This work represents a research effort towards augmenting the possible ways of, and methods for, understanding the rela-tionships developed when an author cites the work of his or her predecessors and colleagues. In bridging the gap between traditional cocitation analysis and studies of the semantic context of citations, the result is an objective consistent approach for determining the strength of the relationship cre-ated between two cited works by the citing author, coined as contextual cocitation. In the process, it is hoped that we have indicated the great potential that contextual cocitation has for developing new approaches in the fields of informetrics and library science, as its conceptual impact reaches as far as cur-rent conceptions of the granularity of research itself and the surprising impact the decision to cite can have.
A Robust Benchmark for the h- and g-Indexes In this work we have presented some statistics descriptive of the distribution of values of h-index and g-index registered for all scientists in the hard science areas of the Italian university system over a 5-year window. These data provide useful information for those who wish to compare their own performance with that of colleagues in the same subject field, provided they are suitably aware of the methodological assumptions involved in the dataset and the elaborations developed. There is an evident need for deeper investigation that analyzes the critical issue of varying sectorial intensity, in both publication and citations, and proposes a new indicator that reduces its distorting effects.
Using team science to address health disparities: MacArthur network as case example Our experience in team science has been rich and rewarding.
Measuring Quality in Communication Doctoral Education Using Network Analysis of Faculty-Hiring Patterns Communication program prestige is not simply or primarily a matter of scholarly productivity or university prestige.
Environment for nursing scholarship and journal impact factors in Taiwan It is recommended that, where impact factors are used, they not be the only quality measure. A larger and more representative study is also recommended. An in-depth study is recommended in order to examine the nature and content of the international publications of Taiwanese researchers, in comparison with their national publications, to better understand the relationship between the current policies and the extent to which nursing science and scholarship are advancing in this country and the extent to which the research produced is useful in addressing the health needs of the population.
Research Misconduct Policies of Social Science Journals and Impact Factor Our most important finding is that the impact factor of a scientific journal is significantly associated with whether the journal has a formal misconduct policy.
Influences on Authorship Issues: An Evaluation of Giving Credit A significant context-dependency was observed in the responses for the exact same substantive contributions.
Geographic Origin of Publications in Radiological Journals as a Function of GDP and Percentage of GDP Spent on Research In conclusion, the importance of governmental funding for medical research is emphasized by the positive correlation between the output of radiology publications and the percentage of GDP spent on research by a country. Globally, the United States is the most productive in terms of total output of quality radiologic research, but when corrected for population size or percentage of GDP spent on research, small European countries appear the most productive.
Identifying duplicate content using statistically improbable phrases SIPs have been shown to provide a more sensitive method of duplicate identification than eTBLAST, the only tool currently used to identify duplicate citations.
How to use indicators to measure scientific performance: a balanced approach "First, the data show that the use of third-party funding as a main indicator of scientific performance gives rise to distorting incentives, because above a certain threshold, the effect of additional TPF is even negative."
Identification of converging research areas using publication and citation data The results presented in this article show that converging research can successfully be identified using search strategies applied to publication and citation data.
Practical research proposal and publication profiling Evaluators can use research profiling to understand the role of particular research endeavors and to study community evolution.
Which scientific elites? On the concentration of research funds, publications and citations This paper has analysed concentration measures of research funding, production and citations at the researcher level. Finally, this paper also suggests that one should take care in defining the 'elite' of a scientific disci-pline as it can differ appreciably depending on the indicator used. That being said, one ob-serves a greater stability of the elites identified using the different indicators in the NSE than in the SSH.
A structural analysis of collaboration between European research institutes In this article we tried to give an answer to several questions on the relation between collaboration and performance or productivity of European research institutions within the perspective of different research profiles.
Collaboration in EU Framework Programmes - the case of the social sciences and humanities Despite the most visible effect of the FPs in increasing the opportunities for collaboration, long traditions of collaboration and a degree of trust play a significant role in the institutions' choices of collaboration partners. At the country level, proximity, in geographic, linguistic, cultural, historical and strategic terms, plays an important role in the choice of collaboration partners. As less than a third of all partners belong to core networks, it is vital to open up these networks to new participants.
Bibliometric study of journal publications on analytical chemistry 2000-2007: publication productivity and journal preferences by country One clear conclusion of this study is that the contribution of China has increased greatly in the last five years; it now has one of the highest publication rates of any country.
Semantic Web: Who is who in the field - a bibliometric analysis By comparing highly cited articles in 2000–04 and 2005–09, one can see the research shifting from core AI-related logic programming, logic reasoning and theory proving, to ontological languages (e.g. RDF, OWL), semantic data conversion and ontology mapping. One may therefore predict that, within the next 10 years, the following topics may become mainstreams in this field: Creating, converting and enriching semantic data; Mining semantic RDF/OWL graphs; Simple reasoning; Benchmarking and evaluating ontologies; Interfacing SW; Utilizing social web (Web 2.0).
What lies behind the averages and significance of citation indicators in different disciplines? A second conclusion is that the averages of the SJR and JIF indicators are strongly correlated with the average number of references to recent papers included in the database.
Co-citations as citation endorsements and co-links as link endorsements In this paper, we formalized the notion of citation endorsement and link endorsement, and studied some interesting features of such citations and links.
The Evolving Social Network of Marketing Scholars We believe this database can be of much value to researchers interested in the evolution of social networks over time, as well as the specific evolution of the marketing discipline.
Identifying a Set of 'Core' Journals in Occupational Health, Part 1: Lists Proposed by Others The current ar-ticle is intended to help EOH professionals decide which international journals feature most prominently, while at the same time, offering comprehensive coverage in a practically manageable amount of reading each month.
Influencing scientists' collaboration and productivity patterns through new institutions: University research centers and scientific and technical human capital The results presented in this study suggest that affiliation with a university research center affects the behavior of affiliated faculty in ways consistent with the common emphases and goals in such center programs: increased productivity, collaboration (including with industry and with colleagues from other institutions), and interdisciplinarity.
Research collaboration at a distance: Changing spatial patterns of scientific collaboration within Europe Our results clearly show that co-publication patterns are geographically localised.
Towards understanding integration in research and research policy Increasing the level of integration has become an important policy objective for European research.
The Eigenfactor Metrics™: A Network Approach to Assessing Scholarly Journals Accounting for the origin of citations takes advantage of the wealth of information available in networks like the scholarly literature and the Web.
The Declining Value of Subscription-based Abstracting and Indexing Services in the New Knowledge Dissemination Era Scientific sampling in this study proves that the bibliographic data of scholarly journals currently being published are completely or nearly completely posted on the Internet.
Schizophrenia in Medline 1950-2006: A bibliometric investigation "The quantity of schizophrenia research during 57 years has kept pace with the total medical literature."
The role of mentorship in protege performance Our findings therefore reveal interesting nuances to the rising-star hypothesis.
A generation of astronomical telescopes, their users, and publications Within astronomy since 1960, at least two things have remained stable, the number of journals (about 20) in which we publish (but with one major merger) and the number of telescopes (optical, radio, and lifted above the earth’s surface) that we have used—a total of something like 500, both in the 1960s and recently, perhaps larger than most would have guessed.
Distribution of changes in impact factors over time Regardless of concerns over the usefulness of JIFs as a tool to evaluate scientific research, I believe that the changes in this indicator deserve more attention from researchers. The results obtained here are relevant for authors and could influence their decision about where to publish their papers. The approach used here can be applied to other scientometric indicators based on citations, such as the h-index and the half-life.
Dominance dimension: a common parametric formulation for integer-valued scientific impact indices As mentioned above, the dominance dimension principle may contribute to impact analysis in at least two respects.
Modeling the growth of Indian and Chinese liquid crystals literature as reflected in Science Citation Index (1997-2006) On comparing the results obtained from actual statistical fits of the different growth models and the most appropriate growth model likely to fit, as reflected in the plots of second growth rate function of liquid crystals literature during the period 1997–2006, it is con- cluded that Power and growth models are likely to be fully applicable in growth of Indian, and linear, power and growth models fully applicable in growth of Chinese liquid crystals literature
Comparative analysis between impact factor and h-index for pharmacology and psychiatry journals The IF and h-index can be completely complementary when evaluating journals of the same scientific discipline. More generally, and as shown in our study of two very small samples, the rating of journals starting from the h-index may represent an interesting and complementary alternative to the well-known rating based on the IF. In our study, IF and h-index were exactly and strictly comparable and thus complementary in the rating of journals of the same discipline.
Characterizing knowledge diffusion of Nanoscience & Nanotechnology by citation analysis Our findings show that N&N, after decades of growth, has matured into a coherent, dynamic and highly interdisciplinary entity.
A suggested method for the measurement of world-leading research (illustrated with data on economics) On balance, I conclude that for its size the UK comes out fairly strongly on objective criteria. This is a substantial achievement for the United Kingdom. It suggests that outstanding work—a set of genuinely world-leading articles—comes from a wide range of sources (literally speaking, 21 different universities in Table 1) and by implication that it might be a mistake to concentrate funding narrowly¹⁵ on a tiny number of universities.
On the relation between Schubert's h-index of a single paper and its total number of received citations Based on Schubert's comment (last lines of page 561), both models (2) and (3) are statistically fitted but—as shown here—only (2) explains Schubert's functional relationship between the h-index of a single paper and its total number of received citations, in an informetric way.
A reference-based Hirschian similarity measure for journals It was demonstrated on another example that Hirsch's concept of h-index stretches far beyond of its original scope “to quantify an individual's scientific research output”. The h-similarity is easy to calculate from the publicly available data of the Journal Citation Reports, and allows for plausible interpretation. No obvious artifacts or systematic weaknesses have been found. Further studies including cluster analysis based on h-similarity, or longitudinal studies of the standardized impact factors would be welcome.
Going much beyond the Durfee square: enhancing the h T index In this paper, a corrected quality measure leading to a substitute or mock hm index which can be easily computed from traditionally compiled bibliometric indicators is compared with the newly introduced tapered hT index. The hm index is very simple to compute from already available bibliometric indicators and should be more versatile than the h or hT indices in that it gives the best balance between quantity and quality; indeed perhaps better than all the other variants proposed so far (Liu and Rousseau 2009).
Is there a place for a mock h-index? In this paper, a proposal for generating a corrected quality measure leading to a substitute or mock h-index which can be easily computed from traditionally complied bibliometric indicators is presented.
The 100 most prolific economists using the p-index In this paper, a corrected quality measure leading to a performance index derived from a substitute or mock hm index which can be easily computed from traditionally compiled bibliometric indicators is used to rank a list of 100 leading economists.
Computer science research articles: the locations of different section types, and a proposal for standardization in the structure The use of standard structures is still uncommon in computer science articles. Nonetheless, certain types of sections are consistently placed in the same standard places in many articles.
The mathematical review system: does reviewer status play a role in the citation process? Bibliometric evidence points to the contrary: Singularity Theorists of lower status (junior researchers) have reviewed slightly more well-cited articles (2–5 citations, excluding author self-citations) than their higher status counterparts (senior researchers). Our bibliometric data does not provide sufficient evidence to suggest that the status of a reviewer is strongly linked to citer motivation; thus we considered it important to examine the qualitative nature of some reviews. This research opens the door for comparisons to other editorial review systems, such as book reviews written in the social sciences or humanities.
Should you believe in the Shanghai ranking? Hence, our view is that the Shanghai ranking, in spite of the media coverage it receives, does not qualify as a useful and pertinent tool to discuss the "quality" of academic institutions, let alone to guide the choice of students and family or to promote reforms of higher education systems. Therefore, it does not seem unfair to say that the Shanghai ranking is a poorly conceived quick and dirty exercise. We outline the type of work that should be undertaken to offer sound alternatives to the Shanghai ranking.
Scholarly output: print and digital - in teaching and research In conclusion, it can be seen that the picture relating to the use of scholarly output in research and teaching is largely a mixed one. There is much innovative research and development underway by those who are most directly involved, that is, e-learning developers, educational technologists and librarians. And although a number of academics are undoubtedly actively involved, the wider population in HE cannot, as yet, be regarded as “champions" of all aspects of changing scholarly communication.
Not So Fast: Inflation in Impact Factors Contributes to Apparent Improvements in Journal Quality We found that over the past decade, works appearing in ecology journals have increased their number of references by nearly seven per paper.
LACK OF GENDER BIAS IN CITATION RATES OF PUBLICATIONS BY DENDROCHRONOLOGISTS: WHAT IS UNIQUE ABOUT THIS DISCIPLINE? "We suggest that the high productivity of female dendrochronologists and a pattern of co-authoring with male colleagues bring the work of females to the attention of their male colleagues and thus eliminate the gender bias in citation of women's work common to other disciplines."
A meta-evaluation of scientific research proposals: Different ways of comparing rejected to awarded applications The results of the statistical analyses show that the mean productivity and the mean citation impact of awarded applicants are higher prior and subsequent to application than the mean productivity and the mean impact of rejected applicants.
Peer review and the h-index: Two studies Taken together, the findings from the research indicate that individual ranking by peer assessment and their h-index or variants was generally good. Results for the RAE 2008 gave correlations between GPA and successive versions of the h-index which varied in strength, except for anthropology where, it is suggested detailed cited reference searches must be undertaken to maximise citation counts.
Effect of cooperation between Chinese scientific journals and international publishers on journals' impact factor The IF data from 23 selected SCIE- or SCI-indexed, Chinese English-language physics, chemistry, and mathematics journals cooperating with international publishers for up to 10 years, suggests that cooperation provides no obvious benefit on a journal's IF, no matter which publisher a journal works with, or the length of the cooperation history. It is shown that cooperation through distribution only, rather than the editorial process, has a weak influence on the quality of a journal, and therefore, their IF only changes a little, even though their papers can be accessed by worldwide users through the publishers' international distribution network. Therefore, for Chinese academic journals, and for local journals with low visibility, cooperation with international publishers is one step, but actively working on the quality of the journals is another – and more important – step.
Journal influence factors We performed a thorough comparison of four main indicators of journal influence, namely 2-year and 5-year impact factors, eigenfactor and article influence. The eigenfactor is the indicator with the highest deviation, concentration, and skewness and with the lowest entropy. The article influence measure is the most stable indicator across different disciplines, while the eigenfactor scores widely vary across fields. Finally, impact factors and article influence form a cluster of mutually correlated indicators, and eigenfactor and total number of citations produce similar journal rankings. As observed by Rousseau and STIMULATE 8 Group (2009), the association between article influence and impact factor and the fact that the former measure is freely accessible at eigenfactor.org with a limited temporal delay with respect to the publication in JCR are good news for developing countries who might have the resources to procure access to commercial data sources.
Growth of journals, articles and authors in malaria research This study indicates that in the area of malaria research, journals, articles, and authors increase exponentially. The equation that Articles = –39.2771 +3.61719*journals + 0.085882*Authors (R2 = 99.16%) may be used to predict the number of articles based on the number of journals and authors. This is perhaps due to interdisciplinary nature of research in malaria and related topics and high growth rates (exponential in nature!) of journals, articles and authors.
Hirsch-type approach to the 2nd generation citations The present paper demonstrates that the results of evaluation of particular papers substantially change when 2nd generation citations are used rather than 1st generation citations.
Measuring contextual citation impact of scientific journals Generally speaking, this metric assesses a journal's citation impact 'in context'. It enables the calculation of sensible citation impact measures of general or multidisciplinary journals such as the journals Nature or Science. The following issues await further research.
Conjugate partitions in informetrics: Lorenz curves, h-type indices, Ferrers graphs and Durfee squares in a discrete and continuous setting We have interpreted the discrete theory of partitions, conjugate partitions, Ferrers graph and Durfee square in informetrics.
The role of patenting activity for scientific research: A study of academic inventors from China's nanotechnology This paper contributes to the growing study on the relationship between patenting and publishing among faculty members with China's evidence in the field of nanotechnology. By further exploring the publishing-patenting relationship in the fixed-effects Poisson models, our findings support that faculty members who patent their research do not generate fewer publications and lower quality after patenting. It should be noted that the interaction between patenting and publishing is dual and complex, which deserves the further study.
Hirsch-type index of international recognition The h_int index is a useful tool to access the scientific record of an individual. It reflects broad international recognition of a scientist, and provides an objective tool to avoid artificial improvement of citation record by citations received from a narrow circle of co-workers.
Zipf's law and log-normal distributions in measures of scientific output across fields and institutions: 40 years of Slovenia's research as an example In sum, we have shown that the distributions of citations per publication for different institutions and research fields, as well as Slovenia as a whole, have Zipfian properties in that they can be fitted fairly accurately by a power law.
Consistent bibliometric rankings of authors and of journals We have defined a condition (Consistency) linking rankings of journals and rankings of papers that, we think, is very compelling.
A new approach to the metric of journals' scientific prestige: The SJR indicator This study has presented the development of the SJR indicator, a new metric of the scientific influence of scholarly journals aimed at use in conventional processes of research evaluation.
Citing-side normalization of journal impact: A robust variant of the Audience Factor The audience factor aims at neutralizing a main source of citation inequality across fields, the propensity to cite and to cite rapidly, while keeping another source of inequality onboard, the import-export of citations.
The h index research output measurement: Two approaches to enhance its accuracy We therefore do not think it would be wise to develop further variants of the h index in future, but it is useful to complement the h index with additional information in order to obtain a more complete and more reliable picture of the research output of a single scientist. These approaches can increase the accuracy of the h index research output measurement by giving information about a scientist's citation distribution.
Identifying research themes with weighted direct citation links Using shared references and co-citations as a way of weighting the strength of direct citations appears to be a useful tool for decomposing a network of papers. The strongest link approach, which only allows for the strongest links of each paper, produced interesting results with quite many and meaningful sub-domains of research. This paper has demonstrated that weighted direct citation analysis offers an interesting alternative to the co-citation approach that has dominated the field so far.
Caveats for the journal and field normalizations in the CWTS ("Leiden") evaluations of research performance In summary, the different normalizations have effects on the rankings in some cases more than others, but neither the differences in rankings nor the effects of the changes are always significant. However, caveat emptor: let the buyer of these evaluations be wary! Unfortunately, critical users of the evaluation reports of the CWTS cannot correct for the problems signaled above because of the confidentiality of the information.
Rivals for the crown: Reply to Opthof and Leydesdorff An open scientific debate on the advantages and disadvantages of different citation-based indicators of research performance is crucial for bibliometric performance assessment to be conducted in the most proper way. Having said this, we acknowledge that O&L also raise a valid and important point. At CWTS, we are currently revising our crown indicator in such a way that publications from different fields are weighed equally.
The citation speed index: A useful bibliometric indicator to add to the h index In this study we presented the citation speed index, a variant of the h index that can be a meaningful complement to the h index: whereas the h index calculation considers the impact of publications, the citation speed index is a measure of the speed with which the content of publications is noted by the scientific community (that is, the number of months since the first citation).
Croatian Medical Journal Citation Score in Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar In conclusion, significant difference in citation rate between Web of Science and Scopus was a result of the difference in coverage.
Are Shorter Article Titles More Attractive for Citations? Crosssectional Study of 22 Scientific Journals Longer titles seem to be associated with higher citation rates. This association is more pronounced for journals with high impact factors. Editors who insist on brief and concise titles should perhaps update the guide-lines for authors of their journals and have more flexibility regarding the length of the title.
Measuring science: Spatial investigation of academic opportunities in Belgium The paper proposes an alternative measure of scientific productivity: the scientific impact score for arrondissements. By taking account of the geographical context and multi-disciplinarity of science the analysis in this paper differs from existing bibliometric analyses by investigating knowledge spillover mechanisms through impact scores. Many aspects remain to be investigated. One line of investigation would extend the present work to the wider European level. Also, the geographical analysis could be enriched through the incorporation of measures of technological (dis)similarity, and examination of the flows of knowledge in similar scientific development areas.
Dialogue in or with the peer review? Evaluating research organizations in order to promote organizational learning Looking at these major changes in the organization of scientific work it may be time for research evaluation to look for new models.
Google Scholar as a tool for discovering journal articles in library and information science "Google Scholar cannot substitute for abstracting and indexing services in that it does not cover the complete literature of the field."
Conference Paper Selectivity and Impact First and foremost, computing researchers are right to view conferences as an important archival venue and use acceptance rate as an indicator of future impact. Papers in highly selective conferences—acceptance rates of 30% or less—should continue to be treated as first-class research contributions with impact comparable to, or better than, journal papers. Acceptance rates of 15%-20% seem optimal for generating the highest number of future citations for both the proceedings as a whole and the top papers submitted...
Characteristics and impact of grant-funded research: a case study of the library and information science field More importantly, this study shows that funded research did, indeed, have substantially higher impact and received quicker recognition on average than did normal research, at least in LIS and within the first decade of their citation history.
A cautionary bibliometric tale of two cities The authors caution care when describing the methods used in bibliometric analysis and when evaluating researchers from different institutions.
Describing national science and technology systems through a multivariate approach: country participation in the 6th Framework Programmes PCA has made possible to plot the percentage of subvention by each type of organization in each country.
A comparative study of research performance in nanotechnology for China's inventor-authors and their non-inventing peers Our findings indicate that patent-oriented research may produce better results. In the case of nanotechnology research in China, patent-oriented inventions and research paper are complement each other. Thus, there is no need to concern that increasing efforts on patent-oriented activities would compromise high quality research in Chinese universities. However, most research in Chinese universities lack of corporation participation and applications of their technology, which is an area where more attention and effort should be expended.
Citing and reading behaviours in high-energy physics Articles submitted to an Open Access subject repository, arXiv, receive 5 times more citations than articles which are not.
A two-dimensional approach to evaluate the scientific production of countries (case study: the basic sciences) Using the tailored scientometric indicators, PPPm and CPPm, instead of the absolute numbers of publication and citation, and developing a two-dimensional method which incorporates these indicators simultaneously, led to a rather fair comparison between different countries and revealed a novel positioning of countries considering their scientific output.
Modified collaborative coefficient: a new measure for quantifying the degree of research collaboration CC is an interesting measure of collaborative strength in a discipline, that has the merit of lying between 0 and 1 (unlike previous measures of collaboration) and tends to 0 as single-authored papers dominate.
Science and scientific collaboration in South Africa: apartheid and after South Africa since its colonial era had a focussed mission on the development of its scientific capacity and collaboration was considered as a means to achieve this.
Transition to postmodern science-related scientometric data The article suggests demography is one of the key driving factors of developments in the sciences and that the transition to the era of postmodern science can be traced to, and at least in part explained by, demographics and the bibliometric data of the sciences.
Scientific research in the Indian subcontinent: selected trends and indicators 1973-2007 comparing Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka with India, the local giant It seems that in relative terms Sri Lanka is the strongest scientific country of the four. This observation would confirm the fact that in general terms Sri Lanka is the most developed country among these four South Asian countries: it has the highest life expectancy, a considerably higher GDP per capita than the other three countries and a higher health expenditure per capita (Sadana et al. 2004). From a scientometric perspective we note the interesting observation that applying the Molinari approach (proposed for scientific institutions) to countries might favour smaller countries.
Establishment of paper assessment system based on academic disciplinary benchmarks The paper quality assessment system based on both TJU and 9-key University benchmarks were successfully established.
Probing the h-core: an investigation of the tail-core ratio for rank distributions In this article we have introduced the tail-core ratio in the Hirsch index framework.
How accurately does Thomas Kuhn's model of paradigm change describe the transition from the static view of the universe to the big bang theory in cosmology? Our results thus tend to indicate that there was not one scientific revolution in cosmology and that the paradigm shift occurred instead as a slow, piecemeal process.
The stability of the h-index As the ranking according to the h-index differs considerably across different databases we recommend that wherever possible at least two different databases should be consulted and the relative ranking should only be trusted if it is consistent between the databases.
South-South research collaboration of countries in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Firstly, research collaboration in the developing world is primarily a case of North-South collaboration and such collaboration is most likely to continue to be the dominant mode in years to come, even though South-South collaboration has entered the political agenda and is portrayed as an alternative to North-South collaboration.
Visibility of Korean science journals: an analysis between citation measures among international composition of editorial board and foreign authorship The findings demonstrate that the number and percentage of international editorial members, as well as the number of foreign countries on respective editorial board in Korean journals, increased over the three 5-year periods—although the increase in the international editorial board composition was not statistically significant between the three 5-year periods. In order to be more visible and influential to world science, Korean SCI journals will strive to meet the higher standards normally maintained by international journals in mainstream science.
Software survey: VOSviewer, a computer program for bibliometric mapping In this paper, we have presented VOSviewer, a freely available computer program for constructing and viewing bibliometric maps.
Counting footnotes: Citability in management studies We interpret the evidence differently; we see convergence on papers that are citable. The consequence is a corrupted citation system, unable to support serious analysis. Neither our data nor its analysis is comprehensive and robust enough to prove anything, but they are suggestive, raising issues that warrant discussion.
Institutional Open Access Funds: Now Is the Time The time is now for broad-scale adoption of institutional OA funds.
Possible research area bias in the Excellence in Research for Australia (ERA) draft journal rankings Our analysis indicates that journal ranks in the draft ERA list are unevenly distributed across research areas. The advantaged status of experimental, biological and neuroscientific psychology in the ERA draft rankings could have significant consequences. Nevertheless, it is important that the unevenness of the present distribution - which allocates high rankings (A*/A) to journals in biological, experimental and neuros-cientific psychology at almost twice the rate as to those in applied, clinical, developmental, educational and social psychology – is recognised, justified and, if necessary, corrected.
DOES RAIDING EXPLAIN THE NEGATIVE RETURNS TO FACULTY SENIORITY? In conclusion, the results of this study help us understand better the operation of academic labor markets by providing insights on faculty mobility and pay structures. Most important, they lead us to reject the raiding interpretation of the negative returns to faculty seniority. The seniority penalty is little changed when we allow for differential intercepts and differential returns to seniority by mobility status. Faculty who end up moving to better or comparable positions were penalized as severely for seniority while they were in our sample as faculty who stay. These results are incompatible with the raiding hypothesis.
University research funding and publication performance-An international comparison Our results indicate that there are significant country-specific differences among university systems in relation to steering impulses and competition incentives.
Tackling undue concentration of federal research funding: An empirical assessment on NSF's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) The small effect of EPSCOR indicates that enhanced and more innovative efforts are needed in order to effectively tackle undue concentration of federal S&E support.
Scientific Communication: Sociology Journals and Publication Practices The expansion of participation in scientific communication has made it much easier to give greater priority to fairly selective global communication media (such as citation-indexed journals).
CITED BRAZILIAN PAPERS IN GENERAL SURGERY BETWEEN 1970 AND 2009 This study identified the most influential Brazilian articles published in internationally renowned general surgery journals. This study is an opportunity to remember the most-cited Brazilian articles and to learn from distinguished Brazilian surgeons, recognizing the remarkable impact that these visionaries have had in national surgery.
The scholarly exchange of knowledge in Operations Management In general, increasing the diversity of scholarly exchanges within Operations Management, and conducting more cross-disciplinary research with other management disciples should improve the scholarly development of Operations Management.
One in four citations in marine biology papers is inappropriate Our results indicate that 1 in 4 citations in marine biology should be viewed with scepticism. The numbers correspond with Todd et al. (2007), suggesting they are representative of a wider problem within field-orientated biology.
DO RANKINGS REFLECT RESEARCH QUALITY? We have argued that both citation and publication measures capture only some aspects of scientific quality. The empirical results indicate that the ranking of scholars based on membership on editorial boards does not correlate well with a ranking based on publications and citations.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific publications in the field of medicinal chemistry in Latin America, the People's Republic of China, and India In this study, we estimate that none of the analyzed countries has a journal that specializes in MC and that the number of journals indexed in the JCR by country shows a strong correlation with the GDP-PPP (r = 0.9065). China and India stand out when the diversity of areas in the publications are considered, because at the beginning of the 1990s they had a production of 0% in three areas (LCP, MM, and PA), and during the last few years in some cases they have led in percentage of contribution, leaving Latin America last. On the other hand, postgraduate programs, industry, and government in all Latin American countries must adopt the necessary educational politics that competitively enhance the field of MC to achieve the current level of development of China and India.
Investigating the structure of regional innovation system research through keyword co-occurrence and social network analysis RIS research has been undertaken since the early 1990's, and this study provides an analytical method to visually map and quantitatively analyze the context, e.g. publication trend, knowledge evolution, and research focus, of global RIS research. The research contexts of RIS research at different levels provide full-spectrum implications to sectors of government, industry, academy, and research institutes. The main purpose of this study is to propose and demonstrate a method in which investigating full-spectrum implications of RIS knowledge evolution is possible.
Lessons from a High-Impact Observatory: The Hubble Space Telescope's Science Productivity between 1998 and 2008 Together these results provide a detailed picture of HST's science productivity and identify key characteristics that contribute to making HST a high-impact observatory.
Thirty years of International Journal of Behavioral Development: Scope, internationality, and impact since its inception At first, the results from the present bibliometric analysis confirm Schoepflin and Müller-Brettel's (1990) former results from the 12-year time span from 1978 to 1989. The successful international orientation of the IJBD is empirically bolstered by a steadily increasing amount of contributors from many countries. De facto IJBD contributes a great deal to the visibility and reception of developmental psychology researchers not originating from the USA.
A qualitative study of the impact of electronic journals on scholarly information behavior As a consequence of the increase in availability and accessibility of electronic journals at Catalan universities, scholars have increased the amount of articles and the range of journals they read. The consortial decision to provide library users with more information has been successful; users now make extensive use of the new sources available and express a high degree of satisfaction with the range of products and services on offer. However, as some of the participants pointed out, days continue to have 24 h, and so their reading is becoming more superficial.
A Comparative Study on Communication Structures of Chinese Journals in the Social Sciences Our results explain China's relative stagnation in emerging as a lead- ing nation in the social sciences.
Statistical Validation of a Global Model for the Distribution of the Ultimate Number of Citations Accrued by Papers Published in a Scientific Journal Our results strongly support the hypothesis that a globally accurate model for the distribution of “eventual impact” of scientific papers published in single-discipline journal in a single year that is removed sufficiently from the present date.
The Structure and Dynamics of Cocitation Clusters: A Multiple-Perspective Cocitation Analysis In conclusion, the new cocitation analysis procedure has the following advantages over the traditional one: It can be consistently used for both DCA and ACA.
Modes of Collaboration in Modern Science: Beyond Power Laws and Preferential Attachment The majority of researchers has a fairly small number of collaborators, and in nanoscience this distribution has a log-normal form with a peak at three collaborators. These scientists follow a regime of collaboration that requires a cer-tain optimal number of collaborators to carry out research, the exact number being dependent on the type of the field. The main limitation of this study is that while it identifies the processes that lead to the observed collaborator distri-bution, these processes have not been theoretically modeled in a dynamic way, i.e., no attempt has been made to evolve a network using a set of rules and reproduce the functional form of the collaborator distribution. This will be a goal of the forthcoming study.
Measuring Impact of Twelve Information Scientists Using the DCI Index The DCI index can reveal rapidly rising new star units in a domain as well as units that are becoming part of the history of a domain in the sense of no more being actively cited.
Mean Citation Rate per Article in Mathematics Journals: Differences From the Scientific Model Moreover, tests of the stability of impact factor ranks across a 5-year time span suggested that the proper model for Mathematics is the negative binomial.
Policy-Relevant Webometrics for Individual Scientific Fields In conclusion, although Webometrics is still inferior to bibliometrics for most purposes, it seems that it has advantages for some types of field, particularly new, small fields, and can deliver policy-relevant (process) indicators to promote effective collaboration and communication.
The Relation Between Eigenfactor, Audience Factor, and Influence Weight In this paper we addressed these concerns by providing some new insights into the mechanics of the Eigenfactor indicator.
On the Relation Between the Association Strength and Other Similarity Measures This will confirm some graphical relations between A and the other measures as found in van Eck and Waltman (2009).
How Much Does Journal Reputation Tell Us About the Academic Interest and Relevance of Economic Research? Empirical Analysis and Implications for Environmental Economic Research The empirical analysis shows that, at the level of the individ-ual researcher, there is a lack of consistent relationship between the standard measure of research output and citation rates. Responsible hiring committees and funding institutions should take these problems seriously and re-consider existing standards in the evaluation of economic research. If society is to further rely on economic advice in solving impor-tant economic and environmental problems, it needs to make sure that the assessment of economic research is not only based on the internal standard of an arguably complacent discipline but on (multiple) standards that also reflect the relevance and plausi-bility of the research for an interdisciplinary academic audience.
A perspective on the state of the field: International business publications in the elite journals as a measure of institutional and faculty productivity Our research demonstrates that in order to have a comprehensive understanding of the ranking of IB academic institutions and scholars, the list of journals from which the data are mined must be broadened.
The most influential articles in critical care medicine Retrieving frequently cited, influential articles in critical care requires using multiple search terms and manuscript sources. Periodic compilations of most cited articles may be useful for critical care practitioners and researches to keep abreast of important information. This study does highlight the importance of sepsis and infectious disease as well as respiratory physiology in critical care with more than half the articles falling into 1 of these 2 broad categories.
A bibliometric analysis of service research from Asia This paper provides valuable insights into the nature of academic publishing of Asian researchers in this burgeoning area.
Ranking economic history journals: a citation-based impact-adjusted analysis This study ranks 12 international academic economic history journals using citation-based impact-factor analysis.
An Analysis of Chinese Studies on the Management of Science, Technology and Innovation These findings show some specificity of Chinese studies, but also confirm the tendency towards universality.
The H-Index in Academic Radiology In conclusion, our study shows that the average h index of radiology faculty members at academic centers increases significantly as academic rank increases.
Supporting browsing-specific information needs: Introducing the Citation-Sensitive In-Browser Summariser We presented a new research tool aimed at supporting researchers as they acquire knowledge through the perusal of scientific literature.
National representation in the anaesthesia literature: a bibliometric analysis of highly cited anaesthesia journals We found that authors from the United States published more original articles than any other country.
Scholarly Productivity in Non-Ph.D. Departments The contributions of scholars from non-Ph.D. departments have been largely ignored by studies of the discipline. Our results suggest that approximately 16% of authors in the 26 journals in our sample are from non-Ph.D. departments. Most important, political science rankings should include scholars from all types of departments.
The development of a ranking tool for refereed journals in which nursing and midwifery researchers publish their work Overall, the results from this project indicate that although impact factors may be an objective and frequently used method of ranking journals, these may not on their own accurately reflect the value of nursing and midwifery journals.
Assessing the Impact of the Psychology of Men & Masculinity, 2000-2008 I offer suggestions to help bolster PMM's influence as it moves into its second decade: (a) make articles available online ahead of print publication, (b) shorten review turnaround, (c) market PMM publications, and (d) publish special issues with wide appeal. These estimates suggest that PMM's performance has quickly come within the average range of its peers. While its trend has shown some fluctuation, PMM's performance thus far shows promise as it moves into its second decade.
PREDICTING LONG-TERM CITATION IMPACT OF ARTICLES IN SOCIAL AND PERSONALITY PSYCHOLOGY The findings indicated that the long-term number of citations for articles in social and personality psychology was moderately predicted on the basis of simple article properties.
A Bibliometric Classificatory Approach for the Study and Assessment of Research Performance at the Individual Level: The Effects of Age on Productivity and Impact "The classificatory approach proposed herein may prove a useful tool in support of research assessment at the individual level and for exploring potential determinants of research success."
WoS Query Partitioner: A Tool to Retrieve Very Large Numbers of Items From the Web of Science Using Different Source-Based Partitioning Approaches In this contribution, we have presented two partitioning approaches based on the source field for the WoS that allow the user to avoid the >100,000 restriction. They are designed to work without needing any extra information about the query being executed and could indeed be incorporated into automatic retrieval applications. Future research and development might include discovering new heuristics to split the queries, which may offer better efficiency (i.e., less queries to be produced to solve the problem), developing more complex partitioning schemes not only based on the source field but with a combination of other fields, and incorporating these approaches into automatic retrieval tools.
Weighted Citation: An Indicator of an Article's Prestige In the foregoing, we have added a prestige measurement to articles, where the number of citations that an article receives is considered to indicate its popularity and the weighted citation score its prestige.
From black box to white box at open access journals: predictive validity of manuscript reviewing and editorial decisions at Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics The results of this study show that, in the journal examined here, public peer review is able to assess the quality of manuscripts 'validly' and to select the 'best' manuscripts among the manuscripts submitted. Since the number of OA journals can be expected to increase in coming years, future studies on predic-tive validity should examine in particular their peer review systems. Here, studies are needed that inves-tigate not only the selection function, as in this study, but also the improvement function of peer review.
The evaluation of Russian cancer research "With respect to Russia, we can answer the first question in the negative: the amount of cancer research is much less than is carried out by countries of comparable size and wealth (such as Brazil); moreover it is almost static in volume."
Chairpersons of Pathology in the United States Limited Benchmarks for Publications We conclude that academic pathology does not suffer by comparison with any other medical discipline in the United States and that pathology chairs, as assessed by the h index, are highly productive among clinical chairs at select academic medical centers.
Explaining Hwang-Gate: South Korean Identity Politics between Bionationalism and Globalization It is in this respect that the Hwang case offers an excellent lesson in the contemporary global governance of modern biomedicine.
Evaluating a national science and technology program using the human capital and relational asset perspectives Accordingly, from the perspectives of human capital and relational assets, the authors conclude by articulating the importance of absorptive capacity resulting from good human capital and knowledge spillover contributed by relational assets within governmental technology policy and NSTP programming.
The Open Access Availability of Library and Information Science Literature An examination of the study results suggests that the field of Library and In-formation Science has failed to embrace archiving and OA as a regular practice.
The rate of growth in scientific publication and the decline in coverage provided by Science Citation Index The answer is that traditional scientific publishing, that is publication in peer-reviewed journals, is still increasing although there are big differences between fields. There are no indications that the growth rate has decreased in the last 50 years.
National research assessment exercises: a measure of the distortion of performance rankings when labor input is treated as uniform "At both these levels there is a strong correlation between the two measures of productivity, but also some variations in rankings, especially in reference to a number of outliers that show substantial shifts in rank for “cost” productivity as compared to labor productivity."
Comparing the early research performance of PhD graduates in labor economics in Europe and the USA We have analyzed differences in research productivity of recent PhD graduates from European and USA universities. In terms of output quality, results indicate that graduates placed at American institutions, in particular top ones, are likely to publish more quality-adjusted articles than their European counterparts. While there seems still much to do to improve the academic incentives in European PhD programs, the success in the catching-up process in the past decades is encouraging.
Combination of Eigenfactor <SUP>TM</SUP> and h-index to evaluate scientific journals In this paper, the h-index and EigenfactorTM values for top and specialized engineering/ scientific journals are tabulated and integrated to provide a graphical representation of the journals which are classified in terms of prestige and influence. We believe that such combination provides a simple, flexible and practical alternative approach for evaluating scientific journals. The graphical method presented can be tailored to specific uses by respective stakeholders to aid decision making processes with regards to scholarly research and scientific journal publications.
Collaboration in sensor network research: an in-depth longitudinal analysis of assortative mixing patterns This qualitative explanation of our findings revealed specific small-scale patterns that a quantitative analysis of assortativity alone would have failed to uncover.
Influence of local and regional publications in the production of public health research papers in Latin America A vertical and individual (per journal/country) model of knowledge communication in public health was identified. Preliminary results indicate that a vertical and individual (per journal/country) model of knowledge communication in public health can be identified as characterized mainly by the collaboration of two or more researchers at the national level in the publication of papers in journals of their own country, providing citations mainly in English and Spanish language. A LAC collaborative model of information and knowledge production, organization, access, use, and translation can be enhanced and developed.
Assessing publication performance of research units: extensions through operational research and economic techniques This article serves as an initial set of more advanced complementary options for issues that exist but that researchers have hitherto not addressed sufficiently.
The discipline dependence of citation statistics Our findings show that there are statistically significant differences between researchers in engineering disciplines and researchers employed in major scientific disciplines, as well as variations in citing patterns within engineering subdisciplines themselves.
Bibliometric fingerprints: name disambiguation based on approximate structure equivalence of cognitive maps Thus, in spite of the above limitations, this method provides a promising means of authorship disambiguation at a large-scale.
Harmonic publication and citation counting: sharing authorship credit equitably - not equally, geometrically or arithmetically In conclusion, harmonic counting would seem to provide unrivalled accuracy, fairness and flexibility to the long overdue task of standardizing bibliometric allocation of publication and citation credit.
The representation of nationalities on the editorial boards of international journals and the promotion of the scientific output of the same countries The present results show a correlation to exist between a country's or region's scientific output in the analysed journals and the representation of that country or region on their editorial boards. This study has demonstrated a strong correlation between the number of members in the editorial boards of a given nationality and the scientific output of the scientists of this nationality. The present results may be of use in the design and implementation of strategic initiatives to improve a country's international scientific visibility.
A bibliometric analysis of the performance of Water Research The results contained considerable information concerning Water Research's evolution with time since its inception in 1967.
Citations versus journal impact factor as proxy of quality: could the latter ever be preferable? From the analyses conducted for the 2004–2006 triennium, it first emerges that the lists of rankings are somewhat different but are strongly correlated, although there is an element of some variability among the disciplines.
Conference proceedings as a matter of bibliometric studies: the Academy of International Business 2006-2008 The scholarly contributions of the AIB conference proceedings chosen for this study show a clear structure. The bibliometric results indicate three main areas of interest (KWC1, KWC2, KWC3). The core of the scientific reasoning focuses at major topics which deal with emerging markets, the role of multinational companies, foreign direct investment, economic activities in internationalizing networks, research and development, technology, knowledge management and the country focus China.
Medical research in South Africa: a scientometric analysis of trends, patterns, productivity and partnership It is discernible from the analysis that the production of scientific publications in medicine has been growing at an average rate of 16% per every 5-year span.
Research culture and New Zealand's performance-based research fund: some insights from bibliographic compilations of research outputs What is clear, however, is that the scheme has stimulated the production of more 'research outputs', and that those disciplines that score highest on the measures of the scheme are those that produce more journal articles. While there are fluctuations in the proportion of articles in various grades of journals over the 2004–2008 period, the overall tendency is towards more articles in journals of lower grades, i.e., the quantity of articles appears to be over-riding considerations of the quality of the journal. Currently, the rules of the PBRF do not assign a per-author value to a research output, meaning that a co-authored paper ‘counts’ for every author. Thus, co-authorship is an expedient means of potentially increasing the quality score for the authors, the Schools or departments, and the universities.
Ten good reasons to use the Eigenfactor™ metrics In this short contribution, we give 10 reasons to motivate the use of the Eigenfactor method. In our opinion, there are enough good reasons to use the Eigenfactor method to evaluate journal influence:
Authorship trends in the surgical literature Author numbers have increased in the past decade, in both medical and surgical journals. Although medical output is associated with significantly higher levels of authorship, the difference cannot be explained by complexity of research alone. Bearing in mind that these increases have occurred despite the introduction of ACFs, it appears that this is a subject that will need to be revisited if the value of authorship is to be maintained in the future.
The effects of government, academic and industrial policy on cross-university collaboration The results in this article provide only a limited amount of support for the proposed hypotheses. Despite a lack of universal support for the proposed hypotheses, the results can still tell an interesting story about the relationship between industrial collaboration or support and cross-university collaboration.
THE EXTENT OF MULTIDISCIPLINARY AUTHORSHIP OF ARTICLES ON SCIENTOMETRICS AND BIBLIOMETRICS IN BRAZIL The number of publications in the area of scientometrics and bibliometrics is increasing at a faster pace than in all other areas of sci-ence, both in Brazil and worldwide. The multidisciplinary background of researchers in sciento-metrics is an unusual char-acteristic in the sciences at large, and it might not have been explored in studies on information sciences, where Brazil has been studied as a case because of the prevail-ing trend towards publishing articles in collaboration with other fields of knowledge (Leta et al., 2006). It could be that if more in-tense interaction was fostered be-tween those researchers who publish articles on sciento-metrics and bibliometrics, new and interesting lines of thought and investigation would come up.
Adoption and use of Web 2.0 in scholarly communications Our study suggests that lack of formal skills may be less of a barrier to adoption than knowing what services and tools are available and an awareness of models of how they may be applied productively to support research.
Influences on Authorship Issues: An Evaluation of Receiving, Not Receiving, and Rejecting Credit "We conclude that there are authorship issues at all stages of the publishing process."
Have We Reached a Maximum Astronomical Research Output? I wondered whether the US, UK, and Europe have reached the maximum research output allowed by their populations, and concluded that in all three regions the publication outputs are still increasing. The data for the UK articles published in MNRAS lag behind those of the US by 10 ± 1 yr. Therefore one way for the UK and FGIN countries to catch up to the US is to employ more astronomers.
Classifying documents with link-based bibliometric measures Experiments have shown that bibliometric based classifiers performed better than text based classifiers in two of the collections studied and presented results only marginally inferior to text based classifier in the collection derived from the encyclopedia.
Business Ethics Journal Rankings as Perceived by Business Ethics Scholars Each of these academic communities has its own preferred publication outlets, suggesting a potentially problematic bifurcation of business ethics scholarship.
A combined approach for evaluating papers, authors and scientific journals We presented a model for evaluating the quality of scientific publications, the productiveness of authors and the prestige of journals.
Ranking of Research Output of Agricultural Economics Departments in Canada and Selected US Universities Our examination of agricultural economics departments provides a ranking that is relatively robust to the ranking index used.
Scientific and statistical reviews of manuscripts submitted to Nursing Research: Comparison of completeness, quality, and usefulness Statistical and scientific reviews are complementary and both are necessary.
Hirsch Index and Truth Survival in Clinical Research The present study failed to clearly demonstrate that the h-index of authors was a prognostic factor for truth survival.
Visualizing changes over time: A history of information retrieval through the lens of descriptor tri-occurrence mapping Tri-occurrence analysis of IR literature provided a visual representation of the evolution of this field through three time periods. The PFNets elucidated the evolution of the IR landscape through storage, access and use over the three time periods. The technique of tri-occurrence analysis proved a useful tool in filtering the INSPEC descriptors to find those most relevant to the field of study.
Researchers' e-journal use and information seeking behaviour The major conclusion is that, as the logs have more than testified, journals have become central to most disciplines, and that the e-form has become the prime means of access. Research without this resource now seems unthinkable; journals are a researcher's lifeblood. Gateway services, hugely popular in science, are re-intermediating the broken chain between publisher and reader; they are the new librarians.
Web hyperlink patterns and the financial variables of the global banking industry The study found significant correlations between inlink counts and various financial variables, some of which have not been tested in previous studies.
Mapping the literature of occupational therapy: an update Occupational therapy is a multidisciplinary field with a strong core identity and an increasingly diverse literature.
Scientometric analysis of national university research performance in analytical chemistry on the basis of academic publications: Italy as case study The observed improvements from senior to junior professors could reasonably be interpreted as a result of the selection of higher reputation and high-impact-factor journals by junior professors, when publishing their works, presumably corresponding to higher quality research and results in more recent years.
Twenty Hirsch index variants and other indicators giving more or less preference to highly cited papers It was shown that many indices are highly correlated, while low correlations occur with indices and indicators based on the total number of publications or the number of citations to a core set based in one way or another on the total number of papers.
Scientific publications in laboratory medicine from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan: A ten-year survey of the literature Over the past 10 years, Chinese authors have been more and more active in the field of laboratory medicine. Mainland China seems to have caught up to Hong Kong and Taiwan regarding publication of papers in this field.
Weak evidence for determinants of citation frequency in ecological articles We argue that biases concerning citation are minor in ecology and further studies that attempt to quantify the scientific relevance of an article, aiming to make further relationships with citation, are needed to advance our under-standing of why an article is cited. We believe, however, that the coefficients of determination reported here and in other studies (Leimu and Koricheva 2005a, b; Borsuk et al. 2009) cannot be considered high enough to assert that citation frequency is mainly determined by the explanatory variables used. We believe that a “measure of publication merit” would advance our understanding of why certain articles are more cited than others and to decide if citation is a reliable surrogate of merit.
Assessing scientific collaboration through coauthorship and content sharing In this paper we describe a set of methods to define a collaboration potential between scientists and research groups that is based on the scientific interests researchers have in common but of which they are not aware of.
The fruits of collaboration in a multidisciplinary field Overall, we cannot observe a general beneficial effect of collaboration of any type (local, domestic or international) on the quality of the papers, measured by their citation counts.
Iranian Medical Universities in SCIE: evaluation of address variation The findings showed high diversity in the SCIE registered addresses of Iranian medical universities. Whereas, observing unification in the institutional affiliation of the scientific papers of each university would affect scientific evaluation and academic credibility of Iranian universities through representing their real scientific productivity in the regional and international rankings.
Mapping knowledge structure by keyword co-occurrence: a first look at journal papers in Technology Foresight The quantitative method provided in this paper shows a possible way of visualizing and evaluating knowledge structure; thus a computerized calculation is possible for potential quantitative applications, e.g. R&D resource allocation, research performance evaluation, science map, etc.
Correlation between the Journal Impact Factor and three other journal citation indices There are strong correlations between four published indices that seek to represent the average number of citations received by the articles published in a given journal. Where the relative rank of a particular journal on two indices is very discordant, investigation of the source of the discrepancy may facilitate the identification of errors.
Trends in research foci in life science fields over the last 30 years monitored by emerging topics In this study, we proposed a simple method for the identification of emerging keywords, and reported the successful application to investigate the historical dynamics of life science researches.
Characterizing a scientific elite: the social characteristics of the most highly cited scientists in environmental science and ecology "In many respects the social characteristics of highly cited researchers in environmental science and ecology appear to reflect broader patterns of global inequality."
A scientometric assessment of the Southern Africa Development Community: science in the tip of Africa The investigation identifies that South Africa with 19% of the population in the region is responsible for 60% of the region's GDP and 79% of the region's publications.
Methods for identifying emerging General Purpose Technologies: a case study of nanotechnologies The emerging interdisciplinary field of nanotechnology is quickly expanding. We find evidence for a handful of very general emerging nanotechnologies with the potential for wide economic impact and those experiencing a more focused development path. The methods used in this paper to identify emerging nanotechnologies through patents can be useful to policymakers, regulators, and investors interested in tracking the development of emerging fields of science and technology.
Does the higher citation of collaborative research differ from region to region? A case study of Economics The finding that, for all four indicators, all 18 countries did not have a citation disadvantage in collaboration indicates that some findings on collaboration apply to a wide range of countries and are not dependant on the choice of indicator.
An iCE map approach to evaluate performance and efficiency of scientific production of countries We have demonstrated that an indicator having an energy like property, E = iC, where i is a measure of quality, expressed as the ratio of citations C to papers published P, can be used for bibliometric research assessment. The hyperbolic product E = iC becomes an indicator measuring total performance. The energy assessment technique is demonstrated by applying it to the research assessment of the all the countries listed in Essential Science Indicators.
Analysis of the ch-index: an indicator to evaluate the diffusion of scientific research output by citers This paper enhances the initial study of Ajiferuke and Wolfram (2010) on the ch-index, a recent variant of h, which represents a different way for evaluating the impact/diffusion of one researcher's published output in the scientific community.
A new approach to analyzing patterns of collaboration in co-authorship networks: mesoscopic analysis and interpretation Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods we arrive at fundamental insights about the collective organization of research specialties in chemistry.
Comparing university rankings In this paper, we compared different world university rankings using a set of similarity measures.
Using content-based and bibliometric features for machine learning models to predict citation counts in the biomedical literature Our method yields interpretable and theoretically meaningful value structures that emerge from a diverse set of documents produced across a multi-level network of research policy subgroups.
A new approach to measuring scientific production in JCR journals and its application to Spanish public universities The present study has taken a new approach to the evaluation of the scientific production of universities. Our results show that the classifications obtained using the new indicator for the three groups of Spanish public universities (generalist, technical and non-technical) are more neutral than those resulting from the application of the IFISI, since the biases the latter contains are counteracted.
Too much noise in the Times Higher Education rankings Most of the THES rating system appears to show unacceptable year-to-year variances.
Citation graph, weighted impact factors and performance indices Analyzing the entire citation graph and citation matrix one can obtain a weighting factors which quantify the total impact of a single researcher for the scientific literature.
Evidence base, quantitation and collaboration: three novel indices for bibliometric content analysis This is the first study which has explored, in detail, the content bibliometrics of original research published in Australian medical, nursing and allied health professional journals. In terms of the bibliometric data in this study and the indices used, journals tended to be spread along a bipolar spectrum. Bibliometric content analyses using novel indices such as those reported in this article, provide a means of describing the process of production of research and the characteristics of the type of research published in different journals, and track changes over time.
A comparison of the scientific performance of the US and the European union at the turn of the 21st century The overall conclusion is inescapable. Independently of sectoral details just discussed, according to our large 1998–2002 dataset acquired from TS one must fully side with Leydesdorff and Wagner (2009) and Dosi et al.'s (2006) diagnosis when they argue that “The numeric lead of the EU-25 cannot hide the endogenous problems of the EU science system”, and “one observes a structural lag in top-level science vis-à-vis the US”. This is not the place for the formulation of policy recommendations. Before doing that, the present analysis should be extended in rather obvious directions.
News in brief and features in New Scientist magazine and the biomedical research papers that they cite, August 2008 to July 2009 This project is continuing, and the present results will become more definitive as time passes and the corpus of biomedical research stories, and their cited references, expands.
Mapping of dental science research in India: a scientometric analysis of India's research output, 1999-2008 Conclude that dental science research is in poor state of affairs in India, both in terms of output as well as in quality. Therefore, heavy investment is required in terms of R&D investment from the government to upgrade this field and increase the research output. In order to upgrade quality in research, increase in international collaboration and wider participation in international conferences/seminars may be encouraged for those who have involved in R&D work.
Shaping the European research collaboration in the 6th Framework Programme health thematic area through network analysis The analysis of the participation in the health thematic area of the 6FP has allowed to describe the principal actors in this research programme according to several indicators.
The United States of America and Scientific Research This study's aim is to facilitate a serious discussion of key questions by the research community and federal policy makers. Our world is an ever-changing environment, and it is naïve to think that any country can conduct business as it has been and expect that to be adequate for the future. This work calls for a serious discussion by the research communities within the government, academia and industry as well as among historians and administrators of science, policy analysts and makers (see, for example, [57]).
Environments for nursing scholarship and journal impact factor in five countries IF policies were not necessary motivators of scholarship; factors such as qualified nurse scientists, the resource base in the country, may be critical factors in supporting science development.
Editorial Board Membership of Management and Business Journals: A Social Network Analysis Study of the Financial Times 40 This paper contributes a number of insights by studying empirically 36 of the FT40 high status management journals drawn from multiple academic fields.
Developing and testing of search filters for the new European Union Member States' research Twelve GFs applied to MEDLINE retrieved references belonging to twelve countries for a specific period of time. The evaluation of the GFs through the manual check demonstrated effectiveness of these filters. Complementary studies would be advisable to focus on the development of search filters to retrieve complete and accurate information.
Asymptotics for the Hirsch Index We have presented the basic results concerning the asymptotic distribution of the empirical Hirsch index. These allow constructing asymptotic confidence intervals for the h-index of an author. Future work could focus on detailing the statistical relationship between h-indices of authors and their scientific age.
Big Macs and Eigenfactor Scores: Don't Let Correlation Coefficients Fool You One must use considerably greater caution, however, when drawing conclusions from the magnitude of correla-tion coefficients-all the more so in the presence of spurious correlates and in the absence of a formal hypothesis-testing framework. High correlation does not necessar-ily mean that two variables provide the same information any more than a low correlation means that two variables are unrelated. Finally, simple observations can be at least as powerful as rote statistical calculations in understanding the nature of our data.
Discarding the 'Basic Science/Applied Science' Dichotomy: A Knowledge Utilization Triangle Classification System of Research Journals Scientific research constitutes a complex, multifaceted activity: its dimensions are many, several of which are time-dependent and context-dependent. In spite of these methodological constraints, the JAD clas-sification system represents a significant improvement, at least from an analytical point of view, compared to other mea-surement models or earlier classification systems that lacked a sufficiently transparent methodology or a sound foundation of empirical data. The longer-term and more ambitious R&D agenda should focus on adopting such a system in statistical surveys by government authorities and international agencies, for their reports on the state of science.
Science Overlay Maps: A New Tool for Research Policy and Library Management Science overlay maps offer an intuitive way of visualizing the position of organizations or topics in a fixed map based on conventional disciplinary categories.
Faculty Self-Archiving: Motivations and Barriers The main motivations for faculty self-archiving primarily relate to perceived benefits of OA from users' perspectives, perceived self-archiving culture in their disciplines, and at least no harmful effect on tenure and promotion. This implies that technical and logistical assistance for self-archiving would encourage faculty who are less adept at computers to participate. The impeding factors illustrated in this study signify potential areas where universities and IRs can add value to their processes and encourage faculty to self-archive using the repositories.
Russian Academic Science in the mirror of the Federal Science Statistics Thus, the analysis of the RAS statistical data compared to the indicators of other scientific organizations allows us to make the following conclusions. The management structure of RAS institutes in terms of the use of financial resources is more rational than in the other sectors of the science sphere. The totality of the statistical indicators considered above allows us to conclude that the Russian Academy of Sciences is the most efficient scientific organization in the country and that the attacks on the Academy were inspired by designs that are far from the interests of science.
Comparison of the distribution of citations received by articles published in high, moderate, and low impact factor journals in clinical medicine The distribution of citations received by articles published in high, moderate and low impact factor journals in clinical medicine seems similar.
A Method for the Automated, Reliable Retrieval of Publication-Citation Records These results confirm that our method provides significantly improved estimates over raw search results, and these can either be used directly for large-scale (departmental or university) analysis or further refined manually to quickly give accurate publication-citation records.
Academic impact and rankings of American and Canadian neurosurgical departments as assessed using the h index The h index may be useful in evaluating output across neurosurgery departments. Departmental h indices are relatively simple to cal-culate and reproduce, and they correlate with other mea-sures often associated with academic productivity such as NIH funding, faculty size, and number of publications. This metric may be of interest to both the internal and external evaluators of the academic at-tributes of neurosurgical departments.
A Bibliometric Study of the Trend in Articles Related to Risk Assessment Published in Science Citation Index In this study dealing with risk assessment SCI papers, we obtained some significant points on the worldwide research trends throughout the period from 1992 through 2007.
The Transformation of Physics from 1900 to 1945 Finally, this global analysis of the subfields of physics reveals that no major physicist remained in a central position for more than 15–20 years. As the places they vacated were filled by younger physicists, new research fields emerged, and physics was thus continually transformed as a discipline.
Assessing the Research Activity of Canadian Psychology Departments With Graduate Programmes The current study provides a relatively comprehensive assessment of the recent research activities within and across Canadian psychology departments with graduate programmes. First, there appears to have been an overall increase in publication count across all included Canadian psychology departments since 2004 relative to the 10 years prior. Finally, the current results have implications for students working through the often difficult process of deciding which graduate programme to attend.
Identifying a Set of 'Core' Journals in Occupational Health, Part 2: Lists Derived by Bibliometric Techniques As with Part 1, Part 2 of this Literature of EOH series aims to provide a straightforward and logical method for determining which journals might be core in our field, and a method that utilizes more than just the typical impact-factor-only ranking system.
Fifty-Year Fate and Impact of General Medical Journals Journals are more permanent entities than single papers, but they are also subject to major change and their relative prominence can change markedly over time.
Life cycles of research groups: the case of CWTS In this paper we analysed the history of a research institute, in terms of long-term patterns in output and activities. The analysis provides interesting results that help the understanding of the dynamics of re-search groups. In the case of CWTS a life-cycle pat-tern has been found that correlates with stable internal conditions. We expect that within five years from now, CWTS will be involved in a rather different mix of activities from what it is today, reflecting the changed internal and external conditions.
Towards socially robust S&T indicators: indicators as debatable devices, enabling collective learning In conclusion, the article first calls for evaluating their capacity for fostering such collective learning and, second, suggests that being debatable is not a limitation, but the essence of the contribution of indicators to decision-making processes.
Proliferation dynamics in new sciences This emergent discipline is subject to a turbulent dynamics, growing both in size and diversity.
Research Productivity in Select Psychology Journals, 1986-2008 Although our results show a story of consistency near the top, change is evident throughout.
SCHOLARLY COLLABORATION AND PRODUCTIVITY PATTERNS IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: ANALYSING RECENT TRENDS Our analysis indicates that within the public administration field the most productive and highest impact scholars collaborate less – and with fewer people than their colleagues. This finding is important for university administrators who evaluate tenure cases in public administration in a similar way to the natural sciences. Our results suggest that there are convincing arguments to be made for different promotion and tenure committees based on disciplines or, at the very least, that external letter writers are explicitly asked to comment on disciplinary differences.
A bibliometric study of publications by Indian ophthalmologists and vision researchers, 2001-06 This bibliometric study of publications of research from India in the field of ophthalmic and vision research shows that research productivity, as measured in both the number of publications in peer-reviewed journals and qualitative measures of those journals, has increased during the period of this study. The results of this study are an indicator of the productivity of Indian ophthalmologists and vision researchers.
The development of an AI journal ranking based on the revealed preference approach It was concluded that journal longevity (years in print) is an important but not the only factor affecting an outlet's ranking position.
Growth behavior of publications and patents: A comparative study on selected Asian economies This paper provides a comparative study of the growth behavior of the number of publications and number of patents produced by selected Asian countries by considering three competing diffusion functions. The findings are useful for highlighting the path of science and technological evolution and their propagating behavior, and understanding the dynamic potentials through an analysis of the carrying capacity of the growth process. However, the systemic problem is difficult to resolve unless the diffusion process moves into the stage supported by market-pull factors.
Word co-occurrences on Webpages as a measure of the relatedness of organizations: A new Webometrics concept The study proposed a new Webometrics concept and tested its validity in the LTE and WiMax sectors of the telecommunications industry.
Can information ethics be conceptualized by using the core/periphery model? The main research question was: Can IE be conceptualised by using the core/periphery model? The answer is yes. It is possible to identify the core and periphery terms and show the strengths of association between the various terms. Other than informing LIS research and education, the results could potentially assist with the development of IE taxonomy and definitions (e.g. in understanding IE content and development) that may apply to the intercultural and global understanding of IE.
The citation triad: An overview of a scientist's publication output based on Ferrers diagrams CT makes it possible to synthesise and to compare the Ferrers diagrams of several scientists.
Publication point indicators: A comparative case study of two publication point systems and citation impact in an interdisciplinary context The study demonstrates how the nCPPI can be applied to institutions as evaluation tools supplementary to JCI in various combinations, in particular when institutions include humanistic and social science disciplines. We believe that both indicator types are central in research evaluation of medium and large institutions or countries, in particular in the cases where publication point systems are used for distribution of public research funding. No statistical significant correlations were found between citations received in Google Scholar or Web of Science and the publication points obtained through the two PP systems, only between the two citation indexes and the two publication point systems in between, respectively.
The effect of scholar collaboration on impact and quality of academic papers The intensity of research collaboration is negligible in arts and humanities: the set of paper co-authors is frequently a singleton. In most cases, collaboration pays in terms of impact, measured with the popular bibliometric practice that tallies the number of citations that a work receives from other papers. Moreover, collaborative works are generally valued higher by peer experts. Both impact and quality are further enhanced when the affiliations of authors are heterogeneous.
Ranking of library and information science researchers: Comparison of data sources for correlating citation data, and expert judgments Strongly significant correlations are obtained with the expert judgments of 42 LIS experts, demonstrating the strong relationship that exists between human and automated assessments of research impact. However, while the correlations are significant, their magnitudes are such that it would be premature in the extreme to suggest that citation-based indicators such as these could be used as a cost-effective alternative to expert judgments: the strongest correlations were obtained with the g- and H-indices computed using Scopus, but even this was only 0.552, i.e., the correlation explained only 30.5% of the variance in the data. In possible future work, the degree to which geographic and web visibility might be affecting the performance measures and expert judgment should be further examined.
A relational database for bibliometric analysis In this article a general-purpose relational database schema for bibliometric applications is presented.
A research impact indicator for institutions The n h₃ index depends on the impact of the documents published by each university and not on their number.
Geographic characteristics of the growth of informetrics literature 1987-2008 Metrics research continues to grow by absolute measures in most areas of the world, including North America. In relative terms, North America is showing a slight decline in contributions to the literature when compared to other parts of the world. Finally, as a unit, Europe is more likely to generate a higher level of international collaborative research with countries around the world.
A simple relation between the Leimkuhler curve and the mean residual life The above theorem shows clearly that there is a 1-to-1 association between the Leimkuhler curve and the mean residual life.
What is in a name? Credit assignment practices in different disciplines It is important to be aware of such disciplinary differences when conducting bibliometric analyses. It is evident that bibliometric indicators have positive steering effects on the scientific community. These disciplinary differences need to be accounted of as ones results may otherwise be wrong or at best flawed.
The Chinese innovation system during economic transition: A scale-independent view Similar to the European and Canadian innovation system, the Chinese innovation system exhibits scaling relationships between GERD and GDP over time and at points in time. The GERD-GDP scaling factor tells us that over the observed period the Chinese GERD exhibited non-linear tendency to increase with GDP. It suggests that the target to increase R&D expenditure to above 2.5% of GDP by 2020 may be realized if China continues to sustain faster economic growth.
A unified approach to mapping and clustering of bibliometric networks Given the complementary nature of mapping and clustering and given the frequent combined use of mapping and clustering techniques, we believe that a unified approach to mapping and clustering can be highly valuable.
A case study of the modified g index: Counting multi-author publications fractionally The fractionalized counting of course reduces the index values from g to gm so that scientists with many multi-author publications might not appreciate it. Although the correlation coefficients between h, hm, g, and gm indicate a strong correlation between the indices, the ranking of the datasets shows significant changes in detail. But I hope that the described merits of the gm index are convincing enough that at least some scientists utilize it in further studies.
A new family of old Hirsch index variants The generalized means are an elegant way of describing various Hirsch index variants on the same footing, including the original Hirsch index and the most cited paper as limiting cases.
Pitfalls of artificial grouping and stratification of scientific journals based on their Impact Factor: a case study in Brazilian Zoology We conclude that the use of only one parameter of analysis for the stratification of journals, i.e., the Impact Factor calculated for a comparatively small number of journals, fails to evaluate with accuracy the pattern of publication present in Zoology, Botany, and Oceanography. While such simplified procedure might appeals to our sense of objectiv- ity, it dismisses any real attempt to evaluate with clarity the merit embedded in at least three very distinct aspects of scientific practice, namely: productivity, quality, and specificity.
Confronting the Myth of Rapid Obsolescence in Computing Research My investigation found that the aging of the computing literature is not atypical compared with other scientific research disciplines, indicating that the research front in computing does not move more quickly than its counterpart in other disciplines. It is also a sign that computing is an established research discipline with long-lasting challenges and complex research problems taking years to solve. Therefore, one should take care criticizing or ignoring literature just because it is “old”; other criteria must be used to judge quality and relevance.
THE INTERNATIONALISATION OF SOUTH AFRICAN MEDICAL RESEARCH, 1975-2005 This study showed that a marked degree of internationalisation (measured in terms of international collaboration, publications in foreign journals and the number of citations) of South African medical research is taking place and that this trend is likely to continue in the future.
The Impact of Information Technology on Academic Scientists' Productivity and Collaboration Patterns Our findings also support the hypotheses that the availability of IT has differential effects on productivity depending on a scientist's individual characteristics and position in academe. The gender and research tier results suggest that IT has been an equalizing force, at least in terms of the number of publications and gain in coauthorship, enabling scientists outside the inner circle to participate more fully. Our findings have implications for the management of scientific research, suggesting that innovations in IT technology contribute to scientific productivity.
Advancing the Research Mission in an Academic Department: The Creation of a Center for Translational Medicine Though the creation of the Center was not without challenges, the overall benefits for the department and the university have been substantial.
Nonuniversal power law scaling in the probability distribution of scientific citations We have developed a model of scientific citations, involving both direct and indirect routes to finding and citing papers. Two key findings here are: (i) the tipping point for a paper to reach classic-paper status, i.e., its power-law citation region, is about 25 citations for the ISI Web of Science database, and (ii) the power-law exponent is not a universal feature of all scientific citations. Our model describes systems that are governed by random choices in the small-k region, cumulative advantage in the high-k region, and a tipping point between them.
Evaluation bias against work in progress: evidence from a Spanish marketing conference "Our findings suggest that work in progress receives lower final evaluations than completed work, thus revealing bias against work in progress."
Ranking of rankings: benchmarking twenty-five higher education ranking systems in Europe We have shown that no HERS achieves good overall congruence with the BPs, mainly due to the finding that ranking practices in the realm of methodology did not conform with the best practices as proposed by the BPs, which is also true in the area of consumer friendliness. It therefore has been suggested that HERSs especially have to make up ground in the realm of methodology and in the area of providing choices to their consumers. Hopefully, the results of this study, as well as the fact that a quantitative assessment tool was introduced for the first time, will stimulate improving HERS through benchmarking with existing exemplary models.
A Journal-Level Analysis of Health Communication Thus, to answer RQ1, HC’s role between communication, health, and social science journals suggests that HC has successfully impacted the level to which information flows between these fields. The data presented here are clear. HC is consistently highly ranked among 45 ISI-indexed journals in the field of communication. Returning to an earlier argument in this essay with respect to interpretation of citation data, it appears HC makes frequent intellectual contributions to theory and research published in the top journals in communication.
Citation analysis in research on differential item functioning This paper has offered a first approach to the study of citing behaviour in the literature on DIF, providing new information about the main characteristics that define it and describing the relationships between different variables.
Pareto's Law In this paper I will show that if we allow n to be (positive) real-valued, we can demonstrate equivalence, with the qualification that α > 1. If α ≤ 1, then the Pareto distribution with density f(x) = αx/xᵃ⁺¹ for x > x₀ has infinite expected value. This corresponds to a finite population whose total income is infinite.
The Use and Valuation of Journals in Planning Scholarship: Peer Assessment versus Impact Factors Our exploratory study of the subjective valuation of journals in planning scholarship reveals there are two journals that clearly dominate all others—JAPA and JPER—and constitute the “journals of record.” The results, in showing the absence of such a relationship, add another voice to the chorus that university administrators should hesitate to evaluate the scholarly output of individual faculty members by the impact factors of the journals in which they publish.
AUTHORSHIP CHARACTERISTICS IN PROSTHODONTIC LITERATURE: PROLIFERATION AND INTERNATIONALIZATION. A REVIEW AND ANALYSIS FOLLOWING A 10-YEAR OBSERVATION The number of authors per article, the number of authors with higher educational degrees, and the percentage of senior-ranking faculty as last author steadily increased in the prosthodontic literature from 1998 to 2008. The trend of globalization of authorship was evident in the prosthodontic literature.
What makes a journal international? A case study using conservation biology journals Firstly, individual elements of internationality are quantifiable by adapting species richness, species diversity and evenness used in community ecology (Krebs 1999). We conclude ERA uses internationality to differentiate the C journals from the others but does not separate the higher A+, A and B journals. Overall, the groups we propose may aid editors seeking distinctive profiles for their journals, assist authors to find appropriate outlets, guide research assessment exercises in distinguishing journals with international, regional or local profiles and facilitate hypothesis-testing related to the internationality of journals.
A longitudinal and cross-sectional study of Swedish biomedical PhD processes 1991-2009 with emphasis on international and gender aspects Our findings suggest that the policy and management of Swedish scientific research systems needs revision to harmonize with the national economic capacity.
A new author's productivity index: p-index It provides an efficient method to measure the author's contribution in articles writing, compared to other ordinary methods. The author's golden productivity index takes into consideration the principal role of the first authors in paper writing. It is obvious that the proposed scoring method can be applied in the case where the rank of each author shows the magnitude of his contribution, as in common practice.
The iceberg hypothesis revisited The first conclusion is that, as in ISI-97, observing the squared deviation Diff², one can state that the rank/JIF distributions in most of the specific subject areas fit a negative logarithmic law fairly well.
Improvements in productivity based on co-authorship: a case study of published articles in China Our empirical results indicate that both China's per capita domestic and international co-authorship appear to have positive effects on the total per capita published articles in the various regions of China.
Citation analysis and peer ranking of Australian social science journals There are two important findings from this study that support the argument that citations data may not be the most appropriate method of assessing research output in Australian social science journals.
The impact of the socio-economic crisis of 2001 on the scientific system of Argentina from the scientometric perspective The first conclusion we can trace is that the development of Argentina's scientific system is strongly conditioned by the socio-economic context. This is evident in the wake of the 2001 crisis, suggesting that cyclical processes of advancement and stagnation or retreat of the country's economy are behind some of the difficulties encountered on the scientific level. Similarly, we see a paradox of sorts between the political, economic and scientific systems.
Cardiovascular research in Spain. A comparative scientometric study This study has confirmed and deepened the results of earlier related studies. Nonetheless, In terms of citation impact Spain still needs to catch up with the leading countries, above all, with Scandinavia and Central Europe. The domestic research landscape in Spain is characterised by a large extent of polarisation between the citation impact and visibility of research at the different institutes.
Can applied science be 'good science'? Exploring the relationship between patent citations and citation impact in nanoscience We compared citedness between nanoscience papers cited in nanotechnology patents and those that are not.
Intellectual structure of biomedical informatics reflected in scholarly events We investigated the intellectual structure of biomedical informatics by analyzing social networks of research topics reflected in scholarly events. We identified the major topics of both medical informatics and bioinformatics. And we found that shared methodology-related topics were used in different contexts.
Natural selection of academic papers In this brief manuscript we present a novel publication model, the NSAP, that addresses the fundamental problems of dissemination of knowledge, the deficiencies of the PR process as well as issues associated with journal monopolies.
The iCE approach for journal evaluation The E-factor is a very simple and reliable measure of prestige or prominence of a journal. It also lends itself to simple graphical representation on a two-dimensional map based on impact (i) and citations (C). It is also possible to propose a p-factor (where p = E1/3) as an alternative measure of the prestige or prominence of a journal which plays the equivalent role of the h-index.
Deconstructing doctoral dissertations: how many papers does it take to make a PhD? Harmonic allocation of authorship credit provides an unbiased bibliometric measure of current PhD requirements, and sets a de facto baseline for the requisite scientific productivity of a contemporary PhD at a median value of approximately 1.6 undivided papers per dissertation.
Multilevel analysis of academic publishing across disciplines: research preference, collaboration, and time on research We found that faculty preference and collaboration in conducting research are critical factors affecting research performance.
Counting the citations: a comparison of Web of Science and Google Scholar in the field of business and management The conclusion is that Web of Science should not be used for measuring research impact in management. The results show that WoS picks up less than half of the journals, papers and citations found by GS. More consistent results could be gained from Google Scholar but here there are significant problems of data reliability and transparency.
Assessing the Scholarly Impact of Health Psychology: A Citation Analysis of Articles Published From 1993 to 2003 Articles published in Health Psychology have a wide reach, informing psychology, medicine, public health and health policy.
The citation field of evolutionary economics Given the Schumpeterian legacy that the JEE has, surprisingly tenuous links exist with entrepreneurship journals, or management journals more generally. The JEE links to less mainstream, or even heterodox journals such as the Journal of Economic Issues (JEI) or the Cambridge Journal of Economics (CJE) are more tenuous, despite the expectation from the first editor in his editorial that there would be such links (Hanusch 1991). It could then further strengthen its position vis-à-vis such areas as technology studies and regional studies as well as studies of management and entrepreneurship.
What makes a good conference? Analysing the preferences of labour economists Keynote speakers and conference location are the most important attributes to decide for a conference, while the remaining attributes type of social event, time of the year, and conference venue are less important for the decision. The paper shows that varying characteristics of a conference can influence both the overall attractiveness of a conference, but also influences the type of researchers interested in participation. Selecting these characteristics is therefore a strategic instrument for scientific associations to reach their goals.
Cumulative and Career-Stage Citation Impact of Social-Personality Psychology Programs and Their Members Citation impact is an important indicator of scientific contribution because it is valid, relatively objective, and, with existing databases and search tools, straightforward to compute.
Citation classics in obstetrics and gynecology: the 100 most frequently cited journal articles in the last 50 years Most “citation classics” in obstetrics and gynecology are observational studies published in high-impact journals by US-based authors after 1980. It will be interesting to see if the recent focus on evidence-based research increases the proportion of RCTs in the influential articles of the future.
The 100 classic papers of orthopaedic surgery A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS This list of citation classics identifies the topics and authors that have made the most impact on the practice of orthopaedic surgery over the course of the last century. Our analysis has identified the papers responsible for the most significant developments in our specialty. The classics noted in this study are the papers that have had the most impact, and they will be the ones most remembered.
Astronomy's Greatest Hits: The 100 Most Cited Papers in Each Year of the First Decade of the 21st Century (2000-2009) I do not think that the sharp rises seen both in number of authors of top-ranked papers (Fig. 1) and in Internet usage (Fig. 13) over the same time period is coincidental.
Moving Beyond Citation Analysis: How Surveys and Interviews Enhance, Enrich, and Expand Your Research Findings "The exploration/investigation for this study determined that the Bruce T. Halle Library at Eastern Michigan University is effectual in the services and collection it provides to support the research needs of its faculty at EMU."
Highly cited papers from India and China Both India and China have a long way to go indeed.
The impact of open access on the management of scientific knowledge The findings indicate that OA is such a positive factor. Making scientific literature openly accessible for anyone interested not only has the potential to improve transfer of scientific knowledge, but also its creation and storage/retrieval.
Comparison of journal impact rankings in the SCImago Journal & Country Rank and the Journal Citation Reports databases The paper provides useful information on the open access SJR and JCR databases and their effects on the ranking of journals.
Credit and Authorship Practices: Educational and Environmental Influences That they generally do what, to them, “seems to be the right thing." However, it is possible that the respondents do learn about RCR norms from institutional sources and, subsequently and subconsciously, inte-grate that learning with their own frame of reference;
Global Psychology: A bibliometric Analysis of Web of Science Publications In conclusion, a combined analysis of the quan-titative indicator Relative Effort Index (REI) (Na-varrete-Cortés et al., 2009) and the quality indica-tors ARIF and number of citations was carried out between the different countries (Figure 4), showing that the United States alongside New Zealand, Canada, Holland, and Australia are the countries with the highest scientific production in the ps-ychology field in relation to general production, achieving a high quality for the future.
Research citation analysis of nursing academics in Canada: identifying success indicators Citation analysis metrics are useful for evaluating the research performance of academic researchers in nursing.
Mapping the literature of health education: 2006-2008 The results of this study provide a new picture of the health education literature: The volume has grown significantly, cites older materials, and relies less on sexual health journals and more on psychology journals.
Impact of online journals on citation patterns of dentistry, nursing, and pharmacy faculty The number of articles cited by each of the disciplines has increased from 1996 to 2008. In some disciplines, the impact of online journals can be seen in the citation patterns of research faculty. While the decreased use of the physical print collection is not in question, some specific uses of the print collection, such as for research purposes, are impacted in different ways and to different extents, depending on the discipline of the user.
Reference Standards and Reference Multipliers for the Comparison of the Citation Impact of Papers Published in Different Time Periods In this study, reference standards and reference multipliers are suggested, which enable the comparison of the citation impact of early papers in physics (from the period of Little Science at the beginning of the 20th century) with the impact of contemporary papers in physics (from the period of Big Science beginning around 1960).
Accuracy and Completeness of Publication and Citation Records in the Web of Science, PsycINFO, and Google Scholar: A Case Study for the Computation of h Indices in Psychology WoS and PsycINFO cover distinct areas of psychology unevenly, thus applying different penalties on the h index of researches working in different fields. Obtaining fair and accurate h indices required the union of citations retrieved by all three platforms. Psychologists seeking to collect citation records for their papers could overcome biases of differential coverage with the three-step strategy pursued in this article, as itemized next.
A Comparison of Citer and Citation-Based Measure Outcomes for Multiple Disciplines Citer and citation-based measures produce largely similar outcomes, although they can provide complementary ways of assessing researcher impact or at higher levels, such as at the research group or institutional level.
European Political Trends Viewed Through Patterns of Web Linking The study demonstrated the possibility of using Web hyperlink data to gain insights into political situations in the EU.
The Communication of Meaning and the Structuration of Expectations: Giddens' "Structuration Theory" and Luhmann's "Self-Organization" I submit that further elaborations of information theory and the theory and computation of anticipatory systems have provided us with categories for studying the evolution of the cogitata as interhuman coordination systems.
Good Properties of Similarity Measures and Their Complementarity The principle of nominal increase, defined in econometrics, was tested on similarity measures, hence in a two-dimensional framework.
Turnitoff: identifying and fixing a hole in current plagiarism detection software In this paper, we have shown how to defeat current plagiarism detection systems with no financial cost, very little effort, and very little chance of being detected. We have also shown, however, how OCR can be employed to fix these systems to defeat such attacks. We believe that the loopholes identified in this paper need to be plugged as a matter of urgency.
THE IMPORTANCE OF ORGANIZATIONAL JUSTICE IN ENSURING RESEARCH INTEGRITY First, as we have recently noted (Martinson et al., 2009), in this sample of largely mid-career scientists employed at top research universities in the United States, we observe self-report of substantial levels of a range of behavior antithetical to high-quality science combined with sub-optimal levels of ideal research-related behavior. Second, as theoretical frameworks for understanding scientists' behavior, general strain theory and organizational justice theory receive qualified support in our findings. Finally, because so many of the issues involved here appear related, in one way or another, to the increasingly intense competition for research resources—federal grant funding in particular—we agree with Francis Collins that 'it is time for NIH to develop better models to guide decisions about the optimum size and nature of the U.S. workforce for biomedical research' (Collins, 2010).
CociteSeer: a system to visualize large cocitation networks The initial result of the cocitation visualization system complemented by domain content analysis is encouraging.
Open access journals: development of a web portal at the Indian Statistical Institute Cost escalation and information explosion are the two forces, which have inadvertent impact on the functions of modern libraries. In this scenario, open access journals are a boon to the practicing librarians particularly in a developing country like India. With the help of OAJs librarians can attempt to bridge the gap between haves and have-nots.
Do Scientific Advancements Lean on the Shoulders of Giants? A Bibliometric Investigation of the Ortega Hypothesis We demonstrate that papers contributing to the scientific progress in a field lean to a larger extent on previously important contributions than papers contributing little.
The Social Capital of Global Ties in Science: The Added Value of International Collaboration It is through collaboration that researchers build “scientific and human capital,” which includes a range of research-based resources, knowledge, and network connections and related resources (Bozeman et al., 2001).
International Co-Authorship and Research Team Performance in Colombia According to the models analyzed, among Colombian researchers, co-authoring with partners located overseas both contributes to team productivity and to the orientation of research toward country-specific issues. It raises overall team productive capacity by between three and five bibliographic products; and increases the probability of a local team's including Colombia in its research topics by between 9% and 16%.
Do Author-Suggested Reviewers Rate Submissions More Favorably than Editor-Suggested Reviewers? A Study on Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics Against this backdrop journal editors should consider either doing without the use of author-suggested reviewers or, if they are used, bringing in more than one editor-suggested reviewer for the review process (so that the review by author-suggested reviewers can be put in perspective).
Scientific Publications in Critical Care Medicine Journals From Chinese Authors: A 10-Year Survey of the Literature In conclusion, the number of articles published from China has increased markedly during the past 10 years.
A comparative study of research capabilities of East Asian countries and implications for Vietnam The study reveals that the research intensity is closely related to per capita GDP and Human Development Index (HDI), and therefore, it can be used as a proxy for socio-economic development of a country. The paper suggests approaches that should be taken for enhancing research capability and reshaping science and higher education system in Vietnam. Publishing research findings in international refereed journals should be recognized as a key criterion for ensuring the quality of R&D output.
Using Google Scholar to Estimate the Impact of Journal Articles in Education The Google Scholar data had several advantages that were more or less independent of subfield. First, the data provided an acceptable characterization of scholarship in the three subfields, at least in broad strokes. The ability to gauge the impact of journals not included in the Web of Science, or that have low ISI impact factors, is important in professional fields like education, where there is a need to document impact on policy and professional practice as well as research.
International scientific collaboration among Iranian researchers during 1998-2007 The findings of the study also showed that international research collaboration enhanced the quality of research. We found a significant correlation between number of countries cooperated per paper and the number of citations received by those papers and came to this result that the number of citations received by international co-authored publications was more than the number of citations received by domestic co-authored publications.
Self-Selected or Mandated, Open Access Increases Citation Impact for Higher Quality Research The OA Advantage is real, independent and causal, but skewed.
Trends in Economic Research: An International Perspective Our findings indicate that Europe is catching-up with the USA but, in terms of influential research, the USA maintains a dominant position.
Are finance, management, and marketing autonomous fields of scientific research? An analysis based on journal citations Based on Klamer and Van Dalen's (2002) theoretical framework of science as 'network clusters' we propose a modified version of the ‘Technology leader sets the standard net- work', in order to map the degree of autonomy and scientific organization of Finance, Management and Marketing (rather underexplored domains in scientometric studies). Based on our results and some recent studies on citations analysis focused on the three fields considered here (e.g., Biehl et al. 2006; Waller 2006), we can pertinently frame the evidence within Whitley's (1984) theory, which considers both epistemological and social structures within 'disciplines', explaining cultural difference across these 'disciplines' based on two dimensions of scholarly practices, ‘mutual dependency' and ‘task uncer- tainty'.
Citation accuracy in environmental science journals It is clear that citation errors remain a serious problem, affecting in the case of this study, almost one citation in four. Since future articles are likely to contain more electronic citations, this is a hopeful trend. If the editors of such journals were to adopt Asano's suggestion mentioned above, this might lead to another improvement.
The validity of staff editors' initial evaluations of manuscripts: a case study of Angewandte Chemie International Edition The results of this study indicate that the initial internal evaluations are valid. Further, it appears that external review is indispensable for the decision on the publication worthiness of manuscripts: (1) For the majority of submitted manuscripts, staff editors are uncertain about publication worthiness; (2) there is a statistically significant proportional difference in "Rejection” between the editors' initial evaluation and the final editorial decision (after peer review); (3) three-quarters of the manuscripts that were rated negatively at the initial internal evaluation but accepted for publication after the peer review had far above-average citation counts.
Assessment of ontology-based knowledge network formation by Vector-Space Model The four empirical investigations allow a cut-off threshold value calculated by Vector-Space Model to be suggested for deciding the formation of network ties when network linkage information is unavailable. This study proposes a method to optimize cut-off value in a more systematic and objective way in order to identify potential connectivity between any two actors in a networked system. However, the main purpose of this study is to have a comprehensive demonstration on optimizing cut-off value with the aid of useful information available on research samples.
Peer review research assessment: a sensitivity analysis of performance rankings to the share of research product evaluated A bibliometric simulation of this scenario revealed that it produces substantial shifts in performance rankings with respect to the rankings obtained under a selection rate that remains fixed for all disciplines. A subsequent sensitivity analysis conducted for eight different scenarios of selection rate further confirms that the results of evaluation are not stable, but are influenced by the dimension of the best products subset, as identified by the universities and evaluated by the panels. This is a result of the variance in efficiency of research staff within the same university: the greater this variance, the more sensitive the rankings will be to product share.
Academic team formation as evolving hypergraphs We presented a formal framework to appraise the underpinnings of collaboration formation with a hypergraphic approach which encompasses both the meso-level of teams and the joint dynamics of social and semantic features.
An index to quantify an individual's scientific research output that takes into account the effect of multiple coauthorship I argue that ħ is a good candidate to meet these criteria and is superior to the h-index in that it takes into account the effect of multiple coauthorship.
A longitudinal analysis of citation distribution breadth for Chinese scholars All three measures indicate a decline in citing concentration or an increase in citation breadth.
Enriching knowledge production patterns of Mexican physics in particles and fields The stabilization of the production in the first stage had to do with the conditions surrounding the saturation of the traditional mode of knowledge production in the decades of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, linked to the scientific practice of employing only one type of production mode characterized by institutions, academic profiles, financing, professional training, research interests and teaching programmes, all operating within a theoretical and phenomenological research culture.
Development and application of a keyword-based knowledge map for effective R&D planning The results can be used to establish a policy to support promising R&D areas and devise a long-term research plan.
Dynamics of the scientific community network within the strategic management field through the Strategic Management Journal 1980-2009: the role of cooperation The results of our study show that the network structure of the scientific community of the strategic management discipline around the SMJ went through three stages: (1) formation/ incorporation, (2) consolidation/dissemination, and (3) expansion/transformation. Cooperation serves as a bridge for the new countries' inclusion in the network structure, which is evidenced by r² = 0.91. The results also reveal that as coop-eration in the publication of articles in the SMJ increases, so does the number of authors from other countries included in the network of the strategic management scientific community.
The structure of collaboration in the Journal of Finance In summary, the present work used network centrality measures (degree, closeness and betweenness centralization score as well as hubs/authority score) to find the most structurally important vertices on the co-authorship network of the Journal of Finance cov- ering the period 1980–2009.
A Survey of Quality Engineering-Management Journals by Bibliometric Indicators This paper analysed 12 of the major journals in the Quality Engineering/Management field by three bibliometric indicators: h for journals, citation number and h-spectrum. The bibliometric analysis we proposed can be helpful for different reasons: (i) it provides a reference for the (potential) authors of the major scientific journals on Quality sector; (ii) it makes it possible to perform rough comparisons between different journals and estimate their bibliometric positioning; and (iii) it supports a journal's editorial staff to periodically monitor the effect of the paper-selecting policy.
Interventional Oncology Research in the United States: Slowing Growth, Limited Focus, and a Low Level of Funding IO research is slowing in the United States but growing elsewhere. Japan and China are leaders in clinical trial research. U.S. IO research receives less funding than does overall radiology reserach. IO research focuses primarily on liver cancer.
Publication in a Brazilian journal by Brazilian scientists whose papers have international impact The reasons for this difference in the number of citations could be either that less significant invited articles were submitted or that it was due to the intrinsic lack of visibility of the Brazilian journals, but this could not be fully determined with the present data. A clear imbalance due to a remarkable under-citation of Brazilian authors by authors publishing in Brazilian journals raises the possibility that psychological factors may affect the decision of citing Brazilian journals. Certainly one cannot draw this conclusion from these very preliminary results but this is definitely a topic that deserves an appropriately focused investigation since it may have profound consequences for the evolution of Brazilian journals.
Reports of the Death of the Sociology of Science Have Been Greatly Exaggerated In summary, quantitatively, it is clear that in science studies, judged by practitioners own designations of what they are doing, the sociology of sci-ence has not become extinct, it has not come to be dominated by other research expressions, and despite the addition of new descriptors, it has tended to maintain its distinctiveness. Obviously it is important to sociology that the study of a topic or field so important to the modern world as science not disappear, and that the sociological approach to it (e.g., Nakhaie 2007; Siler and McLaughlin 2008) not become overshadowed nor completely lose its distinctiveness.
Dermatologic research in the Nordic countries 1989-2008-a bibliometric study Despite similarities in social and economic conditions in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, and Norway, there are great differences in dermatologic research activity in the four countries, with Denmark performing best and Norway poorest.
TRENDING AND MAPPING THE INTELLECTUAL STRUCTURE OF SOCIAL BEHAVIOR STUDIES: A STUDY OF THE SOCIAL BEHAVIOR AND PERSONALITY JOURNAL The results of this research help in perceiving the network that records the academic movement of social behavior, and will facilitate access for researchers to the literature in this field. In this study the network of knowledge model was applied to identify the most influential scholars and publications that have determined the development and growth of the study of social behavior and to map an intellectual structure in the social behavior field. This process of examining cited books and articles can help in gaining a better understanding of the concepts, ideas, frameworks, and theories of social behavior by tracing the research path and mapping the paradigm shift.
Effects of Author Contribution Disclosures and Numeric Limitations on Authorship Trends Implementation of authorship limitation policies does not slow the trend of increasing numbers of authors per article over time. Our analysis suggests that the long-term trend in increasing authorship has not been affected by formal efforts to prohibit undeserving authorship. ...and instead suggest that we should reexamine the causes of these long-term trends.
Survey of the h index for all of academic neurosurgery: another power-law phenomenon? A survey of the h index for all of academic neurosurgery is presented.
Publication Opportunities in Nonnursing Journals Whatever the reason, it probably makes sense to select a nonnursing journal that is not only relevant but also that has a track record of acknowledging nurses' contributions to knowledge in the field. Nurse authors are encouraged to explore other ways in which relatedness information in the JCR database could help them identify nonnursing journals that allow them to share their evidence and perspectives with colleagues in other related disciplines.
Terminological Interchange Between Sociology and Political Science Interdisciplinary ideas have not been likely to flourish in leading disciplinary outlets over the past century, and there seems to be little reason to expect major departures from the patterns documented here.
Scientific Impact at the Topic Level: A Case Study in Computational Linguistics We have proposed using a topic model and the TEF algorithm to assess the relative importance of academic entities, including papers, authors, conferences, and journals. For the users of scientific measurement, the TEF provides a multi-faceted means that is not only from a broad discipline tier but also from the topic tier of scientific research. This can better reflect the nature of scientific impact and help users comprehensively understand the impact of an academic paper or a scientist.
Citation, Obliteration, and Plagiarism, as Discussed in Ancient Jewish Sources In sum, this article covers a broad range of information science issues: the ethics of citation, the organization of information, and the search process.
Scopus's Source Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP) Versus a Journal Impact Factor Based on Fractional Counting of Citations We have argued that Moed's (in press) idea of normalizing the citation impact contextually can be elaborated into the weighted citation impact of a set of documents, which can be tested statistically for its significance in relation to other sets, e.g., other scientific journals.
The internationalisation of public sector research through international joint laboratories The setting up and/or support of foreign joint laboratories have become important elements of the internationalisation of public sector research worldwide in the last two decades.
"Equal" Contributions and Credit: An Emerging Trend in the Characterization of Authorship The practice of explicitly giving authors equal credit is increasingly common in original research publications.
Japanese Lung Cancer Research Trends and Performance in Science Citation Index Finally, this study highlights the topics in lung cancer research that are becoming popular in Japan.
Negative changes in the scientific publication process in ecology: potential causes and consequences We strongly believe that, because the relationships among publishers, editors, reviewers and authors in ecology have changed, there has been a deterioration in the scientific publishing process in ecology and consequently in the effectiveness of the dissemination of scientific information.
Decline of dermatological publications in the UK: truth or myth? Despite a three-fold increase in dermatology consultants and registrars in UK, a three-fold increase in dermatological journals and a four-fold increase in dermatological papers published, the overall number of British papers has remained static over the years. Research and publication should be encouraged and restored as an important part of specialist training.
Whither Metrics, Cont.: Assessing Publication Output of Academic: Library Practitioners Across Different Types of Institutions If one were to infer from this single year sample, it can be fairly assumed that there is, at least in the field's top journals, very little published work being authored by librarians at undergraduate institutions and community colleges.
Bibliometrics and the Modern Commercial Regime The looming issue of the decline of science in the US in the 21st century is a complex of thorny considerations, ranging from the effects of privatization upon the availiability and cogency of biblio-metric statistics, to the interplay of the outsourcing of corporate R&D to China and India along with the late modern model of neoliberal privatization of the conduct of science, to the transformation of the modern American university (Lewin 2009).
Surveys of current status in biomedical science grant review: funding organisations' and grant reviewers' perspectives Funders reported a growing workload of biomedical proposals that is getting harder to peer review. Our surveys suggest that few funders have used their experiences of deteriorating efficiency or the (albeit lim- ited) evidence base on editorial peer review to assess and improve their processes. We suggest that funders provide clearer guidance to reviewers, draw on evidence from both editorial and grant review to maximise the efficiency and fairness of their work, and come together to consider the development of a set of uniform require- ments for submitting and peer reviewing biomedical grant proposals.
Soccer Science and the Bayes Community: Exploring the Cognitive Implications of Modern Scientific Communication Our goal in this research program has been twofold: first, to articulate a design rationale and the development of systems that can support multistage reasoning at the individual, group, and community levels, and second to provide a means of empirically investigating new forms of societal organization in analytical (esp. scientific) collaboration. Both empirical studies and simulation in all these areas will be informative, and they could lead to improved support for Open Science based upon the CACHE model.
Scholarly productivity, impact, and quality among Academic Psychologists at Group of Eight Universities In general, research productivity and impact among Australian academic psychologists varies as a function of academic level such that each increase in academic level is associated with an increase in productivity and impact.
An updated ranking of the economic research institutions in China (2000-2009) This paper ranks the economic research institutions in China based on publications in the SSCI economics journals from 2000 through 2009 and finds that the gap in the research capacity of economic research institutions between the mainland and Hong Kong is very large, even though the difference in overall quality is not so significant.
Quantifying the research impact of the Sustainable Forest Management Network in the social sciences: a bibliometric study These results suggest that the SFMN-funded research in the social sciences compared very well with the international research standards in forest-related social sciences.
Addressing Information Overload in the Scientific Community We hope that Liquid Journal will provide support for scientists who would like to collaboratively collect, organize, and share relevant content.
Relational mechanisms governing multifaceted collaborative behavior of academic scientists in six fields of science and engineering This study provides empirical evidence on the role of micro level relational characteristics such as homophilous relationships, close friendships, and duration in facilitating multifaceted collaboration.
Ranking Economics Departments in a Contested Discipline: A Bibliometric Approach to Quality Equality Between Theoretically Distinct Subdisciplines The Notre Dame case dramatically illustrates how bibliometric (and peer review) based methods can be used to silence dissenting voices and to render invisible heterodox ideas and departments in a con-tested discipline such as economics.
Research Quality Rankings of Heterodox Economic Journals in a Contested Discipline The measure produces a ranking of heterodox journals in their own terms; but it can also be used to compare the research quality of heterodox journals to mainstream journals, as delineated in the JQES quality-equality rankings.
The Diffusion of Heterodox Economics But this study has demonstrated that there is an ordering to the different perspectives within economics, with some perspectives more engaged with some than others.
Pluralism at Risk? Heterodox Economic Approaches and the Evaluation of Economic Research in Italy Finally, by summarizing the current debate in Italy, we claim that evaluation should not be refused by heterodox economists, but rather that a reflection on the criteria of evaluation should be put forward at an international level in order to establish fair competition among research paradigms, thus, preserving pluralism in the discipline.
Publications of BRIC- and Outreach Countries in International Journals on Limnology The situation can be summarized (see Table 6): In Brazil, Mexico and South Africa limnology had a better standing than the other fields of science. Although China seemed to have invested more money into other branches of science, its present doubling time of 3.8 years gives reason to expect a further increase in the production of limnological papers. China is on the point outperforming many western countries in the very near future.
Last but not Least: Additional Positional Effects on Citation and Readership in arXiv In summary, the results of this section clarify the ques-tion posed by Table 1, suggesting that any period with fewer NA submissions would have a geographically induced diminution of median citations.
Co-Citation Analysis, Bibliographic Coupling, and Direct Citation: Which Citation Approach Represents the Research Front Most Accurately? We consider the results of this study to be robust given the very large size of the corpus, and the specificity of the accuracy measures used.
A Comparison of Two Techniques for Bibliometric Mapping: Multidimensional Scaling and VOS We conclude that in general maps constructed using VOS provide a more satisfactory representation of a dataset than maps constructed using well-known MDS approaches. We found that maps constructed using the VOS approach provide a more satisfactory representation of the underlying dataset than maps constructed using either of the MDS approaches.
Power Law Distributions in Information Science: Making the Case for Logarithmic Binning The statistical nature of sampling always will lead to the increasing noise in the tails of empirical distributions of the power law type, regardless of the sample size.
Self-Citations That Contribute to the Journal Impact Factor: An Investment-Benefit-Yield Analysis The use of the investment-benefit-yield model opens new perspectives in the study of JIFs. Our results suggest that, in general, taking into account the whole population of journals included in the JCR, self-citations are not abused as a way to increase the JIF. The effect of self-citations on the JIF was, in general, also modest.
A New Short Proof of Naranan's Theorem, Explaining Lotka's Law and Zipf's Law Naranan's theorem cannot be overestimated: Lotka's law is a natural consequence of two exponential growths (which is maybe the most important function for natural growth).
The Rise and Fall of Arterial Interventions: Presentations at the Society of Interventional Radiology Annual Scientific Meeting CONCLUSIONS: There has been a decline in the overall number of abstracts presented at the SIR annual meeting after a peak in 2003.
Growing Trend of China's Contribution to the Field of Rheumatology 2000-2009: A Survey of Chinese Rheumatology Research Chinese contributions to the field of rheumatology have increased rapidly since 2000, particularly from ML.
Dissemination of research into clinical nursing literature Conclusions. All of the original research reports examined in this study were cited in articles in clinical journals, disseminating the research beyond the original work to reach clinicians. Relevance to clinical practice. Clinical nursing journals keep readers up-to-date and informed about new practices in nursing and serve another important role: they disseminate research that is clinically relevant by publishing original studies and papers that cite research reports.
An evaluation of Irish general surgical research publications from 2000 to 2009 Ireland continues to produce high quality surgical research, characterised by number of articles produced per 105 inhabitants.
CNPQ-SUPPORTED MEDICAL RESEARCHERS: A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF RESEARCH AREAS Medical researchers are concentrated in the Southeast region of Brazil.
Article Contribution and Subsequent Citation Rates: Evidence from European Accounting Review Our findings suggest that EAR articles are cited for their contribution to their field of knowledge (i.e. as proxied by article characteristics), rather than for their author characteristics.
New approach to the visualization of international scientific collaboration As the corpus of specialized literature has evidenced, the analysis of scientific collaboration provides relational information that allows one to enrich purely bibliometric studies with the schematic representation of the domain in question, thus giving insight as to how information flows within the system.
Showing the essential science structure of a scientific domain and its evolution With the foundation of a previously developed method- ology, we have shown how the scientograms of major scientific domains are very useful tools for the represen- tation, analysis, comparison and evolutionary study of these domains. They can even be used as models to predict the behavior of other domains.
Ethical concerns of nursing reviewers: An international survey "The findings from this study suggest several areas that editors should note, including follow up with reviewers when they identify ethical concerns about a manuscript."
RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS, ECONOMIC GROWTH AND CAUSALITY: JAPAN'S EXPERIENCE Granger causality runs from economic growth to changes in research output.
Conceptualising research performance Data from a cross-section of academics across a variety of universities have been analysed to explore academic perceptions of the characteristics of high-performing researchers and to build a dimensional, conceptual model of research performance. The dimensions constituting research activity and performing identified through the interpretive conceptual analysis of the qualitative data provide a basis for challenging, extending and rebuilding outcome-focused models currently driving research assessment exercises. To empirically test the necessity for each of the dimensions and to refine the indicators outlined, further data will need to be gathered.
Analysis of the interdisciplinary nature of library and information science The research findings indicate that there is a relatively clear division of research topics between the studies conducted in various information studies departments and those conducted in other departments that study information. While LIS scholars focus on the information user, other fields, headed by business administration, computer science, education and communication, focus on the system, on information technology, the information industry and the management of information. The concern that Saracevic (1999) raised at the end of the previous century may prove itself to be true, and we may be drawing closer to a new and differ-ent definition of LIS and a bifurcation of the field into an area that treats the foundations of information organization and the study of the user, and additional tangential fields that treat information technology, information systems and other related aspects.
Research performance evaluations of Thailand national research universities during 2007-2009 The results suggested that the top six universities that had highest average number of published articles and citations during the three evaluation years were MU, CU, CMU, PSU, KU and KKU. However, the universities with lower number of published articles appeared to perform better in terms of average citation/article and citations received/cited article. The research results in this work suggested that the top nine universities based on their research performances corresponded very well to those approved by the Office of the Higher Education Commission (OHEC, 2010) under the 2009 Thailand's National Research University Initiative only in terms of research productivity and impact.
The citation impact of Open Access agricultural research A comparison between OA and non-OA publications In answer to the RQ1, the results indicate that self-archived research articles published in the non-OA agriculture journals received nearly twice as many citations as their non-OA counterparts and this difference was statistically significant.
A longitudinal analysis of bibliometric and impact factor trends among the core international journals of nursing, 1977-2008 Overall, this study provides one of the most comprehensive, longitudinal bibliometric analyses ever conducted in the field of nursing. Impressive and continual impact factor gains suggest that published nursing research is being increasingly seen, heard and cited in the international academic community. Results also suggest that journal impact factors will continue to rise in future, thus confirming the supposition that nursing research is being increasingly seen, heard and cited in the international community.
Is there a glass ceiling for highly cited scientists at the top of research universities? The participation of highly cited scientists in the top leadership of universities is limited.
Authors' opinions on publication in relation to annual performance assessment The number of publications, authorship order and journal impact factor were important factors for performance reviews and promotion at academic and non-academic institutes. The number of authors was not identified as important criteria. These factors may be contributing to the increase in the number of authors per publication.
Google Scholar's Dramatic Coverage Improvement Five Years after Debut The comparison of the contents of databases to the contents of Google Scholar based on randomly selected samples demonstrates that, more than five years after its debut, Google Scholar is able to retrieve all scholarly publications from databases and Web sites that are open to Google Scholar.
Data Driven Collection Assessment using a Serial Decision Database With increasingly complex data available for managing both print and online serial and declining budgets, there is a strong need for a method of organizing serials data beyond what was available from an integrated library system.
Assessing What Distinguishes Highly Cited from Less-Cited Papers Published in Interfaces This suggests that the Interfaces editorial staff may want to commission more such papers. Interfaces should consider reinstituting callouts. Finding that papers that make more references to prior literature tend to be cited more often is not surprising.
Careers of an elite cohort of U.S. basic life science postdoctoral fellows and the influence of their mentor's citation record Sixteen years after starting their PD, only 9% of males had dropped out of science.
Mapping the Knowledge Utilization Field in Nursing from 1945 to 2004: A Bibliometric Analysis Our study has illuminated three emerging trends. In order to enhance the accessibility and profile of this literature, we appeal to members of the International Academy of Nursing Editors to continue work collaboratively to increase the number of journals indexed in the Web of Science. The study spans six decades of work. Given the exponential interest in the field since 2004, we plan to add to these findings by capturing the work from this current decade (2005–2014).
Results of a Citation Analysis of the Career Counselling Field from an African Perspective Citation analysis is considered as one of the more objective measurements of document evaluation. The analysis can help early career researchers to identify contemporary research top-ics, methods and trends, but also to understand the influences and influencers in their major subject. Research publications on career counselling are projected to increase for both South African authors and the authors of other African countries.
Evaluating the social capital accrued in large research networks: The case of the Sustainable Forest Management Network (1995-2009) From a science and innovation policy perspective, the finding that more than half of the researchers in the SFMN did not increase their personal networks of collaborators raises important questions.
Blog-supported scientific communication: An exploratory analysis based on social hyperlinks in a Chinese blog community On the first research question, we found that the Csdn social network is a small world and scale free network. There are a lot of star-like loose clusters in the network, indicating the existence of topical sub-communities in the Csdn blog community. In summary, the internet is replacing printed media as the major platform for scientific communication.
Publication Trends in the Journal of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia: A 10-Year Analysis JCVA has a widespread influence and receives contributions from all over the world. More and more biomedical research is conducted outside North America and Europe, with India leading the group of "rest of the world" countries. Given the large number of authors and countries publishing in JCVA, together with the number of citations for the more appreciated articles, it is clear that JCVA enjoys a widespread influence in its field.
Publication Output of Swiss Political Science Departments The overall picture that emerges from this data is that there are rather strong differences between Swiss political science units in terms of how internationally visible their research output is.
New Forms of Complementarity in Science In this paper, we have argued that science is indeed subject to changes in the ways in which scientists combine their intellectual activity with other cognitive resources or disciplines and with a large array of non-scientific institutions. We have suggested an alternative explanatory strategy, at least for new sciences or search regimes: these changes are more the result of internal epistemic dynamics of science than of external pressures.
The 101 Most Frequently Cited Articles in Ophthalmology Journals From 1850 to 1949 These citation classics provide a historical perspective of the progress in ophthalmology from 1850 to 1949.
A Bibliographic Analysis of IEEE Intelligent Systems Publications We identified that J. Hendler, S. Staab and B. Chandrasekaran as the core authors for IS who are both productive and influential. Carnegie Mellon University, USC, MIT, Stanford University, University Maryland, University of Karlsruhe, and Ohio State University are the magazine's core institutions. In future work, we will conduct social network analysis on IS' coauthorship network to study their collaboration patterns.
Does Collocation Inform the Impact of Collaboration? Despite the positive impact of emerging communication technologies on scientific research, our results provide striking evidence for the role of physical proximity as a predictor of the impact of collaborations.
Mapping the Field of Virtual Work: A Cocitation Analysis "This analysis can help interested researchers identify how they may want to contribute to the field of virtual work—by adding to popular clusters, by enriching emerging smaller clusters, or by acting as bridges across clusters."
Interdisciplinarity in the environmental sciences: barriers and frontiers This study rather challenges perceived barriers to interdisciplinary research and reveals opportunities for interdisciplinary progress. We found that age or size of a discipline, and perceived quality of research output did not affect interdisciplinary research. Promotion of interdisciplinary research should not be restricted by discipline, but should focus on dispelling fears over the quality of outputs and create opportunities for interdisciplinarity by increasing the space available for different disciplines to encounter each other.
The Temporal Structure of Scientific Consensus Formation This article provides a new way of measuring scientific consensus. By allowing anyone to define a literature and assess its dynamics quantitatively, sociol-ogy can partake in the effort to make science public and more democratic. Our findings suggest that commentators on these cases should be aware of the different pathways agnotology takes.
An approach to discover and recommend cross-domain bridge-keywords in document banks Hence, the keyword recommendation system based on CKP can recommend keywords across multiple keyword domains via the bridge-keywords.
Webometrics: emergent or doomed? Nevertheless, it is clear that webometrics has gained a small foothold in the European Union and Iberoamerica in terms of researchers being commissioned for applied studies. In addition, webometrics research is having some impact in other disciplines in the sense of attracting citations. Most promising for the future may be health-related research because its lack of cognate connection with information science, except through medical informatics, means that there may be little awareness of it within the webometrics community.
Implementation of an electronic resource assessment system in an academic library Collecting electronic resource usage statistics is very important to a library as it helps librarians make more informed and well-rounded collection decisions. However, due to its complexity and the evolving technical environment, gathering usage data is not an easy task, which involves either a labour-intensive or a resource-intensive process. The deployment experience evolved in this paper will shed light on the implementation of similar projects.
Scientific Forensics: How the Office of Research Integrity can Assist Institutional Investigations of Research Misconduct During Oversight Review This report illustrates some of the tools that ORI has utilized to strengthen institutions' findings of research misconduct with the hope that institutions will continue to grow more comfortable seeking guidance and assistance when complexities threaten to derail an inquiry or investigation.
Google Scholar as a source for citation and impact analysis for a non-ISI indexed medical journal The results show that although MJM is a Malaysian journal and not ISI indexed its contents have some international significance based on the citations and impact score it receives, indicating the importance of being visible especially in Google scholar. Even though MJM is a Malaysian journal, the articles it publishes have international appeal and influence as reflected by the character of citing articles. This also indicates the viability of using Google Scholar instead of total dependence on the very selective ISI databases for citation and impact factor information.
Views of Psychiatrists on Authorship and Gift Authorship in Turkey Authorship problems are common and gift authorship was perceived as unethical by academic psychiatrists and psychiatry specialists. There is a need for tight control as well as more comprehensive research studies and extensive education on authorship ethics.
The Authorship Lottery: An Impediment to Research Collaboration? Authorship is too important to be left to chance. Reducing the disincentives for participating in collaborative projects is anticipated to accelerate translational and clinical research, both of which increasingly depend on team science. Using this approach it may ultimately become possible to assign credit through “microattribution" by tabulation of each contribution of research participants, populating an online database.
Pathological research output in China and other top-ranking countries: 10-year survey of the literature Our analysis investigated the research output of these six countries and revealed a positive trend in China for the period 2000-2009.
Fate of Articles Rejected by Indian Pediatrics Rejection of a manuscript by IP does not preclude publication, but rejected manuscripts are published more often in non-pediatric journals or journals with a lower impact factor, although the occasional exception exists. Authors must not be dejected by rejection as many of rejected manuscripts do find a place for publication elsewhere. In case of papers related to pediatrics, Indian Journal of Pediatrics appears to be a good alternative to Indian Pediatrics, as it is the only other Indian pediatric journal indexed with Medline.
Publication activity of natural-science research organizations in Russia and abroad Thus, direct comparisons of publication activities and subsequent assessments may be viewed as correct for natural-science research establishments of one country (when the numbers of publications in one journal are compared).
Accuracy of References in Indian Journal of Otolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery Errors in citing the references are also found in the Indian Journal of Otolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery. The quoted error in this study (30.1%) is comparable to other international literature. The majority of errors are avoidable. So, the authors, editors and the reviewers have to check for any errors seriously before publication in the journal.
Citation analysis of nanotechnology at the field level: implications of R&D evaluation In this article we have offered a characterization of the dynamics of the citations to papers in the first 10 cohorts of the field of nanotechnology. The analysis developed in this article suggests that the overall flow of information in time for research fields has dynamic characteristics that deserve to be explored further at the field level. The lesson seems to be that more tools to understand the dynamics of research at the field level are needed in order to inform portfolio management.
Authorship for scientific papers: the new challenges The competition imposed by a semi-industrial science, in which the productivity is measured by the number of scientific articles and their impact factors combined with new technologies that promote a more open and participatory science, strengthen the co-authorship as a way to survival of the scientist and his legitimacy in the academic environment. However, in order to the collaboration really exists, a scientific paper should be the result of a team effort, each one performing its function to produce the final product. Meanwhile, the authorship is a discussion to be leaved open, as well as the very own development of science.
The quest for visibility of scientific journals in Latin America A first conclusion of this analysis is that a journal cannot increase its visibility independently of the systems (indexes, databases, directories) in which it is included.
In defense of the reference: more than linking in evolving Web environments Publishers cannot afford to invest in excessive linking within published articles at the expense of bibliographic citations.
Article 50 million: an estimate of the number of scholarly articles in existence 50 million peer-reviewed journal articles is an impressive heritage, and a powerful resource for humanity. In order to manage such a resource in a way that is equitable, useful and sustainable, we would do well to take ongoing interest in where we stand in terms of the access, digitization, search and indexation, and preservation of this global library of knowledge. However, the study of the size, growth, and composition of a global body of scholarship has moved forward in this decade.
The profits of free books: an experiment to measure the impact of open access publishing Open Access Publishing enhances discovery and online usage; no relation could be found between OA Publishing and sales or citations; as a dissemination channel, the Google Book Search Program performs better than the AUP repository.
Authorship conflict in Bangladesh: an exploratory study In this study we found that authorship conflicts arose among researchers mostly due to claimed unethical practice of their co-authors, supervisors, seniors, and depart-ment heads in the absence of any formal institutional authorship policy.
Combining peer review and metrics to assess journals for inclusion in Scopus Via this feedback, Scopus tries to establish a true partnership with publishers.
Scientific information transfer: a conceptual model for scientific communication in IranDoc Organizational application of the model makes it different from earlier models, which are mainly national or multi-organizational. So it can be generalized into research institutions just with a little modification. The model includes detailed functions of the organizational scholarly communication process, which gives some options to adopters to select the functions based on their needs and priorities and deploy their resources for developing scientific communication.
Evaluation of artistic research Higher levels of acceptable serendipity in artistic research implies less reliance on methodological explication and planned outcomes.
The Canada Foundation for Innovation's outcome measurement study: a pioneering approach to research evaluation On the basis of the 17 OMS visits, it is possible to highlight a number of lessons learned and conclu-sions regarding the strengths and challenges of the OMS.
The controversial policies of journal ratings: evaluating social sciences and humanities "The production of journal ratings is far from being a mere inventory-making exercise — indeed, it is an eminently cognitive and political task."
What do European research collaboration networks in life sciences look like? This paper contributes to the understanding of inter- national research collaborations and the interplay with funding mechanisms. In contrast, the analysis of co-authorship data showed the opposite. Here, researchers are acting in favour of globalised, rather than purely European multilateral co-authorship. Maybe it is time for existing European programmes to open up more proactively to non-European partners and also to provide financial support for global collaborations.
Pragmatic issues in calculating and comparing the quantity and quality of research through rating and ranking of researchers based on peer reviews and bibliometric indicators from Web of Science, Scopus and Google Scholar After a few additional cycles, continuous validation with peer review based rating and rankings, learning from errors, listening to feedback and improving procedures, the two options of research evaluation will inform, reinforce and improve each other.
Network Dynamics to Evaluate Performance of an Academic Institution Regardless of the underlying dynamic, however, the available data strongly suggest that ITMAT investigators are a more highly collaborative group than institutional controls and that this effect is growing over time.
Breast cancer research output, 1945-2008: a bibliometric and density-equalizing analysis Breast cancer-associated research output continues to increase annually. In an era when bibliometric indicators are increasingly being employed in performance assessment, these findings should provide useful information for those tasked with improving that performance.
E-INFRASTRUCTURE ADOPTION IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES Cross-national evidence from the AVROSS survey Overall, the responses to our survey suggest a still modest state of e-Infrastructure use in the SSH: out of nearly 2000 people who received the AVROSS questionnaire, only around one-fourth responded, of which only half were current e-Infrastructure users.
A STUDY OF TECHNOLOGY ADOPTION BY RESEARCHERS Web and e-science infrastructures to enhance research A recurring theme of the analysis was that different factors explain the variation in the uptake of different tools, which echoes the suggested heterogeneity found by Xu and Meyer. If e-research is to mean enhanced research, then it would naturally include the web-based tools which are already being pragmatically adopted by researchers. Further studies, with larger samples, will be able to disentangle some of the complex interrelations between variables and examine concepts such as disciplinary difference more rigorously.
Web popularity: an illusory perception of a qualitative order in information The presented analysis about WP and quality relation on the Internet has shown how the present LP based search engines’ algorithms do not suit Internet users’ demands.
THE INTELLECTUAL FOUNDATION OF THE JOURNAL OF BUSINESS LOGISTICS AND ITS EVOLUTION BETWEEN 1978 AND 2007 In general, the results of our study are in line with Charvet, Cooper, and Gardner (2008) findings. This finding clearly suggests a divide in research on logistics and supply chain management into a camp focusing on managerial issues and a camp focusing on operational issues. Our findings should enable those interested in research on logistics and supply chain management to identify suitable key readings and to judge whether or not research has drawn on appropriate conceptual and methodological literature to advance the knowledge in the respective research area or in the field at large.
The Landscape of GIScience Publications 1997-2007: An Empirical Investigation with Latent Semantic Analysis LSA provides a method to identify and quantify the relationship among published research works.
Some Critical Notes on Citation Metrics and Heterodox Economics "By strengthening mainstream economics, citation metrics also amplify and stabilize (e.g. in face of a financial crisis) the intellectual prestige and reputation of mainstream economists vis-a-vis the public. Therefore, citation metrics are not only a conservation mechanism within science, but also have a societal role by indirectly influencing the public discourse and thus making them a hegemonial device."
The governance and performance of universities: evidence from Europe and the US Our causal analysis on U.S. data strengthens the conclusions we draw from the correlational evidence on both Europe and the U.S.: Autonomy and competition enhance the impact of university funding on research. The most natural overall interpretation of our results is that frontier research is a complex thing that a university can only pursue effectively if it has the discretion to direct resources and researchers towards what it believes are the most promising paths. Universities will put more effort into directing resources well if they knows that rewards are allocated based on competition, especially competition that is strictly merit-based.
Important returns on investment: an evaluation of a national research grants competition in emergency medicine Overall, the CAEP Research Grants Competition has produced impressive results.
Music to our Eyes: Google Books, Google Scholar, and the Open Content Alliance There is a lot of music-related material in Google Book Search, Open Content Alliance, and Google Scholar, more so than might have been expected.
MATCHING AND NETWORK EFFECTS Our principal finding is that a new collaboration is more likely among two researchers if they are "closer" in the existing coauthor network. From this evidence we conclude that existing social networks have powerful effects on the formation of new coauthor ties. Therefore empirical significance of networks in this context suggests that it would be natural to expect social networks to significantly shape most matching processes at work in the economy.
Undergraduate Grade Point Average is a Poor Predictor of Scientific Productivity Later in Career The main result of this study is the poor predictive value of the scientific productivity among research trainees based on the undergraduate grade point average.
Biomedical Scientific Productivity of the Mostar University Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital Mostar in 1999-2008 The results of this study show rather low publication output of the Mostar University Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital Mostar in 1999–2008. The large percent of single-authorship authors that were recorded suggest almost a sporadic rather than systematic publication output. Likely improvements to this situation include the creation of the newly formed doctoral (PhD) course due to start next year and several other ways in which scientific research in biomedicine can be increased in basic, clinical and public health sciences.
Density-Equalizing Mapping and Scientometric Benchmarking in INDUSTRIAL HEALTH "In summary, the present study supplies a first scientometric-bibliometric approach that visualizes research activity in "INDUS-TRIAL HEALTH" over the past decades."
Editorial Peer Reviewers' Recommendations at a General Medical Journal: Are They Reliable and Do Editors Care? Reviewers at JGIM agreed on recommendations to reject vs. accept/revise at levels barely beyond chance, yet editors placed considerable weight on reviewers' recommendations.
A STUDY OF THEMATIC AREAS IN ECONOMY BY A MEASURE OF SIMILARITIES BASED ON A KERNEL A new index of similarity is presented, improving the one presented by González et al. (2005).
Scientometric mapping of Tsunami publications: a citation based study This paper has analysed 4338 publications on Tsunami indexed and cited in the Scopus ™ database during 1997-2008. The analysis indicates that USA is leading in the Tsunami research with 1081 (24.92%) publications which received 8534 (40.43%) citations, followed by Japan with 427 (9.84%) publications (2668, 12.64% citations), United Kingdom with 320 (7.38%) publications (2067, 9.79% citations) and India with 294 (6.78%) publications (857, 4.06% citations).
Analysis of the relationship between the number of citations and the quality evaluated by experts in psychology journals The comparison of the number of citations of the articles selected by the experts as the best ones with the number of citations of the "peer articles" which have not been selected reveals that both measures produce the same results. In other words, the articles which according to the experts are the best are also more cited in comparison with the number of the citations of the articles which have not been selected. At the same time, the relationship between the quality and the number of the citations has been confirmed once again by the relationship between the number of articles selected from each journal and their mean number of citations.
Open access and civic scientific information literacy Our focus group study provides evidence to suggest that laypeople are growing more and more familiar with the various types of information available on the Web, but do not necessarily know whether or not their search skills are effective, and cannot always decide upon what to believe or not to believe.
Research Output of Academics in the Science and Engineering Faculties of Federal Universities in Southern Nigeria The results of this study showed that the academics publish more in local journals than in overseas journals. The implication is that the research findings of these academics will only have local visibility and impact. Academics should be encouraged to publish in overseas journals so that their work may be known outside the country.
A COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF WRITING SCIENTIFIC REFERENCES MANUALLY AND BY USING ENDNOTE BIBLIOGRAPHIC SOFTWARE The study showed that persuading the authors to use electronic software for writing references and scientific papers would significantly improve the quality of the manuscripts besides enlarging the scope of medical journalism.
Identification of Military-related Science and Technology The methodology for identifying military relevant literature appears to provide credible results.
The Promise and Perils of Pre-Publication Review: A Multi-Agent Simulation of Biomedical Discovery Under Varying Levels of Review Stringency Although limited in scope and applicability, these results suggest that different levels of stringency in peer review may accelerate or hinder scientific progress.
Scientometric Analysis and Combined Density-Equalizing Mapping of Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS) Research This is the first comprehensive scientometric analysis of data on global scientific activities in the field of environmental tobacco smoke research.
Open Access to the Scientific Journal Literature: Situation 2009 The results show that OA already has a significant positive impact on the availability of the scientific journal literature and that there are big differences between scientific disciplines in the uptake.
SCIENCE MELTDOWN IN VENEZUELA Overall, it appears that science in Venezuela is in peril. During the last decade, the Venezuelan scientific system was capable to recruit more talent and count more publications, but so inefficiently that the overall productivity has been in a steady rate of decline. As long as the magnitude of the growth rate of crucial parameters such as number of scientists and the intensity of their research stay close to the overall vegetative growth in the country, the existing gaps in S&T in respect of other nations will be closed in Venezuela.
The Usefulness of Peer Review for Selecting Manuscripts for Publication: A Utility Analysis Taking as an Example a High-Impact Journal The paper points out through what changes in the selection rate, base rate or validity coefficient a higher success rate (utility) in the AC-IE selection process could be achieved. In this paper we presented an approach that in addition to validity points to the importance of the base rate and selection rate for determining the utility of peer review for editors' publication decisions. The Taylor and Russell [13] model basically indicates that an effective submission selection policy should aim to provide for a high base rate, that is, a high percentage of potentially suitable submissions.
A productivity map of cognitive pretest methods for improving survey questions The results obtained in both studies allow us to predict that the increase in documents about cognitive pretest methods will continue in the coming years. Both studies reveal a constant increase in the application of cognitive pretest methods in the period from 1980 to 2007, the increase being especially notable from the second half of the 1990s.
COMPARING SKILLS AND ATTITUDES OF SCIENTISTS, MUSICIANS, POLITICIANS AND STUDENTS Thus, scientists from the various different disci-plines within the natural sciences share funda-mental values, skills and attitudes that seem to be related to their profes-sional activity.
Assessing the Scientific Research Productivity of Puerto Rican Cancer Researchers: Bibliometric Analysis from the Science Citation Index Cancer-scientific production in Puerto Rico underwent constant growth during the last three decades. In conclusion, our study expands the knowledge of cancer-related scientific production in Puerto Rico and showed that cancer-related papers authored by scientists located in Puerto Rico underwent significant growth from 1982 to 2009 (with the highest productivity peak observed in the last decades) and that a high journal visibility was observed for the selected journals where local researchers published their scientific findings. Thus, our results support a growth in cancer-related scientific productivity in Puerto Rico.
Analysis of scientific papers in the field of radiology and medical imaging included in Science Citation Index Expanded and published by Turkish authors In conclusion, number of papers from Turkey published in radiology and medical imaging journals has recently increased and Turkey can be a model for other countries starting to thrive in the field of radiology and medical imaging.
A Bibliometric Overview of 30 Years of Medical Sciences Productivity in Iran In conclusion, we have shown that the Iranian medical research system is rapidly improving in recent years. The pharmacology subject area possesses the strongest research infrastructure and therefore can be considered as an example for strengthening the infrastructures of other subject areas.
Referencing through history: how the analysis of landmark scholarly texts can inform citation theory There is the emergence of a citation norm during the course of their careers.
On Sleeping Beauties, Princes and other tales of citation distributions ... It was demonstrated that the peculiar and rare phe-nomenon of 'Sleeping Beauties' in scientific litera-ture is a rather useful and instructive model in studying the mechanisms of scientific information flow through citations.
Mathematical results on Randic's H-index and H-sequence The Randić H-sequence and H-index have been studied in a Lotkaian framework. We have given formulae for the H-sequence and H-index and we have given necessary and sufficient conditions for dominance via the H-sequence or H-index, given that the Hirsch indices are equal. An additional point of research is to make a statistical study on the significance of the difference between two H-indices, given that their Hirsch indices are the same.
Strategic steering of research by new public management in German universities: a looming state-science conflict? Our empirical results suggest that there may in-deed be an inherent conflict, especially concerning the role of transfer and publication activities. The stronger science-driven governance seems to be as-sociated with a stronger focus on publication-related activities, while stronger state-driven governance emphasises transfer at the cost of publication-oriented activities. Thus the NPM mode in Germany is indeed likely to produce an implicit state-science conflict.
The impact of the autonomy and interdependence of individual researchers on their production of knowledge and its impact: an empirical study of a nanotechnology institute It is concluded that researchers need to share resources to be highly performing: research management is advised to stimulate this sharing in combination with a commensurate degree of governance in directing research.
Systematic Characterizations of Text Similarity in Full Text Biomedical Publications While quantifying abstract similarity is an effective approach for finding duplicate citations, a comprehensive full text analysis is necessary to uncover all potential duplicate citations in the scientific literature and is helpful when establishing ethical guidelines for scientific publications.
The Calculus of Committee Composition Ultimately, our work provides policy-makers with a simple and novel method to optimize evaluation procedures.
IS-Supported Managerial Control for China's Research Community: An Agency Theory Perspective In this paper we have sought to illustrate how an E-government project, ISIS, initiated by the National Science Foundation of China with embedded managerial control mechanisms consistent with China's goals of increased global recognition, can help rectify traditional agency opportunism problems and promote increased contributions for China's Research Community.
Evaluation of Periodicals Journals and Community of Medical Sciences in Iran Evaluations of the country's medical journals not only promote compliance to international standards but also led to more indexing of journals in accredited international indices. Results of the study showed that based on the 5 parameters mentioned, there has been significant growth and promotion of approved scientific re-search publications observed during the 3 con-secutive years (2004-2006). In general, we can say that the process of promoting the country's medical journals based on the present contents of evalua-tion checklist, is on the rise and the needed tool has been established and has met the necessary reliability and credibility.
Scientometric analysis of some disciplines: Comparison of Indian institutions with other international institutions The Indian institutions lag far behind the top US universities at the institutional level, especially if parameters like the total number of publications and citations per faculty are considered. In almost all disciplines, CFY of Indian institutions was lower than that of the US universities.
How to Write a Good Paper in Computer Science and How Will It Be Measured by ISI Web of Knowledge Our conclusion is that we should combine bibliometric measures with human interpretation.
Academic plagiarism prevalence among Spanish undergraduate students: an exploratory analysis Future potential development and research in the field should focus on: a) combining quantitative and qualitative approaches to the phenomenon and the analysis of the causes associated with it, and b) the need for the academic authorities to confront and propose solutions to academic dis-honesty. Spanish universities must meet the chall-enge posed by the information provided.
Attitudes toward plagiarism among pharmacy and medical biochemistry students - cross-sectional survey study Students' attitudes reflect insufficient level of seriousness and awareness with which plagiarism is perceived.
Brazilian academic search filter: application to the scientific literature on physical activity The institutional search filter showed high sensitivity and specificity, and is applicable to other areas of knowledge in health sciences.
Representation of Cancer in the Medical Literature - A Bibliometric Analysis Oncology enjoys disproportionate representation in the more prestigious medical journals.
CITATION ENTROPY AND RESEARCH IMPACT ESTIMATION To conclude, we wanted to overthrow the King but the King turned out to be quite healthy. The secret magic that makes h-index healthy is Zipfian behaviour of citation records. Such local measures of the research impact estimation should be taken with a grain of salt and at least supplemented by different instruments for analyzing the whole citation network, like the one given in [39].
An Analysis of Preliminary and Post-Discussion Priority Scores for Grant Applications Peer Reviewed by the Center for Scientific Review at the NIH The results demonstrate discussion at the meeting has an important practical impact on over 13% of the applications.
Network Search: A New Way of Seeing the Education Knowledge Domain We illustrate that such a system is being developed in piecemeal fashion within other disciplines and propose a means by which they can be synthesized into a multi-network, interactive system for the field of education. SPINE is a feasible technology that can provide a bridge across this gap that can better equip all members of the field of education.
Quality of research articles published in Iranian Dental Journals Significant quality related issues of concern were observed in articles published in Iranian dental journals.
Bibliometric and statistical analyses of Ukrainian scientific journals. Physics journals On the basis of the present analysis the following conclusions may be drawn. We have suggested the system for journals evaluation based on the Pareto distribution.
THE VISIBILITY OF ENGINEERING RESEARCH IN SOUTH AFRICA, 1975-2005 As is evident in the scientific publications stored in the ISI Web of Science, engineering research in South Africa has grown considerably in the last three decades. The visibility of South African engineering publications clearly has been diminishing, most notably since 1995. If South African engineers take these things into consideration, there would be a high likelihood that they would gain an increased number of citations, thereby enhancing the visibility of their publications.
An investigation of research on evolution of altruism using informetric methods and the growing hierarchical self-organizing map To sum up, this informetric study provided an overall picture of altruism-related articles published in the SCIE and SSCI databases. The GHSOM tool had all of the benefit of SOM, in providing a map from a higher dimensional input space to a lower dimensional map space, as well as providing a global orientation of independently growing maps in the individual layers of the hierarchy, which facilitated navigation across branches. The in-depth exploring into the motivation of evolution of altruism will be leaded by evolutionary psychology, neurosciences and other related sciences.
Aspects of size and geography of African cyberspace Generally our result suggests low web page creation and low use of the resources in the web pages that are created.
Global visibility of Asian universities' Open Access institutional repositories In general the findings in Asia indicated that almost each country has operated institutional repositories, although diverse distribution is reported from one country to another, as well as to common materials deposited in the repository and the low-existence of policies to support and promote the institutional repository implementation. It is revealed that some of the top ranked universities in Asia are not actively contributing to the open access movement. It is suggested that if the web performance of an institutional repository of a research institution is below the expected position, the university authorities should reconsider their web policy to increase the volume and quality of their intellectual output / research publications through institutional repositories.
Research productivity and impact of Library and Information Science in the Web of Science To sum up, the results of the study showed that 99789 documents were published in LIS during 1998-2007 in WoS. In general, one of the main results of the present study was the decrease in the number of LIS publications distinguished during the last three years which needs more investigation to find out the reasons. Hence, unusual few numbers of citations received by each paper in this field (0.27 citations per paper) should be more considered and investigated to find out the reasons.
A scientometric analysis of health and population research in South Asia: focus on two research organizations In general the performance in the health sciences of Asian countries lags behind that of Western countries (Hu and Rousseau 2009). In this note we have shown that, even with limited financial means these two related institutes are visible on an international scale, and are determined to make a difference for the population in the region.
Bibliometric analysis of Spanish scientific publications in the subject Construction & Building Technology in Web of Science database (1997-2008) Among the major production Institutions with greater scientific production, as expected, the Institute of Constructional Science Eduardo Torroja (CSIC), while taking into account the weighted impact factor ranks first University of Vigo. On the other hand, only two journals Cement and Concrete Materials and Materials de Construction agglutinate the 45.26% of the Spanish scientific production published in the Construction & Building Technology subject, with 172 papers each one. Regarding international cooperation, include countries such as England, Mexico, United States, Italy, Argentina and France.
Peer-reviewed publications by CUA members: then and now Scholarly activity has remained robust over the last decade with over 30% of active CUA members contributing to peer-reviewed literature.
Bibliometric analysis of financial crisis research This study of papers in the SSCI that dealt with financial crises obtained some significant findings regarding research performance during 1992 - 2008.
Masters theses from a university medical college: Publication in indexed scientific journals Rate of publication in indexed journals, of papers derived from postgraduate theses is 30%. In this study we were unable to identify factors that promote publication.
The Relationship between S&T Development and (Social) Science Productivity in Europe These results could give rise to the reshaping of European leadership in economic and social development, if Germany, France and the United Kingdom do not reverse their S&T investment trends of the past 20 years. As for productivity in science, it has been shown that the countries that are at the top of the hierarchy are not necessarily those that publish most papers in WoS indexed journals, either in science generally or in social sciences. Journal data bases are part of this new management and have a decisive role in the stratification of the European and global science space.
Policy issues of the international productivity and visibility of the social sciences in central and eastern european countries The growing internationalisation processes are not the only way to achieve higher productivity in the social sciences in CEE countries. Yet, as we have sought to show in the article, these processes are certainly the most important for improving the quality of publication and citation output in the social sciences in this part of Europe. Based on the results of our provisional overview of the situation in CEE countries, we may conclude that they are still far away from offering adequate policy support to ensure that social sciences are more competitive in the international scientific arena.
Croatian Social Scientists' Productivity and a Bibliometric Study of Sociologists' Output The publication productivity of Croatian social scientists does share basic common features and patterns with the international social science output. However, Croatian social science output, especially regarding its generally small international visibility, shows a greater similarity to the output of other post-socialist countries than to the techno-scientifically developed European regions, due to the differences in political and socio-economic history and development. A clear policy recommendation for the Croatian social science community and decision makers would be the following: If the im-pact of research results in the social sciences is to be increased, so that they are better known and evaluated on the international scene, the key measure should be stimulating international or/and foreign publication by Croatian social scientists.
Trends of e‐learning research from 2000 to 2008: Use of text mining and bibliometrics Conclusions include that e-learning research is at the early majority stage and foci have shifted from issues of the effectiveness of e-learning to teaching and learning practices.
A Survey of Scholarly Journals Using Open Journal Systems This study documents how such tools have facilitated a revitalization of scholar-published peer-reviewed journals that are produced on a global scale and are universally available.
How to assess the impact of an electronic document? And what does impact mean anyway? The ideas presented in this paper provide those persons concerned with usability improvement and the creation of new services with valuable hints to the library or interface perspective. Additionally the use of open protocols and standards for object description and data transfer are strictly necessary: Different solutions can aid the innovation process but this should not be an excuse for implementing the same algorithm on a different set of objects without retaining interoperatability with other providers. To investigate the desirability order of the collected ideas, quantitative methods will be used.
Journal impact factors and the crisis of scholarly communication in Africa While it is true that evaluation of the quality of vehicle of scholarly publication is very important in the global environment, it is also ideal that the parameter for this evaluation is subjected to proper scrutiny.
The Peer-Review Process for Articles in Iran's Scientific Journals The main purpose of our study was to explore and present a description of the peer-review process followed by Iranian scientific journals.
A scientometric model for the assessment of strength and weakness of scientific disciplines The differences in rankings for measures of publication output and citation distribution are large, which justifies the use of both joint categories of measures as scientific PI. This index was intended to address the different ranking of other bibliometric indicators such as total number of papers, total number of citations, and mean citation per paper. This model proposes an objective mode of measuring performance at an aggregate level that will allow a comparison of individual fields within different disciplinary areas like technological sciences, medicine, natural science, social sciences, and humanities at national or global levels.
Messung der akademischen Forschungsleistung in den Wirtschaftswissenschaften: Reputation vs. Zitierhäufigkeiten Our findings suggest that individual citation data are indispensable for a relevant measurement of individual research output and for providing more productive incentives in academic research.
The source normalized impact per paper is a valid and sophisticated indicator of journal citation impact In this reply, I have argued why Leydesdorff and Opthof's indicator is less valid than the SNIP, and also highlighted two problems that would arise if one would apply FCC within the framework of the SNIP notion of citation potential. It would be interesting to conduct more research into this FCC approach, examining not only statistical and theoretical aspects mentioned earlier but also comparing its outcomes to those for the SNIP, SJR, and other journal impact indicators for a much larger set of journals than the five studied in Leydesdorff and Opthof's article.
Introducing SNIP to the Journal of Sexual Medicine The SNIP indicator is undoubtedly a smarter indicator than the Impact Factor. Whether this metric will be the one to replace the Impact Factor is an open question. In conclusion, and to quote directly from Moed's paper [2], There is no single "perfect" indicator of journal performance.
Do Pressures to Publish Increase Scientists' Bias? An Empirical Support from US States Data Although the confounding effect of institutions' prestige could not be excluded (researchers in the more productive universities could be the most clever and successful in their experiments), these results support the hypothesis that competitive academic environments increase not only scientists' productivity but also their bias.
Sanctioned Inequity and Accessibility Issues in the Grey Literature in the United States It should be clear that there are many who do not accept that the grey literature is a problem, but instead subscribe to the belief that it is a subset of practitioners that are the problem. It is time for the profession to change its views to envision different types of scholarship, each adhering variably to a common standard of quality and knowledge attainment, rather than a hierarchy in quality that is based solely on perceived accessibility and institutional association. If grey and referred journal literature are both to continue well into the future, we must insure the survival of journal literature, because grey literature is here to stay, the nonacademic community is growing every larger, and academic journals are verging on irrelevant.
Link analysis and impact of top universities of Islamic world on the world wide web The findings of our research provide an evaluation of Islamic countries' universities web sites status in terms of their performance on the web.
Status of South Korea in Science and Technology as reflected in its Publication Output, 1997–2007 South Korea published 257034 research papers during 1997-2007, with an average output of 23367 papers per year. South Korea has strong similarity with countries such as Russia, India, China and Taiwan, because they all have strong to moderately strong emphasis in physical sciences and engineering sciences, but weak in health sciences.
The Use of Web of Knowledge to Study Publishing and Citation Use for Local Researchers at the Campus Level At the University of Arkansas Libraries, we were able to provide macro-level information useful for evidenced-based collection decisions.
Update on Journal Impact Ratings in Communication: 2006–2008 These findings provide seven years of data related to the stability of a journal’s impact ratings. The data show that a journal’s impact factor varies little over time and, despite the view of some pundits (e.g., Cameron, 2005), ratings of journal impact are difficult to manipulate. Thus, it could be stated that the JIF is a reliable indicator for communication journals.
Tenure Metrics: Bibliometric Education and Services for Academic Faculty As libraries reinvent themselves in the 21st century, adding value to information becomes essential to their long-term vibrancy. Due to librarians’ proficiencies in information retrieval and analysis, and increasing user interest, bibliometric educational offerings and services are a natural fit for health sciences libraries.
A Bibliometric Snapshot of<i>The Journal of Higher Education</i>and Its Impact on the Field In conclusion, JHE has a much larger impact on the field than the traditional two-year impact factor would lead a reader to believe. More research is needed to determine whether this is the case for other higher education journals as well.
Truth or Hope? What they do tell us, and emphatically, is that few forms of wishful thinking ever completely die out and that historians and other scholars must live with the fact that the general public is not really much interested in concepts such as evidence, especially disprobative evidence. Even so, it is one duty of scholarship to defend itself against works like those discussed here, even though rebutting poorly developed arguments is obvious a burdensome responsibility, often producing little or no immediate benefit.49 For the moment, it is reasonable to assume that, despite all the sound and fury, in the eyes of the interested part of the general public Venus nearly collided with the earth, Egyptians colonized ancient Greece, the Chinese discovered most of the world but decided not to bother pressing their advantage, and numerous societies throughout time and place willingly sealed their own doom for short-term political or religious reasons.
Institutional repositories: assessing their value to the academic community It seems clear from this data that firstly, there is a lack of focus among New Zealand institutions and tertiary libraries about the purpose behind institutional repositories. The data also suggests that while the concept of the institutional repository, and open access to research publications has some appeal, the reality of depositing presents barriers to many people. The evaluation of institutional repositories can only come from a complete rethinking of the role and value of institutional repositories, within the framework of the academic community, and known patterns of scholarly communication.
Journal clustering through interlocking editorship information This research is valuable in using interlocking editorship information to explore the proximity pattern of LIS journals, validating that interlocking editorship information is useful to cluster journals in LIS.
Literature Reviews and the Hermeneutic Circle To address some shortcomings of systematic reviews, this paper proposes the hermeneutic approach as an alternative framework to conducting literature reviews. Using the hermeneutic circle as a model for literature reviews can therefore help academics in advancing the quality of their literature reviews. It might also be useful for facilitating a general understanding of the literature review process by undergraduates (Wilkes & Gurney, 2009).
International comparisons in science studies: what and why do we compare? From an analysis of our unsatisfactory experience with European research, from a methodological point of view, we conclude that there is a need for new comparative approaches to science policies or social policies at the European level.
Alzheimer's Disease Research: A COIN Study Using Co-authorship Network Analytics The approach used in this study to automatically stratify AD investigators along the bench-to-beside spectrum appears to be a reliable and reproducible approach that can be used to group investigators within any biomedical research community.
Relative status of journal and conference publications in computer science The view that conference rejection rates are a good proxy for conference quality did not hold up to scrutiny, reflecting a low coefficient of correlation between the rejection rate of conferences and their Google Scholar scores;
International scholarly collaboration in science, technology and medicine and social science of Turkish scientists It is expected that this research will contribute to the understanding of Turkey's international scientific collaboration processes pertaining to technology, economic, strategic, and cultural policy factors.
Web Presence of Selected Asian Countries: A Webometric Study "It is a fact that nearly, one billion people around the world are Online. Seven Asia-Pacific countries are in the top 20 countries for number of Internet users among them three are China, Japan, and India in the top five."
Research in Context A somewhat contradictory view of the state of research in Jordan has emerged.
Research in economics and management in France: A bibliometric study using the h-index Research in Management Departments strongly needs to be reorganized.
A performance index approach to library collection The recently introduced performance index (p-index), which can effectively combine size of an item (C) and quality of the source-item relationship (C/P), along with the h-index, can be used to produce a two dimensional map that can give visually meaningful pictures of subject-wise library usage. Taken together, the h- and p-indices and the quality-quantity maps can be used as a benchmark for monitoring library performance in addition to finding out high value areas in the library collection, high value users, and high value books. It is able to supplement the insights normally available from routine statistical analysis of circulation data.
A bibliometric and historiographic analysis of the work of Tony van Raan: a tribute to a scientometrics pioneer and gatekeeper In conclusion, the limitations of the print format make it difficult to show all the variant parameters that can be investigated by these methods.
Impact factor inflation: Measuring the gatekeeper effect in scientific literature Statistical analysis indicates that our sample size is still insufficient to make inferences about patterns in citation adjustments during the review process. However, we are prepared to search for a small effect, hoping that impact factor inflation would be a rare behavior. By focusing on a coherent field, we are able to eliminate confounding effects of different citation behaviors in different fields.
Enhancing open access in the biomedical field The status of OA has progressed rapidly from 2005 to 2009 (from 27.0% to 51.0%, including restricted OA).
The immediate practical implication of the Houghton Report: provide Green open access now the clear take-home message for the worldwide research community (researchers, their institutions and their funders) is that there is nothing to be lost and everything to be gained from providing Green OA forthwith.
Selecting a Database for Drug Literature Retrieval: A Comparison of MEDLINE, Scopus, and Web of Science Based on the results from this limited but by no means atypical study of comparative strengths and degree of coverage, the best option for retrieving the largest numbers of articles on a particular drug in the literature would be to use both Scopus and Web of Science, as these two databases complement each other with respect to the journal coverage.
Further steps towards an ideal method of measuring citation performance: The avoidance of citation (ratio) averages in field-normalization We are sure that this metric is an important but not the final step towards an optimal method to measure and compare citation performance.
Analyse comparative du facteur d’impact et du h-index pour les journaux de pharmacologie The IF and h-index can be completely complementary when evaluating journals of the same scientific discipline.
The Invisible College of Ideas The authors' analyses of these consequences favor a causal explanation in which the criti-cal factor in these downward trends was being deprived of the intellectual input from these superstars, as opposed to a loss of collective experimental expertise or of privileged chan-nels of communication to funding panels and journal editors.
Returns to networking in academia The returns to networking thus might not be as great as presumed—they affect citations but do not seem to have a bearing on the quantity and quality of publications.
“Positive” Results Increase Down the Hierarchy of the Sciences Overall, however, they support the existence of a Hierarchy of the Sciences, in which scientific rigour and objectivity are roughly inversely proportional to the complexity of subject matter and possibly other field-specific characteristics (e.g. level of development, see below). On the other hand, these results support the scientific status of the social sciences against claims that they are completely subjective, by showing that, when they adopt a scientific approach to discovery, they differ from the natural sciences only by a matter of degree.
Are the concepts basic research, applied research and experimental development still useful? An empirical investigation among Norwegian academics Even though a majority of academic staff members are able to use the research categories when describing own activities, most carry out a seemingly complex mix of different R&D.
The study of Malaysian Public Universities' performance on the World Wide Web The present research findings provide an evaluation of Malaysian Public universities' websites status in terms of their functions and and performance on the web.
Bibliometric Indicators and their Impact on Russian University Rankings Russian universities are the strongest in the post-Soviet domain and can attract the most talented students from the New Independent States. Russian science policy in the higher education should encourage university authorities to participate in the global rankings. For the purpose, it is necessary to monitor the faculty publishing activity and their impact via Web of Science or SCOPUS; to develop and update university websites and to utilize a unified English spelling of University name and its affiliated institutions.
Eugene Garfield: A Scientometric Portrait Garfield's invention of the Science Citation Index and his founding of Institute for Scientific Information have led to an evolving grammar of citation analysis. He, thus, laid a solid foundation for “Citation Indexing”.
Structural evaluation of webliographies: a webliometric study The findings of the study show that webliographies are not in a suitable situation. Most of them do not have annotated title. In brief, this study shows that more attention should be paid to the design of webliographies, specially the four structural elements that were missing in a considerable number of webliographies. This is an issue that should be investigated in future studies using log analysis and IR research methods.
Open Access to Research Outputs—Institutional Policies and Researchers' Views: Results From Two Complementary Surveys There is still considerable ignorance among researchers concerning open access to research outputs.
Institutional Repository Access Patterns of Nontraditionally Published Academic Content: What Types of Content Are Accessed the Most? Academic content not typically published but deposited in an IR is accessed, and access persists over time.
Characteristics of the Spanish Neutron User Community Explored through a Bibliometric Study "In summary, the evolution of the Spanish research using neutron scatter ing techniques is closely linked to the increasing access of the Spanish researchers to neutron sources (in vari ous countries around the world) which, are the nuclei of research in the area."
Produção intelectual em saúde coletiva: epistemologia e evidências de diferentes tradições The different patterns of authorship found have important implications for the processes that evaluate programs and researchers. This cannot be dismissed, otherwise the long-term sustainability of the multidisciplinary profile, which has characterized collective health in Brazil throughout three decades, will be threatened.
Intellectual Human Capital and the Emergence of Biotechnology: Trends and Patterns, 1974–2006 We provide herein a detailed analysis concerning the role of intellectual human capital in the emergence of the new biotechnology for both incumbent pharma firms and new biotech entrants.
Twenty‐Five Years of the (Mid‐)American Journal of Business In this article, we have sought to provide an overview of the American Journal of Business during the course of its first 25 years of existence. Through the years, the Journal has been successful in attracting important seg-ments of the practitioner and academic communities as contributors. As such, one of the biggest challenges for the Journal is to maintain a quality manuscript flow from a broad general business field.
Academic inventors as brokers We find out that strong brokerage positions are very few, and they are held by scientists with both a large number of patents, a strong publication record, and (in a few instances) an older age.
The <i>Journal of Chemical Documentation</i> and the <i>Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences</i>: Publication and Citation Statistics The Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling is the premier international journal for research in chemoinformatics. Its reputation is built firmly on those of its previous manifestations, the Journal of Chemical Documentation and the Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences. The study has highlighted the impact of the research published in the Journal (as exemplified by the very wide range of publications and disciplines that cite it), the long-lived impact of some of the highly cited articles, and the changes in focus of the Journal that have occurred since its foundation in 1961.
Mapping the highly collaborative stem cell research field: Adding last-author-based analysis to the author co-citation analysis family All three types of ACA are surprisingly similar in terms of the overall structure of the stem cell field they revealed, but do differ with respect to the degree of detail of major areas of studies shown and the number of specialties identified. All-author ACA provides a more comprehensive picture of major specialties of the research field than the single-author-based ACAs do, and picks up some of the more subtle but potentially interesting aspects of the intellectual structure of the field. In this case, it is important to be aware that last-author ACA provides a much better approximation than the traditional first-author ACA does in research fields that have similar collaboration and publishing cultures as the stem cell research field.
Analysis of Scientific Publication Networks among Medical Schools in Korea In conclusion, all the centralization indexes analyzed showed that the degree of centralization in the network of medical schools was relieved through the period. Through the understanding of the network among medical schools in Korea, a strategy to strengthen the basis of researches may be improved.
Peer‐to‐peer Review and the Future of Scholarly Authority This examination of the history and future of peer review argues that effective online communication requires the development of an open, community-oriented, post-publication system of peer-to-peer review, transforming peer review from a process focused on gatekeeping to one concerned with filtering the wealth of scholarly material made available via the Internet. Genuine peer-to-peer review will require prioritizing members' work on behalf of the community within the community's reward structures. Until institutional assumptions about how scholarly work should be assessed are changed—but moreover, until we come to understand peer review as part of an ongoing conversation among scholars rather than a convenient means of determining “value” without all that inconvenient reading and discussion—the processes of evaluation for tenure and promotion are doomed to become a monster that eats its young, trapped in an early-20th-century model of scholarly production that simply no longer works.
Eigenfactor and article influence scores in the <i>Journal Citation Reports</i> The rankings by the three different methods yield very different rank positions that rank correlation coefficients would not reveal, as well as the display of the rank positions in the same row and especially the bump charts.
Profiling Chinese nano-biomedical science in a decade First, China has steep growth in the field of NBMS and has the growth potential in the next few years. Second, the results show that NBMS is a multidisciplinary field related with chemistry, material science, agriculture science and other subjects. The third result is that the collaborative countries with China, i.e., US, Japan, and Germany are not only the most active countries in the field of NBMS, but also the most collaborative countries with China.
Total NIH Support to US Dental Schools, 2005-2009 Funds received from all NIH ICs are an objective metric for evaluation of the research performance of dental schools.
Conflict between entrepreneurship and open science, and the transition of scientific norms As a whole, the results suggest that the two norms are determined by independent mechanisms, where an increase in one norm does not necessarily mean a decrease in the other. Despite all the criticism on entrepreneurship, this study suggests potential compatibility between academic entrepreneurship and the tradition of open science at least at the norm level. In order to fully achieve it, we have to mitigate the effects of entrepreneurship inducing non-cooperative or secretive behaviors.
Faculty participation in licensing: Implications for research Thus the evidence is more in accord with the Thursby et al.'s (2007c) theoretical finding of a positive effect of licensing rather than the diversion from basic research suggested by others. Of particular note is our finding that government and industry funding are complements. We also find that post-tenure both types of funding decrease.
Delineating citation concepts How one counts citations and citers will affect outcomes, as will a focus on authors or publications.
Academic Ranking of Indian Central Universities in Science and Technology as Represented in Science Citation Index – Expanded: Scientometric Study (2005–2009) Since the Central Universities in India are the apical bodies of higher education, their scientific contribution revealed a lower level of research output as compared to the Universities of other nations of the world and the output pattern vary largely within the Central Universities.
Evaluation of RT&amp;D: from 'prescriptions for justifying' to 'user-oriented guidance for learning' RT&D and innovation evaluation has progressed from linear mental models measuring inputs and easily quantifiable research 'products' at a high level, and using broad assumptions to calcu-late impacts, to approaches which emphasize specif-ic context, reach, interactivity, user decision-making and behaviours leading to mission and other im-pacts.
Mapping Political Connections in Japan: The Functions of Hyperlinks on Japanese Diet Member Websites In conclusion, the results of this study show distinct differences in the linking structures on Japanese politician websites that tend to parallel their offline relationships.
The Joy of Counting In this essay I have outlined three areas where simple counting can lead to interesting results, and given two examples in each case. Whatever the case, a good deal of useful information can be learned by simply counting. Counting may produce data that are surprising—especially if the measures used are inappropriate.
The Future of Scholarly Journal Publishing among Social Science and Humanities Associations: Report on a Study Funded by a Planning Grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Analysis of the journal costs provided for this study confirms that a shift to an entirely new funding model in the pure form of OA (author/ producer pays), in which the costs of publishing research articles in journals are paid for by authors, or by a funding agency, and readers have free access to these publications, is not feasible for this group of journals. The answer to this question requires further investigation. There is no universal answer to the issues faced in funding publication of the research literature, but alternatives need to be explored collaboratively and based on sound information.
Mapping the e-science landscape in South Korea using the webometrics method On the whole, we suspect that there has been goal drift among Korea's e-science community.
Differences between web sessions according to the origin of their visits The obtained results allow us to solve the raised questions. The frequency distribution of the session length by their number of click follows an exponential decay which made possible to estimate how many sessions there are with n length.
Methodological adequacy of articles published in two open-access Brazilian cardiology periodicals From analysis on these two Brazilian periodicals within the field of cardiology, which are indexed in several databases and are available with open access, we found that both of them were methodologically ade-quate, since they followed the quality standards. Thus, these periodicals can be recommended both for consultation and as vehicles for publish-ing future articles. For future analyses, it is essential to apply other indicators of scien-tific activity such as bibliometrics, which evaluates quantitative aspects of the production, dissemination and use of information, and sciento-metrics, which not only evaluates the quantitative aspects of scientific activities but also is concerned with the development of science policies, within which it is often superimposed on bibliometrics.
Country Rank, Journal Rank and H-Index in the Field of Medicine in the Republic of Macedonia (1996-2008) Using Data from &lt;i&gt;SCImago&lt;/i&gt; Conclusion. There is only one Macedonian biomedical journal (Prilozi, Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Section of Biological and Medical Sciences) included in the Scopus database for the period between 1996 and 2008, probably by mistake in the list of journals from Serbia, instead from the Republic of Macedonia.
THE USE OF SOCIETAL IMPACTS CONSIDERATIONS IN GRANT PROPOSAL PEER REVIEW: A COMPARISON OF FIVE MODELS By combining our initial TA assessments with our empirical data regarding what works and what does not, we aim to develop a taxonomy of different models of peer review for different agency contexts, thereby improving the peer review process at public S&T funding agencies worldwide. It is to suggest, however, that attaining a high degree of theoretical adequacy for the ostensibly theoretically simple process of peer review is more complicated than it at first appears. Public S&T funding agencies spend a great deal of time and effort evaluating and attempting to improve their own processes of peer review. Perhaps, however, they have something to learn from each other.
A citation analysis study of MA dissertations in the library and information science field in universities in Tehran This study could be useful for educational and acquisition purposes in university libraries, since it examines citation behavior of students through a specific discipline. Overall, the study showed that in Iran the main format for LIS students for information is the print format, and if they have access to electronic formats, they prefer journal articles rather than e-books.
Publication trends of a biomedical journal from India JAPI showed a declining trend in the number of published articles over last decade.
Industry Induces Academic Science to Know Less about More My research serves as a new, unnecessary witness that company-based science is, in very fact, less theoretical than university-based science. This article confirms that the scientific community and its government patrons fail to support the most unusual science, but they sponsor the most reliable. Industry-sponsored work approaches the known from the unknown-from data generated with interests oblique to theoretical development.
Uncovering Transnational Hyperlink Patterns and Web-Mediated Contents: A New Approach Based on Cracking.com Domain The results obtained with the cracked .com data have several implications that are consistent with world-systems theory for the study of international telecommunications and globalization.
Scientific international collaboration of Turkey, Greece, Poland, and Portugal: A bibliometric analysis According to findings, Turkey clearly is experiencing a remarkable co-authorship growth rate with the G7 countries in comparison to that of those 2nd and 1st tier countries, for the period 1990-2006. There was a steady increase in Greek, Polish, and Portuguese trends while the Turkish trend increased by almost four times. However, the results showed that there is a significant need for a further study.
Tracking the Elusive Student: Opportunities for Connection and Assessment Tracking these elusive off-campus and online students and identifying areas where their use of the Web site differed from other students allowed the researchers to identify possible improvements to the site.
On Sleeping Beauties, Princes and other tales of citation distributions … It was demonstrated that the peculiar and rare phe-nomenon of 'Sleeping Beauties' in scientific litera-ture is a rather useful and instructive model in studying the mechanisms of scientific information flow through citations. It was found that citations, as a rule, are induced by papers published in higher impact factor journals than the original. There are several idiosyncratic behavioral patterns in the citation histories of Sleeping Beauties and Princes that allows drawing a sketchy typology.
Federally sponsored multidisciplinary research centers: Learning, evaluation, and vicious circles This work has examined the evolution of multi-year government funded science and technology centers from the perspective of the SLC program's LIFE Center in the context of the learning organization.
Re‐Ranking the Top Female Academic “Stars” in Criminology and Criminal Justice Using an Alternative Method: A Research Note The results suggest that both bibliographic methods yield relatively similar rankings, yet there were some authors that moved up in the rankings once the more comprehensive Publish or Perish method was applied. Ultimately, we hope that this research has provided an initial demonstration of how to apply a new methodology to assess scholarly productivity, and we encourage future research to use this method to rank different cohorts of scholars in general and different female cohorts specifically, as well as ranking other important sub-groups of criminology and criminal justice scholars (e.g., Whites, African-Americans, Hispanics).
Bite-Size Science These findings support the value of short article formats in psychology.
Core Journal Lists: Classic Tool, New Relevance Core lists are still a useful tool for librarians for a range of collection de- velopment and assessment activities as well as for use by faculty to choose publication outlets and/or for tenure committees to assess candidates. Academic librarians, especially subject specialists, must continue to develop current tools for use in collection development, management, and assessment. Ongoing work by the ACRL EBSS Psychology/Psychiatry Committee will focus on the identification of optimal publication outlets for an annual “core journal list” for psychology.
A Bibliometric Assessment of Canadian Software Engineering Scholars and Institutions (1996-2006) This paper summarized a survey of publications by the Canadian researchers in the field of software engineering from 1996 to 2006. The top-ranked institution in the study period is Carleton University, and the top-ranked scholars (by each of the two metrics) are Lionel Briand (formerly with Carleton University) and Gail Murphy from UBC. The survey is going to be an ongoing, annual event to identify the top 50 scholars and top 50 institutions over a 10-year period.
The use of information resources by LIS graduate students in Kuwait This study was designed to analyze the use of information resources by LIS graduate students at Kuwait University. The findings of this study have provided important insights for the academic library administration to take appropriate measures to achieve a higher level of awareness and skill by the users. There is also a need to conduct awareness campaigns on a regular basis among the university students at the graduate and undergraduate levels.
Institutional strategies for capturing socio-economic impact of academic research While the emerging agenda for the evaluation of socio-economic impact is challenging, coherent institutional strategies can be planned based on the understanding of the fundamental pathways from research activity to impact and by establishing frameworks based on key evaluative criteria. The framework for the evaluation of socio-economic impact has to be a flexible and adaptable tool that will be most beneficial for the identification of strategies to enhance the possibilities of creating high-value socio-economic impact. The growth in understanding and the development of new knowledge and new models will, inevitably, see the consolidation of systems and strategies throughout the academic sector.
Usage of Open-Access Journals: Findings from Eleven Top Science and Medical Journals This study indicates that overall open-access and hybrid-open-access journal use has increased in recent years. Since our study was based on top science and medical journals, we can conclude that the usage of open-access journals has increased in the top science and medical literature. Based on our findings, we predict that authors' adoption of open-access journals will continue to rise.
The citation impact of research collaboration in science‐based industries: A spatial‐institutional analysis The alleged importance of physical proximity for successful interaction between university, industry and government thus is not robust across industries.
Quantitative Analysis of the Usage of the COSMOS Science Education Portal The present study may improve our understanding of the most effective ways of organizing and using digital resources in the teaching practices.
Web Structure Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks and Algorithms for Information Retrieval The PageRank computation results shows that the incoming links and the outgoing links play an important role in ranking of Web pages using link analysis. This study also focuses on the important algorithms used for hyperlink analysis, explore those algorithms and compare them. The further research on this area will be problems facing PageRank algorithm and how to handle those problems.
Journal of Radioanalytical and Nuclear Chemistry, 2005–2009: a citation-based bibliography and impact analysis using Hirsch-type statistics The fact that the papers citing JRNC are apparently higher cited than JRNC papers themselves (whether measured by the average or the h-index) may be first thought to be an alarming sign, but it is not necessarily the case. It may also be regarded as the effect of the attention (manifested in the form of citations) to JRNC by papers in high-prestige, high-impact journals (see the Nature, Chem. Rev., etc. papers in Table 7).
The Representation of Women in Publication: An Analysis of <i>Political Communication</i> and the <i>International Journal of Press/Politics</i> This examination of the publication rates of male and female schol- ars in a dynamic interdisciplinary subfield uncovers some inter- esting patterns and revealing results. It seems, therefore, that women are not underrepresented in the interdisciplinary field of political communication research. Our results are a posi- tive sign for gender representation in publication.
A COMPARISON OF CITATIONS ACROSS MULTIDISCIPLINARY PSYCHOLOGY JOURNALS: A CASE STUDY OF TWO INDEPENDENT JOURNALS<sup>1</sup> If citation rates of articles are any indication of scientific quality, tiered classifications of journals appear to be a relatively weak indicator of scientific merit; journals at any tier contain articles that are useful and of good quality.
Dissemination practices in the Spanish research system: scientists trapped in a golden cage Spanish scientists are trapped between dissemination activities governed by moral values and a scarcely favourable social and professional context.
The Reconfiguration of E-Campaign Practices in Korea This study has assessed the current e-campaigning practices in South Korea. The analytical outcomes suggest that of the two front-running candidates to become the GNP's presidential nominee, Lee focused on the informing function of the campaign website while Park focused on the networking function of the campaign site, presumably because they received support from distinctively different sectors of the population, despite being from the same party. It is our intention to expand the research scope to include other parties in our continuing analysis of the rest of the 2007 Korean presidential race, in order to enhance our understanding of the implications of Internet-based political activity.
The role of conference publications in CS The main conclusions are: computer scientists publish more in conference proceedings than in archival journals; the impact of journal publications is significantly higher than the impact of conference papers. The fundamental message for the computer science community is: although it is more difficult to get published in journals, the effort is ultimately rewarded with a higher impact. From a bibliometric perspective, the best strategy to gain impact seems to be that of publishing few, final, and well-polished contributions in archival journals instead of many premature "publishing quarks" in conference proceedings.
Scientometric indicators: peer-review, bibliometric methods and conflict of interests Our results support the conclusion that peer ratings cannot generally be considered as standards to which bibliometric indicators should be expected to correspond (Aksnes and Taxt 2004).
A lucrative seat at the table: Are editorial board members generally over-cited in their own journals? Although we were not able to unambiguously determine whether flattery citations are actual or not, our results clearly show that any effect of such citations are at best minimal.
International collaboration and counting inflation in the assessment of national research productivity As one can see, country ranks were not affected greatly by accounting procedures.
Is the academic Ivory Tower becoming a managed structure? A nested analysis of the variance in activities of researchers from natural sciences and engineering in Canada It shows that the grouping effects are still small and that the Ivory Tower hypothesis is still more adequate for the investigation of researchers' activities.
Popular Searches in Google and Yahoo!: A “Digital Divide” in Information Uses? Countries that can maxi- mize the variety and accuracy of information search, espe- cially Germany, Ireland, and Russia, also display greater information skills.
Interactive open access publishing and public peer review: The effectiveness of transparency and self-regulation in scientific quality assurance Overall, ACP and its interactive open access sister journals prove that top quality (interac-tive) open access publishing and peer review can be realized and sustained by scientific societies and (small) commercial publishers with tightly limited budgets and without public subsidies, private dona-tions or venture capital.
Composition of scientific teams and publication productivity A better understanding of the factors that impact scientific teams, as determined by this and future research, may enable key stakeholders to facilitate more effective and efficient team operations and increase overall scientific productivity.
Exploring hyperlink structure of electronic commerce websites: a Webometric study The results of our study showed that inlink counts could be a useful measure for evaluating the visibility of a commerce company's website to its target audience and also be an indicator for evaluating the business performance of the company.
Hyperlink network analysis of the educational blog The results of the study on the educational blog community show that it is of low density, indicating that it is an alienated community. Also the ties and density of the educational blog tend to be low, indicating that the centrality of message delivery distance of this blog community is greater than the hypothesis of the six degrees of separation. Thus, it is suggested that the educational blogs under the social network are disadvantaged and marginalised.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Research in Psychopharmacology by Psychology Departments (1987–2007) Although leaders of production of psychopharmacology research were from Psychiatry and Pharmacology, Psychology departments are an important source of studies and thus of knowledge in the field of Psychopharmacology.
Science faculty at US research universities: The impacts of university research center-affiliation and gender on industrial activities We conclude that the development of university research centers has resulted in a new basis of institutional stratification among professors, with affiliates engaging in more industrial activities than their exclusively department-based peers.
Is it worth establishing institutional repositories? The strategies for open access to Spanish peer‐reviewed articles If the green and gold routes to OA are inter-preted (as suggested in the introductory paragraphs) as being active as opposed to passive diffusion mechanisms, it must there-fore be concluded that, overall, Spanish peer-reviewed literature is driven to OA by a major passive mechanism through publisher websites or editorial strategy. However, there is a disciplinary divide in terms of OA with a greater presence of active self-archiving strategies in the social sciences and humani-ties and in the field of agricultural, biological, and environmental sciences. Thus, further research should focus on a systematic investigation of all OA options and not only on the evolution of IRs.
Classifying Australian PhD Theses: Linking Research and Library Practices It is important to note that this database constitutes a valuable resource in its own right.
Rejection rates for multiple-part manuscripts Although Part I manuscripts submitted alone had a lower acceptance rate (61%) than the average (67%), Part II manuscripts submitted alone had a higher acceptance rate (77%) than the average. On the other hand, two-part manuscripts submitted together had an acceptance rate (67%) comparable to the average. Write independent manuscripts, do not reference unsubmitted research, and provide adequate evidence for claims within the manuscripts.
Governance by Numbers. Does It Really Work in Research? 'Governance by numbers' as applied by New Public Management to research activities comes at a high cost.
Normalization at the field level: Fractional counting of citations This measure of fractional counting can be generalized as normalization for any differences in citation behavior among citing authors (Small & Sweeney, 1985).
CWTS crown indicator measures citation impact of a research group's publication oeuvre I fully agree with O&L that traceability and transparency are important principles.
Remaining problems with the “New Crown Indicator” (MNCS) of the CWTS Since we seem presently at the brink of developing a new “crown indicator,” we further wish to suggest that these authors take into account that the “mean” is not a proper statistics for measuring differences among skewed distributions.
Interdisciplinary patterns of a University: Investigating collaboration using co-publication network analysis Our data shows that the rate of co-authorship at UCD has almost doubled within a decade.
Highly Cited Articles in Environmental and Occupational Health, 1961–1974 Overall, although this study has helped identify the most highly articles published in the AEH between 1961 and 1974, it has also illuminated some of the major technical issues faced when undertaking historical citation analysis of this nature.
A taste for science? PhD scientists’ academic orientation and self-selection into research careers in industry Our findings contribute to research on the management of innova- tion, scientific labor markets, and university-industry knowledge flows, while also suggesting concrete implications for managers and policy makers.
Failure Rates and Publication Status: Periodicals Reviewed in<i>Library Journal</i>(1980–2005) and Database Accuracy The overall failure rate of 54% for periodicals reviewed in LJ from 1980 through 2005 is lower than the 63% failure rate for LJ's "Best Magazines of the Year" and much lower than Husni's estimated 90% failure rate.
Whither Metrics? Tools for Assessing Publication Impact of Academic Library Practitioners Tracking this output is crucial and will enable us to quantify our impact on each other's work and research, our institutions, and even those in other disciplines.
Efficiency of scientific communication: A survey of world science This study aims at getting an estimate of the efficiency of the world system of scientific communication.
International scholarly collaboration in science, technology and medicine and social science of Turkish scientists It is expected that this research will contribute to the understanding of Turkey's international scientific collaboration processes pertaining to technology, economic, strategic, and cultural policy factors.
A Comparison of Citations across Multidisciplinary Psychology Journals: A Case Study of Two Independent Journals If citation rates of articles are any indication of scientific quality, tiered classifications of journals appear to be a relatively weak indicator of scientific merit; journals at any tier contain articles that are useful and of good quality.
Extending the Mertonian Norms: Scientists' Subscription to Norms of Research If, however, researchers were to yield to this complexity and conclude that the normative system is wholly unmeasurable, it would then be irrelevant to analyses of scientists and their work. We recommend the latter option, because of the potential for insights into scientists' behavior and the institutional and broader environments of science. Further qualitative work might reveal more about the normative principles that our discussions suggested.
The Effects of Scholarly Productivity and Institutional Characteristics on the Distribution of Federal Research Grants Multivariate analyses were undertaken to estimate the effect of faculty productivity and the characteristics of their respective institutions on the distribution of federally funded grants.
The process and costs of publishing medical journals in Sri Lanka: an economic evaluation The infrastructure for medical journal publishing in Sri Lanka has many good qualities such as free access, minimum charges for authors and potential for online availability.
Fate of manuscripts rejected by a non-English-language general medical journal: a retrospective cohort study 10.6% of the rejected manuscripts were eventually published in other journals, mainly English-language specialty journals. This proportion was considerably lower than that for other journals that have studied the fate of rejected manuscripts. Manuscript translation could be a barrier for resubmitting to English-language journals with larger readerships, thus hindering the dissemination of knowledge to the international community. Scientific journals publishing in small languages should acknowledge this problem and consider possible solutions.
CO-CITATIONS AND RELEVANCE OF AUTHORS AND AUTHOR GROUPS Co-citations, co-citation graphs and the proposed indices are useful to assess the relevance of individual authors and also the relevance of groups of authors.
An analysis of the research productivity of authors appearing in financial education journals Although the quality of financial education articles is difficult to assess using traditional methods (e.g. citation analysis and journal ranking studies), the results in this paper reveal that a large portion of the content of JFED and FPE over the past 40 years has been authored by accomplished scholars, providing indirect evidence about the quality of the content in these journals.
A framework for journal assessment: The case of the Journal of Banking & Finance Our analysis of the JBF demonstrates the value of our proposed citation-based framework for journal assessment. We show the JBF is influential in the field of financial research. This final finding suggests that a journal such as JBF, if it should seek to serve a broader audience, could increase its influence by becoming a leading publisher of articles addressing other underserved areas of finance.
Finance journal rankings and tiers: An Active Scholar Assessment methodology The comprehensive and endogenous ranking of finance journals based on the Active Scholar Assessment (ASA) methodology can help authors evaluate the strategic aspects of placing their research, facilitate assessment of research achievement by tenure and promotion committees; and assist university libraries in better managing their journal resources.
Mining and modeling linkage information from citation context for improving biomedical literature retrieval In order to find out how to utilize linkage information mined from the citation graph to facilitate the biomedical literature retrieval, we propose a general probabilistic combination framework which integrates the linkage weighting calculated from a citation graph into the content-based weighting model.
Popular and/or prestigious? Measures of scholarly esteem Citation analysis is an established means of assessing the relative impact of a scholar's research. We have described here a novel approach to citation-based evaluation of individuals that factors into account the quality of the papers that cite an author's oeuvre.
The skewness of computer science Our main findings and their implications are summarized in the following. The citation distribution for computer science papers is severely skewed. The impact of journal articles, as gauged with the aid of bibliometrics, is significantly higher than the impact of conference papers.
Discovering author impact: A PageRank perspective The current study applies PR to coauthorship network analysis. The PR algorithm provides a meaningful extension to the traditionally used citation counts for authors. Tested under different damping factors, there is little global reordering of authors. Therefore, this weighted algorithm is a reliable approach for author impact evaluation.
Patterns of bibliographic references in the ACM published papers As expected, conferences are important to Computer Science, and that is represented in the number of references to conferences in the 2006 source set. That is, conferences are venues where final, finished results are also published. A somewhat untold story is the importance of books in the CS literature. This fast lived waves of interests must be further explored, since they are not fully reflected in the mean life of references: on average papers refer to documents from 5 to 6 year old, but in 3 years 3/4 of the most cited papers changed.
Assessing the Impact of Paediatric Oncology Publications Using Three Citation Databases Fewer citations were retrieved by Web of Science compared to the other citation databases.
Scientometrics of big science: a case study of research in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Our study reveals a number of patterns. First, large-scale scientific projects such as SDSS help a wide range of scientists from different countries in the world carry out their own scientific research. Second, scientists initially formed large research groups, but then worked in smaller-sized groups.
A collective and abridged lexical query for delineation of nanotechnology publications After the comparison of different definitions and lexical queries of nanotechnology, a new collective and abridged lexical query (CALQ) was suggested.
Is there a 'gender gap' in authorship of the main Brazilian psychiatric journals at the beginning of the 21st century? Our findings indicate clearly that some progress in being achieved in eliminating the gender gap also in field of Psychiatry and highlight the need for further research in this area.
On using the Shanghai ranking to assess the research performance of university systems In this paper we have tried to enhance the understanding of the Shanghai ranking by suggesting some meaningful uses of the ARWU data to assess the research performance of higher university systems around the world.
The effect of a two-stage publication process on the Journal Impact Factor: a case study on the interactive open access journal Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics The comparatively high JIF of ACP in the JCR subject category ‘Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences' is thus calculated correctly and is not an effect of the two-stage publication process. Further studies should clarify whether the results of this study also hold for other interactive open access journals (of the Copernicus Society), such as Bio- geosciences or Climate of the Past.
On the map: Nature and Science editorials As a result, the analysis provides reliable information on the distribution of the editorials over topics, and on differences between the journals.
A made-to-measure indicator for cross-disciplinary bibliometric ranking of researchers performance This study describes x-index, a new indicator for cross-disciplinary bibliometric research performance assessment, developed to meet three requirements: reflect both publication quantity and quality; modest data extraction and processing effort; ability to compare diverse scientific field profiles.
Impact evaluation of the voluntary early retirement policy on research and technology outputs of the faculties of science in Morocco The present evaluation provides ad vitam aeternam accurate data and a useful insight into the impact of the voluntary early retirement policy on research and technological outputs of the faculties of science in Morocco and consequently on the overall Morocco's research system.
Agrifood research in Europe: a global perspective It seems that deepening of the integration of the national research systems in the European Research Area is desirable to have more impact of European agrifood research viewed from a global perspective.
Mathematics 1868-2008: a bibliometric analysis The growth of the literature in mathematics can be described very well by the model of exponential growth in 19th and 20th century (with the exception of the time period of the two World Wars).
Structure and infrastructure of infectious agent research literature: SARS As the literature bibliometrics results show, PRC played a major role in all aspects of diagnosing, treating, and researching the disease.
Scientific publications of engineers in South Africa, 1975-2005 This study on the scientific publications of South African engineers as seen through their research publications indexed in the ISI database brings out some unique features of engineering research in the country.
Analysis of a number and type of publications that editors publish in their own journals: case study of scholarly journals in Croatia Although the majority of editors did not misuse their own journals for scientific publishing and academic promotion, there is a need for greater transparency of the declaration and management of editorial conflict of interest in academic and scholarly journals. In conclusion, self-publishing of journal editors is a common finding in scholarly and academic journals, but is rarely misused by editors as the sole way of publishing research results.
Dynamics of citation distribution From large citations to small citations, including the zero citation, the entire distribu-tion can be fairly described in the same framework.
A long-term assessment of finance research performance among Asia-Pacific academic institutions (1990-2008) Our study has several interesting findings. Similar to the earlier findings, the Asia-Pacific academic institutions, as a group, perform very well during 1990–2008.
Patterns of Research Productivity in the Business Ethics Literature: Insights from Analyses of Bibliometric Distributions The observed research productivity pattern in the business ethics area, a relatively young discipline, is interestingly very consistent with those found in much older, related business disciplines like economics, accounting, and finance.
What Do the Cited and Citing Environments Reveal about Advances in Atmospheric Physics? The academic visibility of Adv. Atmos. Sci. is continuing to improve in the international research community as the number of reference citation it receives in its peer journals internationally increases over time. Although Adv. Atmos. Sci. has become one of the leading journals in China, its journey toward international academic acknowledgement has only just begun. Assessing the journal's position in terms of citation matrices provides a benchmark of our success and basis for our goals.
Using Global Mapping to Create More Accurate Document-Level Maps of Research Fields In summary, we have presented both a theoretical argument claiming that a global map should be more accurate than a local map and a practical example showing that a global map of information science is both more accurate and more useful than is a local map of information science. In addition, we have shown that the research communities in temporally linked threads have a much higher coherence than do isolated communities. We see many of these suggestions as potentially fruitful avenues for future research and hope that many others will join us in seeking the most accurate methodologies for science mapping.
Hybrid Citation-Word Representations in Science Mapping: Portolan Charts of Research Fields? The diagonal archipelago in our "pseudo-map” portolan sug-gests that bibliometric mapping is robust, but the convergence remains partial, not only as the result of local differences in scale effects.
References Made and Citations Received by Scientific Articles It can be concluded that what is needed is a single explanation of the decentralized process whereby scientists made references that a few years later translate into a highly skewed citation distribution crowned in most cases by a power law. The preliminary results obtained in this study constitute the most complete evidence available in the scientometrics literature about the prevalence of power laws among citation distributions arising from the academic periodicals indexed by TS (or other comparable journal collections).
Can the Quality of Scientific Work Be Predicted Using Information on the Author's Track Record? Can the impact of scientific work be predicted with information on the authors' track records? The results from my research suggest that the answer is yes that the impact of an article (as measured in this study) can, to a certain degree, be predicted based on the right information on the author's publication history. The results indicate that previous publication volume has no significant effect on the citation rate of articles in most of the tested models. A better predictor of the relative citation rate of the articles was achieved with the pRCR measurement.
Is Interactive Open Access Publishing Able to Identify High-Impact Submissions? A Study on the Predictive Validity of Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics by Using Percentile Rank Classes The results confirm the predictive validity of the ACP peer review system.
Global Usage Versus Global Citation Metrics: The Case of Pharmacology Journals The rapid acceptance of electronic journals has certainly speeded up the system of scholarly communication in the last decade. With the growing availability of e-journals, digital libraries, and repositories, usage indicators have become an interesting complement to citation indicators. In our opinion, the development and provision of global usage metrics could open up new and broader avenues for the classification and evaluation of scientific journals and other e-publications.
The Shifting Sands of Disciplinary Development: Analyzing North American Library and Information Science Dissertations Using Latent Dirichlet Allocation The data presented here provide a foundation for examin-ing changes over time in the field. Latent Dirichlet allocation has proved itself a useful tool for identifying the latent themes in the corpus. This analysis served as an accurate way to provide an overview of the field using all dissertations from all years.
A Unification of Three Models for the h-Index Thus, we see that the h-index formulas of Egghe-Rousseau, Hirsch, and Glänzel-Schubert are linked based on the power-law relation or Heaps' law (Equation 2).
An assessment of systems and software engineering scholars and institutions (2003-2007 and 2004-2008) This study provides a quantitative, repeatable, and comprehensible way to evaluate the performance of research institutions and their scholars in the realms of academia, government, and industry. We do not claim that publication-based ranking is the only meaningful evaluation mechanism, but only that it provides some quantita-tive guidance toward answering the two questions raised at the beginning of this report. As discussed in Section 3, although top scholars can improve an institution's score, it is not necessarily the only deciding factor in achieving a high ranking.
Differences in citation rates by country of origin for papers published in top-ranked medical journals: do they reflect inequalities in access to publication? Papers from different countries published in the same journal have different citation rates. This may reflect difficulties for researchers from some countries to publish their research in leading medical journals.
Publication practices of medical students at British medical schools: Experience, attitudes and barriers to publish Students have a positive attitude towards publishing and they feel it is important. However, it is clear that students require and would welcome education in writing papers and abstracts, skills that they will need in their postgraduate careers.
PrestigeRank: A new evaluation method for papers and journals In summary, PrestigeRank presents feasible evaluation methods for papers and journals in the case where the current database system has a limited range of published papers.
On the definition of forward and backward citation generations Although admittedly a complex issue, we think that taking more than one generation into account reveals better the structure of the network underlying progress in science.
Towards a new crown indicator: Some theoretical considerations We have presented a theoretical comparison between two normalization mechanisms for bibliometric indicators of research performance (for an empirical comparison, see Waltman et al., 2010).
The measurement of low- and high-impact in citation distributions: Technical results This paper has addressed the evaluation of the scientific performance of research units of a certain size when the only available information is the citation distribution of the papers published by the research unit in the serial literature in a homogenous field, namely, when the number of citations received by each pair of articles directly reflects the different merit, or international impact of each of the two articles.
Structured evaluation of the scientific output of academic research groups by recent h-based indicators This paper presented a methodology for comparing homologous research groups on the basis of their scientific production.
Bibliometric rankings of journals based on Impact Factors: An axiomatic approach This paper has analyzed the ranking of journals based on IFs using an axiomatic approach. We have given necessary and sufficient conditions (Theorem 2) for a binary relation comparing journals to coincide with the relation induced by IFs. Our hope is that axiomatic analyses of the type exposed here, combined with systematic empirical studies of indices, will give a sound basis to compare and evaluate bibliometric rankings.
Indicators of the interdisciplinarity of journals: Diversity, centrality, and citations We did not find a robust and unambiguous indicator of "interdisciplinarity" that would be welcome from a policy perspective.
The effects and their stability of field normalization baseline on relative performance with respect to citation impact: A case study of 20 natural science departments The results show that the choice of normalization baseline matters. Based on the observations in this paper that no substantial differences were observed contrasting ESI_norm with SC_norm, one might suggest that people without access to SC_norm data (which for many people still are laborious and hard to obtain) can perform reasonable normalized citation impact studies by combining J_norm and ESI_norm. For future research, it would be interesting to compare traditional field normalization with the alternatives sketched above.
How and where the TeraGrid supercomputing infrastructure benefits science TeraGrid usage is indeed significantly correlated with the scientific impact of its users, but the causal direction of this relation remains unclear. Use of the TeraGrid is disproportionally oriented towards traditional scientific domains; it has not yet reached the full range of scientific domains that may benefit from large-scale super-computing infrastructure. Analyses such as these could greatly benefit from the TeraGrid (and similar facilities) gathering and presenting user and publication data in a systematic and automated fashion.
High- and low-impact citation measures: Empirical applications The U.S. occupies a truly enviable position in the two directions investigated in this paper: its observed contribution to the world high-impact level in the extended citation distribution is greater than what is expected from its publication share in all fields; and its relative contribution to the world low-impact level is also smaller than expected in all fields.
An approach for detecting, quantifying, and visualizing the evolution of a research field: A practical application to the Fuzzy Sets Theory field A general approach to analyze and visualize a research field has been proposed. Finally, we can conclude that a strong correlation has been observed between the themes with high centrality (right quadrants) and the number of received citations, as shown in Figs. 5b, 6b, 7b, 8b and 9b. This correlation indicates to us that the proposed approach is very suitable for use as an analysis tool of a given general research field.
Gender differences in peer reviews of grant applications: A substantive-methodological synergy in support of the null hypothesis model In one of the largest and most ambitious studies to date, we demonstrate strong, robust results in support of a gender similarity hypothesis and the null hypothesis model of no gender differences-and no support at all for systematic effects of researcher gender on peer review outcomes.
A proposal for a First-Citation-Speed-Index We presented a proposal for a First-Citation-Speed-Index (FCSI), hereby introducing an h-index for increasing sequences. Several good "logical" properties are shown and the practical examples underline the good distinctive power of the FCSI. The problem of the time units in the framework of FCSIs is left as an open problem.
Scientific collaboration and endorsement: Network analysis of coauthorship and citation networks Productive authors tend to directly coauthor with and closely cite colleagues sharing the same research interests; they do not generally collaborate directly with colleagues having different research topics, but instead directly or indirectly cite them; and highly cited authors do not generally coauthor with each other, but closely cite each other.
Are researchers that collaborate more at the international level top performers? An investigation on the Italian university system The results seem to confirm the initial hypothesis that researchers characterized by the best research performance also have a greater intensity of and propensity towards international collaboration. However, when identified for propensity to collaborate abroad, there is no indication that the top scientists achieve superior productivity than their colleagues, except in average impact. This is because, while performance appears directly correlated to intensity/propensity for international collaboration, the reverse correlation is not equally evident.
Strange attractors in the Web of Science database Phantom citations in WoS are not rare, particularly for non-English sources and authors.
What's familiar is excellent: The impact of exposure effect on perceived journal quality The results ultimately confirmed the presence of the exposure effect.
Quantitative and empirical demonstration of the Matthew effect in a study of career longevity In this paper we demonstrate strong empirical evidence for universal statistical laws that describe career progress in competitive professions.
A crisis in the making? Education, ageing populations and the future of the medical research workforce There is a need to plan for the replacement of the retiring generation of the health and medical research workforce and for the growth required to match that of the working population.
The scientific road of Manuel Cardona: a bibliometric analysis This study presents a detailed analysis of Manuel Cardona's scientific activity based on bibliometric methods. We have used the bibliometric data available to show the large international network he has created and the different fields where he has worked and which have been influenced by him. On the basis of the bibliometric data and the applied indicators, it became obvious that the importance of his contributions to Manuel Cardona in the field of condensed matter physics is out of discussion.
Unheard Voices: Institutional Repository End-Users This exploratory study of IR end-users has identified several important areas for future IR development: increased publicizing of the IR, increased content recruitment, and improved appearance and functionality.
Understanding Interdisciplinary Collaborations as Social Networks These findings are consis- tent with ICCI meeting its objective of becoming more collaborative. We have shown how social network analysis permits researchers to quantify and map properties of complete networks, identify key players within a network (e.g., gate keepers (actors with high betweenness centrality) who link otherwise unconnected parts of the network together) and track changes in both. Our hope is that the long term investigation of ICCI might contribute to this literature.
Estimating research performance by using research grant award gradings Thus, the use of these alone to make judgements about 'quality' of HEI is problematical and of little use for allocating funds. We note that the issues that we have discussed here will also apply in any analyses that attempt to use citations. Finally, our analysis of the relationship between award scores and RAE scores shows, at best, only a moderate correlation.
Urology Resident Publication Output and Its Relationship to Future Academic Achievement Publication output correlated with increasing dedicated research time and was associated with the pursuit of fellowship training and an academic career.
No escape from the dominant theories: The analysis of intellectual pillars of technology management in developing countries This study mainly investigates the intellectual structure of the academic TM research in developing countries.
Quantitative mapping of scientific research-The case of electrical conducting polymer nanocomposite This quantitative exploration provides a way to unveil important or emerging components in scientific development and also to visualize knowledge; thus an objective evaluation of scientific research is possible for quantitative technology management.
WHAT'S AN ECONOMICS SEMINAR WORTH? INFORMATION AUTHORS AND ORGANIZERS SHOULD KNOW Using an original database on papers presented to a specific University seminar, this paper has (1) studied the odds of publishing a paper presented there and (2) examined the features that can increase the chance of being published.
Knowledge dissemination in operations management: Published perceptions versus academic reality This paper relied on two sources of data to evaluate academic journals in operations management, arguably the most important channel for scholarly knowledge generation and dissemination.
The Use of Environmental, Health and Safety Research in Nanotechnology Research This paper has examined the growth and diffusion of C2 and C3 nano EHS research using bibliometric analysis of WOS SCI publications in the Georgia Tech global nanotechnology database. The results of our research show that C2 and C3 nano EHS publications are small in scale relative to the broader nano S&T area, though growing very rapidly. The ability to make environmental nano EHS research available and useful to biomedical nano EHS research is a noteworthy area of future attention.
Combating unethical publications with plagiarism detection services The business model of the commercial and not-for-profit companies is to provide plagiarism detection services, and stay away from identifying existing highly similar or plagiarized documents within the scientific corpus.
Global trends and performances of desalination research In this study on desalination publications listed in SCI, significant points on worldwide research performance from 1991 to 2008 were obtained.
Retractions in the scientific literature: do authors deliberately commit research fraud? This study reports evidence consistent with the 'deliberate fraud' hypothesis. The results suggest that papers retracted because of data fabrication or falsification represent a calculated effort to deceive. It is inferred that such behaviour is neither naïve, feckless nor inadvertent.
Mathematical relations of the h-index with other impact measures in a Lotkaian framework The Lotkaian framework offers some possibilities to study the behavior of some variants of the h-index h (such as R, g, H or √π) in function of h. We could prove that, for h constant the indices R, g and H (of Randić) are decreasing with respect to T (the total number of sources). It is an open problem to study these more intricate cases, hereby covering the case α ≤ 2 but also refining the case α > 2.
A Citation Analysis of Western Journals Cited in Taiwan's Library and Information Science and History Research Journals: From a Research Evaluation Perspective Findings from this study suggested that ISI citation data and JCR impact factor, due to ISI's inclusion/exclusion of journals and the ways it categorized journals by subject discipline, may not successfully represent scholarly journals' real contribution to SS&H research in non-English-speaking countries. Consequently, SS&H research evaluations using ISI citation data can be biased. We recommend that future research may compare citation usages in other SS&H subject areas and across countries in order to better understand the impact of JCR on research evaluations in the local and global environments and derive better ways of using ISI and JCR tools to evaluate SS&H research.
The fractional and harmonic p-indices for multiple authorship In this paper we demonstrate a protocol for computing the p-index (a performance index which can effectively combine size and quality of scientific papers) taking into account multiple authorship.
Mapping of Indian computer science research output, 1999-2008 India is far behind China, South Korea, Taiwan and Brazil in terms of publication output, citation quality and share of international quality in computer science. It means, substantial increase in R&D investments, development of new training programs and manpower deployment from the government are required in this area. National and international collaboration has to be been substantially increased to improve more quality and publication output.
An approach to improve the indicator weights of scientific and technological competitiveness evaluation of Chinese universities The results show that the evaluation effect of the weights of multiplicative model is indeed the best for all types of Chinese universities among these kinds of weights, and the experts and university principals enquired also basically reached a consensus on the university rankings of the integrative weights of multiplicative model.
Regional development and interregional collaboration in the growth of nanotechnology research in China The analyses in this paper indicate that the dramatic international rise of China's position in nanotechnology has been underwritten by the emergence of a series of regional hubs of nanotechnology R&D activity.
Correlation between impact and collaboration We present evidence to support the positive correlation between citation and coauthor numbers. We find that predicting the citation number from the coauthor number can be more reliable than predicting the coauthor number from the citation number. As a final remark, we caution the use of such an unrepresentative average value.
Searching for converging research using field to field citations We described a high-level, top-down methodology for searching convergence between fields using journal subject categories as a proxy for fields and citations as a measure for (interdisciplinary) application of research.
Criticism on the hg-index This communication analyses some drawbacks of the hg-index, which is obtained by the geometric mean of h and g.
National-scale research performance assessment at the individual level This work proposed a decision support system based on large-scale measurement of the bibliometric performance of individual researchers, offered as an aid for resource allocation and strategic planning in public research organizations.
Explicitly searching for useful inventions: dynamic relatedness and the costs of connecting versus synthesizing This study is one of the first attempting to identify links between an invention's usefulness and two variables: the degree of relatedness among its features, and the number of times the invention's specific set of features has been used for prior inventions. As information processing technologies advance, future research may be able to test refined hypotheses across industries with sophisticated data analysis related to literature-based discovery.
A statistical study of transferral and promotion mechanisms relating to the appointment of professors at Japanese national universities based on cross tabulation and log-linear model analysis From the above results, about 10% of the variation in the original observed values that is not reproduced in the optimal model of the log-linear model is mostly seen at more recent observation periods.
Looking across communicative genres: a call for inclusive indicators of interdisciplinarity This work demonstrates the difference in rankings of disciplines and authors, dependent upon the communicative genre in question.
Bibliometric positioning of scientific manufacturing journals: a comparative analysis This paper analyzed 23 of the major journals in the Manufacturing field by four biblio-metric indicators: ISI-IF, h-for-journal, citation number and h-spectrum. Of particular interest is the construction of the h—ISI-IF map to compare journals and monitor their bibliometric positioning over time. Several ideas for further research activities may originate from this work.
The end of the beginning: a reflection on the first five years of the HRI conference The papers published at already the first HRI conference received more citations than the papers of the Ro-Man conference of the same year. If you accept the assumptions that citations indicate some form of quality, then we may conclude that the HRI conference was able to attract higher quality papers. One danger the conference is facing is to alienate authors through is extremely rigid review process.
Publication activity, citation impact and bi-directional links between publications and patents in biotechnology Biotechnology is a (still) emerging field with a considerable growth rate.
Critical mass and the dependency of research quality on group size A consequence of our analysis is that overall research performance of a given discipline is improved by supporting medium-sized groups over large ones, while small groups must strive to achieve critical mass.
Scientometrics of a pandemic: HIV/AIDS research in South Africa and the World The policy implications are obvious. Resources should be concentrated in particular institutions if the country expects to have worldwide recognised research institutions and hopes to make a meaningful contribution in the resolution of national and international concerns.
Collaboration in information and library science doctoral education The doctoral process was largely seen to be a research-driven process, and collaborations within this space were predominately seen as those activities of joint scholarly production. Lastly, the dissertation is still seen as a single-authored monograph with respondents conceptualizing it as the indication of a student's ability to do independent research. If the dissertation does not function to teach these skills to students, we may want to rethink our approach to doctoral education.
Young Transplant Surgeons and NIH Funding In this national study, we have shown that very few young transplant surgeons have successfully achieved NIH funding, despite thousands of available awards, significant research experience during their training, and a strong desire to participate in research. While the reasons remain unclear, the response to these findings rests within the transplant surgery community, to decide if this is the level of serious research participation that we desire for our field, and to intervene if necessary.
Mining citation information from CiteSeer data We conclude that CiteSeer is a valuable, yet not fully appreciated, repository of citation data and is appropriate for testing novel bibliometric methods.
Methodology for the evaluation of scientific journals: Aggregated Citations of Cited Articles The new Index ensures neutrality, qualitative and quantitative hierarchy and consistency in the estimation of journal ranking.
Overturning some assumptions about the effects of evaluation systems on publication performance The main results confirm the difficulties of claiming the existence of a significant impact of the RES on the quantity of Spanish scientific publications at the aggregate level in the period analysed. Instead, our findings support the idea that the growth of scientific publications can be considered first the result of the growth in size of the system and, second, as the effect of the maturation and history processes of the Spanish research system, and the compounded effect of some endogenous changes, such as the expansion of international collaboration in publications. We take this case as an example of the need to improve and refine methodologies and to be more cautious when attributing effects to research evaluation mechanisms at the national level.
Visualizing the research on pervasive and ubiquitous computing For pervasive and ubiquitous computing, yearly publications sustained a notable growth as a whole from 1995 to 2007 and then showed the ascending trend in recent 2 years. The most influential scholars include Weiser, Dey, Satyanarayanan, Want, Abowd, Roman, Chen, Kindberg, Ranganathan and Garlan. Our analysis has identified a diverse and dynamic landscape of research foci that peaked in the past, such as ubiquitous computing environment, mobile devices, context, wireless network and ambient intelligence.
What do UK academics cite? An analysis of references cited in UK scholarly outputs One important finding from this study was the number of authors who did not appear to have any identifiable publications in the years being analysed.
The relationship between scientists' research performance and the degree of internationalization of their research The current work takes a bibliometric approach to analyze the link between degree of internationalization of scientific activity and research performance, at the level of individual university researchers. Productivity has an impact on intensity of international collaboration larger than average quality of scientific product. On the other hand productivity and average quality have a similar weight on the propensity to collaborate with foreign scientists.
Time series analysis of publication counts of a university: what are the implications? Simple analysis of the time-series of publication counts revealed an interesting pattern that can be related to changes in research funding and policies related to research support and encouragement.
A journal co-citation analysis of library and information science in China Using the co-citation data of 24 LIS journals in China and taking CJFTD as the data source, we obtain clear and reasonable results about the relationship and structure of LIS studies in China.
f-Value: measuring an article's scientific impact Based on the Cascading Citations Indexing Framework, we proposed a new indicator for measuring the importance of a research article. The f-value represents a unique value for each article that takes into consideration the n-gen citations received by the specific article.
Interdisciplinarity and the intellectual base of literature studies: citation analysis of highly cited monographs The main conclusions from this study are that literature studies have become more interdisciplinary over the last 20 years. There is a shift from citing texts primarily from the Literature category to citing texts from the social sciences and other humanities fields such as 'art' and 'history'. The article demonstrates how citation analysis can provide insights into the communication patterns and intellectual structure of scholarly fields in the arts and humanities.
Reasons for and developments in international scientific collaboration: does an Asia-Pacific research area exist from a bibliometric point of view? The results allow the conclusion that international cooperation between the countries in the Asia-Pacific region has intensified between 1998 and 2007, and that an Asia-Pacific research area does exist from a biblio-metric perspective.
How to improve research quality? Examining the impacts of collaboration intensity and member diversity in collaboration networks This study offers several academic implications as well as recommendations for future research.
Scholarly gratitude in five geographical contexts: a diachronic and cross-generic approach of the acknowledgment paratext in medical discourse (1950-2010) We conclude that the concept of intellectual indebtedness does not only differ from one geographical context to another, but also over time and from one academic genre to another.
Authorship, Collaboration, and Funding Trends in Implantology Literature: Analysis of Five Journals From 2005 to 2009 The number of authors per articles and collaborative studies increased over time in implant-related journals. Collaborative studies were more likely to be funded.
World Ranking of Real Estate Research: Recent Changes in School Competitiveness and Research Institutions First, top-tier schools in the ranking of real estate research are not necessarily the most famous schools in economics or finance. Second, school competitiveness has been changed substantially in the United States. The changes found here are mainly due to a mobility of research-active scholars.
The role of search in university productivity: inside, outside, and interdisciplinary dimensions This article finds that outside knowledge-flows from other institutions, and the importance of outside knowledge for research output measured by scientific papers and citations received, have risen relative to inside knowledge-flows from the same university (Table 4).
The great divide in scientific productivity: why the average scientist does not exist Overall, the results strongly support the case for considering the full distribution when analyzing the impact of productivity drivers, moving the research agenda beyond an analysis of average effects. This article has estimated the impact of various productivity drivers along the productivity distribution, both in terms of the quantity and quality dimension of research performance. In any case, the results provide a clear support for lifting the research on scientific productivity out of the “average" analysis to fully take into account the persistent skewed distribution of research productivity and the differences in the effects of research determinants on the different quantiles of research productivity.
How Fractional Counting of Citations Affects the Impact Factor: Normalization in Terms of Differences in Citation Potentials Among Fields of Science In summary, the largest reduction of the between-group variance is associated with Model M3; in this case, the between-group variance component is close to zero.
Large Increases and Decreases in Journal Impact Factors in Only One Year: The Effect of Journal Self-Citations The main conclusion of this study is that in the set of journals with large changes in their JIF in only 1 year, the main contributing factor was the change in citations received. The results of this study suggest that scientific indicators in general and JIFs in particular should be used with care. Even changes that affect a limited number (in absolute terms) of articles or citations can have a strong influence on JIFs.
Applying Weighted PageRank to Author Citation Networks This article conducted a detailed analysis of popularity and prestige rankings based on data collected from WoS in IR for the period of 1956–2008. Overall, prestige rank outperformed all other indicators at all different top rank categories. A future trend will be to generate indicators that measure multidimensional units (e.g., publications, cita-tions, and co-authorship collaborations).
A Heuristic Approach to Author Name Disambiguation in Bibliometrics Databases for Large-Scale Research Assessments Compared with similar attempts reported in the literature, and especially with state-of-the-art unsupervised approaches, the proposed algorithm presents definite advantages in terms of scalability and expandability, and, above all, it offers prac-tical and very easy application. Finally, the performance for precision and recall seems completely adequate for the typi-cal needs of bibliometric applications, and it still offer further scope for improvement. The development and application of the algorithm described has allowed us to set up a unique national bibliometric database, apt to support large-scale research evaluations at the level of the single scientist.
Composition of Scientific Teams and Publication Productivity at a National Science Lab Overall, the study linked high productivity in teams to high disciplinary diversity and low seniority diversity of team membership.
Coverage and Overlap of the New Social Sciences and Humanities Journal Lists We propose reducing this fragmentation as the best method to reduce coverage shortfalls. To overcome these problems and build a well-founded evaluation infrastructure, the fragmentation in the community needs to be reduced. This article argues that explicit attention should be devoted to understanding the fragmentation issue and resources invested in overcoming it in a way that preserves diversity, yet facilitates flow of information and knowledge between communities.
Writing and publishing important scientific articles: A reviewer's perspective Using a journal reviewer perspective, this article contributes in creating awareness and understanding of the requirements of writing important scientific articles in several significant ways.
Level of evidence and conflict of interest disclosure associated with higher citation rates in orthopedics High level of evidence, large sample size, representation from multiple institutions, and conflict of interest disclosure are associated with higher rates of citation in orthopedics. For authors wishing to publish articles that will have a substantial impact on the field, our study provides some important clues. The acquisition of external funding—whether from a nonprofit organization or a for-profit company—may also allow one to conduct research that is more likely to be cited, although this is a finding that requires further investigation.
How international are the international business journals? Yet our overall conclusion is one of cautious optimism. While mainstream management and business journals may be bound by a homogenizing parochialism (March, 2005; Tsui, 2007), there is now clear evidence that the IBJs have entered an era of research internationalism.
Does Fellowship Pay: What Is the Long-term Financial Impact of Subspecialty Training in Pediatrics? Pediatric subspecialization yielded variable financial returns.
Multiple open access availability and citation impact This present research has nonetheless revealed that multiple OA availability of LIS journal articles does create a direct impact on citation fluctuation when articles from the same journals are evaluated.
The application of characteristic scores and scales to the evaluation and ranking of scientific journals The present study has shown that the method of CSS can be applied to different aspects of the same system such as to classify individual publications or journals within the same subject even if their citation distributions follow different models.
Identification of dependency patterns in research collaboration environments through cluster analysis It is clear that dependencies exist among research groups.
The Gender Gap in Citations: Does It Persist? The results of the current study are consistent with our hypothesis (derived from Kanter's 1977 work on tokens) that women are at the greatest disadvantage when they are a very small minority.
Significance of Authorship Position: An Open-Ended International Assessment ICMJE authorship criteria were poorly identified by respondents in this open-ended, international sampling of medical journal authors.
Knowledge mapping for rapidly evolving domains: A design science approach In sum, this study illustrates the desirability and viability of the design science approach to design, implement, and evaluate advanced systems that better meet users' requirements and needs.
Transnational History of Medicine after 1950: Framing and Interrogation from Psychiatric Journals By the 1980s, publishing psychiatrists everywhere, and possibly practising psychiatrists as well, had inadvertently furthered transnationalisation by switching to English-language communication, as demonstrated in the German Archives and the Scandinavian Acta. My findings emphasise that medical specialists, especially after the 1970s, used the common language as a technology to communicate between national communities. Patterns revealed by journal contents and references thus provide at least one suggestive framework within which to focus on fundamental questions of content and practice, even as historians of psychiatry, and of medicine in general, continue to examine the critical intersection of the transnational and the local.
Do competitively acquired funds induce universities to increase productivity? This paper analyzes the impact of private and public third-party funding on the productivity of Swiss university departments and public research institutions. By accounting for potential endogeneity, we enhance the understanding of the causal relationship between funding mechanisms and productivity, hence improving politicians' ability to make evidence-based decisions.
The European university landscape: A micro characterization based on evidence from the Aquameth project This paper provides a first analysis of European universities along the dimensions of age, size and growth, horizontal and vertical diversity and pattern of differentiation.
Rickety numbers: Volatility of university rankings and policy implications The analysis implies that the two rankings reflect the perspectives of their developers and do not necessarily meet the practical needs of students or of higher education policy-makers.
Evaluating Journal Quality: Is the H-Index a Better Measure Than Impact Factors? Many stakeholders in the profession have an interest in reliable, accurate measures of journal quality. In keeping with work in other disciplines, this study suggests that the h-index represents an important complement, and perhaps improvement, to the use of impact factors as a way to assess journal quality. It may be time to implement it in the social work profession.
Impact factors in nursing journals Within the context of the current environment, nurse authors and nurse editors appear to face dilemmas with regard to IFs, and may feel pulled in different directions.
h-indices in a university department of anaesthesia: an evaluation of their feasibility, reliability, and validity as an assessment of academic performance Agreement between the two databases was problematic.
Surgical mentors' and mentees' productivity from 1993 to 2006 The number of mentees per mentor has decreased in recent years as has primary-authored authors, whereas federal funding has increased for mentors.
Detecting emerging research fronts in regenerative medicine by the citation network analysis of scientific publications In this paper, we detected emerging research fronts in a huge number of academic papers related to regenerative medicine, which is an area of radically innovative research.
Innovation forecasting: A case study of the management of engineering and technology literature The results suggest that technology and engineering management is growing more applied. Attention to business, firms and industries is increasingly more prevalent. Project management is on the rise as a topic for research. We suggest that the model and implementation provide useful desktop monitoring procedures for continuous monitoring of emerging fields of new technology.
Evaluating the Science of Discovery in Complex Health Systems The multimethod evaluation approach illustrated here provides an example of a systems-focused strategy that uses longitudinal observation of the patterns of interaction and output in a manner that can highlight ways in which transdisciplinary research can be facilitated to addressing complex health problems.
Longitudinal Trends in the Performance of Scientific Peer Reviewers This study, one of few tracking expert performance longitudinally, demonstrates that most journal peer reviewers received lower quality scores for article assessment over the years.
Implementation of a Journal Peer Reviewer Stratification System Based on Quality and Reliability Implementation of a tiered system stratifying journal peer reviewers by quality and reliability was readily accomplished by Annals and has appeared to improve the efficiency of our peer review.
Use of the Internet by Print Medical Journals in 2003 to 2009: A Longitudinal Observational Study The use of online-only articles and online-only supplements by print journals continues to increase. Postpublication critique of articles in online pages provided by the journal does not seem to be taking hold. In summary, we found that printed journals have continued to increase their use of the Internet to deliver supplementary material and added functionality such as video.
Thought Exercises on Accountability and Performance Measures at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI): An Invited Commentary for Circulation Research As stewards of taxpayer monies, we at NHLBI expect to be held accountable for our decisions and policies.
Impact of Excessive Journal Self-Citations: A Case Study on the Folia Phoniatrica et Logopaedica Journal Based on the year 2008 JCR listing, the FOLIA PHONIATR LOGO journal has since been revoked from the JCR listing of journals with a JIF value.
Measuring Impact Beyond Academic Fame: An Alternative Social Impact Factor The proposed SIF index would not only provide a more accurate assessment of academics' effectiveness, but also wrest the evaluation process away from monopolised corporate products like ISI.
Semantic Web for Reliable Citation Analysis in Scholarly Publishing The work presented in this paper describes a reference architecture that aims to provide reliability to the citation and citation-tracking lifecycle.
Exploring the management information systems discipline: a scientometric study of ICIS, PACIS and ASAC The findings suggest that the MIS field has been evolving in terms of collaborative research and scholarly output and has been gradually moving towards academic maturity.
What makes a great journal great in the sciences? Which came first, the chicken or the egg? The paper discussed alternative Research Assessment Measures (RAM), with an emphasis on the Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science (hereafter ISI) database. It was shown that emphasizing THE impact factor, specifically the 2-year impact factor, of a journal to the exclusion of other useful and illuminating RAM, could lead to a distorted evaluation of journal performance and influence on the profession, especially in view of inflated journal self citations. Likely future uses of RAM include using RAM for research assessment exercises, and as input into academic appointments and promotions.
Factors affecting inter-regional academic scientific collaboration within Europe: the role of economic distance This paper attempts to identify the spatial distribution of academic scientific collaboration patterns across European regions, and is mainly aimed at evaluating the role of economic differences between regions.
Effect on the journal impact factor of the number and document type of citing records: a wide-scale study Our results suggest that the JIF was not greatly influenced by documents that usually are not peer reviewed (for example, editorial material and other article types).
Detecting h-index manipulation through self-citation analysis Overall we can conclude that the unfair self-citation strategy is mainly useful for authors that are less productive and that attract less citations from others.
Is correspondence reflected in the author position? A bibliometric study of the relation between corresponding author and byline position Our observation that the first and last author account for the majority of correspondence suggest that some of the recent efforts to develop bibliometric formulae to measure author impact (Ball 2005; Gomez-Alonso 2004) would need to take into account both the number of authors on a paper and their position in the byline to be accurate. Different national scientific cultures seemed to influence the corresponding author position. A call for a shift in national publication culture towards common international standards could make the research better visible and comparable.
Further characterizations of the Hirsch index Four characterizations of the Hirsch index are suggested.
Intellectual structure of stem cell research: a comprehensive author co-citation analysis of a highly collaborative and multidisciplinary field Using a comprehensive ACA approach, this study examines the intellectual structure of the stem cell research field 2004–2009, a field that has been brought to the forefront of research and public policy in recent years.
Q-measures and betweenness centrality in a collaboration network: a case study of the field of informetrics Our findings suggest that in this kind of network one will typically find higher average scores for the local Q-measure. The much higher scores for local Q-measure than for the other two measures indicate that most collaboration in BIWS is local or bilateral. In general, our study illustrates how these measures can be used for large-scale practical applications. It also paints a picture of BIWS as field that is both expanding and intensifying its (international) collaboration.
International collaboration in psychology is on the rise Thus, international collaboration in psychology is obviously on the rise.
International collaboration of three 'giants' with the G7 countries in emerging nanobiopharmaceuticals This study revealed the situation of Chinese, American, Japanese international co-authorship towards the G7 countries in the field of nanobiopharmaceuticals, respectively.
Comments on the modified collaborative coefficient In my opinion, the Savanur and Srikanth (2010) article should never have been published.
Industry evolution and key technologies in China based on patent analysis China is playing an increasingly important role in the global R&D and innovation; The patent quality and R&D level of China's six types of industries stand at a low level across the world, and still need further improvement. The overall R&D level in China was not balanced and might need to be improved. Thus, the innovation capabilities in E&E industry all over the country should achieve more improvement.
Empirical study of journal impact factors obtained using the classical two-year citation window versus a five-year citation window The results suggest that the distributions of 5-year JIFs were very similar to the distributions of 2-year JIFs.
Scientometric analysis of the major Iranian medical universities As concluding remark, it must be mentioned that the overall ranking of the studied medical universities based on their number of articles and related citations, is as follow: TUMS > SUMS = SBUMS > IUMS = IrUMS > TUOMS = MUMS. Finally, it should be mentioned that research budget in Iran is much more less than that of the developed countries like United States, and meanwhile, Iran holds a good place in scientific output in compare with other countries.
Sharing Facilities and Administrative Cost Recovery to Facilitate Interdisciplinary Research These data support the need for institutions to establish formal policies for sharing F&A cost recovery as a way to promote interdisciplinary research collaboration.
Academic inbreeding: exploring its characteristics and rationale in Japanese universities using a qualitative perspective This study described how the practice of academic inbreeding continues to take place in the Japanese higher education.
Anchoring effects in world university rankings: exploring biases in reputation scores These findings provide strong evidence for an anchoring effect on assessments of institutional reputation. Consistent with the first hypothesis, being ranked highly in the world university rankings contributes to increased reputation. But clearly, rankings drive reputation, not the other way around.
Resource endowments and responses to regulatory pressure: Publications of economics, management, and political science departments of Turkish universities in indexed journals, 2000-2008 The study empirically captured variation in resource endowments of universities with reference to characteristics of the empirical context isolated for study, namely three fields of study in social sciences in Turkish universities, and the particular dependent variable that the study tries to explain, that is publications in indexed journals.
Scientometric analysis of physics (1979-2008): A quantitative description of scientific impact The results presented in this study identify the leading countries, institutions, authors, what research is important, and where the field is heading by analyzing the high-est-impact articles in physics. We hope that this study will provide science policy makers a more complete picture of innovation capability in this particular field, and help them to make better decisions. In addition, we hope that it will stimulate useful discussions among scientists and research managers about future research directions.
Professional networks, scientific collaboration, and publication productivity in resource-constrained research institutions in a developing country "In this essay, we showed that in the context of resource constrained research institutions scientific collaboration does not lead to publication productivity."
Financial Research in the European Region: a Long-Term Assessment (1990-2008) We show that European academic institutions, as a group, exhibit an increasing trend in financial research during 1990–2008. We find that the rankings of a scholar's current institution and doctoral granting institution are correlated with his/her finance research productivity.
Trends in the investigation of social determinants of health: selected themes and methods We conclude that there is clearly room for wider use of established techniques, and for new methods to emerge when they satisfy theoretical needs.
Analysis of the editorial process of the multidisciplinary rural development journal Tropicultura Based on the analysis of the 2002-2009 seven-year-period, it can be concluded that a substantial number of papers have been submitted yearly to Tropicultura in different fields of rural development research, with a large proportion of papers in agronomy sensu lato and livestock production.
WHAT MAKES A GREAT JOURNAL GREAT IN ECONOMICS? THE SINGER NOT THE SONG It was shown that emphasizing the impact factor, specifically the 2YIF, of a journal to the exclusion of other useful and illuminating RAM criteria, could lead to a distorted evaluation of journal performance and influence on the profession.
Financial Research in Canada: A Long-Term Assessment of Journal Publications In general, Canadian universities have been successful in producing financial research over the past two decades. Institutional factors identified by prior studies that positively affect research productivity include (a) adequate financial research support, (b) longer probationary periods, (c) reduced teaching loads, and (d) augmented time allocated to research related activities (Buchheit, Collins, & Collins, 2001; Cargile & Bublitz, 1986; Chow & Harrison, 1998). Future studies can aim to address these limitations.
Evaluating Research in Cardiovascular Medicine Citation Counts Are Not Sufficient The key message from the present study is that judging the worth of research is more complicated than merely counting citations, and we would advise that university evaluation and promotion committees, funding bodies, and other stakehold-ers consider the multiple indicators of research impact out-lined above in assessing merit. In our analysis of the 6 cardiovascular interventions credited with making the largest impact on patient outcomes over the past 3 decades, 90% of the most highly cited articles were not independently identified as landmark studies by experienced content experts. Moreover, although basic biomedical re-search was the most common study type in our sample of landmark articles for these 6 cardiovascular interventions, the most frequently cited studies in our bibliometric analyses were recent RCTs.
Do Bibliometricians Cite Differently From Other Scholars? We conclude that bibliometricians as a group are different from some other scholars, even those citing the same studies. They are not, however, much different in their practices from some social scientists.
Special Features of Historical Papers from the Viewpoint of Bibliometrics This compilation of some special features of historical works relevant for literature and citation retrieval provides some hints on avoiding fatal errors when searching this kind of literature. The integration of historical works into current papers as well as studies in the history of science both deserve accurate and careful usage of the available databases, in particular, the WoS Century of Science backfiles.
The Ripple Effect of Women's Name Changes in Indexing, Citation, and Authority Control This study investigated name changes of women authors to determine how they were represented in indexes and cited reference lists.
Topic-Based PageRank on Author Cocitation Networks Ranking researchers is one of the most important topics in bibliometrics.
P-Rank: An Indicator Measuring Prestige in Heterogeneous Scholarly Networks Citation analysis is an established tool for scientific evaluation.
The Production of Practice Theories The analysis of practice theories shows, therefore, that they are not nearly as homogenous in their intent and their impact as previous writers, particularly those specializing in com-munities of practice (Wenger, 1998) have suggested.
A bibliometric investigation of research performance in emerging nanobiopharmaceuticals The growth analysis shows that the nanobiopharmaceutical scientific research is emerging as a pioneering and mul-tidisciplinary domain from nanobiotechnology.
A bibliometric index based on the collaboration distance between cited and citing authors We have presented an abstraction of the h-index (and similar indices) in terms of a pool of objects, a quality function and a sentencing line. By instantiating that abstraction in a novel way, we have presented a new index, the c-index, where the evaluated objects are the citations received, the quality function of a citation is the collaboration distance between the authors of the citing and the cited papers, and the sentencing line can take slopes between 0 and ∞. Future research will attempt to generalize the c-index in such a way that it can be used as a standalone measure of scientific performance.
An evaluation of the Australian Research Council's journal ranking It appears that the present ERA classification lacks sufficient rigour in terms of the relative numbers of journals in each category, and in terms of other independent indicators of quality (such as h-index and SNIP).
The first Italian research assessment exercise: A bibliometric perspective Both article citation and journal impact are not independent of peer review assessment, but the correlation is positive in both cases: the higher the peer review opinion on a paper, the higher the number of citations that the paper and the publishing journal receive.
Who are the research disciples of an author? Examining publication recitation and oeuvre citation exhaustivity Citation analysis frequently fails to take into account the origin of a citation unless it represents a self-citation. The descriptive findings revealed a strong inverse relationship in how frequently citers choose to cite a given publication, which is most effectively modeled by a Geeta distribution, although a more traditional Lotka distribution may be adequate for some disciplines. Future research will expand on these concepts by examining a larger dataset to corroborate the findings of this study and to compare differences across disciplines.
Ranking patent assignee performance by h-index and shape descriptors Based on our geometric interpretation to the ranking of assignees by their h-indices, the proposed descriptors successfully verify and clarify the geometric relationship among assignees with distant or close h-indices. In addition to the reliability, accuracy, and robustness observed in Sections 4 and 5, our approach also provides flexibility as the two descriptors could be applied selectively or together. The application of our approach is therefore not limited to patent assignees only.
Scholarly Communication in Education Journals Because of the close relationship between journal and discipline, this analysis highlights basic characteristics of the patterns of communication and the constitution of disciplinary identity in Dutch-language educational science.
Accounting Doctoral Program Rankings Based on Research Productivity of Program Graduates In this paper we rank accounting Ph.D. programs by evaluating the volume of research published by each program's graduates. The results highlight the Ph.D. research programs in each topical area and methodology that produce the highest volume of alumni publications. Thus, our research adds an important extension relative to past ranking studies and should be highly useful to multiple constituencies.
Theoretical and Interpretation Challenges to Using the Author Affiliation Index Method to Rank Journals Journal rankings efforts, whether within the OM discipline or within other disciplines, are likely to be of continued interest as long as where a faculty publishes factors directly or indirectly into academic personnel decisions of hiring, salary and merit increases, and promotion and tenure.
Responsible Authorship: Why Researchers Must Forgo Honorary Authorship Nondeceptive honorary authorship is irresponsible research.
A Retrospective Analysis of 10-Year Authorship Trends in Biomedical Engineering Journals Thus, the expected increase is not observed in this field, and it may be due to the stringent guidelines by journals in defining the contributions of an author.
The Responsible Conduct of Bioethics Research Bioethicists have invested substantial energy in analyzing the conduct of scientific research but have paid little attention to issues of the responsible conduct of bioethics research.
A bibliometric analysis of South Africa's scientific outputs - some trends and implications To summarise: Tables 1 and 2 show that the count of publications rose by 60%; that the universities remain the dominant locus of scientific publication; that co-publication involves many more foreign partners, is more intense and has risen more than ten-fold; and that a new research focus on infectious diseases and public health has emerged.
Absorptive Capacity at the Individual Level: Linking Creativity to Innovation in Academia This framework provides a novel approach to outlining a process by which faculty are creative and innovative. The propositions contained provide guidance for understanding the role that each concept plays in research scholarship. Our proposed framework presents three categories of implications for institutional leaders: selection, training, and organizational culture.
Use of Web Resources in the Journal Literature 2001 and 2007: A Cross-Disciplinary Study The results indicate that, in general, schol-ars cite relatively few Web resources. This suggests the significance for information professionals to work on new strategies to manage Web-based resources and provide reliable, systematic repositories for supporting research and scholarship. Future research may analyze the role that age or gender plays to provide more evidence on the patterns of Web-based information use.
Relations between the shape of a size-frequency distribution and the shape of a rank-frequency distribution We have mathematically analyzed the dependence of the shape of the rank-frequency distribution g on the shape of the size-frequency distribution f and vice versa.
A combined bibliometric indicator to predict article impact Nonetheless, this study suggests that indicators other than the standard indicator of citation (citation in a citation window) for short citation windows can correlate more highly with long-term citation than does the standard indicator of citation. These findings indicate that, particularly for very recently published articles, an indicator based on the average of the standard indicator of citation and the IF of the journal, when normalized, could form the basis of a useful indicator for peer review panels; two ways of normalising were described in the final paragraph of the Discussion. This study has also demonstrated a possible way of reducing this skewing.
ASSESSING THE RELATIVE IMPACTS OF ECONOMIC EDUCATION SCHOLARSHIP: AN APPLICATION OF THE HARZING DATABASE Although the JEE remains the dominant source of information in the genre, newer journals in the field are beginning to make advances that are garnering the attention of economics scholars worldwide.
An analysis of research activity in major UK cancer centres Overall our data have shown that the 'centralisation' of cancer research is an organisational trend that has been going on for at least 12 years and has progressed independently of any 'top-down' strategic direction.
Retractions in the scientific literature: is the incidence of research fraud increasing? "Levels of misconduct appear to be higher than in the past."
Clustering More than Two Million Biomedical Publications: Comparing the Accuracies of Nine Text-Based Similarity Approaches The PMRA and BM25 TA approaches have the highest values on the coherence and concentration metrics, and provide sufficient coverage (94%, Table 2) to make them the most attractive text-based approaches for clustering extremely large document sets.
The Scholarly Impact of TRECVid (2003-2009) TRECVid has resulted in a large number of 'spin off' or derived publications that have received a substantial number of citations in total, with some of them being very highly cited. Research carried out at TRECVid has impacted the field of video research through publication in high-quality conference and journals venues and also through being cited by other researchers working in similar or related fields. These data strongly suggests that 'success' at TRECVid does lead to 'success' in citation.
Are Female Researchers Less Cited? A Large-Scale Study of Norwegian Scientists In our study, we found small, but statistically significant, differences between men and women in terms of citation rates. We conclude that female researchers contribute to pub-lications with slightly less impact compared to those to which their male colleagues contribute. The main challenge is the low productivity level of women, which clearly hampers or slows down their scientific career development-not the citation rate of the publications and the scientific impact of the research in which they are involved.
Determining the Impact Factors of Secondary Journals: A Retrospective Cohort Study We conclude that evidence-based secondary journals include articles at the time of publication that go on to garner more citations on average than other articles in the source publications.
Quality-Structure Index: A New Metric to Measure Scientific Journal Influence Despite its limitations, this study provides an integrated index to measure the total influence of a journal with its structural position in the network and intrinsic quality. It also provides a means to depict the two-way influence among journals. In addition, the journal influence matrix offers a new way to measure two-way influences between any two academic journals, hence establishing a theoretical basis for future scientometrics studies to investigate the knowledge flow within and across research disciplines.
Counting First, Last, or All Authors in Citation Analysis: A Comprehensive Comparison in the Highly Collaborative Stem Cell Research Field It appears that citation ranking is very sensitive to different types of citation counting in this kind of research field, whereas co-citation mapping appears quite stable across these different approaches.
Global biodiversity research during 1900-2009: a bibliometric analysis Our study suggests that there has been steady growth in the scientific outputs in biodiversity research and confirms the dynamic collaborations in this field. A keywords analysis found several interesting terminology preferences, confirmed conservation's central position in biodiversity research, revealed the adoption of advanced technologies, and demonstrated keen interest in both the patterns and underlying processes of ecosystems. In this paper, we provide an alternative perspective on the global research trends in biodiversity studies.
R&D collaboration in 50 major Spanish companies While accounting for only 4 percent of the total, the sample of companies selected for this study produced nearly 50 percent of the studies co-authored by companies, a clear indication of their relevance (Figure 1). In the sub-set analyzed, the subject area distribution of the contribution of Spanish business by specialities was consistent with the overall nation-wide findings, except in the case of the pharmaceutical industry. This confirms that working with reputed partners contributes to the success of collaboration (Mora Valentín et al., 2004).
The Bibliometric Characteristics of Chinese Medical Core Journals Medical editors can take effective measures to improve academic levels and journal impact by considering factors from this study, such as having a proper and short publication cycle, increasing the impact factor, concentrating on articles with foundation support, publishing more high-impact papers, increasing substantive content and publishing more articles with abstracts. These are valuable research areas for additional study.
Authorship and Characteristics of Articles in Pharmacy Journals: Changes Over a 20-Year Interval Significant changes in authorship patterns and characteristics of articles were observed from 1989 to 2009. We found an increase in the number of authors per article over time, with fewer single-author papers now published. To prevent inappropriate author-number inflation and to preserve authorship's meaning and value, authors should adhere to the criteria for authorship from the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors.
The lost history of American veterinary medicine: the need for preservation A proactive action plan needs to be designed and activated to locate, catalog, and preserve this primary source material of veterinary medicine for posterity.
Coordination modes in public funding systems This paper highlights how a conceptual framework to address relevant questions in research policy (like the understanding of the impact of funding systems on science, the development of criteria to compare national systems and the identification of the set of instruments best adapted to reach policy objectives) can be developed from a perspective which looks at the fund-ing systems from their institutional arrangements, thus observing how these shape the relationships between funding agencies and research actors.
Factors associated with disciplinary and interdisciplinary research collaboration We conclude with three recommendations for science and innovation policy, while emphasising the need to distinguish between different scientific disciplines.
Global trends in Helicobacter pylori research from 1991 to 2008 analyzed with the Science Citation Index Expanded With synthetic analysis of word in article title, author keyword, and KeyWords Plus, it can be concluded that application of H. pylori in clinical gastroenterology, especially research related to 'cancer' is the orientation of all the H. pylori research in the 21st Century. This bibliometric method can help relevant researchers understand the panorama of global H. pylori research, and establish the direction of further research.
Public Value Mapping and Science Policy Evaluation We believe the papers represent progress toward addressing the chalk-cheese-choice problem but, even if they do not, we hope they will stimulate others to give more thought to the formidable challenge of expanding the domain of exploration to address and assess what is surely the core claim of science policy: that science outcomes should serve and advance public values.
Subjective Performance and the Value of Blind Evaluation The issue at the heart of this paper concerns the trade-off between the effective use of information and the provision of incentives, in a setting where commitment to a review standard is infeasible. Fairness is not the only reason to level the playing field often it is also the best thing the evaluator can do.
Google Scholar duped and deduped - the aura of "robometrics" The paper makes the point that the best move from Google Scholar would be to realise that the existing metadata created by competent human indexers, cataloguers, librarians and other information professionals for tens of millions of scholarly documents is far superior to the parser's results. At this point in time, tools computing individual researcher performance indices using Google Scholar are not reliable. It is essential that the academic community does not settle for a still seriously flawed product from the perspective of the growing need for plausible metrics-based evaluation of researchers.
Providing personnel for priority research fields (the example of nanotechnologies) The above analysis allows us to evaluate various facets of the problem of scientific personnel and, probably, to understand the illusiveness of the hope for its quick solution, which could facilitate a more ratio-nal scientific policy. To facilitate this, we need continuous government care for research personnel, continuous monitoring, and complex study in personnel processes in science. The personnel barrier may become the main obstacle to successful and long-term NT development in our country.
A bibliometric account of the evolution of EE in the last two decades Is ecological economics (becoming) a post-normal science? Summing up, ecological economics is evolving unambiguously towards a post-normal science, at least through the lens of EE.
Social Network Analysis of the Academic GIScience Community Although we addressed the general applicability of the standard logistic model of development of a scientific field, use of a coauthorship network approach allowed us to identify a number of underlying dynamics.
THE INFORMATION SOCIETY The development of a scientific specialty Overall, the information society has developed from the conceptual stage, characterized by single scholars, to the more applicative and ubiquitous stage of empirical research characterized by collaboration and the rise of disciplinary characteristics.
One hundred vascular surgery citation "classics" from the surgical literature In this study, we have identified the 100 most cited articles pertaining to vascular surgery published in surgical journals during the twentieth century. Vascular surgery has undergone tremendous growth and advancement during the past century. Articles in high impact general and vascular surgery journals reflect much of the contributions to the medical literature generated by vascular surgeons.
Scientific publications in international anaesthesiology journals: a 10-year survey In conclusion, the United States was the most productive country in anaesthesia research from 2000 to 2009, but not on a per capita basis. Denmark, Switzerland and Finland had the largest number of articles per capita. Germany and Australia were the countries with the greatest increase in production of anaesthesia articles between 2000 and 2009.
The effect of the internet on researcher motivations, behaviour and attitudes This research suggests that, while technology may have positively impacted the efficiency of scholarly communication, the drivers behind scholarly information exchange remain relatively unchanged. Moreover, changes to the scholarly information business model will only be successful if they continue to satisfy the underlying motivations and needs of researchers.
Normalized impact factor (NIF): An adjusted method for calculating the citation rate of biomedical journals The normalized impact factor (NIF) index proposed in this article can be used as a suitable tool for assessing the quality of journals in different disciplines by the existing ISI journal impact factors.
Citation lag analysis in supply chain research By citation lag analysis, we found differences in citation behavior among research clusters.
Simulations of opinion changes in scientific communities Despite its simplicity, the model presented here allows reproduction of several qualitative traits of scientific progress: from very rapid adoption of a new paradigm to stagnation in the research field.
Investigating different types of research collaboration and citation impact: a case study of Harvard University's publications Based on the research findings, the following conclusions have been drawn: Harvard researchers have a great tendency towards collaboration; based on the findings, about 88% of publications at Harvard University were multi-authored and approximately 12% were single author publications.
Mathematical derivation of the scale-dependence of the h-index and other h-type indices The mathematical dependence of the h-index on scaling has been proved (formula (7)). It could be possible to use this result to solve the problem of field-dependence of the h-index by standardizing the citations.
Peer review and over-competitive research funding fostering mainstream opinion to monopoly Despite quality control function, peer review process, combined with over-competition in scientific activities, pushes non-mainstream opinion out of research area, even though the initial difference between mainstream and non-mainstream is feeble.
Predicting faculty job centrality in communication This study indicates that two factors, pedigree and publishing, significantly predict the prestige of one's position among research programs in Communication.
Knowledge production through collaborative research in sub-Saharan Africa: how much do countries contribute to each other's knowledge output and citation impact? This paper concludes that given the emphasis placed on teamwork and collective knowledge in the current knowledge economy (Skyrme 2002), it was not surprising to witness some form of collaborative knowledge production among the selected countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
Longitudinal and cross-sectional study of registered nurses in Sweden who undertake a PhD showing that nurses continue to publish in English after their PhD but male nurses are more productive than female nurses In conclusion, there was no evidence that women nurses stop publishing after their PhD.
Self-citation: comparison between Radiology, European Radiology and Radiology for 1997-1998 In conclusion, we found that self-citation was relatively common, and occurred at a similar level across a range of American Physiological Society journals. The degree of self-citation by authors (~17%) was very similar to the degree of self-citation reported for other biomedical journals. Unfortunately, there are no simple methods that allow the degree of self-citation to be taken into account when assessing an individuals' scientific performance unless a stronger emphasis is placed on the review process at the pre-publication level.
Towards a typology of research performance diversity: the case of top Hungarian players The most important finding was that, though the two rankings were quite similar in statistical terms (Spearman correlation), the index proposed in this paper favoured a different type of research profile than the original one.
Interpreting maps of science using citation context sentiments: a preliminary investigation In this exploratory study, a number of sentiments were found to be associated with structural features of maps at the specialty and interdisciplinary level, providing hypotheses for further testing. Thus, sentiments provide insights into the current issues and concerns of a research community.
European research policy and bibliometric indicators, 1990-2005 Bibliometric indicators found their way into a series of high-profile publications, such as, the 3 editions of the “European Report on Science and Technology Indicators” (1994, 1997 and 2003), “Europe in the Global Research Landscape”, “Key Figures", and "Mapping of Excellence”.
A national-scale cross-time analysis of university research performance In the absence of policy interventions that could have altered the status of the system, it was possible to thus quantify the extent of the natural variation in performance of the research organizations.
A priori vs. a posteriori normalisation of citation indicators. The case of journal ranking Citation-impact metrics can be normalised based on two paradigmatic models, prior to building the indicator (a priori) and afterwards (a posteriori).
100 Most Cited Articles in Orthopaedic Surgery Authors aiming to write a highly cited article in an orthopaedic surgery journal will be favored by language of publication, source journal, country of origin, and introduction of a classification scheme or outcome tool.
Double-blind in light of the internet: A note on author anonymity Hence, author anonym-ity in a double-blind review process is no longer credible, because authors have strong incentives to disseminate their research results before publication through non-costly on-line services and it is easy for reviewers to iden-tify them through these services.
Leading contributing institutions to the elite finance journals: affiliation on publication versus current institutional affiliation This study examines the ranking by institutional affiliation of authors appearing in the six leading finance journals over the past 25 years (1984–2008) based on institutional affiliation listed on the article at the time of publication versus the authors’ current institutional affiliation. The studies results suggest that despite a relatively mobile academic community, the ranking of schools varies little as a result of faculty movement. It would seem quite acceptable to rank schools based on affiliation at the time of publication without generating any bias against schools whose faculty may tend to change over time.
THE CAPACITY OF A SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY: A STUDY OF THE TRAVEL AND TOURISM RESEARCH ASSOCIATION Results of the study are discussed in the contexts of science communication, knowledge networks, and scientific community capacity and have practical implications for the planning and management of applied research associations.
Results of a citation analysis of knowledge management in education As a result of this study, it can be seen that the documents and the number of citations related to the KME field has been continuously increasing since 2005.
The Contributions of Human Resource Development Research Across Disciplines: A Citation and Content Analysis HRD research has contributed to the overall knowledge base of social sci-ence with the key research themes of training transfer and evaluation as well as learning and knowledge in organizations. Specifically, the findings from the current study provide a foundation to understand the status of HRD research and the unique contributions of HRD research across disciplines. The efforts to confirm the role and value of HRD across academic disciplines will help the discipline formulate its own identity.
Scientific Publications in Nephrology and Urology Journals from Chinese Authors in East Asia: A 10-Year Survey of the Literature In conclusion, the number of articles published in the fields of nephrology and urology by researchers from the three major regions of China (ML, TW, and HK) all increased significantly from 1999 to 2008.
EFFECTS OF THEORETICAL CONTRIBUTION, METHODOLOGICAL RIGOR, AND JOURNAL QUALITY, ON THE IMPACT OF SCALE DEVELOPMENT ARTICLES IN THE FIELD OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP Our findings indicate that authors who incorporate both of these factors are more likely to have their scale development and validation studies cited by other scholars, regardless of the journals in which these studies are published. One of the most important implications of the findings of our study for entrepreneurship scholars is that they should focus on grounding their constructs in strong theoretical foundations and ensure they are using rigorous methodological techniques when developing and validating new measures for constructs in this field.
Scientific publications in anesthesiology journals from East Asia: a 10-year survey of the literature In conclusion, Japan published the largest number of articles, clinical trials, and RCTs among the main three regions in East Asia in 2000–2009, but there was a notable decrease in publications from Japan. Concurrently, there were modest increases in publications from China and South Korea. Anesthesia & Analgesia was the most popular journal in the three regions.
Praise the Bridge That Carries You Over: Testing the Flattery Citation Hypothesis What our results seem to suggest is that flattery citations are nonexistent or very low in numbers in the field of economics, and thus only leave a small and insignificant toll on the scholarly communication system in that discipline.
Citation Analysis on the Micro Level: The Example of Walter Benjamin's Illuminations This study shows how citation analysis can be used to structure and map the impact and diffusion of a cultural clas- sic such as Illuminations, providing an empirical backbone from which qualitative insights into scholarly communica- tion, intellectual history, and the sociology of knowledge can be gained. The results confirm that citation analysis on the micro level, the tracking of a specific book or even of specific parts in a book, is a fruitful method for studying impact both over time and across disciplinary borders.
Mining Enriched Contextual Information of Scientific Collaboration: A Meso Perspective In this article, the contextual subgraph is proposed as a novel, meso perspective method to quantitatively illustrate various factors that affect scientific collaborations.
Local Emergence and Global Diffusion of Research Technologies: An Exploration of Patterns of Network Formation The geographical diffusion patterns show that while siRNA has indeed been fully globalized, publications about NCSC are diffusing at a slower pace.
A Thermodynamic Explanation for the Glanzel-Schubert Model for the h-Index There is promise that by introducing a thermodynamic analogy to bibliometric research assessment, it is possible to come up with more meaningful performance indicators.
Influence flows in the academy: Using affiliation networks to assess peer effects among researchers Our models indicate that a researcher tends to become more productive at grant-writing as his or her professional affiliates become more productive, and these increases are in general independent of increases that arise solely from jointly produced work.
A positive return on investment: Research funding by the Thoracic Surgery Foundation for Research and Education (TSFRE) The return on investment for TSFRE funding for surgeon-scientists is resoundingly positive with respect to promoting careers in cardiothoracic surgery and to obtaining subsequent NIH funding for thoracic surgeon investigators.
Perceived value of scholarly articles This study shows that author stature, peer-reviewed journals, and no direct personal cost to readers for access are important in the choice of what articles to read.
Casting a wide net: the Journal Impact Factor numerator The metrics in the JCR require simple math-ematics, but this is just the final step in a continuous process of curation, analysis, editing, and correction.
Evaluating the influence of a medical journal using Google Scholar This study shows the viability of using GS as an alternative source to calculate how much and how widely a journal is cited and its IF.
Honorary Authorship in Radiologic Research Articles: Assessment of Frequency and Associated Factors The rate of perceived honorary authorship (overall, 26.0%) was substantially more frequent among respondents of lower academic rank and in those working in an environment in which their section or department head was automatically listed as an author.
Journal ranking analyses of operations management research While the results of these two analyses show some similarities with many of the same journals, there are some marked differences that may support the notion of an evolving OM field.
Research trends analysis by comparing data mining and customer relationship management through bibliometric methodology The results in this paper have several important implications.
Quantitative analysis of collaborative and mobility networks Our findings indicate a limitation of collaborative analysis based on bibliometric data and the importance of tracing researcher mobility within potential networks to identify the true nature of scientific collaboration.
Towards a new crown indicator: an empirical analysis Our empirical results indicate that at high aggregation levels, such as at the level of large research institutions or at the level of countries, the differences between the CPP/FCSm indicator and the MNCS indicator are very small.
Sex differences in research funding, productivity and impact: an analysis of Quebec university professors "This article shows that, on average, women at universities in Québec receive less funding for research than men, are generally less productive in terms of publications, have a more restricted and local network of collaborators, and are at a slight disadvantage in terms of the scientific impact of their publications as measured by citations."
The Energy-Exergy-Entropy (or EEE) sequences in bibliometric assessment In this paper, we have proposed a thermodynamic analogy that can assess more meaningfully the bibliometric progress of a scientist.
Climate change and interdisciplinarity: a co-citation analysis of IPCC Third Assessment Report It is concluded that interdisciplinarity is not a prominent feature of climate research.
High-impact papers presented in the subject category of water resources in the essential science indicators database of the institute for scientific information It was found that 265 papers were written in English, in three document types including articles, reviews, and papers of proceedings, in 27 journals listed in the subject category of water resources in JCR in 2008. Review papers have a much higher probability of being included in the ESI database than research articles. Some papers that are about to be excluded from the ESI database appear to continue to be receiving a high frequency of citations. Further research is needed to evaluate if such a phenomenon exists in other subject categories. If so, perhaps the 10 year criterion for inclusion in the ESI should be reassessed.
Funding acknowledgement analysis: an enhanced tool to investigate research sponsorship impacts: the case of nanotechnology This article introduces a method of funding acknowledgement analysis that can be undertaken at a large-scale using data mining techniques to link each individual publication to its acknowledged funding sources. Despite these limitations, we suggest that funding acknowledgement provides a new lens that allows us to quantify and investigate the various relationships between funding and publications. Unlike other funding tracing techniques that rely on special grant databases, this method uses standard and publicly available data which now makes it possible to do large scale analyses across multiple factors including institutions, countries, and fields of science.
A fresh approach to evaluating the academic ranking of world universities The results from Table 1 suggest that the I-distance ranking is quite similar to the official ARWU list. However, it is essential to emphasize that European universities are, on average, lower ranked in official rather than in alternative rankings. As one of the identified reasons, the variables “N&S” and “HiCi” can be singled out. It is hoped that this shall encourage debate on how to determine the criteria to best conduct and analyse universities' rankings.
The j-index: a new bibliometric index and multivariate comparisons between other common indices The j-index is a development of the h-index aimed to takes into account the excess of citations within the h-core.
The dangers of performance-based research funding in non-competitive higher education systems In non-competitive higher education systems the risk is that top scientists of lower-ranked universities will be strongly penalized in terms of funding compared to top-scientists in higher-ranked universities.
Collaboration patterns in patent networks and their relationship with the transfer of technology: the case study of the CSIC patents The obtained results let conclude that there are significant differences between research areas according to their collaborative pattern. Two well defined groups are detected: The "Bio" group which sets up more collaboration ties with international partners than with national ones; and the “Physicist" group that has a more national profile with less inter-national contacts. It also can conclude that the type of collaboration most effective to transfer patents is the national collaboration.
Where do Italian universities stand? An in-depth statistical analysis of national and international rankings In conclusion, determining the composition of an index to assess the prestige and merit of Italian universities is a very delicate step.
The impact factor rank-order distribution revisited So, here I leave this argument as it is but I claim that S-shapes for g are indeed existing in practise and that they can be explained (by purely mathematical arguments, independent from Gaussian distributions) by statement (2) above from Egghe and Waltman (2011) and that statement (1) above from Egghe and Waltman (2011) also covers the convex shape of g. The convex fit of the S-shaped g in Lancho-Barrantes et al. (2010) is not correct and should be replaced by an S-shaped fit.
Forecasting trends of development of psychology from a bibliometric perspective Overall, the bibliometric results presented here show that psychology was in the last four decades a science with strongly expanding publication activities.
Mining typical features for highly cited papers In this paper, we propose a framework to predict future HCPs in citation networks. Moreover, the typical prediction features for HCPs identified in our work make it possibly for evaluating long-term impact of recent works and their authors in practice. The findings show that both the papers' inner quality and external features, mainly represented as the reputation of the authors and journals, contribute to generation of HCPs in future.
What Happens at the Journal Office Stays at the Journal Office: Assessing Journal Transparency and Record-Keeping Practices Despite the variety and breadth of focus seen in the discipline's journals, all use some manner of peer review to ascertain whether a submission is of high enough quality to merit publication.
Ranking Scholarly Publishers in Political Science: An Alternative Approach The bottom line is that our study produces a ranking of scholarly publishers that can be used to guide political scientists as they decide where to send their best book-length work.
Faculty Research Productivity: Why Do Some of Our Colleagues Publish More than Others? A large teaching load appears to have detrimental effects on publication rates for assistant and associate professors, although not for full professors. A larger advising load is associated with more productivity among full professors, but not among associate and assistant professors. Finally, we would like to highlight one more finding. The presence of a collegial climate within the department tends to be associated with less productivity.
Indicator needs for the internationalisation of science policies We conclude that decision-makers and indicator designers should work together to ensure that both new indicators and new approaches to mutual policy-learning about their use and utility are developed in parallel.
Informed peer review and uninformed bibliometrics? We found that single bibliometric indicators are not sufficient for reproducing/predicting funding decisions.
New uses of the institutional databases of universities: indicators of research activity Combining the results of the survey and evidence from the case studies, we can understand how the structure of the databases and the organization of their content influence their completeness and the negotiation process behind their construction.
Evaluation of research in context: an approach and two cases In this paper we introduced an approach for evaluating research groups in their disciplinary and local context.
Profiles and beyond: constructing consensus on measuring research output in communication sciences So far, the project has shown that the concept of profile is a useful basis for developing instruments for measuring or evaluating activities of researchers in fields of SSH, as it allows consideration of the variety of these activities and does not entail a pre-judgment on the value of different activities.
Trainee Participation in an Annual Research Day Is Associated With Future Publications Our study demonstrates that trainee participation in a depart-mental research day was associated with a significant increase in future academic productivity as measured by future pub-lications.
Online Survey of Nursing Journal Peer Reviewers: Indicators of Quality in Manuscripts When judging a paper’s contribution, nursing journal peer reviewers weigh both research and clinical interests. Most reviewers do not use impact factors and place clinical considerations ahead of impact factors.
Translational science and the hidden research system in universities and academic hospitals: A case study Through the IRAK-4 case study, we have been able to better understand the process of clinical translational science, a key non-commercial component of the biomedical innovation system. This is perhaps the most significant implication for policy: the acknowledgement that the biomedical innovation system relies on public-sector institutions, both universities and hospitals, as well as on private-sector firms. We argue that maximizing social returns should be as pertinent a goal for national innovation systems as maximizing economic returns.
Plug-and-Play Macroscopes As the functionality of OSGi/CIS-hell-based software frameworks im-proves, and as the number and diversity of data-set and algorithm plug-ins in-crease, so too will the capabilities of custom macroscopes.
ECONOMICS OF SCHOLARLY PUBLISHING: EXPLORING THE CAUSES OF SUBSCRIPTION PRICE VARIATIONS OF SCHOLARLY JOURNALS IN BUSINESS SUBJECT-SPECIFIC AREAS Overall, the findings of this empirical research have confirmed the major hypotheses and have further validated the argument that to obtain more accurate estimates for scholarly journal prices, one needs to examine journal prices and publication features in subject-specific areas.
Invisible Work in Standard Bibliometric Evaluation of Computer Science When CS is classified as a science... the standard bibliometric evaluations are unfair to CS as a whole.
Social Biases and Solutions for Procedural Objectivity In order to create social structures that promote attention and responsiveness to these background beliefs, Longino's proposal for obtaining procedural objectivity must require a form of diversity that bears not on the content of the community's knowledge claims but on the culture of the community itself. Procedural changes—such as making author identities anonymous to editors—can help ameliorate local worries about the role cognitive schemas might play in peer review (Lee and Schunn 2010).
Bibliometric Analysis of Articles Published from 1980 to 2009 in Physical Therapy, Journal of the American Physical Therapy Association The findings of this study describe an evolving knowledge base within physical therapy.
Measuring CMOT's intellectual structure and its development Overall, our quantitative review shows CMOT to be thematically focused on organizations, groups and networks while being remarkably diverse in terms of theoretical approaches and methods used. Examining the entity of the results from our analyses leads us to conclude that CMOT is becoming an established scientific field (Samuelson 2000; Samuelson and Macal 2006).
Rescaling citations of publications in physics In this paper we have investigated the possibility of comparing in a fair manner the citations of papers published in APS journals in different years and/or in different fields of physics. We have shown that the raw number of citations is not a suitable indicator, since there are remarkable differences depending on the field and on the year of publication. A fair comparison is obtained instead if the relative number of citations cf (i.e., the number of citations divided by the average number of cites for the same category and year) is considered.
Comparative and contrastive observations on scientific titles written in English and Spanish This research provides lines of evidence on the most recurrent structural constructions of RP and RVP titles written in English and in Spanish in the biological and social sciences. It also provides information on the frequency of such constructions in the two languages considered. In view of the above, it can be concluded that in order to address researchers' needs as writers of highly advanced scientific papers, a comprehensive syllabus must be carefully planned to include titles and their writing practice among the topics to be taught.
Postdoctoral training, departmental prestige and scientists' research productivity This study analyzed scientists' and engineers' CVs to investigate how postdoc training and departmental prestige shape scientists' productivity.
Analysis of international content of ranked nursing journals in 2005 using ex post facto design Articles with empirical content appear more frequently in international journals. Results indicate the need to examine the international relevance of the nursing literature.
The Boundaries of Preservation and Conservation Research A follow-up study should be made of preservation publications. Such an undertaking would reveal more about the nature of research in preservation. The opportunities for new research, therefore, are limitless.
The Distribution of Outcomes Research Papers Across Clinical Journals Authors may benefit from considering these differences in their clinical specialty area when deciding where to submit HOR studies. This article addresses one of the challenges facing health outcomes researchers: understanding the publication distribution of outcomes research, especially in clinical specialty journals. It is beneficial to the entire medical community when research is published in the most appropriate and effective venue.
Analysis of Europe's scientific production on renewable energies Global scientific production in the renewable energy field has been growing at an ever-faster rate as befits the need in today's world for new knowledge with which to tackle the problems of energy sustainability. Indeed, renewable energy is a field in which one can appreciate dynamics of scientific development that are very different from those prevailing in the world of science in general. The study reveals that in the period 2002-2007: • Global and European production doubled over the period. The countries of Europe can be clustered into five groups with respect to their research in this field:
The Assessment of Research Quality in UK Universities: Peer Review or Metrics? "The main finding is that each of the three components of research activity (namely, research output, esteem and research environment) is highly correlated with various quantitative indicators, such as a journal quality score, departmental size and previous research assessment outcomes."
Do open access biomedical journals benefit smaller countries? The Slovenian experience The visibility and quality of med-ical papers is poor. The solution might be to reduce the number of journals and encourage Slovenian scientists to publish their best articles in them. However, the scientific quality of Slovenian OA journals is uncertain since none have achieved an impact factor. To improve the quality of Slovenian journals, Slovenian authors need to be encouraged to publish their best work in Slovenian journals.
Representation of less-developed countries in Pharmacology journals: an online survey of corresponding authors The LDC are underrepresented in publications in Pharmacology journals. The corresponding authors of the published articles perceive that biased attitude of the editors as well as the reviewers of international journals and the poor writing skills of scientists are the major factors underlying the non-acceptance of their scientific work. They also think that the improvement in the writing skills and quality of research will increase the chances of acceptance of their works in international journals.
The h index and the identification of global benchmarks for breast cancer research output This work has identified the benchmarks to which those involved in breast cancer research might aspire.
The Academic Journal Ranking Problem: A Fuzzy-Clustering Approach Our analysis shows how to use peer reviews to reveal journal clusters.
Open Access of Publications by Veterinary Faculty in the United States and Canada The free availability of a quarter of information recently published by veterinary faculty, staff, and students in the United States and Canada is significant and valuable, even when it only becomes freely available after an embargo period. Academic veterinary institutions may want to recommend acceptance of alternate forms of information dissemi-nation (such as open-access journals and journals published only digitally) to encourage greater global dissemination of their research findings. The promotion and use of digital institutional repositories is also an area for future investment and warrants additional research.
Motivations of Faculty Self-archiving in Institutional Repositories Faculty members are motivated to participate in IRs to the extent that they believe that materials in IRs are easily and permanently accessible and that their contribution to IRs will provide benefits for end-users. It is important for IRs to enhance their digital preservation capacities and make their commitment visible so that professors perceive IRs to be trustworthy places to submit their research. Policies on copyright management for IR materials should be established, and faculty need to be well informed of copyright issues to alleviate concerns and to increase their participation in IRs.
Bibliometric data in clinical cardiology revisited. The case of 37 Dutch professors Thus, there is no golden parameter.
The Use of Institutional Repositories: The Ohio State University Experience The results of this study begin to inform an understanding of the use of materi-als in the Knowledge Bank.
Detection and characterization of translational research in cancer and cardiovascular medicine Our findings demonstrate that systematic analysis of publication and citation data from tens of thousands of articles can capture important features of active fields of scientific research, in this case in both cancer and cardiac medicine.
Profiling leading scientists in nanobiomedical science: interdisciplinarity and potential leading indicators of research directions This paper explores the possibility of identifying leading researchers in a field and profiling their research endeavors.
Visibility of medical informatics regarding bibliometric indices and databases "The visibility of smaller technology-oriented disciplines like Medical Informatics is changed by the new bibliometric indices and databases possibly leading to suitably changed publication strategies."
Multivariate approach to classify research institutes according to their outputs: The case of the CSIC's institutes The obtained results enable us to claim that the principal component analysis is a suitable tool to reduce R&D activity indicators to different components and the agglomerative hierarchical clustering a reliable classification method of observations.
The superstar phenomenon in the knowledge management and intellectual capital academic discipline Based on the findings, several important implications emerged that warrant discussion.
A multilevel meta-analysis of studies reporting correlations between the h index and 37 different h index variants This means that there is redundancy between most of the h index variants and the h index. The lowest correlation coefficients with the h index are found for the h index variants MII and m index. For evaluative purposes, then, the h index could be combined with these h index variants to better depict research performance bibliometrically (Garcia-Perez, 2009).
Fractional counting of citations in research evaluation: A cross- and interdisciplinary assessment of the Tsinghua University in Beijing This study thus suggests that fractional counting improves on the cross-disciplinary assessment. However, fractional counting is not a perfect solution! An important topic for further research remains which document types play a role in the evaluation.
Articles vs. proceedings papers: Do they differ in research relevance and impact? A case study in the Library and Information Science field Firstly, we conclude that differences in the relevance of documents based only in their WoS document type (article or PP) should not be inferred. PP are an heterogeneous set which comprises PPm, on average less comprehensive and influential than articles; but also PPo, which tend to be more complete papers - according to the number of references – and receive as many citations as articles. The under-average impact of the final PPm and the short time span between the holding of the conference and the PPm publication suggest that they have passed, on average, a very slight review process.
Seats at the table: The network of the editorial boards in information and library science For the Information Science & Library Science journals, the network generated by interlocking editorship seems to be not so compact as in other older and well established disciplines as economics and statistics.
Averages of ratios vs. ratios of averages: An empirical analysis of four levels of aggregation The data presented in this paper shows that RoA and AoR impact score obtained by researchers produce statistically different results (p<0.001) at all levels of aggregation using Wilcoxon signed-ranks test, even though the measures are highly correlated. Our results also show that the use of RoA makes it impossible to calculate a 'global' weighted average consistent with the use of relative indicators which should add up to 1 when compiled at the level of the entire reference dataset. This suggests that the scores of 'multidisciplinary' researchers or research units working in several research areas will get different evaluations whether it is the AoR or the RoA that is used.
Identifying missing relevant patent citation links by using bibliographic coupling in LED illuminating technology The CPCN provides a more comprehensive view of the relationships among patents after taking currency information into account.
Time series of outgrow indices By the introduction of the outgrow index, we want to characterize a specific subnetwork within the global article citation network (namely the subnetwork consisting of an article and its references).
Characterizations of the generalized Wu- and Kosmulski-indices in Lotkaian systems The Wu-index and Kosmulski-index have been generalized using a general parameter a.
Applying social bookmarking data to evaluate journal usage "It has been shown that bookmarks of journal articles can be analyzed to measure journal usage independently from publishers."
Regularity in the research output of individual scientists: An empirical analysis by recent bibliometric tools This paper analyses the scientific output of 24 Italian academic scientists involved in the same scientific discipline, from the regularity viewpoint.
The semantic mapping of words and co-words in contexts Despite the emphasis in the wording on semantics (as in “latent semantic analysis,” “the semantic web” or “semantic mapping”), the measurement of the dynamics of meaning is still in its infancy.
Axiomatics for the Hirsch index and the Egghe index The added value of the axiomatizations presented here is that similar axioms characterize the two indices. Specifically, the difference between the h-index and the g-index can be essentially traced back to the choice between two versions of a monotonicity axiom.
Successful papers: A new idea in evaluation of scientific output SP-based indices are useful in cross-field comparisons of the scientific output of individuals, journals and scientific institutions.
Institutional repositories in Indian universities and research institutes A study IRs expand access to research, facilitate control over the research output of universities and institutions of national importance, and provide a sustainable management system for digital content.
Affiliation Disambiguation for Constructing Semantic Digital Libraries To conclude, the proposed method outperforms the traditional well-known k-means in terms of average precision, F-measure, purity, and entropy.
Variations Between Subjects in the Extent to Which the Social Sciences Have Become More Interdisciplinary The analysis of 14 SSCI subjects indicated that interdisciplinarity in social science, as measured by cross-disciplinary citation, decreased on average between 1980 and 1990 and increased substantially between 1990 and 2000.
Open Access and Scopus: A New Approach to Scientific Visibility From the Standpoint of Access The results of our study show that the benefits of OA in terms of impact are to be found on the green route. Paradoxically, this study shows that this advantage is not lent by the OA, per se, since even though the green road journals are the ones with the highest levels of impact, previous studies have revealed that the percentage of articles placed in repositories or hung on websites does not surpass, on average and for all the thematic fields, 12%. Nonetheless, it is the quality of contents and the prestige of the journal and of the author and institution what ultimately determine explicit quality in the form of citation. We should therefore not treat OA and visibility as if they have a cause-and-effect relationship but rather view them as signs of wise publishing practices with distinctive roots in the generation of scientific knowledge.
How to Evaluate Universities in Terms of Their Relative Citation Impacts: Fractional Counting of Citations and the Normalization of Differences Among Disciplines Fractional counting of the citations enabled us (a) to rank the seven research universities of Korea in terms of their impact normalized for research portfolios, and (b) to show that these portfolios are significantly different in terms of their disciplinary audiences.
Inequality of Publishing Performance and International Collaboration in Physics There is less global inequality in publication and impact performance gradually. The inequality is more salient in publication impact than output, at least for journals indexed by WoS. A strong presence of transnational collaboration and very high impact were observed in papers originated from EU countries, which is likely to result from the large cooperative networks created around the "big science" European facili-ties.
Determining Inventor Status and Its Effect on Knowledge Diffusion: A Study on Nanotechnology Literature From China, Russia, and India In this study, we examined the role of author status on the selection of knowledge that is recombined to produce innovation within an organization.
A Theoretical Approach to the Unification of Informetric Models by Wave-Heat Equations Clearly the function f(x, t) = (a+x)seat is a simple and interesting common solution of the partial differential Equations 10 and 11.
The calculation of the single publication h index and related performance measures A web application based on Google Scholar data To the authors' knowledge this web application is the first instrument to automatically calculate the single publication h index and related performance measures based on Google Scholar data.
BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS AND CORE JOURNALS IN PHYSICAL AND REHABILITATION MEDICINE In conclusion, the concept of scientific impact is multi-dimen-sional and cannot be adequately captured by a single indicator. Probably, for analysing the scientific relevance of journals a good choice could be a combination of just a few indicators, able to reflect both the average impact of the papers and the size component. For example, the measures of "total citation impact" of a journal (weighted according to the importance of the citing journals) (such as the EFS, or simply "total cites”) seem to better express the 'influence' (sometimes referred to as "prestige") of a journal (17, 22, 23, 30), and to better correspond with a general understanding of journal status, as captured by field experts.
Research articles published in water resources journals: A bibliometric analysis In this study on the articles in the category of water resources journals listed in SCI-Expanded, significant points on worldwide research performance from 1993 to 2008 were revealed. The effort provided a systematic structural picture, as well as clues to the impact of research on water resources. This study provided researchers with a panorama of global water resources research and established further research directions.
Reporting of article retractions in bibliographic databases and online journals The findings of this research have implications for publishers and users of bibliographic databases and electronic journals.
Analysis of journals that did not meet selection criteria for inclusion in the National Library of Medicine collection but have manuscripts in PubMed Central As indicated by the data reported here, submissions to the NIHMS include manuscripts appearing in relatively new electronic-only journals. While some of the journals that publish NIH-funded manuscripts are out of scope for the NLM collection, the NIH public access policy and submissions to the NIHMS system provide a way to help build NLM's collection of NIH-funded research manuscripts, essentially collection development at the article level. In the future, it would be worthwhile to complete an analysis of the individual manuscripts published in non-selected journals to see how the articles are related to medicine.
Peer Review vs Metric-based Assessment: Testing for Bias in the RAE Ratings of UK Economics Departments In conclusion, the UK RAE of economics departments conforms to its stated objective of producing ratings of research quality, although the level at which this quality is benchmarked may not be always clear, as evidenced by the heterogeneity between the 1996 and 2001 RAE ratings. The fact that it has not done so suggests that the RAE has somewhat different objectives. This is supported by our findings: the RAE tends to reward balance within a department by limiting the extent to which individuals with high quality research output can dominate the ratings and by giving consideration to a broader range of the research quality spectrum.
An automatic recognition method of journal impact factor manipulation The purpose of this paper is to identify journals for which the IFs have been manipulated.
An evolutionary PageRank approach for journal ranking with expert judgements This study has introduced a new method to combine expert judgements with citation-based algorithms to perform journal ranking. The experiments demonstrated the effectiveness of EPR and showed that domain experts’ opinions can be integrated to improve the quality of PR ranking result and that the combination was better than expert judgements alone, although the difference was not statistically significant. Future research could investigate more efficient multi-objective optimization methods to handle more complex expert judgements.
Are the abstracts of high impact articles more readable? Investigating the evidence from top research institutions in the world Investigating the readability of the abstracts of the world's top five most cited institutions during the past 10 years, and separately for Harvard University over 35 years, shows that academic authors write in a way that is difficult to read in all 22 subject fields. Although the results of this research indicate that academics always write their abstracts in a difficult manner, these findings may result from the limitations in the readability formulas. Consequently, the scientific community accepts high impact and low readable articles.
Constructing the structure underlying open access practices Constructing the structure underlying OA practices will help better recognize the history, present status and future direction of the open access movement. From Lévi-Strauss’s view, human culture can only be understood at the level of structure. Although it may be an over-stated assertion, patterned relation has provided a new perspective to examine an OA process.
Publications as an Indicator of Increased Tobacco Control Research Productivity (Quantity and Quality) in New Zealand These results show an encouraging trend in NZ TC research, with an increase in research productivity, quality, and in research capacity.
A Panorama of Nanoscience Developments in Mexico Based on the Comparison and Crossing of Nanoscience Monitoring Methods "Our panorama of nanosciences is based on the results obtained by crossing strategies."
Web site structure mining using social network analysis The findings of this study offer practical implications to web site designers for creating and maintaining an effective web presence, and for improving usability. Obtained results offer interesting implication for web designers. Finally, web sites should be structured for facilitating search engines to browse their contents.
Authorship policies of bioethics journals In summary, we found that most bioethics journals do not have any authorship policies. To provide authors with effective guidance and promote integrity in bioethics research, bioethics journals should adopt authorship policies that address several important topics, such as qualifications for authorship, describing authorship contributions, taking responsibility for the research, and the difference between authorship in empirical and conceptual research.
The Information Portals of Selected Leading Indian Educational Institutes In summary, fewer than half of the information por-tals of selected major Indian educational Institutes show medium-high levels of development and the rest are still far from satisfying the requirements of a professional Web-based information system. As a result of this analysis, several recommenda-tions can be made for developers. Finally, this study can be useful for both pro-fessional and non-professional users by allowing them to identify the best information portals and by helping them to choose the best options for consult-ing them.
Comprehensive Citation Index for Research Networks Importantly, CCI overcomes the limitations of SCI and PageRank in citation analysis that SCI neglects the indirect influence of papers and that PageRank does not count the number of direct citations.
The h-index in Australian Astronomy This work has presented an analysis of the h-index distributions for present members of the ASA.
Computer science research in Malaysia: a bibliometric analysis This paper has described the first attempt to evaluate the research performance of Malaysian departments of computer science using bibliometric methods. We hence conclude that the computer science departments are generally performing at levels that are compatible with the status of their parent institutions. In the interim, studies such as that reported here may serve to identify those departments that are most worthy of government research funding.
Worldwide Academic Contributions of Japanese Neurosurgeons -Annual Meeting: President's Keynote Lecture In conclusion, Japanese neurosurgeons have been contributing greatly next to the Americans to the field of clinical neurosurgery and neuroscience by publishing in English. However, the number of publications by Japanese neurosurgeons has been declining since 2000, whereas publications from other countries are increasing. Therefore, the JNS must come up with countermeasures to address this problem.
Comparative Analysis between Impact Factor and h-Index for Psychiatry Journals The rating of journals starting from the h-index may represent a comple-mentary alternative to the rating based on the IF.
Measuring Relatedness Between Communities in a Citation Network Among the four, the distance from the center in a citation network is the best measure for removing the unrelated communities, while it is the prerequisite for using this measure that the centered node is relevant to the topic. We also found that although there are a few errors in distinguishing the unrelated communities, these communities focus on interdisciplinary and fundamental technologies. And as we can automatically detect these communities, our approach can be used to extract hidden common or interdisciplinary topics among a pile of academic papers.
Turning the Tables on Citation Analysis One More Time: Principles for Comparing Sets of Documents The proposed indicators [R(6), R(100), R(6, k), R(100, k)] are an improvement of averages-based indicators first because using nonparametric statistics one can abstract from the shape of the distribution of citations over papers. This new measure enables us to compare sets of different sizes with one another. In our opinion, the use of rules of thumb is not sufficiently transparent and should therefore be avoided.
Document-Type Country Profiles A country’s publication profile cannot only be described by subject characteristics or institutional aspects, as often has been done in the bibliometric literature.
Eponymy and Obliteration by Incorporation: The Case of the "Nash Equilibrium" The results do suggest that Nash's two Nobel Memorial Prize papers have had a growing influence in an increasingly wide range of subject areas, although that spread of influence became visible relatively late with respect to the original publication dates (1950–1951).
The local and global structure of knowledge production in an emergent research field: An exponential random graph analysis In emphasizing preferential attachment and corresponding tendencies towards centralization of the network, the findings from this study diverge from those of previous research that has found fragmentation or cohesion to exist alongside the absence of centrality.
Assessment of Brazil's research literature Brazil, a nation of 190 million people, evidences a substantial research enterprise. This country study provides a ‘general landscape’ picture of its research outputs, as captured by two major international S&T databases – Science (and Social Science) Citation Index and EI Compendex. That landscape shows major capabilities in both the life and biomedical sciences and the physical sciences. It finds a very large measure of international collaboration taking place, particularly with the USA. However, were one drawing upon the present empirical results (again we point to the full report, available shortly), we would strongly endorse engaging topical subject and innovation process experts to interpret and extend this research profile.
Less Work, Less Respect: Authors' Perceived Importance of Research Contributions and Their Declared Contributions to Research Articles Authorship seems to be not a normative issue subjective to categorization into criteria, but also a very personal view of the importance and value of one’s contributions. In conclusion, we showed that attitudes towards authorship criteria were connected with authors’ contribution in preparation of manuscript, implicating importance of direct experience in forming such attitudes. This implicate that teaching young researchers about research integrity is not influential enough if they are not exposed to high ethical standards in their working environment [17].
Metrics associated with NIH funding: a high-level view The US PHS is effective at funding research with a higher-than-average impact. The data are amenable to further and much more detailed analysis.
The scholarly influence of Heinz Klein: ideational and social measures of his impact on IS research and IS scholars In this paper we explore a set of constructs leading to a description of a notion we call scholarly influence. Our deliberations lead us to believe that none of the extant dominant approaches toward assessing the quality of a scholar's output are sufficient to the task. This research is therefore aimed at identifying and developing a composite (multi-dimensional) set of measures allowing a transparent, fair, replicable, and comparable indication of scholars' influence.
Job Market Signaling: What Drives the Productivity of Finance Ph.D.s? Using hand-collected data from the FMA's Annual Resume Books and candidates' websites, we report that the degree-granting school is an important signal as confirmed in previous research, but we also demonstrate that candidates in finance Ph.D. programs have another way to signal their ability. This paper stresses the importance of working toward future publications early in the Ph.D. program.
Scientific publications and patenting by companies: a study of the whole population of Canadian firms over 25 years This study clearly shows that the number of firms performing scientific research is increasing regularly. This paper suggests that, when publishing papers, firms may trade short-term economic benefits in favour of establishing a reputation as leaders which would subsequently be translated into competitive techno-logical advantages. In the future, examining how small firms use both patents and publications to increase their value could be conducted while examining takeover patterns. In particular, it would be interesting to examine whether firms that are active in R&D are more frequently acquired than similar firms. Thus, the type of data used in this paper may provide very useful evidence in the definition of R&D and tax policies in addition to explaining how R&D may increase firms’ competitiveness.
IS PEER REVIEW IN DECLINE? Several pieces of evidence bolster the view that one factor contributing to these trends is that the role of journals in disseminating research has been reduced.
TREND OF SUBJECTS PUBLISHED IN ECONOMICS JOURNALS 1969-2007 The percentage share of subjects in economics has changed significantly over the past four decades.
Knowledge diffusion and collaboration networks on life cycle assessment In spite of being an area with less than 20 years of publications registered in the ISI/Web of Science, LCA is now experiencing fast dissemination involving a large number of articles, authors, and institutions. The LCA's coauthorship network can be characterized as a scientific community with properties verified in other networks of more consolidated academic collaboration. These findings can be complemented with new studies in order to better understand the organization of the LCA scientific community.
China-US scientific collaboration in nanotechnology: patterns and dynamics This paper has highlighted China's relatively early entry into nanotechnology.
Distribution of academic research funds: a case of Japanese national research grant Using a Japanese grant database, this study examines the distribution of research funds from several perspectives. This study also examines the distribution of publications and indicates that the publication distribution is less unequal than the funding distribution. This seems to imply an overconcentration of funding in limited universities.
A study on the optimization of KCI-based index (Kor-Factor) in evaluating Korean journals KF, which is a novel composite index for the evaluation of academic journals, has been developed to stimulate the growth of Korean domestic academic journals. In a comparison study between KF and IF that utilizes the KCI database, KF shows increased differentiation power and better representation for the reputability of key journals. Finally, we suggest that, in the future, the rejection rate should be incorporated into the composite index to differentiate between the productivity of journals with the same number of articles.
Are the h-index and some of its alternatives discriminatory of epistemological beliefs and methodological preferences of faculty members? The case of social scientists in Quebec The study findings tend to confirm our research hypothesis. Indeed, it was found that quantitative researchers are, on average and after controlling for potential confounders, more productive than researchers who mainly use other types of analytical approaches. Finally, the EM effect makes the indices considered in the study more or less discriminatory of the epistemological beliefs and the methodological preferences of faculty members.
Weighted indices for evaluating the quality of research with multiple authorship In this paper, we proposed a set of indices for determining the quality of research, namely, weighted citation aggregate, weighted h-index, and weighted citation h-cuts. As opposed to h-index, a class of index that we called the weighted h-indices take into account the weighted contributions of authors in multi-authored papers. In future, one may study the effect of citation contexts on the quality of research produced by an author.
Co-word analysis of the trends in stem cells field based on subject heading weighting In this paper, we draw a strategic diagram for the stem cell field from 2001 to 2010. The strategic diagram generates the evolutionary trends and can be used to support the strategic planning. The co-word analysis based on the subject heading weighting can show the trends of special field.
Do age and professional rank influence the order of authorship in scientific publications? Some evidence from a micro-level perspective Our results show that authorship patterns observed in the three areas analysed are clearly influenced by the age and professional rank of scientists, although there exist some differences by area. In general, there is a strong trend for signatures of younger researchers and those in the lower professional ranks to appear in the first position, while more veteran or highly-ranked ones are proportionally more likely to sign in the last position. This supports the role of authorship as a mode of social organisation of the scientific community (Pontille 2004).
Measuring the semantic integrity of scientific fields: a method and a study of sociology, economics and biophysics This study conceptualized and operationalized semantic fragmentation in citation networks within the methodological framework of social network analysis. The results correlated with these differences: biophysics has more transitive 4-rings than economics and sociology, and sociology has the least in their citation network. From these results it seems that the proposed measure is meaningful, and it is able to identify a systematic pattern in citation networks.
Scientific publications released in the Baltic States In comparison with countries that are considered to be the leaders in the field of science and technologies, the level of the productivity of researchers representing the Baltic States, including Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, is growing in certain research areas.
A study on power-law distribution of hostnames in the URL references We verified the power-law distribution of the hostnames' citation frequency in the URL references by three datasets. The exponent of this kind of power-law distribution is different from the traditional journal citation frequency distribution in that it has a fluctuant property of the exponent value, the lower concentration of high cited hostnames compared to the journal citation. Next, we should study the certainty and effect of these factors on the citation distribution.
Revisiting citation aging: a model for citation distribution and life-cycle prediction In this study I propose a model to represent the naturally observed citations distribution and citation aging in a diachronous-based-method.
National research assessment exercises: the effects of changing the rules of the game during the game The simulations, carried out on data for the hard sciences, show a series of significant discrepancies.
Assessing the scientific and technological output of EU Framework Programmes: evidence from the FP6 projects in the ICT field This paper has provided a quantitative assessment of the scientific and technological productivity of FP6 projects.
Proposals for evaluating the regularity of a scientist's research output This paper focused the attention on the problem of evaluating the regularity in the scientific output of individual scientists. The suggested tools have some limitations. Regarding the future, the analysis tools will be tested on the basis of a larger amount on empirical data on specific research fields.
Using 'core documents' for the representation of clusters and topics Core documents proved to be more than supplements to the TF-IDF representation of the outcomes of clustering exercises.
A new indicator for international visibility: exploring Brazilian scientific community In this study we proposed a new approach to investigate scientific productivity. We have found evidences that the international performance is a field dependent variable. Finally, we believe the data presented in this work may help S&T managers and other S&T interests to better understand the complexity under the concept productivity.
On measuring scholarly influence by citations We have proposed an approach to bibliometric measurement that has a clearer theoretical foundation than past, essentially ad hoc, approaches. Only by building bibliometric measurement on an explicit influence function can we be sure that the measure is consistent with our priors about how citations reflect influence. It remains to be seen whether the h-index performs as well in other applications.
The influence of random removal of sources and items on the h-index In conclusion, we warn for the use of the h-index in case of incomplete data sets.
Price revisited: on the growth of dissertations in eight research fields Thus, it is obvious that the growth of dissertations must be explained using several factors emerging both inside and outside academia.
The skewness of science in 219 sub-fields and a number of aggregates In brief, using a large dataset we have presented convincing systematic evidence about the existence of fundamental regularities in the shape of reference and citation distributions at different aggregation levels.
Bibliometric trend analysis on global graphene research In this study, the impact of global graphene literature has been studied by bibliometric methods and the research history has been recalled according to the graphene research literature (Barth and Marx 2008).
Citations among communication journals and other disciplines: a network analysis Overall, network analysis showed that Communication Research and Journal of Communication are the two most central journals within the field.
African regional innovation systems: bibliometric analysis of research collaboration patterns 2005-2009 From the perspective of actual scientific and technological research collaborative linkages, the African innovation system consists of three major regions with distinct collaboration patterns. African innovation system continues to suffer from structural and dynamic weaknesses, manifest in the absence of regional integration of collaborative research networks. For future research, it would be important to examine in more detail how to best advance research collaboration on African level, as well as to examine whether research collaboration in Africa establishes similar benefits as have been observed in Europe and North America.
Severe language effect in university rankings: particularly Germany and France are wronged in citation-based rankings This effect has serious consequences for all citation-per-paper based rankings, but also for citations per staff rankings.
"Structuration" by intellectual organization: the configuration of knowledge in relations among structural components in networks of science "The results in the two cases of interdisciplinary developments suggest that both IABC→AB:AC:BC and Q provide us with indicators of change in configurations among structural dimensions."
A decade of database research publications: a look inside Research is a competitive endeavor.
Measuring regional science networks in China: a comparison of international and domestic bibliographic data sources Although many Chinese journals have been included in SCI-E recently, the difference between domestic databases such as the Chongqing VIP index and the SCI-E is still considerable.
Quasity, when quantity has a quality all of its own-toward a theory of performance Thus, by introducing the concept of Quasity, it is possible to reconcile Quality of performance and Quantity of input to obtain an energy term that serves as a performance indicator in a very general context.
A ranking of universities should account for differences in their disciplinary specialization The findings have illustrated that a university's overall score, based on the aggregate of publications in all covered disciplines, can be strongly dominated by the results for one or two disciplines only. One single impact measure for a university as a whole does not provide information on the disciplinary breadth of publication activity and citation impact. In this way, they constitute both a warning and a remedy against one-dimensional approaches to the assessment of institutional research performance.
The field-standardized average impact of national research systems compared to world average: the case of Italy The Italian research system shows good overall performance and a positive trend.
Galton 2011 revisited: a bibliometric journey in the footprints of a universal genius His works are not only still, but increasingly cited or mentioned, which is proof for the timeliness of this outstanding scientist.
Article title type and its relation with the number of downloads and citations There are differences between articles with different types of titles in terms of downloads and citations, especially articles with question titles tend to be downloaded more but cited less than the others. Titles with colon tend to be longer and receive fewer downloads and citations. Syntax and content analysis of titles as well as qualitative in-depth studies of users' attitude are required to uncover the reasons and the mechanism of the impact of title types on the use of articles.
Open access, readership, citations: a randomized controlled trial of scientific journal publishing Open access publishing may reach more readers than subscription access publishing, although additional readership may not translate into more citations.
Free-Riding on Power Laws: questioning the validity of the Impact Factor as a measure of research quality in organization studies I conclude that the Impact Factor has little credibility as a proxy for the quality of either organization studies journals or the articles they publish, resulting in attributions of journal or article quality that are incorrect as much or more than half the time. The clear implication is that we need to cease our reliance on such a non-scientific, quantitative characterization to evaluate the quality of our work. Using the IF as a proxy for the quality of either journals or the articles they publish would thus seem to have little credibility.
Measuring the influence of a journal using impact and diffusion factors In conclusion, our findings shows that JDF and RDF are good indicators for measuring the breadth of influence of a single journal within a certain period of time because it captures different aspects of the citation reception process.
Trends in research on global climate change: A Science Citation Index Expanded-based analysis In this study on climate change publications listed in SCI-EXPANDED, significant findings on worldwide research performance from 1992 to 2009 were obtained.
Eurekometrics: Analyzing the Nature of Discovery Eurekometrics will allow us to understand the pace and determinants of scientific discovery in a way that simply examining the patterns in publications will not. For the first time, we will be able to explore how the properties of nature yield to human science.
Status of Journals in the Field of Higher Education On the question of journal prestige, our tiering system indicates a distinct ordering of journals, with a recognizable breakout between first, second, and third tier journals. Thus to answer the question of whether the subjective perceptions of faculty mirrored the more objective faculty-supplied data, the answer is yes, particularly for the top tier journals. Two strands of future research stand out as a result of our study. First, to fit with Hatt's (1950) conceptualization of the differences in prestige scales within subpopulations, we need to consider more specifically how specialists in given areas rate the journals in their areas.
How to judge a book by its cover? How useful are bibliometric indices for the evaluation of "scientific quality" or "scientific productivity"? The available indicators may be useful for a pre-selection, but it should kept in mind that all available indicators are based on data obtained from the former achievements of the scientists and may not predict their future achievements.
Sketching the first 45 years of the journal Psychophysiology (1964-2008): A co-word-based analysis The present results provide interesting insights into some general characteristics of the evolution of the journal Psychophysiology.
Ranking Hepatologists: Which Hirsch's h-Index to prevent the "e-crise de foi-e"? The h-I should be carefully checked before any hepatologist's evaluation.
International scientist mobility and the locus of knowledge and technology transfer Our results therefore provide evidence for the benefits of "brain circulation".
The impact of NIH postdoctoral training grants on scientific productivity Our results suggest that the program does indeed appear to increase the amount of health science research and the number of individuals engaged in a biomedical research career.
The Kinship or k-Index as an Antidote Against the Toxic Effects of h-Indices We suggest that the 'fertility' of individual scientists be appreciated in terms of kinship rather than through personalized indices.
Research: metrics, quality, and management implications The analysis and discussion presented in this paper show that research metrics based on measuring re-search output in terms of scientific publications and citations attracted by these provide a valid measure of the quality of underlying research activity in the majority of science domains/fields. Research metrics ignore both work in revolution-ary research in mature sciences and those revolu-tionary works in early stage sciences which induce no follow-on outburst. Investment in revolutionary science is very risky, while investment in normal science is much less risky.
Normalization of peer-evaluation measures of group research quality across academic disciplines A more sophisticated but simple method has been proposed here. The notion of critical mass in research is integral to this approach.
A bibliometric study of productivity and impact of modern language and literature research This study shows that there are important differences in publication and citation behavior, even within humanities fields that are as close as literature and language and linguistics. As a consequence, it is not warranted to combine these fields in monitoring out-put and impact. In future studies, if output numbers permit so, more precise measurements might separate the journal and book output.
Measuring research performance during a changing relationship between science and society Based on the analysis of examples and research policy developments, the article argues that existing indicators are lagging behind and need to be updated as they do not adequately reflect the politically desired Mode 2 features of the public research system.
Mapping a research agenda for the science of team science The findings from this concept-mapping project constitute a lever for moving SciTS forward at theoretical, empirical, and translational levels. In short, the SciTS concept-mapping study conveys actionable science that can be translated to guide successful team science.
Managing for success in international scientific collaborations: views from Canadian government senior science managers The results of the interviews lead to the conclusion that ISCs can be expected to deliver advantages reflected in the existing literature. The respondents also have strong views about what foreign scientists/managers involved with Canada in ISCs see as the strengths and weaknesses of Canada and Canadian scientists.
Structure, features, and faculty content in ARL member repositories Although there is some diversity of repository software platforms in use at ARL institutions, DSpace and Digital Commons dominate.
Price premiums for journal quality and journal governance: Evidence from economics journals We quantify the impacts of journal governance, quality, and costs on a journal's institutional subscription prices. Estimation results using data on the core economics journals indicate that difference in journal governance and costs play a much larger role in influencing journal prices than do quality measures represented by impact factor and number of citations. Our results also allow for insight into the impact of an acquisition of a non-profit journal by a commercial publisher.
Researchers' experience with project management in health and medical research: Results from a post-project review Our post-project review showed that researchers comprehensively endorsed project management in the Alcohol and Pregnancy Project and agreed that project management had contributed substantially to the research.
The Intellectual Influence of Entrepreneurship Journals: A Network Analysis This study uses a network-based model to rate 23 journals in terms of the contribu-tions of their articles to the entrepreneurship field.
Nanoscience and nanotechnology in Venezuela Venezuela has a small base of researchers, whose production of projects and technical work is incipient and disperse, and research lines respond to the researchers' initiatives, whose work lines are not necessarily linked to the country's needs, in part because they depend on international collaboration for access to the necessary infrastructure.
Early Career Academic Productivity Among Emergency Physicians With R01 Grant Funding For EPs, receipt of an R01 from the NIH requires more than a decade of work following the completion of training.
AUTHORSHIP AND SAMPLING PRACTICE IN SELECTED BIOMECHANICS AND SPORTS SCIENCE JOURNALS Original research reports published in these journals in 2009 tended to be published by small teams of collaborators, so currently there may be few problems with promiscuous coauthorship in these subdisciplines of sport and exercise science.
Designing a viable scientific communication model: VSM approach Following the Beer's (1979, 1981, 1985) thinking about the viability of organisational systems, and based on this precondition that the scholarly communication system can be described as an institution, we incorporated the five systemic functions of an organism necessary for viability in the framework of viable scientific communication model (VSCM).
Supposed steep increase in publications on cruciate ligament and other topics Concluded, our findings suggest that the WOS "Topic" search is not the appropriate tool to be used for the analysis of time-dependent changes in publication productivity due to variations in WOS abstracting policies.
Characteristics of Open Access Journals in Six Subject Areas Overall, the OA journal landscape is greatly influenced by a few key publishers and journals. OA journals in the fields of biology and medicine are larger than the others, more likely to charge fees, and more likely to have a high citation impact. Investigations of scholarly publishing should perhaps fo- cus on articles rather than journals, since it is articles—not journals—that authors write, students read, and scholars use in their work.
What are universities for? It is our contention that slipshod thinking about the roles that universities can play in society is leading to demands that they cannot satisfy, whilst obscuring their most important contributions to society, and, in the process, undermining their potential.
Using Citation Analysis Methods to Assess the Influence of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education Evaluations This article explores the usefulness of citation data in understanding the impact of evaluations and finds that citation analysis methods provide information to help understand, to a limited extent, the influence of large-scale, multi-site program evaluations on the fields of STEM education and evaluation.
DIVISIONS WITHIN ACADEMIA: EVIDENCE FROM FACULTY HIRING AND PLACEMENT I find that economics has a significant division that appears to be stable over time and is consistent with what are commonly thought of as the "freshwater” and “saltwater" schools of thought even up to the relative strengths of attachment to the clusters by individual departments. I conclude and propose two possible (by no means mutu-ally exclusive) driving forces for the strong clustering in economics that can at the same time be consistent with the lack of significant clustering in mathematics.
A Comparison of Methods for Collecting Web Citation Data for Academic Organizations If indicators are acceptable, such as metrics that are known normally to correlate highly with relevant research measures, then the results suggest that all three metrics dis-cussed here (inlinks, URL citations, and organization title mentions) can be suitable for research organizations. For exact counting, the correlations between the three metrics for URL and domain counts (Tables 1, 2) are all high enough to support a case that they could be used inter-changeably for impact measurements, although there will be differences in their results. Although inlinks have been used primarily in webometric impact research, this suggests that URL citations and organization title mentions (e.g., title searches) are appropriate replacements if link searches are withdrawn by Yahoo!.
Institutional Interactions: Exploring Social, Cognitive, and Geographic Relationships Between Institutions as Demonstrated Through Citation Networks Institutional citation behavior is associated with social, topical, and geographical factors.
Bibliographic Index Coverage of Open-Access Journals in Six Subject Areas Consequently, the mechanisms for identifying relevant OA articles (bibliographic databases) are not as effective as the mechanisms for retrieving those articles (library catalogs and journal lists). Because conventional bibliographic databases are fundamental to the research practices of most scholars (Flaxbart, 2001; Hemminger et al., 2007; King et al., 2009; Niu et al., 2010), improving the bibliographic coverage of OA articles may be the most reliable way to ensure that OA journal content can be found and used. Replication with data for other disciplines would be helpful, as would the examination of trends in the index coverage of OA journals over time.
The Citation Life Cycle of Articles Published in 13 American Psychological Association Journals: A 25-Year Longitudinal Analysis "The results of this study clearly indicate that after control-ling for inflation the 25-year life cycle of articles published in 13 APA psychology journals displayed a downward trend after reaching a peak 2 to 5 years (high point = 4 years) after publication."
Thoughts on Uncitedness: Nobel Laureates and Fields Medalists as Case Studies This article shows that the group of Fields medalists (math-ematics) and Nobel Prize laureates in physics, chemistry, and physiology or medicine have a sizable fraction of never-cited publications. Finally, it would be interesting to compare the top scien-tists studied here with "average" ones to discover how general the phenomena studied are.
Artifactual Increase in Journal Self-Citation Although the number and rate of self-citations differed among anesthesia journals, the contribution of self-citation to IF has declined over time for most anesthesia journals. These results suggest periodic reassessment may be important to ensure that the publication process remains transparent and impartial to bias. Despite our concerning experience suggesting a journal's apparent attempt to inflate its IF, we are heartened to see that this incident does not represent a broader trend over the last several years.
How does size matter for science? Exploring the effects of research unit size on academics' scientific productivity and information exchange behaviors "In this article, we tested the relationship between re- search unit size to academics' information exchange intensity and scientific productivity."
Social media use in the research workflow This study showed that social media have found serious application at all points of the research lifecycle, from identifying research opportunities to disseminating findings at the end. Researchers seem to be largely appropriating generic tools rather than using specialist or custom-built solutions and both publishers and librarians need to adapt to this reality. Publishers need to understand the implications and either develop their services accordingly, or risk being left behind.
Medical school and residency influence on choice of an academic career and academic productivity among neurosurgery faculty in the United States Clinical article The use of quantitative measures to evaluate the academic productivity of medical school and residency graduates may provide objective measurements by which the subjective influence of training experiences on choice of an academic career may be inferred.
Bibliometric mapping of computer and information ethics We have presented a bibliometric mapping analysis of the field of C&IE.
The demise of the ARC journal ranking scheme: an ex post analysis of the accounting and finance journals The recent abolition of the ARC journal ranking scheme, which was destined to be used in ERA 2012 as it was in ERA 2010, highlights some problematical aspects of journal ranking in general and the ARC ranking scheme in particular.
A comparison of evaluation metrics for biomedical journals, articles, and websites in terms of sensitivity to topic Topic-adjusted metrics and other topic robust methods have an advantage in such situations.
Where does business research go from here? Food-for-thought on academic papers in business research To become relevant again, business researchers should remember that their target group includes not only fellow academics but also practitioners and students.
Mapping the core journals of the physical therapy literature Results can help physical therapists and librarians determine important journals in this discipline. Knowing which journals are considered core journals for a particular discipline and which data- bases provide the most comprehensive indexing of those journals can help the health sciences librarian develop a core collection in the discipline. It can also help the clinician to search for and obtain articles to promote evidence-based practice and to decide which journals to target for publication.
Changing Incentives to Publish Our research suggests that government-initiated incentives to publish are associated with increases in submissions and publica-tions at the country level.
Measuring Nepotism through Shared Last Names: The Case of Italian Academia Using these techniques policy makers can target cuts and funding in order to promote fair practices.
Evaluating the Productivity of Social Work Scholars Using the h-Index This article has reviewed the strengths and limitations of the h-index, a recently introduced bibliometric statistic which measures faculty productivity through citation analysis.
Going Beyond Impact Factors: A Survey-based Journal Ranking by Agricultural Economists The journal ranking presented in this article and the allocation of journals to rating classes are in several important aspects superior to a ranking and rating with impact factors: (i) Comprehensiveness: our ranking is much more comprehensive with respect to journal coverage than the JCR and its impact factors.
Biomedical and health sciences publication productivity from Malaysia This study helped librarians identify active researchers, active research areas and journals relevant to biomedical and health sciences researchers and useful when producing reports to university management and planning medical collection policies and deciding on journal subscriptions and cancellations.
Nano-energy research trends: bibliometrical analysis of nanotechnology research in the energy sector Nanotechnology-driven research and development oriented to energy applications is a promising growing field, although it is still in its infancy and at the beginning of a value chain ending at consumer-products.
On the dynamics of national scientific systems The unique information database of all publications of the Slovenian researchers provides an extraordinary opportunity to study coauthorship networks of entire disciplines of a country through time. In the article we tested some known hypotheses (H1, H2, and H3) and some new ones (H4, H5, and H6). We confirmed the hypothesis of different publication cultures between researchers who work in the natural or technical sciences like physics or biotechnology and those who work in the social sciences like sociology. Clearly, there is a need to study the changes in the other three disciplines in the same fashion.
Issues in the analysis of co-authorship networks In this paper we dealt with some issues related to the definition and the analysis of co-authorship networks.
A study of interdisciplinarity in information science: using direct citation and co-authorship analysis This study has confirmed that information science is an interdisciplinary discipline.
Scientific communication in Libya in the digital age Overall this study suggests that, when it comes to access to and involvement in scientific communication, it is dangerous to divide countries into developing and developed countries. However, scientific communication processes are influenced by national culture, such that informal and semi-formal scientific communication is seen to be of particular importance, and traditional views on appropriate communication between genders are transferred into scientific workplaces. We recommend that there is a need for further study into the access to and participation of scientists in different disciplines and in different countries towards the development of: further theoretical models of scientific communication processes that place scientists and their behaviours at their centre.
The etiology of top-tier publications in management A status attainment perspective on academic career success The findings from this study have important implications for the careers of management faculty at AACSB-accredited business schools.
Biology Needs a Modern Assessment System for Professional Productivity Change must begin with us.
A comparison of link and URL citation counting The results suggest that URL citations are likely to be less numerous than links in webometric studies of non-academic spaces. In conclusion, if Yahoo! and its affiliates withdraw their advanced hyperlink queries so that URL citations would have to be used instead of links for many studies, then this would seriously undermine the power of link analysis, by a factor of about ten, except for academic spaces.
The Evolution of Academic Performance in Emergency Medicine Journals: Viewpoint from 2000 to 2009 Journal Citation Reports An increasing number of international EM journals have appeared over the past 10 years. Every EM journal exhibited a positive impact factor trend, but the gap between EM journals' impact factors has widened in the past 10 years.
Retrospective Analysis of Financial Research Among Korean Institutions and Authors (1990-2010) Using the publication records of 24 leading finance journals during 1990–2010, we provide a retrospective analysis of the research performance by Korean institutions and scholars.
Evaluating OR/MS Journals via PageRank The results produced via PageRank indicated an improvement over traditional citation-analysis methods because we considered both citation quantity and quality.
Researchers as evaluators: tasks, tensions and politics Major future challenges for peer review concern how to meet demands for transparency and public accountability, and maintain academic autonomy. The role as researcher evaluator is changing.
What are the major impact factors on research performance of young doctorate holders in science in China: a USTC survey The results indicate that academic origin of doctoral graduates and advisor's academic status, academic experience, and quantity of instruction exert a significant impact on DRP. This study has contributed to a better understanding of the influential factors of DRP in the Chinese context. Based on the limitations described above, a possible direction for future research would be the exploration of the link between influential factors and DRP, controlling for per-sonality of doctoral graduates.
Bibliometrics of anaesthesia researchers in the UK The general distribution of bibliometric data is similar to that seen in other specialities in Europe and North America. Four departments contribute to more than 50% of published anaesthesia research output in this data set. These data provide useful comparative tools for individuals, departments, and national bodies.
Bibliometric analysis of anaesthesia journal editorial board members: correlation between journal impact factor and the median h-index of its board members The results suggest that editorial board members of anaesthesia journals with higher IFs have higher h-indices. The median h-index values observed in anaesthesia journal editorial board members may be less than those previously reported with other medical and surgical journals because anaesthesia may be a more specialized field of study with a narrower target audience.
The visibility of health web portals for teens: a hyperlink analysis The weak network of inlinks leading from reliable health care providers is a lost opportunity for health care professionals to reach young people. Due to the weak network of inlinks from reliable health information sources, teens may not be accessing accurate and reliable health information. This could have a potential cost in terms of health outcomes. The results of this study present a snapshot rather than an all-inclusive view of the visibility of teen health websites and offer a starting point for further investigation.
Concentration effect of citation to Iranian papers: Iran's Matthew core journals The findings reveal that Iran does not perform adequately in a large portion of its NJS, so that it loses a high percentage of its expected citations. These findings imply that in order for its science system to be more successfully represented, Iran should re-orientate its NJS towards a more prominent set. To begin with the positive Iranian MCJs (listed in the Appendix) may be of great help to remedy the strategy.
The h-index, h-core citation rate and the bibliometric profile of the Scopus database Knowing the bibliometric features of databases, their own h-index and related metrics versus those of the alternative tools can be very useful for computing a variety of research performance indicators.
Innovations in Faculty Development: Study of a Research Assistance Unit Designed to Assist Clinician-Educators with Research The creation of a research assistance unit to provide administrative and statistical assistance to investigators with little or no previous research experience resulted in an increase in clinical research by faculty, residents, and students at a mid-sized regional academic health center, at a cost of about $128,000 yearly.
Why and how do journals retract articles? An analysis of Medline retractions 1988-2008 Journals' retraction practices are not uniform. Some retractions fail to state the reason, and therefore fail to distinguish error from misconduct. We have used our findings to inform guidelines on retractions.
What Matters for Excellence in PhD Programs? Latent Constructs of Doctoral Program Quality Used by Early Career Social Scientists These findings clearly indicate that alumni assessments of program quality tap a different dimension than peer (faculty) ratings of the schol-arly quality of doctoral programs. This study demonstrates clearly that the scholarly reputation of a PhD program is not the same as its alumni perceived program quality. Program elements enhanc-ing academic quality should clearly have high priority in efforts to im-prove doctoral program quality.
Citations to papers from Brazilian institutions: a more effective indicator to assess productivity and the impact of research in graduate programs I conclude here that the simple gauge of the total number of citations accounts for both the productivity of scientists and the impact of articles.
37 years of scientific activity in a Biochemistry Department in Brazil - patterns of growth and factors leading to increased productivity By focusing on the temporal course of its growth and drawing correlations between scientific output and important events in the history of the Department of Biochemistry and of the Brazilian science policies, we concluded that internal factors (as the creation of a postgraduation program, collaboration among researchers, experienced abroad researchers, qualification of faculty members) and external factors (as investments in the postgraduate education, the establishment of national scientific policies, such as financial stimuli for productive researchers and evaluation systems) influence scientific productivity in Brazil. Therefore, analyzing this data as a whole, it ap-pears that the rise of productivity in our case is tightly linked to: (i) the investment in human resources, mani-fested by the increase in the number of students, quali-fication of faculty members and the arrival of senior researchers, and (ii) the stimulation of productivity by national and local policies, which increasingly value of scientific publications in the distribution of resources and selection of personnel for postgraduate and faculty positions.
Study of factors influencing research productivity of agriculture faculty members in Iran Research is an important academic activity and any faculty member is expected to engage in it. The results of the study show that different factors affect faculty members’ research productivity. Considering the above results we suggest that the similarity of this group’s research objectives with the country’s research priorities and faculty members’ awareness of these priorities lead individuals to select special research paths and be able to organize their research activities towards achieving these goals.
Promoting the Transition to Independent Scientist: A National Career Development Program Based on objective outcomes, ARI offers an effective model for stemming attrition of new investigators from the academic career path that is generalizable to other fields and promotes innovative, translational science.Thus, ARI is meeting its long-term goal of promoting innovative research and provides a model for the development of independent scientists who will have a significant impact on the problems of mental illness in and the delivery of mental health services to older adults.ARI provides a potentially generalizable model to promote new investigators' successful transition to independence.
Smoothing the Lies: The Distinctive Effects of Patent Characteristics on Examiner and Applicant Citations The results of this study suggest that it would be premature to defend the use of examiner citations in patents to justify research funding or evaluate performance.
Ranking Scientists and Departments in a Consistent Manner Our first result is about the relation between Independence and Consistency. Consistency is a very compelling condi-tion. If we adopt Totality and Consistency, we show that, under few extra plausible conditions, the only possible rankings of scientists are scoring rules and the only possible rank-ings of departments are scoring rules or averaging rules. In a next stage, we plan to further analyze the implications of Consistency when simultaneously ranking scientists and departments, in order to overcome some of the limitations of the present paper.
International Coauthorship and Citation Impact: A Bibliometric Study of Six LIS Journals, 1980-2008 Collaboration among scholars on journal publications, nationally and internationally, increased in the six LIS pub-lications during the 1980–2008 period.
Academic Genealogy as an Indicator of Interdisciplinarity: An Examination of Dissertation Networks in Library and Information Science "This work proposes and explores the use of academic genealogy as an indicator of interdisciplinarity and calls for additional research on the role of doctoral committee composition in a student's subsequent academic career."
Research funding systems in Australia, New Zealand and the UK: policy settings and perceived effects In summary, the strongest pattern of differences in regard to research funding systems was associated with universities – which can be regarded as reflecting, at least to some degree, national system differences. Birmingham respondents were most strongly of the view that their system (the RAE) supported collaboration and had a positive impact on relationships. Perhaps these systems are simply more or less relevant to different disciplines without having major impacts.
Development of a practical tool to measure the impact of publications on the society based on focus group discussions with scientists Focus group discussions with scientists suggested that the societal impact factor of a publication should consider the effect of the publication in a wide set of non-scientific areas, but also the motivation behind the publication, and efforts by the authors to translate their findings.
Fields of interest and influence: a new method for sourcing and ranking journals in psychiatry The method described here for identifying and compar-ing journals that focus on child and adolescent psychiatry may be used to identify and compare journals belonging to any general or specialist field within psychiatry, med-icine or other area of research. Therefore, we suggest that sourcing and then ranking journals using several measures from a vari-ety of perspectives, as we have proposed, is preferable and perhaps more meaningful than relying on a solitary measure from a single source. The method we have suggested, with a derived table, has practical utility.
Blinded vs. unblinded peer review of manuscripts submitted to a dermatology journal: a randomized multi-rater study It seems, at least in the case of one dermatology journal, that blinding during peer review does not appear to affect the disposition of the manuscript.
AUPress: A Comparison of an Open Access University Press with Traditional Presses Results suggest that there is no significant difference in the Amazon rankings.
The impact of research grant funding on scientific productivity In this paper, we use plausibly exogenous variation in grant receipt generated by the nonlinear funding rules in the NIH to examine the impact of funding on research output.
To Join or Not to Join: An Investigation of Individual Facilitators and Inhibitors of Medical Faculty Participation in Interdisciplinary Research Teams This field research leveraged a unique opportunity to study the process of interdisciplinary team formation to better understand the variation in the choice to participate across a population of medical experts.
Trends in publication of research papers by Australian-based nurse authors Given the importance of rationalising nursing practice and adding new knowledge to evidence based care, it is imperative for the nursing profession to disseminate research findings. Failure to do this may result in poor return in investment outcomes for the future of nursing in Australia and internationally.
Gender and Computing Conference Papers Author data documents that the number of ACM conference papers grew from 1966 to 2009, and while women remain severely underrepresented in computing, we found a substantial increase in their share of papers published, a trend that came about as women earned more Ph.D. degrees in computing.
Policies of dental journals for reporting and monitoring authorship and contributorship Most dental journals partially reported the ICMJE guidelines, and therefore the improvement of this reporting is a requirement to promote transparency and integrity in dental research.
Equity and Excellence in Research Funding In this paper, we have examined a fundamental tension in science policy, that between equity and excellence. However, if even some researchers seek to maximize the resources available for their research activities, and expect allocation of resources to relate to their achievements and effort, then these ideas may be relevant to overall system performance. However, the arguments in the paper will remain conjectures until properly constructed empirical comparisons of funding and performance distributions can be analyzed over time and across countries.
Should Biomedical Publishing Be "Opened Up"? Toward a Values-Based Peer-Review Process Whether or not journal editors decide to allow anonymous review, the values of editors and reviewers need to be seriously addressed in codes of publication ethics, in the management of biomedical journals, and in the establishment of journal policies.
Publication Productivity and Career Advancement by Female and Male Psychology Faculty: The Case of Italy This study confirms prior observations that a strong female doctoral pipeline and scientific productivity are very slow at influencing the underrepresentation of women at the top ranks of academia.
Comparing National Institutes of Health Funding of Emergency Medicine to Four Medical Specialties Compared to internal medicine, pediatrics, anesthesiology, and family medicine, EM received the least amount of NIH support per active faculty member and ranked next to last for NIH support by active physician.
Measuring research excellence Number of Nobel Prize achievements versus conventional bibliometric indicators The study demonstrates that Nobel Prize achievements are not singular events that occur by chance. Therefore, the number of Nobel Prize achievements can be used to validate bibliometric indicators. Science administrators implementing research evaluations and research incentives based on conventional bibliometric indicators should consider that increasing the scores of these indicators does not imply an improvement in research excellence. The present study demonstrates that their use to determine research excellence is not valid.
Time relations between scientific production and patenting of knowledge: the case of nanotechnologies In conclusion we answer to the above defined research questions with saying that our experimental data show that NST and NST-related items present a common behaviour regarding the time needed for scientific knowledge to be incorporated into a technical application; that this time lag (between citing patent and cited journal article) is around 3–4 years; that a technologically different sector (polymers) shows a totally different behaviour, and thus this time lag might be peculiar of NST, which present also a high endo-geneity of cited and citing documents. As the search strategy for NST encompassed terms covering all the sector (from the general “nanotechnology" term to nanostructured materials, nanostructured forms of materials, peculiar laboratory techniques, nano-pertinent terms) this behaviour is feasibly common to all the different areas of NST.
Mapping knowledge domains of Chinese digital library research output, 1994-2010 All in all, Chinese digital libraries studies are much more diversified compared with international digital libraries research, and there are four research paradigms in Chinese digital libraries studies, which are studies of content and technologies, right issues, basic theories and services, while there is only technologies research paradigm in international digital libraries studies accompanied by user-centered ideas.
Shaping the interdisciplinary knowledge network of China: a network analysis based on citation data from 1981 to 2010 In this work we studied the structure and dynamics of the interdisciplinary knowledge network of China. Compared with most social networks or complex networks being studied (Albert and Barabási 2002), China's interdisciplinary knowledge network is a very small and highly connected network. There are two limitations to this study. First, the data of the interdisciplinary knowledge network only from 516 magazines belonging to 81 disciplines. Second, we only study the interdisciplinary knowledge network in China, and the result could be validated through a more broad research.
Scientific output and its relationship to knowledge economy: an analysis of ASEAN countries The present study was designed to fill the gap by examining the relationship, and found that (a) overall, the ASEAN contribution to scientific knowledge, as measured by scientific output, is still modest given its population size, and (b) there was a strong relationship between scientific output and knowledge economy index among the ASEAN countries. These data suggested that there was a strong relationship between scientific research and the degree of “knowledgization” of economy. These data reinforce the concept that scientific research is an important—if not the most important—component of a country’s knowledge based economy.
Female researchers in Russia: have they become more visible? The analysis of Russian scientific output by the sex of the researchers, based on gendered endings of most Russian names, has shown that women still lag behind men in all scientific fields in terms of output (Fig. 1), although the gap is smaller in the life sciences than in the physical, chemical, engineering and earth and space sciences.
Improving quality assessment of composite indicators in university rankings: a case study of French and German universities of excellence The immediate benefit achieved is a reduction of the uncertainty associated with the assessment of a specific rank which is not representative of the real performance of the university, and an improvement of the quality assessment of composite indicators used to rank. The combination of stochastic simulation to generate stochastic perturbations around any initial vector of weights and to rank universities in a range bracket provide a rigorous, balanced and transparent complement to other models of university rankings.
The "Mendel syndrome" in science: durability of scientific literature and its effects on bibliometric analysis of individual scientists Our results show that normal publications are the most important in terms of high individual performance and scientific success, while delayed and flash in the pan papers are more an exception than that they would be a dominant characteristic of the publication oeuvre of researchers.
The research productivity of academic psychologists: assessment, trends, and best practice recommendations Based on these findings, we provide recommendations for the use and measurement of academic research productivity. Simply put, female academic psychologists that remain in the profession are equally as productive as male academic psychologists. Finally, perhaps the most critical next step in this area is building and testing empirically based models of research productivity.
Overall prestige of journals with ranking score above a given threshold From the results showed in this paper, the overall winner regarding absolute overall prestige of first quartile journals was the multidisciplinary subject area, even though it had strong oscillations since the 1999. The lowest overall prestige in absolute terms was given by the Arts and Humanities. But the value of R for this area varied significantly over time, and thus, index R had a high increase from 1999 to 2009.
The influence of effects and phenomena on citations: a comparative analysis of four citation perspectives In summary, there are a total of 145 = 18 + 52 + 75 kinds of relationships shown. Therefore, the relationships among these four perspectives are very complex, and some relationships warrant special attention such as the Matthew Effect and the four new effects proposed by this paper.
A surname-based bibliometric indicator: publications in biomedical journal In conclusion, the representation of Jewish authors in top 10 US biomedical journals corresponds to the representation of Jewish Nobel Laureates among US laureates. Disproportional representation of Jewish scientists as authors in top biomedical journals and among Nobel Prize laureates in Medicine is mostly due to their overrepresentation as research participants, not because of the increased chances for reward for a Jewish researcher per se.
Are American astrophysics papers accepted more quickly than others? Part I Is 3.8 days enough to affect whether you win a Nobel Prize? Somehow we doubt it.
Credit where credit's due: accounting for co-authorship in citation counts I propose an objective method to attribute citations to co-authors.
A recursive field-normalized bibliometric performance indicator: an application to the field of library and information science Based on these observations, we advise against the use of indicators in which the idea of normalization based on a field classification scheme and the idea of recursive citation weighing are combined. Instead of providing more sophisticated measurements of citation impact (measurements of ‘prestige’ rather than ‘popularity’), the main effect of introducing recursiveness is to reinforce biases caused by the way in which fields are defined in the classification scheme that one uses. Although our negative results may partly relate to specific characteristics of the MNCS indicator, we expect our general conclusion to be valid for all field-normalized indicators.
On the analogy between the evolution of thermodynamic and bibliometric systems: a breakthrough or just a bubble? This paper analyses the analogy between the evolution of thermodynamic and bibliometric systems, showing many ambiguities and inconsistencies, which are the inevitable result of some dubious assumptions at the foundations of the model.
Behind citing-side normalization of citations: some properties of the journal impact factor The basic finding remains: the field-dependence of the field impact factor first depends on the propensity to cite, and thus may be corrected by citing side normalization.
Science models as value-added services for scholarly information systems From an IR perspective, the models studied are therefore verified as expressive conceptualizations of central phenomena in science. Thus, it could be shown that the IR perspective can significantly contribute to a better understanding of scholarly structures and activities.
Tailor based allocations for multiple authorship: a fractional gh-index I have presented a scheme to obey the conservation of both printed papers and given citations.
Community structure and patterns of scientific collaboration in Business and Management In summary, the findings show that for the social scientists who submitted to the RAE 2001 in Business and Management in the UK, institutional constraint was the primary organising principle underlying their choice of scientific collaborations within the UK. Taken as a whole, our findings offer important insights on the underlying forces driving collaboration between scientists within a disciplinary field, and have implications for the development of mathematical models of science. We believe that a precise description of these mechanisms of tie creation is crucial for predicting the emergence of complex structures such as new leading scientific communities and research teams across disciplines and specialties.
A few special cases: scientific creativity and network dynamics in the field of rare diseases In this paper we aimed at establishing a dynamic relationship between scientific collaborations and creativity. First, we develop a methodology to identify and measure different kinds of scientific creativity. Third, independently of the peculiarities of each domain, we find that new collaborations among experienced scientists enhance combinatorial creativity. Lastly, we hope that our work may contribute toward sustaining creative problem-solving in rare diseases.
Mixed-indicators model for identifying emerging research areas This paper presented, exemplified, and compared three indicators that seem to be indicative of emerging areas and have interesting temporal correlations: new authors enter the area first, the interdisciplinarity of paper references increases, then word bursts occur.
Does cumulative advantage affect collective learning in science? An agent-based simulation The model described in this paper has the ability to generate distributions and other patterns similar to those found in bibliometric data, including papers per author and citations per paper. As it turned out, the impact on search performance was not statistically significant for cumulative-advantage processes. By connecting these areas, understanding is gained into the extent to which authoring and publishing practices affect the ability to explore and exploit the range of positions in science.
Research involving women and health in the Medline database, 1965-2005: co-term analysis and visualization of main lines of research To conclude, we present a methodology that allows for the detection, identification and representation of the main lines of research that focus on Women and Health, looking at a forty-year period broken down into decades, and using the Medline database and MeSH descriptors. Research surrounding Health and Women has undergone important changes in this period on the whole. However, there are aspects that are not detected, possibly because as a research focus, woman is not yet given proper importance. Finally, the scope of this study opens a door to future action. Aside from constituting a valid tool for the thematic identification of a specific domain, the methodology presented here may stand as an early stage for further bibliometric studies on the micro or middle level of analysis aimed at complex realms of knowledge.
Scope, characteristics, and use of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's intramural research Over the past 15 years, results of USDA's intramural research have been published con- sistently throughout a wide range of disciplines, demonstrating tremendous breadth.
Central indexes to the citation distribution: a complement to the h-index In this paper two complements to the h-index, the area and the interval indexes, have been proposed with the aim of increasing the capacity of discrimination among researchers with similar h, and improving the prediction of future successes. Both central indexes are good estimators and correlations are generally higher for the area index than for the interval index. Finally, we would like to point out that the area index is not considered a substitute, but a complement to the h-index, especially in an evaluation process where doubts among researchers might exist.
Scientometric impact assessment of a research policy instrument: the case of rating researchers on scientific outputs in South Africa The results confirm the scientometric findings of other studies (e.g. that of Nederhof) that ratings promulgate research productivity. Evaluation and rating of researchers affects their behaviour and improves their productivity. Hence, research and policy administrations can use the approach in order to improve their research domains.
Patent co-citation networks of Fortune 500 companies This paper has presented a theoretical and experimental study of patent co-citation analysis.
A methodology for Institution-Field ranking based on a bidimensional analysis: the IFQ<SUP>2</SUP>A index The IFQ2A index is a bidimensional bibliometric measure that summarizes six bibliometric indicators to compare the research output of academic institutions in a given field, both in terms of raw output and relative quality of their research output, providing an easily interpretable bidimensional graphical ranking of the institutions of interest.
Tracking R&D behavior: bibliometric analysis of drug patents in the Orange Book This current study uses patent bibliometric method to explore the patent data in the USFDA Orange Book. Our findings indicate that the applicant's patent portfolio in the Orange Book is helpful in revealing the technological capability and patent strategy of the pharmaceutical incumbents. Therefore, pharmaceutical industry incumbents rely on multiple technology sources to develop new drugs and enhance their competitive advantage.
Hybrid clustering of multi-view data via Tucker-2 model and its application With aid of tensor methods, we integrate multi-view data by a tensor. Then we extend spectral clustering to a hybrid clustering method of multi-view data named HC-MLSVD.
Characteristics of research in China assessed with Essential Science Indicators The features of China's highly cited papers in the ESI database were presented based on the production and citations by overall performance, journals and subject categories, international and inter-institutional collaboration, and most cited papers. Above all, China has developed rapidly in scientific performance in 22 fields during the period 1999–2009. Furthermore, international collaboration enhanced the citation rate of papers in most fields. Finally, an overwhelming number of the most cited papers were published by many authors with prominent international collaboration with China, while China's most-cited ESI independent papers were only in category of biology & biochemistry and environment/ecology.
The effect of academic inbreeding on scientific effectiveness Results indicate that academic inbreeding adversely affects scientific productivity and effectiveness. Decision makers are urged to limit this practice to a minimum in order to foster a vibrant research environment. To sum up, in order to alleviate the negative impacts of academic inbreeding, university administrators must therefore cast the widest possible net during job searches in order to assemble the best qualified faculty members.
Bibliographical research in the study of Hebrew printing: a bibliometric analysis Testing data against several bibliometric laws has proven to us that this discipline behaves as a scientific field in the full sense of the term. All the parameters indicate that, consistent with Goffman's epidemic theory, biblio- graphical research in the study of Hebrew printing is now at the third stage of its life as an independent research field, the phase of decline. This is a preliminary study that presents the state of bibliographical research in the study of Hebrew printing during a 30-year period, ranging from the latter quarter of the twentieth century until the beginning of the third millennium (1976–2006).
Research productivity: Are higher academic ranks more productive than lower ones? For number of publications and relative impact, FPs show the best performance, followed by associates and APs.
Measuring economic journals' citation efficiency: a data envelopment analysis approach The paper categorizes the journals into four main categories (A–D) based on their efficiency levels.
The single publication H-index and the indirect H-index of a researcher This is defined as the indirect H-index of this researcher (here Egghe). It measures the impact of the indirect citations to the papers of this researcher. In the forthcoming paper we will give more examples, so that comparisons of indirect impact are possible.
On the correlation between bibliometric indicators and peer review: reply to Opthof and Leydesdorff We therefore conclude that the CPP/FCSm indicator is significantly correlated with the quality judgment of the peer review committee. This contradicts the first conclusion of O&L mentioned above. In our view, this is a too simplistic perspective on the intricate relation between citation analysis and peer review.
Bibliometry and nanotechnology: A meta-analysis When productivity per researcher and investment is considered, then, the U.S. is not the leader in nanotechnology publication.
An analysis of scholarly productivity in United States academic anaesthesiologists by citation bibliometrics Our results suggest that h-index is a reasonable indicator of scholarly productivity in anaesthesia.
RAST: finding related documents based on triplet similarity The Related Abstract Search Tool, inspired on the 3D-SE viewer, aims to help not only searching abstracts submitted to scientific conferences, but it may also provide a tool for searching and browsing through any type of database.
Almost Halfway There: An Analysis of the Open Access Behaviors of Academic Librarians Academic librarians can more effec-tively model the behaviors they are often tasked to encourage in others.
Incentives and creativity: evidence from the academic life sciences In this article, we exploit key differences across funding streams within the academic life sciences to examine the impact of incentives embodied in research contracts on the rate of scientific exploration.
Is less clinical research being published by surgeons in the United Kingdom? These data suggests that clinical surgical research in the UK has suffered over the last 20 years.
H-index is a sensitive indicator of academic activity in highly productive anaesthesiologists: results of a bibliometric analysis In addition to publication record, h-index sensitively indicates grant funding and mentoring in highly productive US academic anaesthesiologists.
Is it where you go or who you know? On the relationship between students, Ph.D. program quality, dissertation advisor prominence, and early career publishing success Combined, these results suggest that differences in early-career productivity among economics Ph.D. recipients are likely due more to differences across the quality of programs from which students receive their Ph.D. than from differences in the relative prominence of dissertation advisors with whom the students work within their given Ph.D. programs.
Paper Productivity of Ground-based Large Optical Telescopes from 2000 to 2009 Therefore, we could conclude that each of the current 8- to 10-m class telescopes is producing 2.1 ±0.9 Nature and Science papers annually and the rate of these papers among all the refereed papers produced by using that telescope is 1.7±0.8%.
Bibliometric analysis of public health research in Africa: The overall trend and regional comparisons Public health related research output, as well as international collaborations, have been increasing in Africa. Regional variation observed in this study may assist policymakers to facilitate the advancement of public health research in different regions of Africa, and could be useful for international organisations in identifying needs and to allocate research funding. Hence, future research on bibliometric analyses of articles published by African researchers should conduct regional comparisons with standardised methods, as well as describe the overall patterns, in order to provide a more comprehensive view of their bibliometric characteristics.
Scholarly Communication 2.0: Exploring Researchers' Opinions on Web 2.0 for Scientific Knowledge Creation, Evaluation and Dissemination We think that this survey on Web 2.0 and scientific publishing raises many important issues which need to be addressed by us as researchers, as well as by national and international research funding bodies.
Correlation between Download and Citation and Download-citation Deviation Phenomenon for Some Papers in Chinese Medical Journals Usually there is a positive correlation between DF and CF. The more DF, the more CF.
Journal Self-citation Analysis of Some Chinese Sci-tech Periodicals In this study, the self-citation rate was positively and significantly correlated with the journal's impact factor in 2006 for all 222 journals. However, the self-citation rate was not significantly correlated with the journal's impact factor in 2007 and 2008. Self-citation should not be encouraged and requested; however, a certain amount of self-citation is reasonable and necessary.
An Analysis of the Use of Electronic Journals in a Spanish Academic Context: Developments and Profitability In conclusion, it is possible to give a positive, data-driven assessment of the Big Deal model for access to electronic information, above all because of the flexibility of use that it encourages. However, libraries need to regain their capacity for individual, customized selections. Finally, a future project of considerable interest is to learn the value of investment in electronic materials with respect to the productivity of researchers. This implies the rate of return in the form of visibility for the University.
The Cognitive Structure of Library and Information Science: Analysis of Article Title Words This study provides a description of the cognitive structure of the field of LIS from the perspective of frequently occurring title words or phrases, their distribution in journals, and their usage over time. This analysis of cognitive structure shows a clear division of LIS into three distinct areas with well-defined objects of study and, to some degree, venues of publication. Although the study provides interesting findings regarding both the structure and the dynamics of LIS, it also leaves for future studies the question of why or how these structures formed and developed.
Which Cities Produce More Excellent Papers Than Can Be Expected? A New Mapping Approach, Using Google Maps, Based on Statistical Significance Testing "The scientific mapping of excellent papers can complement the popular institutional rankings published so far."
Application of the Distribution of Citations Among Publications in Scientometric Evaluations The main goal of evaluative scientometrics is to present indices, data, and arguments for science policy.
Book Reviews in Humanities Research Evaluations In the disciplines of history and literature, where book reviews are prominent, counting the number and type of reviews that a scholar produces throughout his/her career is a positive step forward in research evaluations.
Collaboration in Computer Science: A Network Science Approach Substantially, we have found that the scientific productivity of computer scientists is highly asymmetric, in agreement with Lotka’s law of scientific productivity.
Ranking of the Subject Areas of Scopus To sum up, our analysis showed that the ranking of subjects areas is a complex field. The results of cross subject areas comparisons and development over time depend on the chosen summary measure (i.e., the OP3, PG, or OPGR). Therefore, several measures should be used for a distinct analysis of structural changes at the score distribution of journals in each subject area.
Improving MeSH classification of biomedical articles using citation contexts In summary, our results show that our expansion techniques can build a document model that significantly improves performance over state-of-the-art systems in a MeSH categorisation task. This is a strong indication that other text mining systems will also benefit from our document modeling method, resulting in improved performance of these systems in the biomedical domain. In future work, we plan to explore alternative sources of related terms including: n-gram term co-occurrence analysis, and the other hierarchical thesaural relationship types.
A quantitative appraisal of the genuine contribution of Turkey and Turkish universities to science Along with research in general, research potentially to contribute to science needs specifically to be supported with a coherence, milieu creation and consistent long-term policy.
A multilevel modelling approach to investigating the predictive validity of editorial decisions: do the editors of a high profile journal select manuscripts that are highly cited after publication? In summary, we found the following answers to our four research questions that were listed above in Section 3.
Scholarly Productivity of United States Academic Cardiothoracic Anesthesiologists: Influence of Fellowship Accreditation and Transesophageal Echocardiographic Credentials on h-Index and Other Citation Bibliometrics The results show that the h-index increases progressively with academic rank and is dependent on fellowship program accreditation status but not transesophageal echocardiographic credentials in United States academic cardiothoracic anesthesiologists.
Google Scholar acceptance and use among graduate students: A quantitative study This research showed that TAM is an applicable model for predicting graduate student use of Google Scholar, which can help academic librarians seeking to understand graduate student acceptance of new information sources.
Patterns of Iranian co-authorship networks in social sciences: A comparative study Although the sample was small, the results are likely to be valid for the field of social sciences, in the Iranian context.
First-author conditions: evidence from finance journal coauthorship We study the choice of authors' name ordering using a sample of 21 finance journals, a discipline that is very close to economics. We find that the choice of alphabetical ordering is based on the quality of the article, heterogeneity in institutions, team size and cultural and/or institutional differences among different regions of the world. Signalling becomes more important when the paper is shorter, not published in the top journals, when coauthors come from lower ranked schools, and when the team size is large.
The life cycle of scholars and papers in economics - the 'citation death tax' Citations play an important role in the presentation of research and in the use of prior knowledge in written work. Our use of premature deaths of active scholars indicates that they do.
Interpretations and misinterpretations of scientometric data in the report of the Royal Society about the scientific landscape in 2011 The solution is to use multidimensional indicators that may also incorporate the prestige of the sources in which the papers were published and cited. That will represent the real landscape of science, and which countries are the genuine superpowers in scientific research.
Probing the effect of author self-citations on h index: A case study of environmental engineering The findings from this study show that, in the discipline of Environmental Engineering, for the authors whose works are published in key journals, the degree h values are affected by self-citations is low, whether in the comparison of h values or rankings of h values.
The most cited works in major depression: The 'Citation classics' Conclusions: Despite the size of the field, there is a relatively parsimonious collection of citation classics in the field of Major Depression. These deal primarily with the mechanisms and epidemiology of the disease, with papers dealing with depression management accounting for the fastest growing group of citation classics.
Bibliometric analysis of Nigeria's social science and arts and humanities publications in Thomson Scientific databases The result of this study raises some vital questions: do scholars in Nigeria carry out research in social sciences and arts and humanities, and do their researches get cited by other researchers? Thomson Scientific Social Science Citation Index and Arts and Humanities Index respectively suggest that little is being done. Although at lesser scale than would have been expected, this study gives evidence that Nigerian social science and arts and humanities literature has penetrated the international science community. However, a better understanding of the state of research in the fields can only be obtained from a comprehensive database which does not exist presently.
DO COUNTRIES WITH LOWER SELF-CITATION RATES PRODUCE HIGHER IMPACT PAPERS? OR, DOES HUMILITY PAY? Statistical analysis has shown clearly that large numbers of country and author self-citation rates are negatively correlated with the average citation impact of the scientific publications produced in a country.
The structure and evolution of business-to-business marketing: A citation and co-citation analysis Regarding the first research question, the findings of the citation analysis reveal a picture of B2B marketing that is characterized by continuous growth and an increasing number of cited publications and authors. The increasing number of authors and clusters into the last period reflects the growth and diversification of the discipline. Over time though, these research areas have been deserted by B2B researchers, although they remain underresearched.
Costs, risks and benefits in improving access to journal articles Our conclusion is that policymakers should encourage the use of existing subject and institutional repositories, but avoid pushing for reductions in embargo periods, which might put at risk the sustainability of the underlying scholarly publishing system. They should also promote and facilitate a transition to gold open access, while seeking to ensure that the average level of publication fees does not exceed c.£2.000; that the rate in the UK of open access publication is broadly in step with the rest of the world; and that total payments to publishers from UK universities do not rise as a consequence.
PEER: green open access - insight and evidence The research evidence and practical project experiences from PEER will then be available to stimulate discussion and debate on how to maximize the benefits of both green open access and traditional publishing with the aim of supporting the development and refinement of evidence-based open access policies and practices.
PIRUS2: individual article usage statistics - developing a practical, global standard While the project has also shown that indi-vidual article usage statistics are a potentially valuable tool for several important stake-holders involved in research and the dissemination of its outputs, most have yet to be convinced that this is essential infor-mation, rather than simply nice-to-have information.
Do discounted journal access programs help researchers in sub-Saharan Africa? A bibliometric analysis The fact that we detect increases in citations, but not article production, suggests that access to the scientific literature is not sufficient to increase the production of new scientific knowledge for researchers in sub-Saharan Africa.
Profit or access: which is more important for Chinese medical journals? We believe that the CMA journals have gained temporary profit at the expense of losing readers and authors. OA (open access) may be the global trend for the development of journals, but it poses a burdensome dilemma in China. We need to learn and then advocate that more access means more profit!
The extent of concentration in journal publishing On a variety of measures the level of concentration in journal publishing is high and is increasing.
Open access policy implementation: first results compared These are hypotheses, and it must be stressed that, above all, further research is required. The most important issues requiring further examination would seem to be: • Publishing and deposit policies and their embedded expectations as to what authors are supposed to do. • Variations of author deposit, such as self-, assisted, mediated or third-party deposit.
What research should be done and why? Four competing visions among ecologists On the basis of these findings, I contend that ecology might be more effective in informing policy if priority setting were a more deliberative process and open to insights from individuals and institutions outside of ecology.
Is the h-index Predictive of Greater NIH Funding Success Among Academic Radiologists? Having obtained at least one NIH grant was associated with a higher h-index, yet multiple or large grants, such as those for program projects, were not predictive of higher h-indices.
Criteria for Authorship in Bioethics It is important to develop criteria for authorship in conceptual papers to prevent undeserved authorship and uphold standards of fairness and accountability.
CELEBRATING 60 YEARS OF PUBLICATION OF THE BULLETIN OF MARINE SCIENCE: A BIBLIOMETRIC HISTORY (1951-2010) The analysis revealed that through time, the publication has changed from a predominantly US-dominated journal to a more international outlet for science. We hope that over the past 60 yrs of history, the Bulletin has played its part in this transformation.
Comprehensive Citation Factor: A novel method in ranking medical journals The CCF is a more accurate quantitative representation to use for individual journal comparison. This formula would encourage editors to publish more manuscripts as original or review articles, rather letters or editorials, and eliminate the need for the controversial subjective classification.
PARADIGM DEPLETION, KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION AND RESEARCH EFFORT: CONSIDERING THOMAS KUHN'S IDEAS This paper elaborates upon two elements of Thomas Kuhn (1962) idea of paradigm. The first element is that a paradigm allows scientists to solve problems, which is knowledge production. When a paradigm fails to solve problems the production of scientific knowledge ends.
The Scholarly Book Review in the Humanities AN ACADEMIC CINDERELLA? "Unfortunately, the frequency of citation of book reviews—the measure of value best understood by academic administrators—does not reflect the important role reviews play and their significance as a scholarly output."
Exploring How Library Publishing Services Facilitate Scholarly Communication By analysing eight providers of library publishing services, this study identified several facilitating factors that can be categorized under Roosendaal and Geurts's four functions of scholarly communication (registration, certification, awareness, and archiving).
Appraising Internationality in Spanish Communication Journals The analysis of Spanish communication journals indicates that they are basically nationally oriented, since less than 20 per cent of their authors come from abroad.
Empirical regularity in academic research productivity patterns in marketing Our findings underscore the remarkable applicability of the generalized Lotka's Law of scientific productivity, which has been found to hold not only in various natural science disciplines but also in various social science disciplines (Chung et al., 1992; Cox & Chung, 1991), which now include the marketing discipline.
Nanoscience and Nanotechnology: Evolving Definitions and Growing Footprint on the Scientific Landscape Semantic change is a linguistic reality.
Introducing 'productive interactions' in social impact assessment The 'productive interactions' approach aims at narrowing the gap between developments in the theory of creating social impact and the evaluation practice in social impact assessment by focussing on 'productive interactions' throughout the research process and on the societal context in which these occur.
Tracing 'productive interactions' to identify social impacts: an example from the social sciences The SIAMPI approach proved useful in identifying processes through which social impact took place.
The Research Excellence Framework and the 'impact agenda': are we creating a Frankenstein monster? The most likely outcome (and the one on which we already seem to be embarked) is that universities and their faculty will reluctantly comply with the panoply of impact assessment mechanisms being put in place by HEFCE and the research councils.
Turning Postgraduate Students' Research Into Publications: A Survey of New Zealand Masters in Public Health Students A few relatively simple measures could enhance research productivity arising from MPH theses.
The Modal Number of Citations to Political Science Articles Is Greater than Zero: Accounting for Citations in Articles and Books Findings suggest that political scientists should supplement indicators of journal impact based on citations in peer-reviewed articles with measures that account for the citations that published articles receive in books. In any case, this article provides a useful empirical baseline for scholars to assess their work's impact in books as well as in articles, and for faculty to use when considering colleagues for promotion and/or tenure. Political science’s intellectual diversity requires a broader measure of evaluating the quality of articles and journals.
The Economics of Scientific Misconduct The objective of this article was to provide a framework for the study of scien-tific misconduct.
Outcomes of Canadian National Institute for the Blind Baker research grants from 1998 to 2009 The goals of the CNIB Baker grants in furthering vision research, to assist in career advancement, and in obtaining future funding from other granting agencies seem to have been achieved.
Honorary and ghost authorship in high impact biomedical journals: a cross sectional survey Evidence of honorary and ghost authorship in 21% of articles published in major medical journals in 2008 suggests that increased efforts by scientific journals, individual authors, and academic institutions are essential to promote responsibility, accountability, and transparency in authorship, and to maintain integrity in scientific publication.
The Relationship Between Acquaintanceship and Coauthorship in Scientific Collaboration Networks The results show that acquaintanceship relations are far more numerous than coauthorship ties: researchers know each other well within their coauthorship circle and beyond.
Integrated Impact Indicators Compared With Impact Factors: An Alternative Research Design With Policy Implications Our main message is to keep significance in differences among citation distributions analytically separate from impact, which we defined-in analogy to the (vector-)summation of momenta in physics-as summations of products.
Assessing the Citation Impact of Books: The Role of Google Books, Google Scholar, and Scopus Our study indicates that there are substantial numbers of citations to academic books from Google Books and Google Scholar, and it therefore may be possible to use these potential sources to help evaluate research in book-oriented disciplines.
What Does the g-Index Really Measure? I conclude that the h-index is bibliometrically more meaningful than is the g-index.
Fractionalized Exergy for Evaluating Research Performance The correlation between fractionated exergy and exergy is again close to 1.0, implying that at the level of aggregation involved, when the unit of analysis is a university, it makes no difference whether fractionalization is done or not.
National innovation systems and the globalization of nanotechnology innovation Our findings highlight the ongoing importance of national innovation system policies and frameworks in affecting trajectories and locations for commercialization in this emerging technology domain.
Research output and economic productivity: a Granger causality test Time series analysis shows that GDP and academic output are highly time dependent.
Mapping of nanoscience and nanotechnology research in India: a scientometric analysis, 1990-2009 Finally concluded that the results of a scientometric study that focuses on the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology is that the contribution of India has increased greatly in the last 5 years. However, it is sound to say based on the number of publications that the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology is currently led by USA, China, and Japan.
Using Bayesian networks to discover relationships between bibliometric indices. A case study of computer science and artificial intelligence journals The advantages of Bayesian networks justify their choice as a tool for building graphical models and representing relationships among bibliometric indices.
Research groups of oncology co-authorship network in China This study reveals that researchers from Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangdong cooperate most closely with each other and that the collaboration within 'Administrative Divisions' is closer than that between them.
Multi-modal social networks for modeling scientific fields The paper concludes with an outlook upon further possible research topics.
A bibliometric analysis and comparison on three information science journals: JASIST, IPM, JOD, 1998-2008 Comparison on the characteristics of cited journals and books reveals that JASIST and IPM are much more information science oriented than JOD and they are very much in common and diffuse into other disciplines more deeply than JOD. Results of the present research also suggest that information science, as represented by JASIST, IPM and JOD, is a developing interdisciplinary subject with an expanding literature. These findings support the assumption that the three information science journals, JASIST, IPM and JOD accurately represents the information science discipline on the basis of Borko's (1968) and Saracivic's (1999) definitions.
An impact indicator for researchers This study shows that the hnf index can be used to measure the scientific performance of a researcher. The hnf index keeps the same good features of the h index: It combines a measure of quantity (publications) and impact (citations).
The journal relative impact: an indicator for journal assessment In this study we introduced the JRI indicator that aims at measuring the scientific performance of a given journal considering the different culture of citation of each subject category.
International temporary mobility of researchers: a cross-discipline study This paper provides evidence of the considerable potential that electronic curriculum databases offer to develop indicators of researcher mobility that can eventually contribute to evaluation processes. In substantive terms, the study contributes some new information on patterns of tem-porary international mobility across disciplines. Our findings also highlight electronic CV data as a promising source for continuing studies in this field and for developing international comparative indicators.
Brazilian scientific production, financial support, established investigators and doctoral graduates In this context, we propose that an evaluation of the academic structure is necessary in order to ascertain the risks of this increased “efficiency”.
Evolutionary dynamics of scientific collaboration networks: multi-levels and cross-time analysis Using publication data and extracting co-authorship relations, we have presented an overview of collaboration efforts and collaborative networks in the "steel structures" research area. The low clustering coefficients values for all levels indicates that two randomly chosen authors (or institutes or countries) from the community are less likely to have collaborated if they have a third common collaborator. While the authors' average distance for "steel structures” field is higher than some of other fields but still it reflect a “small-world" phenomena.
The growth of international collaboration in East European scholarly communities: a bibliometric analysis of journal articles published between 1989 and 2009 The results of this analysis have several implications for those interested in strengthening scientific research in East-European nations. The benefits gained by these countries from international collaboration for integrating their national publications into the international scientific network are tremendous. The high citation impact of internationally co-authored publications suggests that international scientific collaboration (with both U.S. and EU scholars) is advantageous for the East-European scientists.
The single publication H-index of papers in the Hirsch-core of a researcher and the indirect H-index The fact that these single publication H-indices decrease in the rank r shows that there is a link between direct and indirect citation impact.
Improving SCImago Journal & Country Rank (SJR) subject classification through reference analysis The proposal featured permitted us to categorize 14,416 Scopus journals from an initial set of 17,158 as well as to restructure and redefine the SJR classification scheme at two levels of aggregation.
Network of the core: mapping and visualizing the core of scientific domains The NC concept introduced here can be employed to visualize a scientific domain by constructing a visualizing network among the theoretical constructs, models, and concepts using social networking concepts.
Does the h index for assessing single publications really work? A case study on papers published in chemistry However, our findings do not support Schubert's (2009) assumption that the additional dimension of indirect citation influence contributes to a more refined picture of the most cited papers. Whereas the results of this analysis show a tendency in the assumed direction, they are not completely consistent. Only future studies with consistent results will determine whether Schubert's (2009) new index is an incremental contribution to the bibliometric toolbox in the high impact area or not.
On the demographical changes of US research doctorate awardees and corresponding trends in research fields The changes of the demographics of research doctoral awardees with respect to the research field, gender, duration and overall growth have been presented and discussed. The major fields mathematics/computer science, physical sciences, and engineering have been studied in more detail and it has been found that the notion of the primacy of technology over science in postmodernity can be justified from this demographical perspective. To newcomers—like prospective Ph.D. students—these results should however be helpful to quantitatively explain trends.
Using author co-citation analysis to examine the intellectual structure of e-learning: A MIS perspective This study applies ACA method to construct an intellectual structure of e-learning. Altogether, our research provides a clear intellectual analysis of e-learning practices from 1996 to 2009, enabling us to thoroughly study and understand the influence of these techniques on modern education. For future research, we advocate additional theoretical and practical discussion on e-learning and its structural breakdown.
Mapping scientific institutions Our aim in this paper was to present a toolbox to map institutions and to show on the example of our institution, ENS de Lyon, what kind of insights can be derived from these maps.
Citation pattern and lifespan: a comparison of discipline, institution, and individual Our results stress the importance of only comparing citation rates within a given discipline and confirm the importance of author-seniority and journal rankings as factors that influence citation rate of a given article. Our analysis shows that for geographers and foresters working at large, public universities citation rates of their most highly cited paper depend upon journal ranking, seniority of author, and discipline. Faculty cannot change their seniority or discipline, but it appears that the best publication strategy for junior faculty to achieve the professional recognition of their scholarship required for promotion is to publish in highly ranked journals.
The determinants of research collaboration modes: exploring the effects of research and researcher characteristics on co-authorship By using internal research unit data on human resource and research project, this research empirically reveals the uncovered determinants that have been heretofore only suggested theoretically.
Empirical study of the growth dynamics in real career h-index sequences Among the factors influencing h-index growth, the "freshness" of the h-index core (i.e. the rate of new papers entering it) turns out to be particularly important.
Positioning research and innovation performance using shape centroids of h-core and h-tail Believing that the shapes, rather than the various area sizes, of the h-core and h-tail areas of an individual more accurately reflect the individual's h-core and h-tail performance, and that the centroids of the h-core and h-tail areas faithfully characterize their shapes, we propose to use the h-core and h-tail centroids as characteristic points and, by plotting these characteristic points in two-dimensional coordinate systems, these individuals' performance with respect to their h-cores and h-tails could be immediately and conveniently positioned relative to each other. Our methodology is proven by empirical patent assignee data to be capable of determining those assignees outperforming a target assignee or those assignees outperformed by the target assignee. Even though the paper uses patent assignees as an illustrative case, the methodology, observations, and results are believed to be equally applicable to individuals at various levels for the evaluation of their research or innovation performance in terms of their publications or patents.
Progressive nucleation mechanism and its application to the growth of journals, articles and authors in scientific fields Progressive nucleation mechanism, described in detail in this article, not only explains the growth of items such as journals, articles and authors in a scientific field but also provides a physical picture of the processes responsible for their growth. Analysis of the growth of articles in three randomly selected databases from 20 different databases in humanities (philosopher’s index, set 1), social sciences (exceptional child education, set 5) and science and technology (food science and technology, set 10), respectively, covering the period 1968–1987, previously reported by Wolfram et al. (1989) by using equations of the progressive nucleation mechanism and power law revealed that: (i) the progressive nucleation mechanism describes the data better than the power-law relation, (ii) the field of social sciences is saturated much earlier than science and technology but publication activity in humanities is saturated much later, and (iii) that social sciences have the maximum growth, followed by lower growth in humanities and the lowest growth in science and technology. Analysis of the data of growth of journals J(t), papers N(t) and authors W(t) in malaria research with publication year Y of journals, for the period 1955–2005, reported by Ravichandra Rao and Srivastava (2010), by using equations of the progressive nucleation mechanism and power law shows that the data can be described equally well both by equations of the power law and progressive nucleation mechanism, and that the growth of journals J(t) and articles N(t) is intimately connected with the growth of authors W(t).
Mapping excellence in the geography of science: An approach based on Scopus data Nevertheless the proposed method allows for the generation of maps providing novel insights into locations of particular strength in a given field of science.
The detection of "hot regions" in the geography of science-A visualization approach by using density maps The methods presented in this paper allow for an analysis revealing regions of excellence around the world using computer programs that are freely available. Thus, the methods as described above are especially oriented on broader excellence regions and do not allow for the identification of research institutions or single cities on the map where the authors of excellent papers are located. Despite the advantages of our mapping approach to visualize excellence in science, we recognize the limitations of using bibliometric data (see Bornmann et al., in preparation).
On the growth of citations of publication output of individual authors In power-law relation (3), the exponent m < 1 for several authors and the corresponding values of A in these cases are about 2, whereas for the remaining authors m > 1 but A has relatively low values in comparison with the above case of the authors with m < 1. In relation (8) of the progressive nucleation mechanism, the values of C, Θ and q are enormously different for different authors. The values of q lies between 1 and 12, those of C between about 3 and 200, whereas those of Θ between 1 and 40. The growth of citations L(t) of an author can be characterized by critical values of growth constant G, time constant Θ and nucleation rate Js, which are related to the exponent q by Eqs. (B3) and (B4).
Impact functions on the citation network of scientific articles The eigenvalue approach is useful for many theoretical purposes.
Globalisation of science in kilometres Our findings show an evolution from a system of loosely connected 20th-century nation-state science bases into a 21st-century interconnected and internationally networked global science system, characterised by increasingly large distances between research partners.
The diffusion of H-related literature Although h-related literature forms a very young research topic in informetrics and scientometrics, it has attracted much interest and provoked extended discussions both within and outside the field.
Identifying the effects of co-authorship networks on the performance of scholars: A correlation and regression analysis of performance measures and social network analysis measures Consequently, we can state that the researcher performance will improve, if the researcher has many distinct co-authors, has repeated collaborations with each of her co-authors, and is connected to a single researcher of a disjoint group of researchers.
Non-alphanumeric characters in titles of scientific publications: An analysis of their occurrence and correlation with citation impact In general, publications with titles that have non-alphanumeric characters have a larger impact than publications without. We also found that the relative occurrence of these characters in titles is stable. Overall, it appears that authors cannot influence success of publications by including non-alphanumeric characters in fields where this is not already commonplace.
Comparing the expert survey and citation impact journal ranking methods: Example from the field of Artificial Intelligence It is concluded that expert surveys and citation impact journal ranking methods cannot be used as substitutes. Instead, they should be used as complementary approaches. Therefore, all research topics and journals should be represented equally in journal quality surveys.
Is concentration of university research associated with better research performance? The general conclusion of four separate analyses presented in this study is as follows: if one adopts an external viewpoint, conceiving the volume of publication output as an indicator of concentration, performance and concentration are statistically associated; but analyzing concentration from an internal viewpoint, i.e., within a country among its universities or within a university among subject fields, they are – at least according to three analyses - not correlated in a statistically significant manner.
Assessing the varying level of impact measurement accuracy as a function of the citation window length Apart from Mathematics then, given the data, we argue that the accuracy in measurement of publication impact falls within acceptable levels for citation windows of two years for the first cluster of disciplines noted and three years for the second group.
h-Degree as a basic measure in weighted networks We conclude by saying that the h-degree, h-centrality, h-centralization and other parameters based on the h-degree provide a set of useful measures for the study of weighted networks.
Bibliometric impact assessment with R and the CITAN package It this paper we presented a package for bibliometric impact assessment that is integrated into a statistical computing software.
Comparing impact factors from two different citation databases: The case of Computer Science The results of the contrast of classical impact factors in JCR and SJR listings for the discipline of Computer Science confirm that in spite of the differences in the underlying citation databases, they are highly correlated and yield comparable rankings.
An empirical examination of the editorial review processes of accounting journals The paper reveals that accounting journals, at least generally speaking, are achieving good standards of editorial review quality. Some journals, however, are seen as having superior editorial review processes. Hopefully, journal editors and reviewers of all journals, but especially those working for journals whose editorial review processes are perceived as lagging, will seek to improve their performance.
A "librarian-LIS faculty" divide in open access practice There is no correlation between the two variables, although one may expect librarians to make more articles of their own available online. On the other hand, the citation variable can predict the dependent successfully. We observe more faculty authors citing OA articles than librarian authors.
Journal bibliometric analysis: a case study on the Journal of Documentation Results for the present research found that information science, as represented by JOD, is a developing discipline with an expanding literature. Increasingly, there has been great growth in the citing of previous literature in library and information science, social sciences, nature science, industries/land use/labor, mathematics/computer science, philosophy, psychology, and linguistics demonstrating the interdisciplinary nature of information science.
HOW SHOULD RESEARCH PERFORMANCE BE MEASURED? A STUDY OF SWEDISH ECONOMISTS Our findings suggest large discrepancies between the measures in terms of both the rank order of professors and the absolute differences between their performances.
RANKING DISCIPLINARY JOURNALS WITH THE GOOGLE SCHOLAR H-INDEX: A NEW TOOL FOR CONSTRUCTING CASES FOR TENURE, PROMOTION, AND OTHER PROFESSIONAL DECISIONS The Google Scholar h-index can be tailored to fit the profession’s research culture, resulting in enhanced validity, and can be readily computed for essentially any disciplinary journal.
A bibliometric analysis of digestive health research in Canada The present study provides an overview of the digestive health research community in Canada, evaluated for the impact and influence of their research. The data also suggest the importance, in terms of building and sustaining research groups, of ongoing recruitment, be it of new or established investigators.
The h-index, h-core citation rate and the bibliometric profile of the Web of Science database in three configurations This research gauged how Scopus and WoS compare from the perspective of the h-index, the most popular and easiest to understand bibliometric indicator.
A core journal decision model based on weighted page rank Accordingly, the method of the LIF proposed in this paper utilised weighted PagerRank algorithms to generate not only an impact factor that concentrates more on local users' needs but also a solution to the problem of attributing the same weight to different journals. The experimental results on the Taiwan NCKU Master's thesis database demonstrated that our method provided local users with a more practical evaluation reference and indicated that the value of academic journals can be efficiently evaluated by examining the connections of connected web page links. For real world applications, the LIF can further help library managers assess user needs and fulfil their information requirements locally.
Influence of Database Mistakes on Journal Citation Analysis: Remarks on the Paper by Franceschini and Maisano, QREI (2010) Despite the more or less frequent mistakes, bibliometric databases remain essential for assessing the scientific production of scientists and/or journals and, fortunately, they seem to be more and more committed to improve and fix mistakes. For a sound and plausible bibliometric analysis, it is convenient to take two aspects into account20: • Data preparation, data cleaning and integrating data from several sources are important to achieve useful and correct results. • Priority should be given to robust indicators, i.e. those less affected by possible database errors.
Developing an institutional repository using DigiTool From March 2008 to the end of 2009, CSUL has been able to make over 15,000 digital objects available online with DigiTool. We are most satisfied with DigiTool in its completeness of IR functions, support of established metadata standards and file formats, multiple ingest approaches that offer flexibility and efficiency, and the capability to integrate with our Discovery Tool and external search engines and harvesters. In conclusion, we consider DigiTool a powerful, complex, and relatively mature out-of-box IR platform that fulfills our needs to establish and maintain an IR.
Scholarly impact measurements of LIS open access journals: based on citations and links First, open access journals are becoming an important component of scholarly communication system in the discipline of Library and Information Science, as is evidenced by the significant numbers of citations in WoS, the coverage in LISA, and high citation counts of classic papers.
The impact of funding on research collaboration: Evidence from a developing country We find a positive and statistically significant effect of the grants on the total number of different co-authors, and we also find evidence of positive effects of the funding on a measure of integration of researchers into the scientific community (direct and indirect links) within a sample of domestic scientists.
A functionalist framework to compare research systems applied to an analysis of the transformation of the Chinese research system This paper illustrated the use of a theoretical framework for the comparison of research systems by analysing the transformation of the Chinese research system in the period 1980-2005.
An updated ranking of academic journals in economics We have conducted an update, over the period 2003–2008, of the ranking of economic journals obtained by Kalaitzidakis, Mamuneas, and Stengos (2003).
Measuring Research Data Uncertainty in the 2010 NRC Assessment of Geography Graduate Education Given the import and potential influence of the NRC assessment's results it is imperative that it be accurate, robust, and relevant to the disciplines being evaluated; the results of our meta-assessment reveal significant concerns in each of these three areas. The results of our data-based evaluation of this assessment suggest that the answer is a resounding “no,” which is in line with the findings of others (e.g., Carpenter-Hubin and McClelland 2011; Cole 2011). We hope that this article contributes to an active and informed discussion within geography on the worth, nature, utility, and design of future assessments of our discipline.
Age dynamics in scientific creativity This article demonstrates that the frequency of great achievement at young ages is more a function of time than field. The analysis further shows strong, independent associations between age dynamics within fields and both the prevalence of theoretical work and measures of the stock of foundational knowledge. The findings thus may provide candidate, quantitative markers to help identify such revolutionary events, providing an intriguing direction for future research.
The structure of mental health research: networks of influence among psychiatry and clinical psychology journals "Scientific publication in the mental health field is largely organized along disciplinary lines, and is to some degree hierarchical, with clinical psychology journals tending to be structurally subordinate to psychiatry journals."
Classification and Visualization of the Social Science Network by the Minimum Span Clustering Method In summary, we have proposed a MSC method to cluster large complex systems. This clustering method is efficient since its processing time is linear to the size of the dataset (N), and its results are satisfactory.
The Structure of the Arts & Humanities Citation Index: A Mapping on the Basis of Aggregated Citations Among 1,157 Journals The approach of the American Humanities Indicators project to neglect A&HCI (and Scopus as its younger com-panion), in our opinion, can be considered unreasonable.
Counting Methods, Country Rank Changes, and Counting Inflation in the Assessment of National Research Productivity and Impact The findings also suggest that the popular counting method (whole counting) that gives each collaborating country one full credit may not be the best counting method.
Improving the Coverage of Social Science and Humanities Researchers' Output: The Case of the Erudit Journal Platform There is, thus, a very important proportion—almost a third—of the article production of SSH researchers that is missed when data are limited to the WoS. Finally, our results also clearly highlight the fact that the research output of SSH researchers from francophone universities is much more underestimated than the output of their colleagues from anglophone universities when only data from the WoS are used. Unfortunately, we are not optimistic about seeing such things happen, as it would mean admitting, for ranking producers, the important shortcomings of the various rankings they have produced over the years.
Who Is Going to Win the Next Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Fellowship Award? Evaluating Researchers by Mining Bibliographic Data In particular, we show that com-bining various bibliometric index variants by generating a machine learning committee can improve the predictive per-formance. In the future, we plan to investigate in greater depth the influence of the authorship network on the evaluation of researchers. We also plan to examine the influence of the publication types on researcher evalua-tion.
The impact factor of rheumatology journals: an analysis of 2008 and the recent 10 years Over the past 10 years, rheumatology journals showed a general increase in IF and rheumatology remained a leading discipline.
Institutional Repositories, Open Access, and Scholarly Communication: A Study of Conflicting Paradigms This study, reporting on a national survey of academics primarily based in New Zealand's eight universities, reinforces and adds to an emerging picture of institutional repositories worldwide.
Collaboration and Productivity in Scientific Synthesis Our work indicates that participation in synthetic research probably also has consequences for scientific careers and, ultimately, for scientific culture.
Relevance theory and citations Major tenets of RT have considerable power in explaining various findings from citation research.
Editorial Responsibility: Managing the Publishing Process to Do Good and Do Well In closing, our article described the processes through which editors can do well by doing good.
Progressive Trends and Impact of the Journal of Career Development: A Citation Analysis Overall, the findings indicate that JCD has contributed to the scholarly advancement in the field of vocational psychology as well as applied psychology in general.
PUBLICATION AND CITATION IN BIOMECHANICS: A COMPARISON WITH CLOSELY RELATED FIELDS (2003-2010) This data seems to imply that despite the increasing number of Biomechanics publications and Biomechanical journals, the average number of citations received by the papers published in Biomechanical journals is growing at a slower pace compared to the papers published in the journals belonging to all other included subject categories. More extensive research is needed to determine the reason for the observed trend. The net effect of this declining trend may be that researchers will prefer to publish their best research in other journals.
Next-Generation Team-Science Platform for Scientific Collaboration The proposed TSEP system provides research intelligence collection capabilities and a suite of analysis and modeling tools to help understand key factors that influence the effectiveness of large-scale team-science initiatives and evaluate different team-science design alternatives. These capabilities and tools are expected to enhance the research platform of the team-science research community.
The interactive heuristic review mechanism: a new method of assessing pioneering research projects of the National Natural Science Foundation of China The IHRM could be a complementary mechanism for conventional grant peer review.
Promoting interdisciplinarity in the life sciences: a case study This data indicate that the intent of the new organizational structure to promote interdisciplinary research was becoming a reality.
Average-based versus high- and low-impact indicators for the evaluation of scientific distributions In our opinion, one plausible interpretation of the situation is that a mean-based indicator alone does not suffice to ade- quately represent what takes place in highly skewed citation distributions.
A disadvantage of h-type indices for comparing the citation impact of two researchers The main goal of this paper is to make clear that generalized h-type indices (such as the generalized Wu- and Kosmulski-indices) do not measure the scientific impact of researchers in a uniform way.
Uncovering the Intellectual Structure of Research in Business Ethics: A Journey Through the History, the Classics, and the Pillars of Journal of Business Ethics By describing the intellectual structure of business ethics our work contributes to the field in several manners. Additionally, our study contributes to the consolidation of JBE as the leading journal in the field. Finally, our results provide some indications about the alignment between academic research and managerial issues in business ethics.
How to Build a Scientific Publishing Career Based on Hundreds of Letters-to-the-Editor: "The Art of Loss" Subsequently, we would like to suggest that before accepting a letter (especially when it does not undergo peer-review) the responsible editor should perform a search in the scientific databases in order to check the competence(s) of the author(s).
Affiliation analysis of database publications We observed that most papers originate from US institutions and that industry labs run by IBM, Microsoft, and AT&T are most prolific.
The Matthew effect in environmental science publication: A bibliometric analysis of chemical substances in journal articles The persistence of some environmental chemicals in the scientific literature may be due to a 'Matthew' principle of maintaining prominence for the very reason of having been well researched.
Drowning - a scientometric analysis and data acquisition of a constant global problem employing density equalizing mapping and scientometric benchmarking procedures The present study represents a first detailed sciento- metric Web of Science database analysis and visualiza- tion of drowning related publications using density equalizing calculations and chart techniques.
Eduardo Primo Yufera, founder of Revista de Agroquimica y Tecnologia de Alimentos and pioneer on Food Science and Technology research in Spain Primo Yúfera played a very important role in the advance of food science and technology in Spain and achieved international recognition and influence.
Prevalence of articles with honorary and ghost authors in three pharmacy journals A survey sent to the corresponding authors of articles published in 2009 in three peer-reviewed pharmacy journals revealed that a substantial percentage of articles demonstrated evidence of honorary or ghost authorship. The inclusion of individuals as authors who do not adequately contribute to an article—honorary authorship—can dilute the perceived contribution of deserving authors and also pose a risk to personal credibility. Ghost authorship is unethical and can mask conflicts of interest with the pharmaceutical industry.
Co-authorship networks in electronic markets research In this article, we have highlighted the history of Electronic Markets, and visualized the co-authorship network of researchers publishing in EM. Results indicate that researchers who publish together with many co-authors, who bridge between different groups of authors, and who are located in the center of the co-authorship network are cited more often. Our results illustrate strikingly that inferences based on (erroneous) theoretical standard errors might lead to false conclusions. We therefore recommend that researchers employ empirical standard errors when testing hypotheses with network statistics violating the i.i.d. assumption.
Getting cited: Does open access help? The main contribution of this paper is to show that at least part of the larger number of citations received by open access papers is due to a self-selection effect rather than a diffusion (or causal) effect.
Are you too young for the Nobel Prize? "Results based on nominations indicated that if an age premium exists, it is introduced at the nomination, not Nobel Committee, level."
'Impact' in the proposals for the UK's Research Excellence Framework: Shifting the boundaries of academic autonomy Given the behaviour-shaping effects of research evaluation, the paper demonstrates how the proposed changes could help embed impact considerations among the routine reflexive tools of university researchers and enhance rather than restrict academic autonomy at the level of research units. It also argues that the REF could constitute an important dialogical space for negotiating science-society relations in an era of increasing heteronomy between academia, state and industry. But the paper raises doubts about whether the proposed operationalisation of impact is adequate to evaluate the ways that research and knowledge translation are actually carried out.
How do men and women differ in research collaborations? An analysis of the collaborative motives and strategies of academic researchers The most important finding from the study is that, contrary to expectations, men and women differ relatively little with respect to research collaborations and, surprisingly, women have some-what more collaborators, especially when controlling for structural and climate factors. Our research suggests two important policy implications. First, much attention has been focused on creating more equitable pol-icy structures to ensure that women can more effectively balance work and family responsibilities.
Interdisciplinarity and the social sciences: capital, institutions and autonomy divided we stand?
How ownership affects the growth strategies of scientific journals A study of economics journals 1950 to 2000 The growth in the discipline of economics brought about a very substantial growth in the journals of the discipline.
Possibilistic analysis of arity-monotonic aggregation operators and its relation to bibliometric impact assessment of individuals In this paper we discussed a family of aggregation operators, called impact functions, which may be regarded as a formal model of the Producer Assessment Problem.
Micro-credits in scientific publishing The paper proposes better apportioning of scientific credits and evaluation; substantive evolution of the academic publishing and credit attribution models. This paper purported to give two main conceptual contributions to the characterization of scientific knowledge objects in the web age. We then made a simple but potentially far-reaching proposal about crediting sub-atomic portions of a SKO, as a way to make fine-grained characterizations and evaluations of scientific output possible.
Citation systems in the biosciences A history, classification and descriptive terminology The Harvard system is considered herein to be the most effective for information transfer. An examination of the history and purpose of scholarly citation, mainly in the biosciences, and the development of citation systems has facilitated an analysis of their multifarious designs. It is recommended that a similar survey of journals in the humanities be carried out, when it seems likely that significant differences from those in the biosciences would be revealed; it is predicted that most humanities journals would use various numeric end-reference or footnote systems.
Trends in co-authorship in economics since 1985 The results suggest that increases in co-authorship are related to the desire for higher quality and the institutional structure within the subdiscipline. We find that it is only one specific type of complexity that matters. The combination of quantitative methods with other economic analyses is what appears to spurn co-authorship. Different fields of economics have different norms for co-authorship.
RANKING ECONOMICS DEPARTMENTS IN TERMS OF RESIDUAL PRODUCTIVITY: NEW ZEALAND ECONOMICS DEPARTMENTS, 2000-2006* The paper demonstrates that the rankings generated by the residual research approach and those generated by traditional approaches to research rankings may be significantly different for some departments.
PUBLICATIONS OF AUSTRALIAN LIS ACADEMICS IN DATABASES This article used an extensive list of academics working in Australian LIS institutions for more than two years since 1959 to examine their publications. In total, 2,232 unique journal articles were found for those academics in eight different databases. Finally, analysis of the frequency of words appearing in the titles of publications shows a clear shift from library-related topics towards information-related areas. This indicates the adoption of information science (or studies) in the Australian LIS scene.
The intellectual structure of the anti-consumption and consumer resistance field An author co-citation analysis From an academic perspective, this study provides clear tools for researchers to identify potential new directions as well as to locate their work within the field. From a practical point-of-view, this study can serve as an introduction to the field for students and managers. It would be of interest to combine the co-citation analysis with a contents analysis to allow for better tracing of future research trends.
An evaluation scheme for nanotechnology policies This article sets forth an evaluation scheme for national nanotechnology plans.
Publish or Perish: How Are Research and Reputation Related? Research and reputation are related to each other. The nature of this relationship is unclear.
Publication Delay in Iranian Scholarly Journals The data in table 1 indicate that the peer review and publication processes in Iranian scholarly journals are relatively lengthy ones.
Content and Bibliometric Analysis of Articles Published in the Journal of Orthopaedic & Sports Physical Therapy JOSPT has shown publication trends for increased percentage of experimental and clinically relevant research. However, there may be a need for increased publication of randomized controlled trials and studies focused on diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment, if goals of evidence-based practice are to be met.
Cognitive and Social Structure of the Elite Collaboration Network of Astrophysics: A Case Study on Shifting Network Structures The network approach based on the triangulation of qualitative and quantitative data turned out to be fruitful for the analysis of the interplay of epistemic and social structures in scientific disciplines.
A bibliometric study of Video Retrieval Evaluation Benchmarking (TRECVid): A methodological analysis Our analysis broadly confirms previous studies [12, 17] that Google Scholar is a very comprehensive bibliometric tool for Computer Science.
Analysis of keyword networks in MIS research and implications for predicting knowledge evolution In our study, we examined the structure of the keyword networks of MIS research and observed five interesting results: (1) The keyword network of MIS research is very sparse with a long average distance. The positive degree-betweenness correlation could be a unique feature of MIS keyword networks, implying that popular keywords in MIS research are those that also bridge distant clusters of related concepts and ideas. Our research method can be applied to a broader scope of scientific fields, rather than to a single one.
A Retrospective Analysis of the Trend of Retracted Publications in the Field of Biomedical and Life Sciences From the present study, it can be observed that there are a relatively lower number of single-authored publications that are known to be fraudulent and are eventually retracted.
The Carbon_h-Factor: Predicting Individuals' Research Impact at Early Stages of Their Career Nevertheless, it can help to evaluate and compare research impact across researchers at different stages of their careers. Especially when researchers at early stages of their careers apply for important research positions, this could be of essential help to compare more mature and established researchers, and young, promising, and, most importantly, researchers with high potential.
Productivity and Prestige in Business Ethics Research: A Report and Commentary on the State of the Field Through our report, the authors hope to provide useful insights into the current state of the business ethics academic community. At the very least, our findings suggest that conventional wisdom about academic productivity and prestige may not apply to our field.
International Collaboration of Turkey in Liver Transplantation Research: A Bibliometric Analysis Turkey showed a significant positive trend in publications in the scientific field of liver transplantation in the last 30 years, and the rank of Turkey among other countries improved in recent decades. Currently, Turkey is one of the top 17 countries in terms of number of scientific publications listed in SCI-E. This can be considered as another indicator for Turkey's progress in the field of liver transplantation.
Research performance of RAS institutions and Russian universities: A comparative bibliometric analysis Our analysis shows that, despite the decreased per- sonnel and funding, the Russian Academy of Sciences continues to be the most effective research organiza- tion in Russia. Nevertheless, according to the main indicators, Russian science in general and both university and academic science in particular are substantially below the international level. This problem can be resolved only through an efficient science policy pri- marily aimed at the development and creation of con- ditions for effective interactions between academic research and education.
Systematic grant and funding body acknowledgement data for publications: new dimensions and new controversies for research policy and evaluation We note that, on the basis of the data presented here, the number of funding sources which a paper cites is not invariably a reliable predictor of increased impact, and where such an impact can be found, the strength of the effect is very small.
Measuring the influence of nanotechnology environmental, health and safety research These results demonstrate the viability of tracking citation information to substantial bodies of research to assess patterns of influence. That, in turn, offers a useful research evaluation capability. From this perspective, a challenge for policy-makers is to incentivize greater awareness of a new and potentially inconvenient line of research.
Categorizing h-index variants In conclusion we have clearly identified two cate-gories of h-index variants and we propose using the two complementary indices h and A in the research assessment of an individual scientist.
Mobility, productivity, gender and career development of Argentinean life scientists The analyses presented in this paper provide an insight into the dynamics of career advancement in the case of life science CONICET institutes in Argentina.
How are journal impact, prestige and article influence related? An application to neuroscience It was shown that emphasizing the 2YIF of a journal to the exclusion of other informative RAM could lead to a distorted evaluation of journal impact, prestige, performance and influence.
THE DAWN OF A NEW ERA? AUSTRALIAN LIBRARY & INFORMATION STUDIES (LIS) RESEARCHERS FURTHER RANKING OF LIS JOURNALS The work galvanised the Australian LIS researcher and academic community into thinking about relevant journal titles, ensuring that the titles they choose to publish in are refereed, and also ensuring that the few titles that emanate from Australia are supported and recognised.
Mapping of Chagas disease research: analysis of publications in the period between 1940 and 2009 In conclusion, we have found a lineal increase in the number of publications on Chagas disease.
COLLABORATION BETWEEN RESEARCHERS FROM ACADEMIC AND NON-ACADEMIC ORGANISATIONS A Case Study of Co-authorship in 12 Hungarian Universities The scientometric indicators clearly demonstrated where Hungarian universities stand in their performance in collaboration with non-academic partners. Higher citedness of the joint articles with the foreign country institutes than domestic partners are in harmony with observations in other countries. The relatively high citation rate also shows that the knowledge base is important even by international standards, and that it can produce relevant results for industrial partners as well.
Neotropical Ichthyology: trajectory and bibliometric index (2003-2010) Analyses have been able to show that strict evaluation control and editing of the articles have contributed towards its success and internationalization.
Scholarly communication and possible changes in the context of social media A Finnish case study Currently, the environment of scholarly communication is moving to social media gradually. This understanding can aid the researchers to keep abreast of new characteristics of scholarly communication and help the librarians to develop the correlative services in the scholarly environment of social media. Further study will surely focus on the role of the libraries and the development of library services in connection with scholarly communication and social media.
Benchmarking leading supply chain management and logistics strategy journals The recent addition of six journals to the Web of Science database allows leading SCML journals to compete on a level playing field with other top-tier business journals and can therefore be regarded as a major step forward in the maturation of the discipline, as well as recognition of the quality of the journals.
On the Evaluation of Economic Research: The Case of Italy In our view, a proper fine-tuning of the assessment methodology is needed, before subsequent rankings can be used as a guide for the allocation of public financing among research institutions. The assessment of research in Economics and, more generally, in the social sciences, raises relevant concerns for the preservation of pluralism in these disciplines. We strongly suggest the utilisation of this kind of indicators, whose computation is nowadays made straightforward by the availability and accessibility of large datasets of publications, as a “companion” to peer review assessments.
The effect of funding on academic research impact: a case study of Iranian publications The study investigated the effect of research funds on the citation impact of Iran's research publications.
The geography of distance education - bibliographic characteristics of a journal network Network analysis of journal citations such as that presented in this article gives a snapshot of connections between journals that can be used as one indicator of pres-tige and importance of scholarly journals in a particular field. The results of this analy-sis help us to understand the regional, international, impact and influence factors related to publication in these journals and across the field. In future citation-based studies, it would be very inter-esting to explore the extent to which distance education journals are integrated into the broader adult/continuing education and lifelong learning communities.
Does Social Network Matter in Knowledge Output? Two phenomena coexist: a high degree of author concentration in knowledge output and a social network of authors with a core component and relatively sparse subsets.
H-Index of the Citing Articles: a Contribution to the Evaluation of Scientific Production of Experienced Researchers The H-index of the citing articles can be useful to discriminate the scientific production of authors with a high number of published papers. It is suggested that that this metrics pro-posed in the present study - H-index of the citing articles – is incorporated in the analysis of the scientific production of the researchers by the main providing agencies as well as higher education institutions and made available by the specific systems of the Web of Science-ISI, the Scopus, the Academic Google and the Lattes Platform.
Evaluation of cheating detection methods in academic writings The nine techniques and methods for cheating in academic writings and the three plagiarism detection service providers described in this paper were recently used in our university assignments for our assessment of plagiarism. In addition, the proposed knowledge base for a plagiarism detection system can improve the quality and accuracy of plagiarism detection techniques in advanced systems. Librarians should advertise the results of our research to authors to check their works against the nine plagiarism tricks mentioned in this paper before submitting it to plagiarism detection systems for assessment.
Whether big deals are really big for engineering college libraries? The results of this study are useful for engineering college libraries to develop the collection of online journals in the digital era.
A standard procedure for Bradford analysis and its application to the periodical literature in systems librarianship Bradford's law has many useful potential applications to libraries, such as selection decisions, collection evaluation, defining core journals, calculation of cost at various coverage levels, etc. The experience and solution developed in this project should be instructive for a similar bibliometric analysis. The study also shows that the literature in systems librarianship follows Bradford's law.
Do women publish fewer journal articles than men? Sex differences in publication productivity in the social sciences This article has examined sex differences in publication productivity in the social sciences. Across the social sci- ences, women did not publish journal articles at a level comparable with their representation within academia. This means that women publish less than their male counterparts (and men publish comparatively more). Whilst further research is needed to better understand publication practices within the social sciences, these findings offer a new angle through which to reflect on the gendered academy, women’s role in higher education and their contribution to the formal production and dissemination of knowledge.
Nine criteria for a measure of scientific output We describe above nine criteria that, we hope, might lead to a better way of evaluating scientific output.
GREAT EXPECTATRICS: GREAT PAPERS, GREAT JOURNALS, GREAT ECONOMETRICS The article discussed alternative Research Assessment Measures (RAM), with an emphasis on the Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science database. Likely future uses of RAM include using RAM criteria for research assessment exercises, and as input into academic appointments and promotions. On the basis of the frequent appearance of Nobel Laureates in a few great journals in econometrics, the RAM would also seem to be useful in predicting future Nobel Laureates in Economic Sciences, and the areas of research that might be considered for such a prestigious award.
The Resistible Decline of European Science In this paper, we documented the existence of a productivity advantage of Anglo-Saxon research institutions and universities, a fact that European researchers and public decision makers tend to dismiss far too often. It is our contention that the governance and design of US-like universities are critical inputs in knowledge production. By promoting in-depth reforms, national governments and the European Commission would vastly contribute to the "irresistible" growth of their universities in the production of advanced and successful knowledge.
Familiarity and Experience with Open Access among Iranian Medical Researchers Although the health sector in Iran is the first in the country to provide OA to scholarly journals, the present study has found that in general there is low familiarity with terms, initiatives and services of OA. More than half (52.3%) of researchers have submitted their papers to OA journals, but the number of submissions from those familiar with OA were greater than from those who were less well-informed. Results from the chi-square test for familiarity with terms, initiatives, and services of OA and practice of submitting article to OA journals reveal a significant association between submitting to OA journals by researchers and their familiarity with Creative Commons, OA journals, Iranian OA journals, subject-based repositories, DOAJ, PLoS, and ETDs.
Understanding links: Web Science and hyperlink studies at macro, meso and micro-levels Links between Brazilian and German websites were shown to derive from a large number of formal and generic links, challenging the prevalent association that large quantities of incoming links are an indication of high relevance.
Statistical regularities in the rank-citation profile of scientists Such statistical regularities in the input-output patterns of scientists can be used as benchmarks for theoretical models of career progress. We use the DGBD model to provide an analytic description of c₁(r) over the entire range of r, and provide a deeper quantitative under-standing of scientific impact arising from an author's career publica-tion works. Hence, it is likely that the publication careers of productive scientists in many disciplines obey the statistical regularities observed here for the set of 300 physicists.
Cancer research performance in the European Union: a study of published output from 2000 to 2008 To conclude, we found that the USA has overtaken the EU27 in terms of both number of cancer publications and their impact. China’s cancer publication performance improved markedly over the same period, although it was in fourth place behind the USA, the EU and Japan on almost all publications measures. We suggest that these new findings should be considered by policymakers in Europe and other countries when developing policies for cancer control.
The Aging of Biomedical Research in the United States This suggested that limited access to NIH might inhibit research potential and novel projects, and could impact biomedicine and the next generation scientists in the United States. Our data also suggested that while innovative research can occur at any age (the Nobel researchers surveyed ranged in age from 24 to 72 years), investigators under 40 years old seemed to dominate the projects. If nothing is done to reverse the rising age of PIs and first-time grantees, the scientific community could lose a generation of researchers, leading to an unsustainable biomedical research infrastructure and a dearth of talent participating in NIH-funded projects in the near future.
Publication criteria and recommended areas of improvement within school psychology journals as reported by editors, journal board members, and manuscript authors The results presented here suggest that authors should focus on their manuscript content as compared to the content mechanics.
Relative Influence of Professional Counseling Journals Our results indicate that although some journals ranked higher than others did in relative influence, all 17 journals—including the specialty area journals are connected and have their own niche in the flow of information within the counseling profession (see Figure 1).
Tech mining: text mining and visualization tools, as applied to nanoenhanced solar cells Text mining and visualization tools enable us to derive vital technical intelligence from these re-sources. Such empirical analyses can lead to better MOT processes—essential in a highly competitive world.
Measuring the value of sociology? Some notes on performative metricization in the contemporary academy We conclude that measuring the value of sociology involves multiple mutual constructions of reality within which ever more nuanced data assemblages are increasingly implicated and that analysis of this data can make explicit some of the parameters of enactment within which we operate in the contem- porary academy.
A survey of orthopaedic journal editors determining the criteria of manuscript selection for publication The editorial and review process in orthopaedic journals uses different approaches.
Catching up with Harvard: results from regression analysis of world universities league tables There is consistent evidence of universities that were performing less well initially catching up more over the period. Non-US universities seem to exhibit a larger extent of catching up compared to their US counterparts. This paper has endeavoured to identify some more general patterns in performance amongst the arguably more research oriented universities based on the criteria used by the ARWU.
Drivers of Inequalities in Higher Education and the Unexpected Consequences of Equality Policies This paper has investigated the Hypothesis that HEIs regulated on the basis of equality assumptions may develop substantial inequalities.
Power and Networks in Worldwide Knowledge Coordination: The Case of Global Science The result may be that few if any constraints prevent centrally driven states, such as China, from possessing world-class science or reduce their long-term ability to emerge at the top of global university and other research rankings.
Productivity and Impact of the Top 100 Cited Parkinson's Disease Investigators since 1985 Most names in Tables 1–3 will be clearly recognized by the majority of PD investigators as being “super-stars" (for example the late David Marsden) in the PD community.
Shifting Power Relations and the Ethics of Journal Peer Review In conclusion, the manuscript review process is best thought of not in terms of simple dominance of reviewers and editors over authors, but rather as a shifting "net" of power relations. These complex power relations need to be understood if reviewers are to be encouraged to participate in the process and to do so in the the most ethical and effective manner. While increased awareness of, and openness about, power relations might be effec- tive in improving the manuscript review process, an understanding of the complex power dynamics underpinning manuscript review might also be a justification for more radical, structural changes to the publishing process.
The h index of the presidents of the American Psychological Association (APA) through journal articles included in the Web of Science database The results of the study lead to speculate that the productivity in scientific articles was not the most important criterion to take into account for the election of the presidents in the history of the APA. It should be emphasized that the APA is a scientific and professional association and the results of the current study show that its professional line seemed to be taken into account more than the scientific one.
Tracking Trends: Students' Information Use in the Social Sciences and Humanities, 1995-2008 The initial research questions were satisfactorily answered by longitudinal analysis.
HeinOnline and Law Review Citation Patterns Our study clearly shows that authors of law review articles remain far more likely to cite to articles that have been published fairly recently. But while online access to the full text of older articles through HeinOnline has not increased their citation rates, that should not be construed as an indication that full-text accessibility of older journals is not necessary.
Temporal Trends in the Impact Factor of European versus USA Biomedical Journals Journals published on behalf of European scientific societies, in select biomedical fields, may tend to close the "gap" in impact factor compared with those of US societies. The main finding of our study is that the impact factor of journals published by European scientific societies rose more than that of journals published by US ones, in cumulatively 4 select subject categories, in the fields of Medicine or Biology, over the past decade. Our findings could be interpreted as potentially indicative of an effort of the European Union to close the 'gap' in research productivity with the US.
Characterization of published errors in high-impact oncology journals Error rates in high-impact oncology journals average 4%, which is likely an underestimate, because errors noticed by readers are not consistently reported.
Evaluating Research and Impact: A Bibliometric Analysis of Research by the NIH/NIAID HIV/AIDS Clinical Trials Networks Overall, the results suggest the networks are producing highly recognized work, engaging in extensive interdisciplinary collaborations, and having an impact across several areas of HIV-related science.
International Stem Cell Collaboration: How Disparate Policies between the United States and the United Kingdom Impact Research The results indicated that international collaborations, on average, significantly increased article citation rates (our metric for impact) for the UK and US investigators.
Do impact factor, h-index and Eigenfactor™ of chemical engineering journals correlate well with each other and indicate the journals' influence and prestige? In summary, it is shown that all four metrics are highly correlated with one another and it is especially true for broad-based CE journals.
The Prevalence of Honorary and Ghost Authorships in Iranian Bio-Medical Journals and Its Associated Factors It seems that the present data might assist the authorities to make a decisive decision on amending the process of authorship in Iran. In conclusion, the present data are witness that regardless of authorship criteria expressed by ICMJE and acknowledged by many journals, still there are cases of reverting from these criteria. Generally, the results indicated that ethical issues on authorship rights are not followed properly by researchers in Iran.
The Association between Four Citation Metrics and Peer Rankings of Research Influence of Australian Researchers in Six Fields of Public Health This suggests a peer understanding of research influence within these fields differed from visibility in the mainstream, peer-reviewed scientific literature. This research therefore recommends the use of both peer review and metrics in a combined approach in assessing research influence.
Peer Review, Program Officers and Science Funding Our results emphasize the importance of the program officer's approach and funding agency's rules, which can vary substantially across divisions within the same agency and over time [8,14,15].
Tools for analyzing and mapping scholarly publications not indexed by the Web of Science: the case of fruit and vegetable publications by the French National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA) This study led to the mapping of INRA fruit and vegetable research publications.
Lost in translation: the impact of publication language on citation frequency in the scientific dental literature Our results suggest that publication lan-guage substantially influences the citation frequency of a research paper. Researchers should publish their work in English to render them accessible to the international sci-entific community.
How Citation Boosts Promote Scientific Paradigm Shifts and Nobel Prizes In summary, groundbreaking scientific papers have a boosting effect on previous publications of their authors, bringing them to the attention of the scientific community and establishing their “authority”. The boosting factor can therefore serve to discover new breakthroughs and talents more quickly than classical citation indices. Our findings reveal patterns of collective social behavior, which are also interesting from an attention economics perspective.
Acceptance and Usage of Open Access Scholarly Communication by Postgraduate Students at the Sokoine University of Agriculture and the University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania This study attempted to understand open access awareness, usage and perceptions of postgraduate students at SUA and UDSM.
The Spread of Scientific Information: Insights from the Web Usage Statistics in PLoS Article-Level Metrics These similarities and differences shed light on the theoretical understanding of different complex systems, as well as a better design of the corresponding web applications that is of high potential marketing impact.
The H-Index as a Quantitative Indicator of the Relative Impact of Human Diseases Therefore, scientific interest, as measured by the H-index, appears to be a reflection of the true impact of pathogens. The H-index method can be utilized to set up an objective, repeatable and readily automated system for assessing pathogen or disease impact. Further research may show that a rapid increase in an H-index score can perhaps be used as an indicator of disease or pathogen emergence.
"Economia Politica" over the Last 25 Years, and More: A Snapshot of Contents and Scholars Economia Politica (EP) has gradually evolved over 27 years into an «international journal of analytical and institutional economics» (Quadrio Curzio, 2006).
A Simple Index for the High-Citation Tail of Citation Distribution to Quantify Research Performance in Countries and Institutions The x-index is a simple and precise indicator for high research performance.
Research in Pharmacy Schools of India: A Study Based on Scopus Database The current trend holds promise for rapid growth, although quality of publications has not yet become the priority of most researchers.
DECAY OF TECHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN VENEZUELA Given these facts, it is concluded that the Venezuelan technologi-cal system is immersed in a deep crisis. The analysis of either the strength of the technological capacity of Venezuela, exemplified by the value for ex-ported goods manufactured with either low, medium or high technological content; or the development of Venezuelan technologies, taken as the number of patents granted in the USA; or the number of technologically oriented scientific publications; all based mainly upon the relative weight of INTE-VEP as the largest and most important in-novator in the country, leads to a single con-clusion: technological research and develop-ment is deteriorating rapidly in Venezuela. Indeed, the deep crisis that nowadays suffocates the Venezuelan system of science and technology was ac-centuated in the year 1999 with the change in public policies regarding funding and hu-man resources management brought by the creation of the Ministry of Science, Technol-ogy and Innovation, the structural centraliza-tion that it enforced and the philosophical questioning of the nature and reason of be-ing of science and technology in society.
Use made of open access journals by Indian researchers to publish their findings Indian researchers publish a large number of papers in OA journals, not necessarily because more than 360 Indian journals are OA. Their contribution to high-impact international biomedical OA journals is modest at best. However, India's contribution to Acta Crystallographica Section E: Structure Reports is substantial. We suggest that the better option for India is institutional self-archiving.
Author Self-Citation in the General Medicine Literature Approximately 1 in 15 citations of articles in high-profile general medicine journals are author self-citations.
Comparison of universities' scientific performance using bibliometric indicators Although NTU had been taken the lead of PKU in publication outputs and PCPP values at the beginning of 21st century, PKU was active in recent years and ahead of NTU both in publication outputs and PCPP values in 2009.
Research and impact of materials science publications in India: 1999-2008 The mean relative growth rate of publications in materials science decreased from 0.34 during 1999-2003 to 0.17 during 2004-2008 indicating the declining trend of publications in Indian materials science research. Scientometric studies enable the science policy makers and administrators to understand and grasp the growth, development and impact of research and to know the countries, institutions and the individual scientists who are active in a particular field of research activity. These studies will also provide some insights into the dynamics of research activity and enable one to gauge the direction of research activity and take appropriate measures.
An Empirical Analysis of Overlap Publication in Chinese Language and English Research Manuscripts Overlap publication was common in this context, but instances of standard ICMJE notations to acknowledge this practice were rare. This research did not cite the identified overlap manuscripts with the hope that these empirical data will inform journal policy changes and structural initiatives to promote clearer policies and manuscripts.
Croatian Bibliometric Analysis, 2000-2007 This study is a contribution to research in the field of scientific doc-umentation and further analysis is recommended in constructing and developing search filters to retrieve and focus on specific information.
Surgical Scientific Publication and the 1991-1995 War in Croatia The results suggest that war in Croatia has had a strong modifying effect on the surgical scientific output.
Publications in ISI-indexed public health journals from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan during 1999-2008 The total number of papers in public health from China increased significantly during 1999–2008.
SELF-ENHANCEMENT IN SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH: THE SELF-CITATION BIAS A typical psychology article contains 3 to 9 self-citations, depending on the length of the reference list (10% of all citations). In contrast, cited colleagues in general receive 1 to 3 citations. This is what we call the self-citation bias: the preference researchers have to refer to their own work when they guide readers to the relevant literature. Researchers include a number of self-citations in their articles not because the self-citations are necessary to understand the argument or because they are the best state-of-the-arts, but because they are good for the researchers’ esteem, by means of self-enhancement and self-promotion.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS RESEARCH BEHAVIORS: WHAT ARE THE NORMATIVE STANDARDS? Overall, we conclude that experience is associated with stricter judgments of the behaviors. Apparently, individuals develop a more nuanced view of these behaviors as a result of editorial experience. This analysis reveals no evidence of a systematic cultural bias.
A decade of the International Journal of Clinical and Health Psychology (2001-2010) These results are in agreement with the journal's mission of promoting advancement in clinical and health psychology and show that it is a truly international journal. The fact that there are three different publication languages confirms once again the international character of the journal. The current study is the first bibliometric analysis conducted on the articles of the International Journal of Clinical and Health Psychology.
Bibliometric and Social Network Analysis Applied to Television Dissertations Presented in Spain (1976/2007) The leading figures in the last period (1998-2007) are highly specialized professionals who conduct research in the areas mentioned above and also in the field of Audiovisual Communication.
Characterizing and Modeling Citation Dynamics We conclude that the shifted power law is the best distribution to fit the data.
Comparative Recall and Precision of Simple and Expert Searches in Google Scholar and Eight Other Databases This study confirms that within the field of later-life migration, simple searches in GS have high precision and high recall relative to simple searches in EconLit, GEOBASE, PAIS, POPLINE, PubMed, SSCI, Social Sciences Full Text, and Sociological Abstracts. However, Google Scholar's advantage diminishes considerably when expert searches are considered. The results of this study are limited by its emphasis on a single subject area. Similar investigations involving a broader range of subject areas might allow us to assess the reliability of these findings across disciplines.
A bibliometric analysis of malaria research in India during 1998-2009 Quantum of Indian research output in malaria research is high but its citations per paper is low compared to select developing countries, which can be improved by investing more funds in international and national collaborative research projects, as well as increasing the participation of researchers in such projects. From the above analysis, it is concluded that to achieve more research output, India has to invest much more in terms of R&D expenditure, deploy more research manpower, and identify malaria research as a priority area in the current and future national S&T plans as well as in the plans of research agencies. For increasing the impact of Indian research, national collaboration between basic research and clinical research institutes in India should be encouraged by allocating more resources for national collaborative research projects by funding agencies as well as through much enlarged international collaboration.
A study of influential authors, works and research network of consumer behavior research The historical timeline of research concepts, themes and methods provides a clear overview of the consumer behavior research path in the period from 1989 to 2008 (Figures 5 and 6).
Two new scientometric indices for measurement of collaboration activities of departments and their researchers in academic institutions In this paper two new indices called collaboration h-index (hc-index) and collaborative researchers h-index (hcr-index) are proposed. Collaborative h-index determines those institutes which form the core of collaborative research activity. The collaborative researchers h-index assesses the researcher in the context of its institute.
An empirical relation between k-shells and the h-index in scale-free networks We have shown that the largest k value for which there exists a non-empty k-shell, denoted as kmax(G), satisfies the relation kmax(G)≤ h(G), where h(G) is the degree h-index of graph G. Next we recalled the notion of coreness of a node in a network and determined an empirical relation between the h-index, the number of nodes in a scale-free graph, i.e. with maximum degree centrality < 100, and the coreness and degree centrality of its nodes. We are convinced that our study will stimulate further ones involving node coreness.
Research Collaborations between South Africa and Other Countries, 1986-2005: An Informetric Analysis Research collaboration between South Africa and other countries has increased since 1986, with most of it being recorded after 1994 when the government of national unity was formed.
Open Access: Perceptions and Reactions of Academic Librarians in Nigerian Private Universities This paper concludes that academic librarians in Nigerian private universities had positive perception of the importance of the OA initiative to the development of scholarship, especially in regard to facilitating access to a wide range of academic information resources.
Citation Advantage of Open Access Legal Scholarship The present article offers empirical justification to assert that these benefits are real, consistent, and sizeable. The open access advantage reported for other bodies of literature extends to include legal scholarship, albeit with some identified caveats. The expected impact for the average article is an additional 58% above those received by works of similar quality appearing in the same or similar publication venue.”
COLLABORATION IN SOUTH AFRICAN ENGINEERING RESEARCH As collaboration has turned out be a decisive factor in the production of papers in engineering, joint endeavours in engineering research should be encouraged. This will have a positive impact on the growth of the discipline and on the economy of South Africa.
Evaluating Transportation Research Journal Quality Using the Author Affiliation Index "Based on these observations, we suggest the AAI is a low-cost alternative to opinion surveys and other means of journal quality evaluation."
A Survey-Based Evaluation of Logistics and Transportation Research Journal Quality Our results indicate Transportation Research B and Transportation Science to be the most highly regarded research journals among this set of researchers. Many of these journals had not appeared in prior journal quality surveys; thus, this research has provided valuable information on their perceived quality relative to other outlets. These survey results are significantly different than those previously reported, we think primarily due to the very specific purpose of our survey and sample: evaluation of transportation research journal quality by published transportation researchers.
EMPIRICISM AND THE RISING INCIDENCE OF COAUTHORSHIP IN LAW Coauthorship, we have demonstrated, is on the rise, as earlier analyses have suggested. In keeping with theories of complementarity, it appears that coauthorship is a response to increasingly technical demands in scholarship, as it is found most frequently in the peer-reviewed journals, then in major law review articles, and less frequently observed in lower-status work in law reviews including book reviews, student notes, and symposium pieces.
Research contributions of Spanish Psychiatry (2004-2009): A bibliometric analysis of a University department Conclusions. DPsML published 11.84% of most cited papers in Spanish psychiatry, 20% in the field of drug addiction and 20.84% in the field of behavioral science, 1 the inconsistent results with other bibliometric studies2 on the same researchers, shows the need for more tight and demanding indicators and mapping of production encompassing, both research groups as molar units (university departments).
Profile and Scientific Production of CNPq Researchers in Cardiology Our study has shown that researchers in the field of cardiology have a relevant scientific production.
Cooperation between Referees and Authors Increases Peer Review Accuracy Our results suggest that increasing cooperation in the peer review process can lead to a decreased risk of reviewing errors.
Critical Assessment of Progress of Medical Sciences in Iran and Turkey: The Way Developing Countries with Limited Resources Should Make Effective Contributions to the Production of Science Despite high numbers of published articles, both countries have medical journals with very low comparable citation rates and IF. Only one out of three Turkish articles is cited once by authors outside of Turkey and one of five Iranian articles is cited by authors outside Iran. Developing countries can only contribute to world science when they focus their efforts on teamwork in order to research ways to solve country-specific diseases and their own health problems.
Publication Pattern of Turkish Medical Theses: Analysis of 22.625 Medical Theses Completed in Years 1980-2005 Percentage of published thesis in Turkey is lower when compared to the remaining European Countries.
Quantifying the Impact and Relevance of Scientific Research We have shown how it is possible to measure the impact of research publications within a clearly defined policy objective - the conservation of wild bees.
A substantial number of scientific publications originate from non-university hospitals A substantial number of scientific publications originate from non-university hospitals. Almost two thirds of the publications were original research published in international journals. We have demonstrated that seven regional hospitals in two Danish regions contribute with a substantial amount of well-ranked clinical research publications.
Factors associated with cumulative research funding of investigators from CIHR - a major health-research funding agency Demonstrated associations between investigator-level CRF and predictors suggest that CRF should be considered in the context of investigators' multiple roles.
Expertise Recommender System for Scientific Community This paper presented a new system to identify and visualize current and potential experts in topical areas of a scientific discipline. The main contributions of this paper are: A methodology for automatically identifying potential experts from assembled profiles. A combined visualization of a topical classification hierarchy and a ranked list of potential experts at each level in the hierarchy.
Pain research in Croatia: Analysis of bibliometric trends Although the number of manuscripts in the field of pain research in Croatia is increasing, the quality of published articles is still low. We propose that Croatian Association for the Treatment of Pain should take actions for enhancing pain research in Croatia, as well as increasing the visi-bility and impact of Croatian pain-related research that can be transposed to other research fields and transitional countries.
Scientific literature addressing brain glioma in the Web of Science A 10-year bibliometric analysis In conclusion, scientists in the USA are the most productive brain glioma researchers.
Science as a Social System and Virtual Research Environment We have a generational opportunity to make our science system better through effective evaluation and evidence based policy making and architecture development.
Conference Models to Bridge Micro and Macro Studies of Science In this paper, we propose conferences as a strategic unit and agent-based-modeling as an appropriate method to study the evolution of scientific communities and of culture at large and delineate a case study of the development of robotics in the last 50 years.
The Competition for Attention and the Evolution of Science Can the disappointments be avoided? Simulation might address this question too. Simulations could explore the consequences of such interventions. It seems worth the effort to construct them.
A Matching Model of the Academic Publication Market This paper aimed at providing a dynamic model of the academic publication market where scholars supply and journals demand papers.
Science Ethics Education Part I. Perception and attitude toward scientific fraud among medical researchers Our participants recognized all types of scientific fraud as violation of ethical standards of science, expressed strong negative attitude against fraud, and believed that they would never commit fraud, thus indicating their own high moral sense.
Pakistani Journals and the Impact Factor: Where are we standing right now There is a very small contribution by Pakistani journals in terms of ISI indexation. Basic sciences journal continues to overshadow in term of ISI indexation with highest impact factor of 0.825 by Pakistan Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Bibliometric study of diabetic retinopathy during 2000-2010 by ISI •
World Gynecologic Oncology Publications and the Turkish Contribution to the Literature between 2000 and 2007 Most of the gynecologic oncology publications originated from the USA and Western European countries, where gynecologic oncology training is available and surgical and research traditions are well established.
A Study of Innovative Features in Scholarly Open Access Journals The case studies illustrate how a new technology and a business model enabled by new technology can be harnessed to find new innovative ways for the organization and content of scholarly publishing. Several recent launches of OA journals by major subscription publishers demonstrate that OA is rapidly gaining acceptance as a sustainable alternative to subscription-based scholarly publishing. Existing OA journals have already tried out many new ideas in scholarly publishing, as reported in this paper.
South African management literature over the past fifteen years: Content analysis of the three top South African management journals This systematic review of South African business and management journals plays a critical role in benchmarking these journals against international and other highly rated journals.
Iranian research output in pediatrics: 1975-2007 Contribution of Iran in production of pediatrics science is showing a sharp increase after 2002, this pattern is in parallel with other research fields.
Research productivity among faculty members at medical and health schools in Saudi Arabia Prevalence, obstacles, and associated factors Understanding factors and barriers impeding research productivity is a prerequisite for interventions that are directed to promote health services research among faculty members in medical schools.
Coverage of Spanish social sciences and humanities journals by national and international databases. First, it has been observed that the distribution of frequency of presence of journals in databases fits Lotka's law, it is to say, that few journals are in many databases and many journals are in few databases.
Share of Nations in 37 international Public Health Journals: An Equity and Diversity Perspective towards Health Research Capacity Building There is an imbalance and possibly even inequity in the composition of editorial boards and offices of interna-tional health journals that should be paid significant attention. This can contribute to fill the equity gap exists between health in developing and developed countries.
A Bibliometric Index for Selection Processes The index proposed seeks to integrate factors that have been dispersed and which lacked a valued focus on research activities.
A LANGUAGE PROFILE OF SOURCES CITED IN THE JOURNAL KINEZIOLOGIJA/KINESIOLOGY FROM 1971 TO 2010 This type of analysis could be regarded not only as a mirror of the journal's development, but also as a mirror of the development of a society. In all, the development of a journal may be traced through many aspects, thus also through the number of sources cited per published paper, the language of sources, etc. Such analysis could be regarded not only as a mirror of the journal's development, but also as a mirror of the development of a society.
Measuring the visibility of the university's scientific production through scientometric methods Authors' impact analysis and citations are not assessment tools in Romanian universities, but it is commonly accepted that increasing research impact through more citations is one qualitative indicator.
Research process, report structure and journal outlets in scholarly studies Transparent understanding and foresight of research processes, report structures and journal outlets provide essential and valuable insights for scholars.
Counting citations in texts rather than reference lists to improve the accuracy of assessing scientific contribution By comparing the appearances of CRRS and LRRs in texts rather than in reference lists, we showed that counting citations in the text more accurately reflects the scientific contribution.
Citation analysis of doctoral dissertations at IIMA Citation analysis of doctoral thesis and dissertations has an important role in analyzing the local use of journals and this study is an attempt in this direction.
Visualization studies on evidence‐based medicine domain knowledge (series 2): structural diagrams of author networks The EBM literature contains several key clusters, with universities in high-income countries being the source of the majority of articles. The EBM cooperation network in China is comprised of three major groups, the largest and most productive in this sample is led by Li Youping with Liu Ming, Zhang Mingming, Li Jing, Wang Li, Wu Taixiang, and Liu Guanjian as central members. This helps with understanding the current status and human resources in EBM research, which may support the planning of further growth in this area.
Open access journals – what publishers offer, what researchers want Some forty thousand answers were collected across disciplines and around the world, reflecting major support for the idea of open access, while highlighting drivers of and barriers to open access publishing.
In scientific publishing at the article level, effort matters more than journal impact factors Working hard and working effectively with others were clearly the most important factors affecting number of citations.
Australian sporting innovation: patently better? Despite our comparatively small population, Australia has a leading role in sport around the world.
The new tools of the science trade: contested knowledge production and the conceptual vocabularies of academic capitalism My main point is that the disproportionate focus on formal university-industry linkages is both out of proportion with material reality and, more perniciously, elides the subtle ways that academic capitalism remakes scientific culture.
Manoeuvring towards research decline The findings have implications at several levels. At a national policy level it questions the value of the research assessment exercises that appear to have presided over a decline in research productivity. For institutions, it questions the value in investing in developing local talent when success has come to those who buy talent internationally.
Evaluating research: from informed peer review to bibliometrics Setting up national databases of publications by individual authors, derived from Web of Science or Scopus databases, would allow much better, cheaper and more frequent national research assessments.
Citation Analysis of Ph.D. Theses on Physics Submitted to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University The study of citation analysis of 30 Ph.D. theses on Physics shows that most cited documents in physics literature are from journals (77.07%) and remaining (22.93%) citations were from books, conference proceedings, theses and others.
MFT Doctoral Dissertations: A Brief Report This preliminary report offers a beginning in an effort to address the lack of information available about MFT doctoral dissertations in terms of quantity and content analysis for the field of marriage and family therapy. COAMFTE doctoral programs are encouraged to conduct their own internal analysis of completed dissertations and make the data available for review. The Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education itself is encouraged to place additional emphasis on dissertations as part of their evaluation of MFT doctoral programs.
The role of Chinese universities in enterprise–university research collaboration The number of articles co-authored by Baosteel-university scientists and by Sinopec-university scientists had kept increasing since 1998, indicating the consistent impact of government policies for promoting the cooperation among enterprises, universities and research institutes. During the last decade Chinese universities have played a more and more active role in enterprise-university research collaboration: the co-authored articles are increasing rapidly; the share of enterprise-university articles is enlarging; the authors from universities are more possible to be the first authors; the mathematical orientation emerges in the enterprise-university articles. Further analysis based on the data of joint enterprise-university patents will deepen our understanding of the role of Chinese university in enterprise-university research collaboration.
The effects of coauthorship on the quality of financial research papers By analyzing all DGF papers in the period from 1996 to 2005, we find complementing evidence for the predominant empirical finding of a quality enhancing role of coauthorship.
Web citation persistence over time: a retrospective study The study showed that scholars still rely more on print resources than on the web materials. The present study examined the scholars' behavior in LIS field to find more about their favorites and trends in citing print or web resources. Such studies could gain more insight into the overall web citation behaviors among scholars of various domains.
Metadata assessment in e‐theses and dissertations of Canadian institutional repositories This metadata assessment describes how metadata elements of electronic theses and dissertations are currently used at Canadian institutional repositories and discusses some of the issues affecting standardization of practice in this area.
Whither Metrics, Part II. Tools for Assessing Publication Impact of Academic Library Practitioners The strategy outlined here for assessing scholarly output of academic library practitioners, while built around journal ranking based on a 5-year impact factor, also incorporates publication counts and analysis and recognizes the importance of perception studies. It creates another year's data that can be used as a building block for a multi-year analysis that may add a new dimension to a growing body of research and, equally important, prove useful for academic library practitioners. As academic librarianship continues to evolve, so too will the metrics we devise for measuring our impact.
Commercial science, scientists’ values, and university biotechnology research agendas Our analysis of a survey of plant and animal biotechnology scientists at U.S. universities indicates that the critics' concerns are valid. Structural factors and funding sources matter, and they may matter more today than they did in the past. Without sufficient commitment to and investment in basic and non-proprietary research that provides public goods, the scientific foundations that underpin the discovery and advancement of commercial technologies are likely to eventually decline.
Competitive External Research Funding as an indicator in University Research Evaluation: Fractional Counting of Number of Funding Applications In this paper, we used the number of Grants-in-Aid as an indicator to show the research activities of universities and introduced different counting methods that take into account the different roles of the principal and co-investigators of projects. We found very high correlations between the results of conventional counting and fractional counting methods, which means that, if we focus only on the number for the purpose of university ranking, it does not really matter what is used to count. Evaluation should not be limited to ranking, and ranking in turn should not be one-dimensional.
Continuously Variable Rating: a new, simple and logical procedure to evaluate original scientific publications Continuously Variable Rating is shown to be a simple computer based procedure capable of accurately providing a valid rating for each article within the journal and time frame in which it was published. In summary a new evaluation system is proposed for published original research, CONTINUOUSLY VARIABLE RATING, which takes into account the citation potential of individual articles within the context of the periodical in which it is published and performance vis-à-vis the ensemble of articles published in the same journal.
Four-facets study of scholarly communities: Artifact, producer, concept, and gatekeeper The discussion argues for more holistic measurements of scholarly communication that take multiple variables into account.
An Overview of Open Access in the Fields of Business and Management The current study found the OA rate in business and management to be 36%: a surprisingly high number, especially given that there is little discussion of OA in the business literature. We believe that further studies of this type focused on other disciplines will help to complete an overall picture of the state of OA and provide guideposts for future directions of scholarly communication in particular disciplines and across all fields. Much OA research focuses on what Stevan Har-nad called the “economic and epistemic benefits of having research more accessible to researchers” (qtd. in Poynder, 2010, p. 40), but not so much on OA's benefits beyond researchers.
Citations to Web Pages in Scientific Articles: The Permanence of Archived References Archiving a referenced Web page at publication can help preserve the authors' expected information. Internet references become inaccessible over time, but archiving the Web page at publication can preserve the information the author intended to cite.
Role of doctoral scientists in corporate R&amp;D in laser diode research in Japan This study confirms that industry-based doctoral corporate scientists play an important role in promoting corporate R&D by linking corporate R&D with university research. The results of this study imply that the industry-based doctoral degree system enhances the relationship between industry R&D and university research in science and technology-intensive industries.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Science Cooperation Group Size The above results give responses to the three questions mentioned in introduction. The Weibull distribution is suitable to cooperation group size distribution. Kernel Density Estimation curve fits with the Weibull Density Distribution curve perfectly(R2>0.9) . As a comparatively convenient function, Kernel Density Estima-tion can be used as a model to study the relationship between scientific productivity and group size.
Linking to a bilingual Web space Statistically significant correlations are found, suggesting that those creating the links are well aware of the language situation in the municipalities and use that knowledge when creating the links. Yahoo can therefore be recommended for webometric studies where language is a factor. However the results are very clear and based on them we can say that there are clear indications for people linking to bilingual municipal Web sites to be well aware of the language aspects in the municipalities and for this knowledge to reflect on their linking behavior.
Document constancy and persistence: A study of Web pages in library and information science domain The analyses suggest, at least for the Web sites studied, that Web sites undergo significant expansion and contraction over relatively short periods of time. While the very short term variation in the number of Web pages per Web site tends toward parity, there is nevertheless a trend toward the increase in the number of Web pages per Web site over time. Given the relatively short duration of the data reported in this paper, Web page permanence appears to occur more commonly for library and information science organization pages than for the Web in general. Web page constancy appears to be far less certain than for permanence.
Social Choice at NIH: the principle of complementarity The current structure of social choice has given us the capacity to advance incrementally.
Analysis on open access citation advantage All in all, the study enriched the research about citation advantage especially about OACA.
Journal Article Growth and Reading Patterns Over a million articles are published each year in over twenty thousand peer reviewed journals. A vast majority of those journals and articles are now available in electronic form.
Status of Journals in the Field of Higher Education Thus to answer the question of whether the subjective perceptions of faculty mirrored the more objective faculty-supplied data, the answer is yes, particularly for the top tier journals.
Establishing an Open Access Culture among Researchers: Experiences and Challenges at Two Academic Organizations in Sweden From reactions and questions from the researchers, we have been able to see a lack of understanding about open access or how it can be of benefit to the researchers themselves.
Comparing the NRC and the Faculty Hiring Network Methods of Ranking Doctoral Programs in Communication Thus, placement of graduates is a legitimate measure of program quality. The findings indicate department and university reputation help students in their faculty job search, as does faculty modeling of the research process. It is argued placements of graduate students into research-intensive positions should be considered the standard in evaluating doctoral education in communication.
Learning to share: mandates and open access The major implication of this research is the increasing relevance of, and necessity for researchers, academic librarians and university administrations to revisit our own attitudes to and behaviour regarding traditional publishing. If a university has an IR, then this is a good way for researchers to showcase their research, and for the university to showcase the full breadth of its research. Without a mandate the OA message is ambiguous, it does not appear as if the university has unconditional support for OA or its own IR.
Snap judgement of publication quality We proposed a peer reputation (PR) based metric to indicate the selectivity of a publication venue.
Psychologists’ research activities and professional information-seeking behaviour: Empirical analyses with reference to the theory of the Intellectual and Social Organization of the Sciences First of all, we succeeded in the construction of psychometric scales for assessing the four subdimensions of Whitley's theory of the ISOS [13] which can be used in similar and other research contexts.
Measuring Value in Open Access Repositories This study found that institutional repositories are not consistently collecting materials of the highest impact, suggesting that the value of these repositories is relatively low.
Disappearing act Decay of internet URL citations in PLoS Medicine could create serious issues with reference to continuity for archived articles.
An evaluation of the Mind-Body Interactions and Health Program: assessing the impact of an NIH program using the Payback Framework Our impression to date is that the Payback Framework offers a useful conceptual framework for an outcome evaluation of this and other NIH research programs that could combine outcome assessment with an explanatory orientation.
Measuring the Results of Science Investments "The new focus on accountability, combined with new technol-ogy and the broad-based commitment of key stakeholders, may result in a better outcome."
The development of China's scholarly publications in library and information science, 1979‐2009 Despite its limitations, this study is significant in several aspects. Not only the research questions were addressed and answered adequately, it also provided an example of using the powerful ISI databases of citation indexes, particularly ISI SCCI. It is hoped that in future, China's scholarship of library and information science will experience even greater development with higher quality scholarly publications.
Scientific journals and impact factors The impact factor plays a role in the evaluation of a journal's impact, but the role is limited and should not prevail over common sense.
Tracking the use of engineering conference papers: citation influence of the Stapp Car Crash Conference The results show the relevance of the research presented at the Stapp Car Crash Conferences as demonstrated by the number of times these papers were cited in the journal literature indexed by Science Citation Index Expanded. Almost two-thirds of the papers presented at the conferences in the past 25 years are cited at least once by the scientific journal literature. The vast majority of citations (92 per cent) are to the first or lead author. The majority of the papers, approximately 85 per cent, were cited as papers within the conference proceeding with the remaining papers cited as individual technical papers.
What Journal Authors Want: Ten Years of Results from Elsevier's Author Feedback Programme These two sets of results spread over nearly a decade, reflect-ing between them the views of a nearly 100,000 researchers in all regions and all levels of seniority, demonstrate the sta-bility of author desires about publishing vehicles in scientific, technical, and medical subjects.
Research productivity and scholarly impact of APA-accredited school psychology programs: 2005–2009 As our study shows, the field of school psychology is highly productive and constantly evolving, not only terms of the relative research productivity and scholarly impact of its APA-accredited doctoral programs, but also in terms of the most common publication outlets and themes of research.
The First Decade of the<i>New Journal of Physics</i>: An Analysis of Its Contributions to the Field The effort made by the Institute of Physics and Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft in creating an open access physics journal of high quality has produced a successful publication worthy of inclusion in the recent history of scientific scholarly communication.
How do congressional members appear on the web? Tracking the web visibility of South Korean politicians Using API-based web mention data obtained from a search engine, this study measured the online visibility of Korea's congressional members.
Library and information science (LIS) as we see it: An overview at the state and country level from 1965-2010 We find that the productivity and impact in LIS is highly skewed towards North American and European countries.
Weaving the Native Web: Using Social Network Analysis to Demonstrate the Value of a Minority Career Development Program This study's innovative application of SNA demonstrates that collaborative relationships can be an important outcome of career development programs for minority investigators and that an analysis of these relationships can provide a more complete assessment of the value of such programs.
Academic Labor Markets and Assistant Professors’ Employment Outcomes I interpret these patterns as showing that those hired during a weak labor market are likely to turn in better academic performances during their pro-bationary periods than those hired during stronger labor markets.
Análisis bibliométrico de las publicaciones en enfermedades infecciosas. Estudio comparativo de diez países en el periodo 2000-2009 Conclusions: In the period 2000-2009 analysed we observed a high production of publications by Spanish authors, with a high growth rate, and a prominent position in the total number of citations received by publications.
Commentary: The h-index, graduate student applicants, and comparing rankings: A critique of Carleton et al. (2010). If replicable, then the relations could be interpreted as support that the national reputation of a university, in fact, is related to the meaningful academic productivity of the faculty, and in this case, psychology faculty. The h-index is an interesting and simple metric to evaluate academic productivity of a unit, regardless of whether the “unit” is either an individual faculty member or a department as a whole. Time will tell if the h-index grows in popularity, there can be limitations to its use, and as is often the case in academic culture, those favoured by the measure might advocate its use and those disfavoured may be sceptical.
The thermodynamics‐bibliometrics consilience and the meaning of h‐type indices – reply Although the concept of exergy (X = C2 / P where C is the total number of citations to a set of papers and P the number of papers) and its cubic root p are promising metrics that deserve further attention, I find it premature to conclude that X or p are better metrics of a researcher's impact than the Hirsch index h or the square root of the total number of citations, C1/2. The h index is the only index that acknowledges this, which is why I maintain my conclusion that it is a better indicator of impact than the g index. Interestingly, the exergy/energy ratio should be a very sensitive indicator for such "one hit wonders," which is why I find it a more promising metric than energy, exergy, or entropy by themselves.
Tools of the Trade: UK Research Intermediaries and the Politics of Impacts Innovations in the economic evaluation of public research funding, driven by broader struggles over the meaning of science and innovation, might therefore be viewed in performative terms as modes of rendering science valuable.
Bibliometric analysis of fifty years of <i>physica status solidi</i> This paper presents quantitative data dealing with the output (in terms of the number of the yearly published papers) and of their impact (in terms of the number of citations that these paper have received) of pss 50 years after its inception.
Research productivity in Syria: Quantitative and qualitative analysis of current status Although the spectrum of research originating from Syrian institutions is broad, the overall number of publications particularly in clinical and biomedical subjects is minuscule and of limited quality.
Has the Bayh-Dole act compromised basic research? Our results are quite clear in that we never find support for the negative hypothesis.
The thermodynamics‐bibliometrics consilience and the meaning of h‐type indices The h-type indices are less indicative of pure impact (quality) and more of performance (where quality, quantity, and consistency play a role). However, the thermodynamics-bibliometrics consilience (Prathap 2011a, 2011b) seems to suggest that it is X, or p, which is a convenient measure of a researcher's overall performance.
Measuring science–technology interactions using patent citations and author-inventor links: an exploration analysis from Chinese nanotechnology The relationship between science and technology is complex, dynamic and non-linear.
Has globalization strengthened South Korea’s national research system? National and international dynamics of the Triple Helix of scientific co-authorship relationships in South Korea The results indicate that the effectiveness of Korea's national research capability can be enhanced beyond national border by taking into account the international relationship and that this allows for new collaborations to be driven at the network level.
Commentary: Who measures those who measure? The future of assessing research activity in Canadian psychology. Comparative assessments such as those detailed in Carleton et al. (2010) provide a context for research productivity that is likely to be useful to all persons in a given discipline.
Evaluating University Research Performance Using Metrics Our results show that no single model will apply across science and non-science disciplines. Any metrics approach to performance evaluation has to use a discipline-specific suite of indicators. Our research has shown that a metrics approach has the potential to arrive at similar evaluations, but at a much reduced cost in time, resources and disruption. Metrics do work, but such an approach has to use different metrics for different disciplines.
Top Journals Selectivity Index: is it acceptable for drugs beyond the field of analgesia? In conclusion, TJSI can be useful not only in the field of analgesics, but also with drugs belonging to other pharmacological classes. TJSI can distinguish between the most successful (breakthrough) and less successful drugs.
Who is referring teens to health information on the web? The participatory nature of today's web means that many more information sources, some unreliable, are joining the conversation.
A comparative experiment of the effect of visualization on user performance of information systems The results of the experiment demonstrated substantial and significant advantages to the InfoVis system named CiteSpace in terms of user performance. The results provide implications for IR system design.
Implications on History Research – Does Cooperation Matter? "Despite the fact that history and archaeology are considered to belong to humanities according to the classification system, this is not the case."
A Local Citation Analysis of a Business School Faculty: A Comparison of the Who, What, Where, and When of Their Citations The current study demonstrates the value of a local departmental and school-level citation analysis versus generic discipline analyses for collection development purposes. The citation analysis, when combined with general usage statistics and faculty recommendations, was a very useful tool in determining which resources to keep as part of UM’s collection and which to cut. The increased costs of serials combined with variations in local citation patterns when compared to macro models such as the Eigenfactor make the local citation analysis a valuable tool when analyzing a collection.
The High Cost of Science Journals: A Case Study and Discussion In closing, I would argue that libraries must vigorously engage two related issues. One is the ever-increasing cost of science journals. The second issue is inadequate library budgets. Stakeholders and administrators need to be educated in terms of the real and rising costs of information resources (many seem to equate “online” with "free") and see library resources not as an expense but as a critical investment in the future.
Comparison of the scientific quality of spanish radiologists that publish in international radiology journals and in Spanish radiology journals In conclusion, the most highly prestigious and quali ed Spanish experts in radiology and medical imaging publish their studies both in a representative group of international journals (Radiology, Investigative Radiology, European Radiology, Radiographics and American Journal of Roentgenology) and in the Spanish journal Radiología.
Dissertations in the Electronic Age: Tapping into Emerging Musicology Research While PQDT’s results are impressive, RILM and MI offer the benefit of con-text because they include many different types of publications and provide a broader picture of the state of research in a given topic.
Peer Review of Grant Applications: A Simple Method to Identify Proposals with Discordant Reviews We propose a simple way to identify proposals for which inter-reviewer ratings are discordant. Obviously, such an algorithm aims not to replace a selection committee but, rather, help it rank and select proposals. This approach may also find application in other contexts such as ranking abstracts submitted to a conference, as was done for the 2010 annual meeting of the French pediatric society [10].
Pesquisadores do Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico na área de Cardiologia Our study has shown that researchers in the field of cardiology have a relevant scientific production.
Writing a Scientific Paper III. Ethical Aspects Moreover, suggestions for remediating the present defective system of bibliometric measurement and evaluation are worked out.
Innovation as a social bubble: The example of the Human Genome Project Lastly, we point to the fact that the hypes fueling the bubble during its growth have not been followed by real tangible outcomes over the short expected time horizons. This supports our hypothesis that social bubbles are essential carriers for pushing segments or even sometimes the whole of society to invest considerable efforts in very risky endeavors that bring enormous rewards decades later, that is, after many capital investments have been lost on the short term. As one consequence, we suggest that governments could take advantage of the social bubble mechanism to catalyze long-term investments by the private sector that would not otherwise be supported.
The academic ethics of open access to research and scholarship What we cannot do is ignore the ethical dimensions of this issue. We must come to a shared understanding of what our obligations are in undertaking this research and scholarship. Our hope is that as we might move forward ‘in search of the ethical university,’ so that the ways and means by which we distribute what we have learned, as a matter of public trust and public good, might become more public and widely available.
Lotka’s Law and authorship distribution in Computer Science using Web of Science (WoS) during 1986–2009 Lotka's Law of scientific productivity is regarded as one of the classical laws of bibliometrics.
Open Access Issues and Engineering Faculty Attitudes and Practices In summary, the results of the survey of University of Illinois engineering faculty were consistent with other studies that have revealed concerns over the author pays model and a reluctance to self-archive in the university institutional repository. Survey results showed that Illinois engineering faculty do not extensively publish in author pays Gold journals and had limited plans to do so in the future. In line with other studies, the survey revealed that there was a lack of familiarity with the campus IR and a very small uptake rate for depositing research output in the IR.
Visibility and impact of Iranian research institutions on the web In conclusion, we should mention that most of the investigated institutions are specialists in their specific areas; SSRC (sport science), ARI (aerospace research), RIPI (petroleum industry) while IRANDOC and SRLST (science and technology, as well as humanities and social sciences) and IRPHE covers a wider range of scientific fields. To clearly examine the reasons why the impact factor or the number of links of the web site of an institution are higher than others, we suggest carrying out a research study to include the evaluation of these web sites' other features such as their appearances, contents and structures in order to determine accurately their strengths and weaknesses.
Starting From Ground Zero: Establishing a Collection for a New Doctoral Program This study offers a means to gather data via a citation analysis, aimed at supporting new academic programs, specifically at the doctoral level.
Counting methods &amp; university ranking by H-index For each university, whole counting produced a larger H-index score than straight counting; straight counting produced a larger score than fractional counting. The influence of counting methods was rather insignificant for the top 10 universities. Beyond the top 10, however, a university's rank could vary greatly depending on the counting methods. Findings from this exploratory study may shed light on the evaluation of other similar research domains witnessing intensive research collaboration.
A policy for enhancing the disclosure of university faculty invention In this paper we have argued for an additional policy instrument, “insurance”, which can aid universities limit the number of undisclosed faculty inventions.
Patent collaboration and international knowledge flow In conclusion, most of the international knowledge flows through patent collaborations still take place within the OECD group, and the OECD countries play important roles in facilitating the knowledge flows among all countries. While the non-OECD countries participate more and more in international patent and collaboration activities along with the study periods. Their importance in facilitating knowledge flows among others has been improved significantly.
Structural changes in the 2003–2009 global hyperlink network In summary, the international hyperlink network became more centralized around G7 nations and Spain, with western European countries joining the USA at the core.
Negative results are disappearing from most disciplines and countries Methodological artefacts cannot explain away these patterns, which support the hypotheses that research is becoming less pioneering and/or that the objectivity with which results are produced and published is decreasing. This study suggests that such initiatives have not met their objectives so far, and the problem might be worsening.
The outflow of academic papers from China: why is it happening and can it be stemmed? Thus we believe it is of great significance to find out the reasons for the outflow of excellent papers and then take measures to stem this flow. Only by taking these measures can outstanding achievements be published first in Chinese journals. Chinese journals need to set up online editorial systems. If possible... journals should therefore increase their frequency of publication.
Journal evaluation using the importance of authors in co-authorship network Our research has identified that we did the research from a new viewpoint, that is, a journals impact can be determined by the influence of the authors that publish in them to some extent.
Analyse des scores SIGAPS des services de chirurgie au sein des hôpitaux universitaires de l’Assistance publique–Hôpitaux de Paris : quelle est la place de l’urologie ? Urology was the absolute leader by far in terms of scientific publications in the AP-HP when compared to other surgical disciplines. The discipline is organized efficiently to juggle clinical work and research indicating a certain dynamism of the teams that invest there to fulfill the missions assigned to them in the University Hospital and the part of the autonomy of the universities.
A Methodology for Calculating Prestige Ranks of Academic Journals in Communication: A More Inclusive Alternative to Citation Metrics The P-weight methodology produces both comprehensive and subject-specific journal rankings indicative of the relative stature, prestige, and impact of potentially all communication journals.
Practical Applications as a Source of Credibility: A Comparison of Three Fields of Dutch Academic Chemistry The Importance of Stakeholders
The Peer-Review Process for Articles in Iran's Scientific Journals First, the kinds of refereeing applied by scientific journals can affect many policies and decisions in the peer-review process. Our findings also indicate that of the four known peer-review models, the most common among Iranian journals is double-blinded refereeing. Second, one of the major factors in the peer-review process is the procedure for accepting and rejecting articles. Fourth, of six criteria mentioned in our survey as potentially affecting an article's likelihood of acceptance, the two reported to be most important are the originality and creativity of the research and the relationship of the topic to the journal's scope and policy.
Intellogist: An online community dedicated to comparing major patent search systems This paper has reviewed the criteria used to produce the Intellogist Reports and Quick Table Comparisons available on Intellogist, as well as the ways that Intellogist welcomes community input on these tools and on patent search best practices.
Scientometric Analysis of the Research output: a study of Government Medical College &amp; Hospital (GMCH), Chandigarh Among the medical institutions of Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, GMCH has scored 2nd rank by contributing 854 papers, accounts for average annual publication growth rate of 16.22%, has registered an impact of 1.32 citations per paper and achieved the h-index as 17 for the research output during 2000-2009. The collaborative research output of GMCH involves 16.58 % of national collaborative papers and 3.98% of international collaborative papers. The cumulative research output of 16 most productive authors of GMCH had contributed 677 papers, with an average impact of 1.68 citations per paper and average h-index as 5.69.
A comment to the paper by Waltman et al., Scientometrics, 87, 467–481, 2011 Given the high correlations between the old and new “crown” indicators, one can expect that the lack of correlation with the peer-review based quality indicator applies equally to the newly developed ones. In summary, we argue that the industrial character of citation analysis for evaluative purposes has hidden technical flaws in these measurements because of a lack of openness about the data and therefore critical discussion in academia. Notwithstanding their prevailing use in research evaluation and strategic decision-making, the statistical analysis of this scientometric data, for example, supports the claim of the criticizers (e.g., MacRoberts and MacRoberts 2010) that citation analysis hitherto cannot legitimate the strategic selection of excellence.
Bibliographic and citation analysis of publications from a Thai Research Institute with a defined lifespan: The Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, 1999 to 2009 This study provides the first detailed assessment of research productivity and impact of the work of a Thai Research Institute and may have value in benchmarking research in institutes in other developing countries.
Using social media data to explore communication processes within South Korean online innovation communities This study examines the use of Twitter by online innovation communities, which has rarely been covered in previous research in either the social network or Scientometric fields. Innovation group organizers were found to be more open to non-members, who might be capable of providing fresh information and the kind of creative ideas that are necessary for further innovation. Co-construction (shared membership) of innovation groups had a synergic effect in general, but trilateral relations that included “Korean HTC,” whose organizer was less open to non-members than other innovation group organizers, had higher Tabc values and presumably less innovation.
Can Otolaryngology Compete with Larger Fields Regarding Impact Factor? Especially for smaller population fields, such as otolaryngology, widespread acceptance of PIF would be beneficial.
The meaning of the 'impact factor' in the case of an open-access journal Citation analysis has potential for both communication and evaluation. The obsession with the impact factor obscures the value of citation analysis as a tool for communicating information.
Viewpoints on synergising ASEAN academic visibilities through research collaboration and the establishment of an ASEAN Citation Index Database1 "This viewpoint article has proposed ways to increase the academic visibility of ASEAN research output."
A comment to the papers by Opthof and Leydesdorff, Scientometrics, 88, 1011–1016, 2011 and Waltman et al., Scientometrics, 88, 1017–1022, 2011 The remarkable consistency of the indicators, even for this small data set (12 university groups), seems to suggest that they can be used interchangeably to give a robust picture of research performance, where by performance we mean that both size/quantity and quality of effort are taken together.
Indicators for the Data Usage Index (DUI): an incentive for publishing primary biodiversity data through global information infrastructure We believe that in addition to the recognition to the data publisher and all players involved in the data life cycle, a DUI will also provide much needed yet novel insight into how users use primary biodiversity data.
The effects of a changing institutional environment on academic research practices: three cases from agricultural science The paper concludes with the identification of three field characteristics that seem to moderate the effects of institutional changes on academic research practices.
Hyperlink Analysis of E-commerce Websites for Business Intelligence: Exploring Websites of Top Retail Companies of Asia Pacific and USA Our study results show that there exists a relationship between the hyperlink counts of Retail Company's website and its business performance.
An index to evaluate the quality of taxonomic publications We hope that this proposal will create a forum for debate about defining a new metric to assess the quality of taxonomic papers. Any metric that works in the interest of taxonomists would present a better and fairer standard.
Methodology and Scientific Competition "The present paper makes two main points. First, a methodology must be incentive compatible in order to establish itself in scientific competition. Second, the most plausible mechanism ensuring incentive compatibility is based on properties that are hereditary in the production of research."
Race Disparity in Grants—Response I believe they would have found that scientists who are highly successful, as defined by age-normalized citations or h index, would be equally successful in grant funding, with no disparity for race and ethnicity. current evidence suggests that these efforts at best whittle down the tip of the proverbial iceberg, and at worst exacerbate racial inequalities in research success (2). We are confident that such an evidence-based approach will address the concerns raised by Voss regarding the need to have better evidence before putting policies into place.
Journal Quality Metrics: How Does <i>BJOT</i> Measure Up? Prospective authors are encouraged to make an active contribution to BJOT's JQMs by submitting quality manuscripts to it for peer review (and potential publication if accepted) and citing articles recently published in it.
Factors associated with the publication of scholarly articles by pharmacists The most influential factors on the publication efforts by pharmacists were time allotment, collaboration between pharmacy colleagues and within multidisciplinary teams, and training in research methods and scientific writing.
Addenda: The <i>h</i>-index in Australian Astronomy Again though, we remind the reader that this analysis is at best an approximation, particularly given the issues noted above.
The rules of the game are changing: Scientific impact factors and publication strategies among logicians So far, the 'Web of Knowledge h-index trend' has turned out to be quite disadvantageous to logicians, due to our publication culture that differs markedly from what is usual in, for example, physics. Nevertheless, we do feel that the logic community is in need of becoming more ‘h-index savvy', if only because the rules of the larger game of academia are changing. Moreover, we can try to use our influence in appropriate ways to advance the cause of logic.
Esteem Indicators: Membership in Editorial Boards or Honorary Doctorates — Discussion of “Quantitative and Qualitative Rankings of Scholars” by Rost and Frey This result provides evidence that, especially for older researchers who are also the ones most likely to hold an honorary degree, publications in the German journals are indeed important.
National research assessment exercises: a comparison of peer review and bibliometrics rankings The results justify very strong doubts about the reliability of the VTR rankings in representing the real excellence of Italian universities and raise a consequent worry about the choice to distribute part of the ordinary funding for university function on the basis of these rankings.
Recombinant search and breakthrough idea generation: An analysis of high impact papers in the social sciences In this study, we integrated research on psychology and man-agement to build a more explicit model of how search influences breakthrough idea generation.
Is VHB-JOURQUAL2 a Good Measure of Scientific Quality? Assessing the Validity of the Major Business Journal Ranking in German-Speaking Countries The overall findings encourage a critical use and a further development of VHB-JOURQUAL as a measure of scientific quality. The study provides some general implications for the further development of VHB-JOURQUAL, which are: (1) considering approaches of foreign rankings that apparently show higher convergent validity; (2) indicating consistency or validity values for each discipline as well as the number of VHB members and survey participation rate for each discipline to encourage the discussion on whether the ranking could and should have the same mean-ing for each discipline, (3) updating the ranking on a regular basis and applying adjustments in shorter frequency, in order to avoid problems of low nomo-logical validity as related to acceptance rate. A final, but important limitation of this study lies in the fact that the question of whether German jour-nals are adequately ranked is not empirically ad-dressable, since this study compares only interna-tional journals. Although German journals might have ended up in a ranking position that reflects their scientific quality, the findings of this paper show a moderate validity of the overall ranking and thus indicate the possibility that individual journals might have not been ranked correctly.
Journal Self-citation Analysis of Some Chinese Sci-tech Periodicals "Perhaps in 2007 and 2008, editors became more rational in the treatment of citation for their journals." "Self-citation should not be encouraged and requested; however, a certain amount of self-citation is reasonable and necessary." "Though the impact factor has long been a good index to rank the scientific influence and level of journals, it is time to explore newer indices for journal ranking, such as the Eigenfactor, which possibly are less subject to manipulation."
Publish or Perish: How Are Research and Reputation Related? Research and reputation are related to each other. The nature of this relationship is unclear. It is not possible to take a "one size fits all approach" so terms such as "publish or perish" or an excessive reliance on simple metrics should be avoided. Further study is needed at the field level to better understand the relationship between activity and performance.
An Analysis of the Use of Electronic Journals in a Spanish Academic Context: Developments and Profitability The overall totals for downloads at the universities investigated showed constant growth from 2002 onward. In conclusion, it is possible to give a positive, data-driven assessment of the Big Deal model for access to electronic information, above all because of the flexibility of use that it encourages. However, libraries need to regain their capacity for individual, customized selections.
SIGCSE by the numbers Of course, if these statistical differences in acceptance rates are in fact real, this analysis alone does not indicate the underlying causes for the differences.
Publication Delay in Iranian Scholarly Journals The data in table 1 indicate that the peer review and publication processes in Iranian scholarly journals are relatively lengthy ones. One of the main factors in increasing this time is the traditional peer review and publication systems of these periodicals. Since the publication delay average in Iranian scholarly journals has exceeded the international averages, some actions should be taken to decrease the delay and to improve the peer review system.
From the Editors’ Desk To conclude, the analysis presented here suggests that NVSQ has considerable influence on scholarly research.
The Bibliometric Characteristics of Chinese Medical Core Journals Medical editors can take effective measures to improve academic levels and journal impact by considering factors from this study, such as having a proper and short publication cycle, increasing the impact factor, concentrating on articles with foundation support, publishing more high-impact papers, increasing substantive content and publishing more articles with abstracts. A proper publication cycle, increasing impact factors, placing emphasis on articles supported with foundation resources, publishing more high-impact papers, increas-ing information capacity and publishing more articles with abstracts are important considerations for Chinese medical journals. These are valuable research areas for additional study.
Correlation between Download and Citation and Download-citation Deviation Phenomenon for Some Papers in Chinese Medical Journals Usually there is a positive correlation between DF and CF. The more DF, the more CF. The peak time of CF comes relatively later at the seventh to eighth year after being published, while the DF goes to peak quickly at the second year after being published. So DF has a relatively high timeliness compared with CF in academic evaluation. However, there is a danger that the number of downloads can be manipulated by individuals, and DCDP has found in some papers.
On some flaws of university rankings: The example of the SCImago report We have shown that the SCImago ranking could be largely improved.
S&T indicators as a tool for formative evaluation of research programs In this article, we have argued that S&T indicators are powerful tools for understanding and interpreting research and development.
Knowledge map of artemisinin research in SCI and Medline database Through bibliometric analysis the development trends of artemisinin research are predicted.
The Supplementary Clerk: Social Epistemology as a Vocation The social epistemologist might take a similar line, this time working not through conversations but with texts, always trying to help scholars discover what they are capable of saying.
WITNESSES TO RESEARCH WRONGDOING One conclusion of the online survey was that research wrongdoing probably corrupts the scientific record more commonly than previously believed. The survey also demonstrated the value of intervention.
Duplicate publications: A sample of redundancy in the Journal of Urology Detection of redundant publications is a laborious process for reviewers and editors.
A four-phase model of transdisciplinary team-based research: goals, team processes, and strategies This model illuminates many of the interacting goals and team processes involved in the life cycle of a TD research project and, in so doing, helps to identify aspects of the process that investigators and translational partners should address during the course of their TD research and translational activities.
How to talk to strangers: facilitating knowledge sharing within translational health teams with the Toolbox dialogue method Translational behavioral medicine brings to bear multiple disciplinary perspectives on behavioral aspects of illness and health, and the Toolbox dialogue method aims to enable the cognitive integration of these perspectives in the context of specific collaborative projects.
Improving the odds through the Collaboration Success Wizard The Collaboration Success Wizard demonstrates the utility of creating theory-based evaluative instru-ments both to help people create successful collab-orations and to provide data for theoretical validation. The CSW provides another instrument in the collab-oration toolbox. This project fits into a larger translational science agenda, modeled on the advances that have been made in health and medical fields.
Why do you think you should be the author on this manuscript? Analysis of open-ended responses of authors in a general medical journal Our study showed that authors, when asked about authorship in a non-instructional way, i.e. without refer-ence to the ICMJE criteria as a standard in biomedicine [2], mostly declared contributions that could be matched to the first two ICMJE criteria (executing research and writing the manuscript), but not to the third ICMJE criterion (approving of the final manuscript version).
A different approach to university rankings We are convinced that the multiplicative approach has benefits, not just for university ranking but for many other applications where criteria are aggregated (e.g. Tofallis 2008). The fact that the United Nations Development Programme has adopted multiplicative aggregation should encourage others to consider its advantages. We therefore commend it for serious consideration and implementation.
Visualizing and mapping the intellectual structure of information retrieval We analyzed citation data in the information retrieval subfield for the past decade (2000-2009) and presented the results in terms of co-authorship network, highly productive authors, highly cited journals and papers, author-assigned keywords, active institutions, and the import of ideas from other disciplines. Our analysis of the co-authorship and collaboration patterns of IR researchers provides some indication of the connection between highly productive authors and those who exert more intellectual influence. We also conclude that that the information retrieval subfield's body of literature is expanding into areas not extensively covered during the years prior to 2000.
An Internet measure of the value of citations This is an approach for measuring the impact of authors by calculating first (with some heuristics) the estimated value of acknowledged citations and then converting this value into CENTs as a measure of the value of a publication.
Core-periphery, new clusters, or rising stars?: international scientific collaboration among 'advanced' countries in the era of globalization While previous research relied on geographical, linguistic, and economic affinities between countries to interpret the formation of international co-authorship network, this study did not find meaningful contribution of these factors on collaboration between 'advanced' nations.
Exploring the web visibility of world-class universities In summary, the structure of web visibility among world-class universities has a clear hierarchy that seems to be shaped by factors such as geographical, linguistic, and macro-policy contexts.
Panel discussion does not improve reliability of peer review for medical research grant proposals The reliability between panel scores was higher than between reviewer scores.
How interdisciplinary is sustainability research? Analyzing the structure of an emerging scientific field Sustainability science, as embodied in the distribution of references in peer-reviewed journal articles from 1996 to 2009, satisfies the predictions and ideals of the tripartite model to a greater extent than scientific research generally speaking.
Partition-based Field Normalization: An approach to highly specialized publication records Partition-based Field Normalization is an easy to implement adaptation of standard field normalization allowing a closer fit of the reference domain around an observed publication record. By its more closely fit reference domain, the partition approach may offer an advantage in particular in an area where standard methodology until now could not be applied with the same confidence, i.e. applied to highly specialized research records, such as those of individual researchers or resulting from interdisciplinary research. The various application possibilities are sure to offer interesting potential for further investigation.
What factors determine citation counts of publications in chemistry besides their quality? Hence, the citation counts of a paper in chemistry are not only connected with scientific quality (as measured here by reviewers' ratings) but also with the performance of the references cited in the paper, the language of the publishing journal, the chemical subfields, and the reputation of the authors.
Publication patterns of award-winning forest scientists and implications for the Australian ERA journal ranking Implications from these findings are that additional cross-classifications should be added for many journals, and there should be an adjustment to the ranking of several journals relevant to the ERA Field of Research classified as 0705 Forestry Sciences.
Quantifying the degree of research collaboration: A comparative study of collaborative measures The purpose of this article was to conduct a comparative study of five collaborative measures that have been proposed by prior studies; the findings are summarized in Table 5.
A formal relation between the h-index of a set of articles and their I3 score Although the h-index can be written in such a way that it formally looks like an I3 score, it is not an I3 score. This difference explains why it is possible that the h-index is not consistent (Waltman & van Eck, 2009) while the I3 score has good properties in this respect (Rousseau, 2011).
Ranking national research systems by citation indicators. A comparative analysis using whole and fractionalised counting methods In our view there are strong arguments in favour of using fractionalised counts to calculate relative citation indexes at the national level, rather than using whole counts, which is the most common practice today. We believe that national citation indicators will have greater validity and better justification when fractionalised counts are used. In our view there are strong arguments in favour of deviating from current practice and using fractionalised counts, not whole counts, in the calculation of relative citation indexes.
Webometric research with the Bing Search API 2.0 Overall, the Bing Web Services API 2.0 is a practical tool for webometric research but has some important limitations and care must be taken to keep within the legal guidelines when using it.
Modeling the probabilistic distribution of the impact factor The result is relevant, since it allows us to know the underlying population, to learn about all its features and to use statistical inferences procedures.
The stochastic h-index This paper proposes the stochastic h-index hs, which truly extends the h-index to the real line, and we demonstrated how this index can easily be calculated in practice. By definition, the stochastic h-index hs has an interpretation of how far a researcher's h-index is away from the next higher value under a specific stochastic model. It would be of interest to see if the idea behind the stochastic h-index can be extended to other indices such as the g-index Egghe (2006a, 2006b) or the w-index Woeginger (2008).
Proceeding papers in journals versus the "regular" journal publications Our results have partially confirmed the finding by Gonzalez-Albo and Bordons (2011); similarly to LIS, proceedings papers receive, on an average, less citations than other research articles in other fields, as well. We can conclude that proceedings in journals play an important part in scholarly communication even if their impact is often somewhat lower than that of 'regular' publications. These publications increase the visibility of the meetings since publications in a periodical, notably in a high-impact journals, reaches a much broader audience within the community.
Network analysis of temporal trends in scholarly research productivity We propose a method to analyse the publication trends of research groups.
Assessing impact and quality from local dynamics of citation networks The "rebirth index" that we propose to quantify this phenomenon may be used as a complementary quality-defining criterion, in addition to final citation counts.
Testing the fairness of citation indicators for comparison across scientific domains: The case of fractional citation counts The results presented in the previous section show that attributing to each citation a fractional weight equal to the inverse of the total number of references is not sufficient to remove the biases that make citation numbers large in some disciplines (or fields) and small in others. On the other hand it turns out that the rescaling of the number of cites with average values of the reference set is remarkably successful in removing biases. This indicator should then be used for a fair comparison of the impact of papers across disciplines.
Topics in dynamic research communities: An exploratory study for the field of information retrieval The findings provide a novel description of the developments in IR, and also provide a foundation for future research using hybrid approaches.
LIS DISSERTATION TITLES AND ABSTRACTS (1930-2009): WHERE HAVE ALL THE LIBRAR* GONE? This work has provided empirical evidence for something that has been anecdotally acknowledged in the field for years: the lessening focus in LIS dissertations on topics commonly associated with librarianship (codified through the curriculum of ALA-accredited schools).
The Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics of the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania: An Organizational Model for Clinical Research in a School of Medicine The CCEB's success in bridging the gulf that existed between clinical medicine and public health is due, initially, to the vision of the Dana, Rockefeller, and Mellon foundations and their willingness to provide financial support sufficient to create the initial organizational structure for clinical epidemiology at Penn.
Citation Analysis of the Contact Lens Field This work provides a unique snapshot of significant articles relating to contact lenses. Notwithstanding the above caveats, we believe that this article provides a valid, comprehensive, and objective analysis of signifi-cant works relating to contact lenses. This analysis has allowed us to celebrate the defining clinical work of Schein et al.14 and Poggio et al.15 in documenting the relative risk and incidence of ulcerative keratitis among contact lens wearers; the leading authorship of Brien Holden; the preeminence of the United States and Australia; the institutional dominance of the University of New South Wales; and the position of Optometry and Vision Science as the premier journal in the field.
Quality perceptions of design journals: The design scholars' perspective The primary objectives of this study were to identify a set of core journals relevant to industrial design research and to establish quality rankings of those design journals. Our findings are as follows. Design Studies and Design Issues are perceived to be the best journals publishing articles related to the industrial design field. Apparently, both general and specialized design journals are highly valued by design scholars.
Evolution of the research collaboration network in a productive department Initial development of research relied heavily upon a centralized network involving external collaboration; a central position of the research director during research development was not important.
REPUTATION AND EARNINGS: THE ROLES OF QUALITY AND QUANTITY IN ACADEME Reputation is a nebulous concept, so we have used a number of proxies for it, none of which alone could fully capture the idea, to examine its determinants among academic economists.
Bite-Size Science and Its Undesired Side Effects In summary, the shift toward shorter articles including fewer studies, the reduced space for locating results in the context of previous findings, and the pressure on productivity and novelty all combine to create a potentially damaging effect on the scientific literature.
The Consequences of Predicting Scientific Impact in Psychology Using Journal Impact Factors Relying on JIF underestimates the impact of social science relative to natural science research and leads to a subtle bias against women authors in psychology. Rather, we urge deeper thinking about prevailing methods for assessing scientific merit in psychology using bibliometrics. JIF may well lead individual psychologists and the policy makers who allocate resources to them to overestimate the impact of natural science articles relative to social science articles in psychology because of a difference between the content that Web of Science defines as “science” and the content that PsycInfo defines as psychology.
National characteristics and competitiveness in MOT research: A comparative analysis of ten specialty journals, 2000-2009 This paper contributes to the MOT community by providing much clearer evidence of how countries become differently positioned in the global MOT arena.
Relevance of Library Collections for Graduate Student Research: A Citation Analysis Study of Doctoral Dissertations at Notre Dame The findings in this study indicate a need for additional funding for further development of the social sciences collections in the Hesburgh Libraries of Notre Dame to support graduate student research (theses and dissertation writing) and publication endeavors at the university. In conclusion, citation analysis gives the library researcher a deeper look into the user's research patterns and library research needs, which should be important in recommending materials for selection and deselection. Ultimately, developing and maintaining a high-quality library collection is paramount in meeting graduate student needs.
The perceived impact of publications on Neglected Tropical Zoonoses as measured by their impact factor We discuss our findings in the context of the ongoing discussion about the publishing policies of medical journals.
The relationship between co-authorship, currency of references and author self-citations The range of publication years of self-citing references is smaller than that of references to others, indicating that researchers tend to preferentially cite their own recent works.
References, authors, journals and scientific disciplines underlying the sustainable development literature: a citation analysis In analyzing citation trends, we found that ‘classics', because of their high rates of citations per year, seem to have a more enduring and stable influence. This study has shown that bibliometric assessments can be a useful tool in improving the knowledge about sources influencing specific fields of study. Our results have com-plemented previous research based on literature reviews (Quental et al. 2011a, b) and identified several highly cited publications that we have not previously taken into con-sideration.
Bibliometrics as a tool for measuring gender-specific research performance: an example from South African invasion ecology On the basis of an analysis of this body of literature, we have highlighted some of the difficulties that are involved in the drawing of reliable and valid comparisons between men and women in terms of the citations their work attracts.
A forward diversity index In this study, we have introduced a new metric for measuring the propagation of knowledge.
Comparison of Brazilian researchers in clinical medicine: are criteria for ranking well-adjusted? In summary, our findings show that researchers in Medicine who are recipients of CNPq productivity scholarships are a group with a high scientific production, as ascertained by modern indicators of research performance. In the light of our findings, we believe the CNPq ranking based mainly on journals' impact factor is insufficient to distinguish researchers with outstanding scientific production. Further studies addressing this issue might contribute to a more judicious distribution of resources amongst competing researchers.
On the shoulders of students? The contribution of PhD students to the advancement of knowledge This paper provided the first large scale analysis of doctoral students' publication activity.
Lotka phenomenon in the words' syntactic distribution complexity The article, based on the data from the Chinese and English Treebanks, after taking into consideration all the words' syntactic functions in these two languages, proposes a definition for the words' syntactic distribution complexity, analyzes in detail the status of the words' syntactic distribution complexity, and compares English and Chinese in this respect.
Overlaying communities and topics: an analysis on publication networks This demonstrates the composition of a research community is frequently driven by, at least in part, the topic of study, even though other factors, such as physical distance, may also play a role in community development. VOSviewer effectively partitioned PPAM, which had a limited number of links; in contrast, k-means was not able to detect sub-groups in the largest PPAM cluster, indicating that k-means is not as effective when applied to sparse networks. The results of this study indicate that future research on this topic would benefit from adding dynamics to research communities in order to determine how topics interact with communities and how communities may co-evolve with the topics they research.
Performance evaluation of research universities in Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan: based on a two-dimensional approach Therefore, Chinese universities should put more emphasis on the quality improvement including education and research quality.
Modeling the dynamic relation between science and technology in nanotechnology Our results provoke questions about whether policy-makers should appro- priately reallocate scientific and technological resources and other R&D expenditures so as to obtain optimal allocation for resource and achieve maximum results with little effort for scientific research and innovation performance. Our results offer suggestions to policy makers and managers. Future research should involve more universities so as to acquire further robust results.
Peer review and over-competitive research funding fostering mainstream opinion to monopoly. Part II The actual declining rate of non-mainstream opinions in cosmology, which is a very complicated topic and without direct evidence to tell which theory is the truth, is approximately in agreement with the simulation results of our numerical model (Fang 2011). The reason for their difference, which is difficult to be evaluated, may be that some non-mainstream researchers change their research direction because of fear of rejection of a grant research funding which is over-competitive in the “peer-group-assessed-grant-based-funding-system”.
Relationship between high-quality journals and conferences in computer vision The survey showed that this is a strongly minority view in the community (5% of the surveyed authors believed the prior was necessary).
Collaboration structures in Slovenian scientific communities The first hypothesis about the presence of a small-world structure has been confirmed unequivocally by using both of the two approaches.
The Journal's Integrated Impact Index: a new indicator for journal evaluation In this paper, a new indicator, the JIII has been proposed. The multivariate comparisons with other bibliometric indicators show that there are some interesting properties of the new index. The JIII reflects the integrated impact of a journal relative to the average level of all compared journals, thus it provides a way to measure the relative position of a particular journal in all compared journals.
Integration of three visualization methods based on co-word analysis By co-word analysis based on MI, we compared characteristics of three visualization methods: cluster trees show the structure of a subject, strategic diagrams highlight importance or feature of each research themes in the structure of some field, social network maps reveal the internal relationship between the intra- and inter-themes.
Experimental comparison of first and second-order similarities in a scientometric context In this study, we have dealt with the issue of similarity order regarding the measurement of document-document similarity.
Trend and efficiency analysis of co-authorship network We propose a new approach to study evolutionary dynamics and proximity of efficiency of co-authorship network.
Adjusted sum of institutional scores as an indicator of the presence of university systems in the ARWU ranking The new indicator shows a statistically significant correlation with the first principal component reported in Table 1, at the p < 0.001 level, it would not have been useful otherwise.
Analysis of publications on sturgeon research between 1996 and 2010 This study detected a steady increase in the number of published articles that are dealing with sturgeon research. However, species that are endangered or facing a high probability of extinction have received disproportionately less attention. The major future research priorities should be further expansion of the sturgeon research to cover a broader and a more multidisciplinary scope, and particularly investment of greater efforts on the research of those highly endangered species that have been neglected thus far.
An analysis of the accounting and finance research productivity in Australia and New Zealand in 1991-2010 In this study, we offer a long-term, up-to-date and comprehensive examination of the research productivity of accounting and finance departments in Australia and New Zealand during 1991–2010.
Quality & Quantity journal: a bibliometric snapshot In conclusion, our opinion is that bibliometric indicators have to be integrated with a new generation of “professionalmetric” indicators in order to better characterize the impact of journals. For this reason, it would be a good thing to complement the h- and g-spectrum with other indicators, which make it possible to evaluate the position and the popularity of one author in the industrial and professional world as well: a kind of p-spectrum, being p an indicator for evaluating the reputation of an author in the professional world. h—as well as g—is objective, synthetic, robust and easy to calculate using data that are available from public databases.
Emerging search regimes: measuring co-evolutions among research, science, and society Although the selected fields are all be characterised by rapid growth and divergent dynamics of search, we have shown some important differences among these emergent search regimes.
Nanobiomedical science in China: a research field on the rise The results show that NBMS-China is experiencing a rapid growth trajectory, and Chinese NBMS research occupies the second place on the publication tally.
An Analysis of Prosthodontic Research Productivity: Geographic, Economic, and Collaborative Perspective The origins of prosthodontic literature are becoming more geographically and economically diverse, with increased contributions from Africa, Asia, and South America, and middle- and low-income countries between 1998 and 2008.
Assessing the Value of Team Science A Study Comparing Center- and Investigator-Initiated Grants "The lag in productivity among the transdisciplinary center grants was offset by their overall higher publication rates and average number of coauthors per publication, relative to investigator-initiated grants, over the 10-year comparison period."
Perspective: Ranking of the World's Top Innovation Management Scholars and Universities Based on the data, this paper provides a ranking for the world's top innovation management scholars and top 10 innovation management universities.
Beyond mandate and repository, toward sustainable faculty self-archiving In sum, institutions that have invested in self-archiving to expand access to their scholarship also need to anticipate how the scholarly information marketplace is evolving, given new trends in the use and potential monetization of research information. If, along the way, they manage to create efficiencies for researchers in the management of bibliographic information, this may prove to be the needed complement to an institutional mandate or faculty commitment that successfully integrates self-archiving into faculty authoring behavior.
The scholarly publishing industry in China: overview and opportunities First and foremost, publishers need to develop a farseeing vision, and turn this into workable business strategies. Only then will Chinese presses get a fair chance to establish themselves as fully accepted members of the international scholarly publishing family. By aiming to keep their own Chinese identity, they will become the most suitable option for Chinese academia seeking to bring their most valuable research to an international audience.
Gender, ICTs, and Productivity in Low-Income Countries: A Panel Study The authors show that substantial gains in access to technology and higher education by women have not reduced the gender gap on this important career dimension.
Hot Spots and Hot Moments in Scientific Collaborations and Social Movements We have considered the role of affectivity and social bonding within a coherent group institu- tionalizing a SIM.
The Impact of Submission Experiences on Perceptions of Journal Quality and Editorial Support: The Viewpoint of Chinese Authors The results of this study suggest that ratings of journal quality and editorial support are significantly higher among Chinese authors whose manuscripts were accepted.
Trends and Models in the Consumption of Electronic Contents An Analysis of the Journals Most Widely Used in Spanish Universities This fact points to a need to go beyond the Big Deal model and strive for greater flexibility in subscriptions to resources, so as to have made-to-measure supplies. It would now seem to be confirmed that models of consumption vary in accordance with subject areas and institutions. There was little correlation between the titles now preferred by the academic communities and previously held subscriptions to paper-format versions...
How well are journal and clinical article characteristics associated with the journal impact factor? a retrospective cohort study For the clinical literature, measures of scientific quality and clinical newsworthiness available at the time of publication can predict JIFs with 60% accuracy.
The Journal of Computer-Aided Molecular Design: a bibliometric note In conclusion, the publication and citation data presented here demonstrate very clearly that JCAMD has met fully the objectives that the founding editors set themselves when the journal was established in 1987.
The need and viability of a mediation index in Latin American scientific production and publication The case of the Redalyc System of Scientific Information In general, it is possible to state that Latin American scientific production faces a double tension: on the one side, a scientific production with strong local relevance but with scant international scientific impact, and on the other, scientists in disciplines linked to natural and exact sciences whose practices have ended up “coupling" with the working ways of the countries with the highest relative development levels; while in social and human sciences, the scientists have chosen to strengthen their links with local problems, and by doing so they risk their international presence and recognition.
Web visibility or wasted opportunity? Case studies from Mexican research institutes It is suggested that more effort should be directed towards improving the information content and access to research data on these institutional web sites, possibly through linkage to an UNAM repository. Better organizational structure is required for handling institutional information in order to make maximum use of web facilities to increase visibility and assist access. It is hoped that studies of this type will lead to an even greater awareness of the shortcomings that institutional web sites display in detriment to the user who is expecting to find ample and easily accessible information on the valuable services and resources offered.
A historical review and bibliometric analysis of research on estuary pollution In this study, dealing with estuary pollution SCI-Expanded journals’ papers, some significant points on the worldwide research trends were obtained throughout the period from 1991 to 2010.
Visibility and impact of the Indian Journal of Chemistry, Section B during 2005-2009 using scientometric techniques The scientometric studies and qualitative analysis shows that out of 1062 papers only two review articles are published in 2005-2009 which indicates that publication of more review articles are required to improve the impact factor of the journal.
Universality in bibliometrics The h-index pdf should be used to classify groups of researchers from a quantitative point of view, which is meaningfully interesting to eliminate obscure qualitative methods.
A scaling between Impact Factor and uncitedness These results provide further justification for the same citation mechanism behind different research fields.
Internationalization of pediatric sleep apnea research The newly created data-base with the researchers’ names, addresses and publications could be used by scientists from smaller countries for further improvement of their international collaboration.
A framework for knowledge integration and diffusion In our view, knowledge integration and knowledge diffusion are both best described using the complementary notions of diversity and coherence. In this context the contribution of this paper has been to propose a new general framework that may be used as a guideline within which practical studies can be performed.
Diffusionism and open access A diffusionist analysis of the OA adoption strategies revealed that cultural, political and linguistic variations have played a more prominent role in OA distributions. By briefly introducing the scholarly traditions in some non-Western countries, it became clear that OA can only be effectively established after it meets local standards. This article also discussed a possible internal diffusion pattern observed on OA repository development in the USA and pinpointed the complexity of the diffusion movement.
Multidisciplinary cognitive content of nanoscience and nanotechnology This study provides a description of the cognitive content of the field of nanoscience/nanotechnology from the perspective of frequently occurring title words or phrases, follows the change of that content over a period of more than two decades, and explores the multidisciplinary character of nanotechnology and through it its cognitive structure.
Network model of knowledge diffusion This paper has developed a potentially useful approach to trace the process of knowledge diffusion, that is, an individual-citation-based directed network model with a time dimension.
Shapley values for assessing research production and impact of schools and scholars Current performance measures of individual scholars ignore the context of scholarship. I introduce pseudo-Shapley values that measure a scholar's contribution to (or power over) her own school and her value to other schools should they hire her.
Life sciences research in Venezuela Biological Research in Venezuela takes up 21% of its scientific manpower and is responsible for 32% of its scientific output.
Future publication success in science is better predicted by traditional measures than by the h index Our most important finding is that rates of past achievements are better predictors than the typically discussed indicators of cumulative achievement, which appear unfairly biased in favour of mature scientists.
Research on the semantic-based co-word analysis This method can solve problems mentioned in “Motivation of our approach” effectively and improve the veracity of co-word analysis.
Scientific collaboration in Library and Information Science viewed through the Web of Knowledge: the Spanish case As with the increase in Spanish participation in social science (WoK), this growth, coupled with the significant increase in Spanish scientific production in the area of LIS, suggests that the discipline in Spain has entered a more mature phase—although so far it has focused particularly on bibliometric studies. The Spanish LIS discipline is maturing, as evidenced by the significant progress of cooperation and communication in English.
Specific character of citations in historiography (using the example of Polish history) The analysis of international sources has proven that they barely or to a very small extent represent Polish historical science (Table 2).
On first quartile journals which are not of highest impact From the results in Table 1 it follows the occurrence of both first quartile journals (of ISI impact factor) which are not of highest impact class as well as of medium-highest impact journals which are not in first quartile of ISI impact factor. To sum up, this analysis shows that the quartile ranking of journals is a complex field. Therefore several indicators should be used for a distinct analysis of structural changes at the score distribution of journals in a subject category. Here we have proposed that it can be performed in a multivariate indicator space using a fuzzy classifier.
Global performance of traditional Chinese medicine over three decades This study investigated TCM as well as its three subfields by conducting bibliometric methods.
The blockbuster hypothesis: influencing the boundaries of knowledge This study indicates that although new knowledge creation is rare it is recognizable.
Mapping the research on aquaculture. A bibliometric analysis of aquaculture literature While bibliometric methods do not necessarily provide a measure of output or impact of research activities, they proved useful for mapping a research area, identifying the relevance of themes in the scientific literature and understanding how research fronts evolve and interact.
Unseen science? Representation of BRICs in global science The finding that BRICs are not underrepresented in SCIE was unexpected. High quality science from the BRICs appears to be represented at the same level as more advanced countries. Thus, comparisons drawn from SCIE would have some independent validity. Finding ways to make national publications more easily accessible remains an important goal for the global invisible college.
The organization of scientific knowledge: the structural characteristics of keyword networks Our analysis shows that keyword network analysis has a considerable potential as an alternative way to citation network analysis. Moreover, this hierarchic structure seems to lie at the heart of the organization of scientific knowledge, because other structural characteristics can be understood as a byproduct of the evolutionary process that generates the hierarchic structure. Our results from the analysis of keyword networks support this conjecture.
An Evidence-Based Study of the Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences That acknowledged, our results are at odds with some important claims made by the proponents of the disparaging characterization of the evolutionary behavioral sciences. Keeping in mind the inherent limitations of quantitative citation analysis, our findings suggest that it is erroneous for philosophers to base their evaluation of the epistemic worth of the evolutionary behavioral sciences on the disparaging characterization of these sciences.
WORLD SHARES OF PUBLICATIONS OF THE USA, EU-27, AND CHINA COMPARED AND PREDICTED USING THE NEW WEB OF SCIENCE INTERFACE VERSUS SCOPUS These long extrapolations, however, should be used only as indicators and not as predictions. Uncertainty in trends can be specified using the coefficient of determination of the regression (R2) and confidence intervals. Along with the dynamics in the publication trends, one also has to take into account the dynamics of the databases used for the measurement.
Knowledge structure in international marketing: a multi-method bibliometric analysis This bibliometric study of the IML offers specific insights into the current state of IM and provides new avenues for future research. Taken together, our findings indicate that, in contrast to IM's earlier history, the field is inclusive (i.e., integrates thoughts and theories from allied disciplines), sophisticated (i.e., has greater reliance on theory-driven research and the use of more rigorous methodologies), and increasingly complex (i.e., addresses more involved conceptual and managerial issues in IM).
Citation classics in main pain research journals In conclusion, these top-cited articles in pain research identify topics, authors, and institutions that contributed to major advances in the specialty of pain research.
Trends in Funding, Internationalization, and Types of Study for Original Articles Published in Five Implant-Related Journals Between 2005 and 2009
Ethical Issues in Multiple-Authored and Mentor-Supervised Publications This paper proposes a threefold ethical framework for evaluating and analyzing the ethical norms for authorship status. It is the hoped that this thought-paper stirs the waters of this important issue to maintain the solidarity and integrity of engineering research activities and publications.
Citation success: Evidence from economic history journal publications This study offers a modest attempt to identify some of the factors that determine the citation success of authors who have recently published their work in economic history journals.
Library and Information Science research areas: A content analysis of articles from the top 10 journals 2007-8 The main results of this analysis of articles from the top 10 journals suggest a tendency towards collaboration in authorship.
Value chain of nanotechnology: a comparative study of some major players China is productive in nanomaterials and nanointermediates, rather than nano-enabled products and nanotools.
Research output in nanoscience and nanotechnology: Pakistan scenario Research in nanotechnology is rapidly expanding in the universities of Pakistan. The share of publications in nanotechnology is at present almost 10 per cent of the total publications. This trend is expected to be sustained for the foreseeable future as more HEC sponsored researchers return after completing their doctorates in foreign universities.
Governing knowledge in the scientific community: Exploring the role of retractions in biomedicine Our study supports both optimistic and pessimistic assessments of retraction as a governance mechanism alerting the scientific community to false knowledge. The strongest and most robust finding in our analysis is that when false knowledge is identified and signaled to the community via a retrac-tion, the signal is critical and leads to an immediate and long-lived decline in citations. These results support the view that distributed gov-ernance systems can be designed to uncover false knowledge relatively swiftly and to mitigate the costs that false knowledge for future generations of producers.
The long-term dynamics of co-authorship scientific networks: Iberoamerican countries (1973-2010) We think that the type of internal dynamics described by our mathematical model explains by itself the self-organizing prop- erty of the co-authorship scientific networks. The analysis over 38-year period that is provided in this article, of 352 differ- ent scientific co-authorship networks, presents enough evidence for the argument that the dynamics of regional co-publication are a self-organizing process that is governed by a preferential attach- ment.
Equal contributions and credit given to authors in critical care medicine journals during a 10-yr period It is increasingly common to give authors equal credit in original research articles in the major four journals of critical care medicine. A guideline for authors regarding when (and how) “equal” authorship should be assigned is warranted in future.
Meanings and Policy Implications of "Transformative Research": Frontiers, Hot Science, Evolution, and Investment Risk The utility of these metaphors is not so much in how accurately they embody TR but in how useful they are at identifying opportunities, risks, and dangers for policymaking. All of the metaphors have strengths in their ability to illuminate the various units of analysis and decision-making opportunities that may be required of policy. Thus, we do not mean any of these to necessarily define this inevitably murky concept. In fact, the variance in the metaphors themselves suggests that there may be no one suitable definition of TR or the conglomeration of phenomena it subsumes.
Institutional Struggles for Recognition in the Academic Field: The Case of University Departments in German Chemistry The application of New Public Management and the accompanying rise of academic capitalism in German research policy is therefore not confirmed by enhanced performance.
Study of rank- and size-frequency functions and their relations in a generalized Naranan framework Explicit formulae for the rank-frequency function g(r) and size-frequency function f (j) are presented.
Bibliometric indicators for the analysis of the research performance of a multidisciplinary institution: the CSIC In summary, this study gives evidence as to the important role of the CSIC in the framework of the Spanish research sector, analysed through its scientific publications with international scope, as well as its capacity to get documents published in the most prestigious journals and receive a higher number of citations than the national average.
The State of Research and Development in Global Cancer Surgery Globally, low activity—low funding cycle needs to be addressed by new national and supranational policies to support surgical oncology research.
Country Comparisons of Human Stroke Research Since 2001 A Bibliometric Study The Big 4 in scientific literature on stroke, as to both number of articles and citations, are the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Germany.
Journal impact factor or intellectual influence? A content analysis of citation use in Communication Monographs and Human Communication Research (2007-2009) The results of our content analysis suggest that while HCR and CM can be differentiated on the basis of impact factor, there were not more citations to HCR than CM as sources of conceptual or methodological influence even within articles published in HCR. As currently calculated, journal impact factors do not accurately represent the intellectual influence of journals or the essays published in them. Rather than relying on a single metric which Martin (1996) refers to as the "lazy" approach, evaluating the quality of a particular article or a research program can be better accomplished by actually reading the work in light of the discipline's standards for excellence, in addition to perhaps reading the work in which the article in question is cited to determine how, if at all, the piece influenced its citer would lead to a more accurate estimate of influence.
Time-Trends in Publication Productivity of Young Transplant Surgeons in the United States These findings raise concerns about the future place of transplant surgeons within the science that shapes our own field.
The availability of open access journals in the humanities and social sciences in China "On the basis of the survey results, we identify key challenges and problems associated with OA journals in the humanities and social sciences in China, and we outline development strategies to address these issues, including actively promoting the transition of scholarly journals from print form to OA, speeding up network construction of OA journals, and enhancing the functionality of the OA journals' websites."
Gender differences and factors affecting publication productivity among Australian university academics The results suggest an overall improvement in the position of women in research since the early 1990s. The increase in female publication productivity and overall reduction in gender differences was mostly due to a reduction in the proportion of women with zero or very few publications.
A Note on the ITS Topic Evolution in the Period 2000-2009 at T-ITS In this paper, we have completed the study on the ITS topic evolution presented in [1]. Thus, we have visualized the conceptual ITS themes and ITS thematic areas that constitute the research core of the papers published in the journal IEEE T-ITS. Furthermore, these results could be used to predict new future research trends, given that it is logical to suppose that papers associated with the most productive and impacting themes and thematic areas will be successful papers.
Citation classics in the integrative and complementary medicine literature: 50 frequently cited articles The findings provide a historical perspective on the scientific progress in integrative and alternative medicine. We revealed that majority papers (~60%) were published between 1995 and 2004, suggesting that ICM has gained increasing attention since 1995. The review of the articles having the greatest public recognition could help to establish and expand the role of ICM.
Impact factor as a metric to assess journals where OM research is published Our overall conclusion is that impact factors are useful met-rics to rank OM journals, but impact factors do not replace other methods that are used to rank journal quality. Based on our com-parison of impact factor results with those from other ranking approaches, impact factors are not a replacement for surveys used to assess perceived quality of OM journals or citation-based or author-based methods. Like it or not, the impact factor is here to stay, and we need to learn to use it wisely.
Hand and wrist research productivity in journals with high impact factors: a 20 year analysis We found that research volume did not change significantly over the 20-year period (p = 0.5) whereas the productivity index increased (p<0.05), indicating a rise in impact factors. Moreover, we found significant shifts in the global distribution of hand and wrist research. Hand and wrist research shows a global distribution similar to research in other medical fields. This dis-tribution has undergone significant shifts over the past 20 years.
Predictive Effects of Structural Variation on Citation Counts We have found statistical evidence of the boundary-spanning mechanism. An article that introduces novel connections between clusters of co-cited references is likely to subsequently become highly cited. We conclude that structural variation is an essential aspect of the development of scientific knowledge and it has the potential to reveal the underlying mechanisms of the growth of scientific knowledge.
Biobibliometric Profiling: An Examination of Multifaceted Approaches to Scholarship What we found, counterintuitively perhaps, was that the dimensions on which the scholars were most similar were the social factors of sex and place. Yet, the results of our study demonstrate that there is not a single pathway to eminence in the field. Administrators and science policy makers would do well to take note and create evaluation mechanisms and incentives that encour-age multifaceted approaches to scholarship over the course of a career.
Citation Flows in the Zones of Influence of Scientific Collaborations In short, one can say that science knows no frontiers.
Citation Characterization and Impact Normalization in Bioinformatics Journals Bioinformatics journals show scattered and field-dependent journal-citation patterns.
Publish or Patent: Bibliometric Evidence For Empirical Trade-Offs in National Funding Strategies Our modeling process identified which resource IVs are most useful in predicting outputs, and can shed light on which investments are productive in enhancing these outputs.
An Integrated Approach for Main Path Analysis: Development of the Hirsch Index as an Example We have proposed several new types of main paths in addi- tion to the main path introduced by Hummon and Doreian (1989): global, backward, multiple, and key-route main paths.
The Invisibility of Science Publications in Hebrew: A Comparative Database Study The quantity and variety of material indexed in IHP show the added value that scientific and popular science material from Israeli writers could gain if all or most of it were acces-sible to the international scientific community.
The 2010 Rankings of Chemical Education and Science Education Journals by Faculty Engaged in Chemical Education Research This survey provides a method of indicating how faculty who direct and publish chemistry education research rank journals in the field.
The ADNI Publication Policy: Commensurate recognition of critical contributors who are not authors We believe that this is best achieved by the identification of those who can vouch for the integrity of the data as well as of the authors who propose an interpretation, in perpetuity.
Network-based statistics for a community driven transparent publication process Although it is difficult to predict how the introduction of the NBS-based publishing system would be received and thus develop, the minimal goal we wish to achieve is that publishers would increase the objectivity and transparency of the current review and publication system by using NBS-based information.
Dependence of Lotka's law parameters on the scientific area The findings indicated that, in most of the cases, the two parameters of Lotka's law, the exponent n and the constant c, were influenced by the subject area's productivity and growth, by the type of area, the country, the time period, and the length of that period. As also was reported by Pao (1986), no relationship whatever was found between the values of n and c and whether or not the subject area belonged to the "hard sciences". This could be interesting as a better understanding of these regularities may allow them to be incorporated into the theoretical context.
Auditing scholarly journals published in Malaysia and assessing their visibility The audit, tracing of Malaysian scholarly journals resulted in a master list of titles that have been carefully selected.
Revealing research themes and trends in knowledge management: From 1995 to 2010 In this article, we have provided a visualization overview of the wide distribution of KM publications by presenting a systematic and analytical study during 1995-2010 period. The results of our investigation reflect that the key contributors to KM papers spanned across a broad spectrum of disciplines. New methods should be developed for coping with the topic of KM challenge, knowledge reuse and innovation in KM studies.
The development trends of science in the CIS countries on the basis of some scientometric indicators The trends revealed during the review of the indicators of the extent of the national research system and the comparisons of the indicators of the effectiveness of science are not sufficient for drawing definite conclusions.
Time series of scientific growth in Spanish doctoral theses (1848-2009) The model of best fit for the complete series (1848–2009) was an ARIMA model (2, 1, 7) visible in an incipient logistic curve, something which corroborates de Solla Price's (1986) predictions concerning scientific growth.
Fairly sharing the credit of multi-authored papers and its application in the modification of h-index and g-index A method to allocate the credit of a paper is proposed, satisfying two rules of reasonably distributing credit of a paper to each author according to their contribution. The CCA h-index, hc, and CCA g-index, gc, embody the information of author number, author rank, and citations of the papers of the researcher. The goal of our scheme to distribute credit or citations to individual authors is to impartially assess the work of every author.
Trends and performance of oxidative stress research from 1991 to 2010 This study of oxidative stress papers showed some significant points on the worldwide research trends and performance from 1991 to 2010.
International scientific and technological collaboration of China from 2004 to 2008: a perspective from paper and patent analysis The collaborative information in paper and patent documents are regarded as an effective tool to study international S&T collaboration development of a country.
Institutionalization and internationalization of research on the applications of the geographical information systems in health planning The constellation of specific semantically-loaded indicators could be applied for the purposes of problem-oriented analyses as it could timely identify the essential patterns of scientific advances in rapidly expanding interdisciplinary topics.
A study of factors affecting research productivity of Iranian women in ISI In general, the findings indicate that the most motivational factors affecting positively publishing scholarly articles by Iranian women are ‘Getting promoted in scientific rank’, ‘Intrinsic talents', ‘Perseverance and adventitious knowledge', 'Feeling of being useful in society', 'Getting promoted in job', ‘Being encouraged by friends and family', ‘Religious lessons regarding the importance of science', and 'Attempt to show individual capabilities'. As for the future, we would like to study inhibitory factors hindering Iranian women's research productivity.
A decade of database conferences: a look inside the program committees The results of the current study indicate that the program committees of the major core database technology conferences are quite dynamic and healthy. These three properties give a very good chance of pumping new research ideas into the community, a reasonably open environment of evaluating the different research directions and a good possibility for accepting new members who are conducting high quality research. As a future work, we plan to further study the database research community over the last decade from other two different angles: (1) The collaboration patterns between the research institutes and their impact (Hsu and Huang 2011). (2) The trend of the most contributing countries in the research community.
International mobility of researchers in robotics, computer vision and electron devices: A quantitative and comparative analysis This investigation confirms the existence of differences among research domains in international mobility.
A co-word analysis of digital library field in China Overall, this study has led to us to grasp the current status of DL in China. Furthermore, we will continue to study the dynamic trend of this field and analyze the international status comparatively in order to adjust the domestic research and connect with the international trend.
How sustainable a scientifically developing country could be in its specialties? The case of Iran's publications in SCI in the 21st century compared to 1980s Overall, according to the results, a developing science system might be characterized by its Specialty Diversity and Stability, as well as an annual growth in its publications in the specialties.
An impact-citations-exergy (iCX) trajectory analysis of leading research institutions in India The exergy assessment technique is demonstrated by applying it to the leading research players in India.
Tendencies in scientific output on carbon nanotubes and graphene in global centers of excellence for nanotechnology The results lead us to conclude that advances in knowledge on carbon nanotubes and graphene will make it possible to meet the growing needs of a new and powerful market for products that are progressively including these new elements.
The quality-quantity-quasity and energy-exergy-entropy exegesis of expected value calculation of citation performance The normalized energy indicator E is proposed as a suitable single number scalar indicator of a scientist's or group's performance (i.e. as a multiplicative product of quality and quantity), when complete bibliometric information is available.
Research productivity in education and psychology in the Philippines and comparison with ASEAN countries Based on those results, it can be concluded that research in both disciplines and the dissemination of results through publication in SSCI-indexed journals might be considered peripheral activities in the Philippines rather than core activities. With these and other interventions, it is hoped that research productivity in education and psychology, particularly of the higher education sector in the Philippines, would improve as much as it did in its ASEAN neighbors. The goal is not to reclaim its so-called glory days in educational and psychological research during the 1960s and 1970s but to reaffirm the country's commitment to human development and the betterment of society.
Theory and practice of the shifted Lotka function The basic theory of a shifted Lotka function has been developed. This function has the advantage of being able to include sources with zero items.
A Hirsch-type index of co-author partnership ability The partnership ability index (φ) introduced in this paper gives an additional dimension to the usual scientometric analysis.
Immutable Mobiles Derailed: STS, Geopolitics, and Research Assessment Their critiques direct our attention not only to the limits of contemporary research assessment policies but also to the problem of relying on immutable mobility as a description of scientific knowledge-objects or the outcomes of epistemic practices.
Twenty years of research on transition in agricultural economics journals The articles account for 2.8 per cent of all articles published in these journals between 1989 and 2008, but there are signs of a slowdown or stagnation in the number of these articles since the beginning of this decade. A small group of perhaps 10 individ-ual authors plays a central role in these components and in linking the different subject categories in the sample of agricultural transition articles.
The dispersion of research performance within and between universities as a potential indicator of the competitive intensity in higher education systems The Italian higher education system presents levels of concentration of performance within universities that are high or very high, and greater than that between them.
Skewed citation distributions and bias factors: Solutions to two core problems with the journal impact factor Our contribution deliberately looked at only two problems, but they are core problems with the journal impact factor: the use of mean values in the face of skewed citation distributions and outliers, and the influence of factors that have nothing to do with the quality of a journal (called bias factors). As solutions to these problems, we discussed McCall's area transformation (McCall, 1922) and the Rubin Causal Model (RCM) (Rubin, 2004, 2006).
A preliminary investigation on diffusion through a layered system Starting from publications or citations, we introduced layered systems and studied the diffusion of scientific ideas flows through such layered systems.
A sensitivity analysis of researchers' productivity rankings to the time of citation observation The elaborations indicate that these rankings converge linearly on the benchmark, though with differences among the UDAs and among the SDSs of each single UDA: this variation is clearly as expected, given the variability in citation patterns among fields and disciplines. The differences are particularly negligible for the discipline areas of Physics, Biology and Medicine. The accuracy of bibliometric assessment for individual scientists' productivity seems quite acceptable even immediately after a given three-year period and would clearly be even greater for observation periods longer than three years, as typically practiced in national research assessments.
Framing the structure of global open innovation research “Open innovation" has gradually become an important research field which requires a systematic analysis on its knowledge structure that has been pending to be investigated. In summary, this study proposes four types of networks based on co-occurrence of keywords for full spectrum analysis on research papers, i.e. RFP-country network, RFP-institute network, RFP-paper network and KCO network (Figs. 2-5) and contour maps (Figs. 6-9), to reflect knowledge structures on macro, meso, and micro levels, respectively. The quantitative method provided in this project shows a possible way of visualizing and evaluating research community structure and thus a computerized calculation is possible for potential quantitative applications on open innovation research management, e.g. R&D resource allocation, research performance evaluation, and science map.
The myth of global science collaboration-Collaboration patterns in epistemic communities The indications for a universal mechanism are extremely surprising. In each field, we are faced with very similar spatial patterns structuring the respective epistemic community. The national collaboration probability is much higher, with international collaboration thus being quantitatively of minor importance (which is not necessarily a comment on its qualitative impact, which may be tremendous). However, science is far from being a globalized activity when compared with global financial markets or trade and investment flows.
Globalization of collaborative creativity through cross-border patent activities Collaborative creativity has globalized but remains concentrated in core countries such as the U.S., the UK, France, Germany, and Canada.
The case of scientometricians with the "absolute relative" impact indicator The RPCR index and MNCS index strongly depend on the distribution of citations among the articles in different journals or fields, respectively.
Saint Matthew strikes again: An agent-based model of peer review and the scientific community structure Our first result was that referee behavior can have a dramatic impact on the quality and efficiency of peer review. This allows us to conclude that the Matthew effect in science, rather than being the result of some 'negative' mechanisms such as referee bias and misconduct, could be inherent in competitive science where there is “the winner takes all" principle. Although empirical investigation would be needed, our findings would allow us to conclude that establishing standards to guide collaboration between scientists is of paramount importance.
Consensus formation in science modeled by aggregated bibliographic coupling These results alone are of course not the final verdict in the consensus in science trial. Further studies are clearly needed before any stronger conclusions may be drawn. Citation analytical studies could benefit from implementing the ABC-technique as it produces more fine grained results compared to previous citation analytical techniques used for measuring consensus.
HistCite analysis of papers constituting the h index research front Since the h index is a fast-growing field of research, it would be interesting to see whether the h index research front will develop within the framework of the six topics in Fig. 1 or whether other topics will become important. Further interesting questions for future research on the h index research front would be: When did the front appear for the first time? What is the typical life time of a paper in the front? What is the typical life time of a topic in the front? What are possible reasons for the fact that certain topics emerged or disappeared?
An analysis for estimating the short-term effects of Japan's triple disaster on progress in materials science In many fields, it is well established that a disaster has a negative influence on society. Preliminary scientometric investigation showed without any doubt that the number of the submitted papers and the cumulative number of authors decreased in the areas affected by a natural disaster. Adequate statistical treatment of the remaining fields of science remains a challenge.
A sensitivity analysis of research institutions' productivity rankings to the time of citation observation In summary, the study shows that the tradeoff between accuracy and unwanted delay in carrying out evaluation is much less dramatic than might have been expected. The accuracy of bibliometric assessment for university research productivity seems quite acceptable within one year from the close of a given three-year period. When it comes to comparing the performance ranking of research institutions, it seems sufficient to count citations one year after the upper limit of a three-year production period.
Averages of ratios compared to ratios of averages: Mathematical results We proved that, using a simple assumption, the regression line of RoA in function of AoR is the first bisectrix.
Interactive overlays: A new method for generating global journal maps from Web-of-Science data In summary, we see a great potential and no major problems with using VOSViewer for the purpose of overlays at the level of journals when the purpose is visualization.
Which are the best performing regions in information science in terms of highly cited papers? Some improvements of our previous mapping approaches The mapping results for information science show that we arrive at somewhat different results by using the top-10%-approach in comparison to the I3-approach.
Investigating Information Systems Research in Canada Consistent with the conclusion by Serenko et al. (2008), the present study demonstrates that the Canadian IS discipline exhibits signs of academic maturity.
Positioning Open Access Journals in a LIS Journal Ranking OA journals have gained momentum supporting high-quality research and publication.
Open Access Publishing: What Authors Want Our study shows that author funding can provide an incentive for York authors to publish in OA journals. It is encouraging that OA journals are achieving greater prominence; however, if we are going to create change in the scholarly publishing system, we need to allocate more resources in this direction.
Trend in dental research output in Iran over a period of 20 years (1990-2009) The number of Iranian dental articles has increased in recent years, and the proportion of Iranian dental articles relative to all dental articles has increased approximately 140-fold during 1990–2009.
A bibliometric study of financial risk literature: a historic approach In this study, the financial risk literatures were analysed using the Lotka's Law to determine the author productivity and validated literature distribution. The study results are consistent with the Lotka's Law and Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test findings. Apparently, the industries and academia have attached greater importance to financial risk-related issues than ever.
University ranking as social exclusion We conclude by argu- ing that, rather than regarding world university rankings as a means to establish criteria of educational value, the practice may be understood as an exclusionary one that furthers the alignment of higher education with neoliberal rationalities at both national and global levels.
FREQUENTLY CITED JOURNALS IN FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY "Therefore, while the frequently cited journals in forensic psychology shown in Table 1 were drawn from a robust sample, the list must not be interpreted as a definitive ranking."
Research Coordination Networks: Evidence of the Relationship between Funded Interdisciplinary Networking and Scholarly Impact The RCN program does indeed seem to be fostering new biological science research networks. In summary, the RCN program appears to be changing the way bioscience is done—not in a paradigm-breaking way but by fostering new research networks. RCN presents an exciting way to facilitate interdisciplin- ary research to address especially complex and challenging natural issues.
Using the h-index to measure the quality of journals in the field of business and management The evidence in this paper suggests that the h-index would be a better citation-based metric for evaluating the quality and contribution of scholarly journals than other metrics such as the impact factor (IF) or the number of cites per paper (cpp). It also suggests that the data should be taken from Google Scholar rather than ISI Web of Science. However, we would also caution that no one measure by itself, whether bibliometric or based on peer review, is adequate to properly measure the research contribution of researchers, journals or departments.
Bibliometric analysis of CiteSeer data for countries Although CiteSeer data are far from complete and precise (in our experience, some 10% of the existing information might be erroneous), we may conclude that CiteSeer is a free digital library of valuable data and may be successfully used in bibliometric studies, possibly along with other well-known bibliographic databases, as we have shown in this paper. Our future work on CiteSeer will concentrate on the citation analysis of institutions and on other reliability measures of CiteSeer data as well as on exploring further differences between the data in CiteSeer and CiteSeerx.
Indices of novelty for emerging topic detection This study addresses the inadequacy of topic detection and tracking to develop a set of novel indices for emerging topic detection.
An Analysis of Canadian Contributions to the Information Science Research Literature: 1989-2008 The findings of the present study reveal an active IS research scene in Canada with steady growth, shifting areas of contribution over the study period, and an increase in collaborative research and inter-institutional collaboration, particularly since 2000. Institutions with LIS programs continue to be the primary contributors to the research literature, although contributions to the literature may also come from other units on the same campus. Future research could examine how the changing funding landscape for research in Canada has influenced the way in which IS research is carried out, both in terms of the research topics undertaken and the resulting collaborations.
ISOLATED IN A TECHNOLOGICALLY CONNECTED WORLD?: Changes in the Core Professional Ties of Female Researchers in Ghana, Kenya, and Kerala, India Over the three- to five-year period examined here, one marked by dramatic improvements in the technological environment, gender differences are increasing, and women scientists are becoming more isolated.
Contributions to financial crisis research: an assessment of the literature in Social Science Citation Index journals from 1990 to 2008 In summary, the findings of this study provide a useful benchmark for assessing individual and institutional research contributions and influences, concrete evidence of researchers' performances, and a guide to selecting future research topics and target journals in which to find references and to publish their works for researchers in this field. We conclude that since the global financial crisis of 2008 has raised many concerns about the possibility of further widespread, far-reaching effects, it is recommended that elite scholars continue their contributions and that more researchers join in financial crisis research to advance knowledge in this field.
Convergence and multidisciplinarity in nanotechnology: Laboratories as technological hubs This study contributes to a better understanding of nanotechnology by focusing on a research group qualified as technological hubs and that hosts scientists with various scientific backgrounds. The second insight to be gained from this study is that nanotechnology is a at a multidisciplinary stage more than an inter-disciplinary one. It also suggests that nanotechnology can be further understood by focusing on co-existing boundaries and locus of multidisciplinarity.
Association between Article Citation Rate and Level of Evidence in the Companion Animal Literature Reports of veterinary studies designed to limit the influence of bias are not more widely referenced than articles reporting data obtained through less stringent methodologies.
Global trend in articles related to stereotactic published in science citation index-expanded The results analyzed by this bibliometric method can show the research performance, significant events and major inventors, those attributed to stereotactic neurosurgery, and trend of stereotactic related research.
New methods for an old debate: Utilizing reader response to investigate the relationship between collaboration and quality in academic journal articles These findings provide another layer of empirical support for the benefits of collaborative research and inform both scientometricians and educators.
QUANTIFYING THE VOLUNTEER EFFORT OF SCIENTIFIC PEER REVIEWING This article shows that more than 4 years of volunteer peer-review effort is required to produce one year of Monthly Weather Review.
Forging successful interdisciplinary research collaborations: A nationwide survey of departments of surgery Surgeons value collaborations as critical for their research success. Our survey indicates the potential for additional collaborations through more involvement with institutional efforts and with other university faculty. Stable, supportive department chairs are critical to establishing these activities.
Managing research quality: critical mass and optimal academic research group size The principle managerial message coming from this analysis is that emulation of such success involves optimization of the quality and quantity of communication links between research group members.
Impact of Self-citation on the H Index in the Field of Academic Radiology The effect of self-citation is minimal in academic radiology, as evidenced by the fact that cumulative citations increase by only 2% and the large majority of H index values do not change by even a single integer after inclusion of self-citation.
Research centers as agents of change in the contemporary academic landscape: their role and impact in HBCU, EPSCoR, and Majority universities Research centers are a significant feature of the academic research landscape in the USA with important effects on the capacity to do research.
Conservatism and risk-taking in peer review: Emerging ERC practices An overall conclusion from the findings of this study is that despite the ERC’s aims, the peer review process in some ways constrains the promotion of truly innovative research.
Redefining the field of economics: Improving field normalization for the application of bibliometric techniques in the field of economics The study clearly shows that research performance exercises conducted in the field of economics would benefit from the labeling of publications in the citation indexes with a more detailed classification scheme as found in EconLit.
Opening the black box of QS World University Rankings First of all, the indicators used in QS Rankings might lack validity.
Calibration of bibliometric indicators in space exploration research: a comparison of citation impact measurement of the space and ground-based life and physical sciences Standard bibliometric methods fail to gauge the citation impact of SLPS research and give rise to misleading conclusions about research performance.
Why and how can "sleeping beauties" be awakened? From the perspectives of “information value”, “access channel” and “user demand”, the formation mechanism and detailed reasons for academic information awakening are discussed comprehensively – “information value is re-mined because of the relevance”, “different uses of information are discovered”, “information availability and visibility are improved”, “information is placed into the appropriate place” and “demands for the information rise in a future time”. In practice, this study can help us manage these “sleeping beauties” much better.
Scholarly communication of The Electronic Library from 2003-2009: a bibliometric study From this study it is concluded that application of Bradford's law suitably fits to the present study and it is observed that 18 journals are core (high productivity) journals, in the field of library and information science exclusively devoted to the areas of libraries and the web, the digital library, software and hardware developments, library networking and automation-integrated library systems, OPACs, user interfaces-web usability, internet access and use, e-books and e-journals, e-governance and e-readiness, online and distance learning, which are mainly used or referred by the researchers.
Retractions in the medical literature: how can patients be protected from risk? If the goal is to minimise risk to patients, the appropriate focus is on clinical trials. Clinical trials form the foundation of evidence-based medicine; hence, the integrity of clinical trials must be protected.
What Are the Correlates of Interdisciplinary Research Impact? The Case of Corporate Governance Research Despite the limitations identified above, this study is able to make a novel and important contribution to the sociology of knowledge literature.
The Fox in the Hen House: A Critical Examination of Plagiarism Among Members of the Academy of Management This exploratory study raises an alarm regarding the inadequate monitoring of norms and professional activities associated with Academy of Management members.
Strategic Knowledge Maps of the Techno-Scientific Network (SK Maps) "The new knowledge derived from the strategic analysis of techno-scientific networks, has been condensed into SK maps."
Link and Co-inlink Network Diagrams With URL Citations or Title Mentions In conclusion, the results suggest that both URL citations and title mentions are reasonable alternatives to hyperlink searches for direct links, although the choice of metric will probably have an influence on the structure of the networks produced.
A Two-Dimensional Approach to Performance Evaluation for a Large Number of Research Institutions We characterize an institution's h-core by using its h-index and c-descriptor as a characteristic point's x- and y-coordinates.
The Bibliometric Bandwagon: Characteristics of Bibliometric Articles Outside the Field Literature The exponential increase in the NILS literature is particularly worrying as the nature of any issue may be more amplified now than it was when Glänzel first published his concerns in the 1990s. As a consequence communication between ILS and NILS is now even more necessary to ensure the application of bibliometric standards and research field-appropriate evaluations. Finally, this analysis will reveal the potential for border crossing between the ILS and NILS literature, thereby increasing the societal impact of the bibliometric field and moving towards improved relations between ILS and NILS researchers.
The Large-Scale Structure of Journal Citation Networks The journal citation network has high reciprocity and positive assortativity by degree, which is coherent with a community structure in which there are tightly interconnected sets of journals that most likely represent entire disciplines or fields of them.
Visualization of Global Science and Technology Policy Research Structure This study provides a quantitative and objective way of analyzing the global Sci-Tech policy research context, by using the 548 papers retrieved from the database to construct a network diagram and contour map.
Using Structural Information and Citation Evidence to Detect Significant Plagiarism Cases in Scientific Publications Our results show that using structural information influ-ences the performance of plagiarism detection by (a) better retrieval of candidate publications than near-duplicate and TFIDF retrieval methods; (b) better precision, recall, and granularity of plagiarism detection results than flat-based PD techniques; and (c) marking the degree of significance and ranking significant cases in different structural compo-nents accordingly.
Mapping World Scientific Collaboration: Authors, Institutions, and Countries The objective of this study was to provide a global description of collaboration behaviors across multiple collaboration types and across a range of disciplines.
The Inconsistency of the h-index In this article, we have criticized the h-index and its variants from a theoretical point of view.
Basic Properties of Both Percentile Rank Scores and the I3 Indicator When the notion of relative congruous indicators is carefully defined, then percentile rank scores are strictly congruous indicators of relative performance. Similarly, the 13 is a strictly congruous indicator of absolute performance.
A Study of the Evolution of Interdisciplinarity in Library and Information Science: Using Three Bibliometric Methods The results indicate that although LIS researchers remain strongly dependent on sources from their own discipline, they are citing references to LIS journal articles and co-authoring articles with researchers affiliated with LIS-related institutes less frequently.
Effects of Academic Experience and Prestige on Researchers' Citing Behavior Whether authors use fewer references in their writings over time as a result of increased experience, prestige, or both seems to depend at least in part on how we tune the parameters used for data analysis. Consequently, review experience seems to be the decisive factor in our data. Hopefully, others will see the potential and follow up with additional empirical studies.
Universality of Citation Distributions Revisited Our validation study provides only limited support for RFC's claim that citation distributions are universal. Based on the results of our analysis, we conclude that claiming citation distributions to be universal for all fields of science is not warranted. Interpreting citation counts as approximate measures of scientific impact, nonuniversality of citation distributions might simply reflect that in some fields, differences in the scientific impact of publications are larger than in other fields.
Publication Fees in Open Access Publishing: Sources of Funding and Factors Influencing Choice of Journal Our survey confirmed the results of previous studies concerning what factors authors take into consideration when choosing where to submit a manuscript.
A threshold citation analysis in marketing research This study applies a new approach to simultaneously identify influential articles, journals, institutions, and researchers in marketing research by emphasizing on the quality of research works.
SHORT TERM IMPACT OF THE CHILEAN JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH: A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS The incorporation of any journal onto the Web of Science database serves a double purpose. First, it validates the quality of the information published on a journal over a certain level of threshold and it also increases the journal visibility to other users. Finally, this work is a bibliometric snapshot of the current situation of CJAR that will serve as a benchmark that could be easily surpassed in 3-5 yr by good management from the editorial team and the reviewers.
How Much Do Core Journals Change over a Decade? The Case of Communication Disorders Journal literature grew substantially during the decade both in articles published and works cited per article. As a group, core journals remained quite stable over time (r = 0.73). Approximately one-third of change in ranked lists derived from works cited in single journal volumes is due to random variability.
Persistence and uncertainty in the academic career Using this theoretical model, we show that short-term contracts can amplify the effects of competition and uncertainty making careers more vulnerable to early termination, not necessarily due to lack of individual talent and persistence, but because of random negative production shocks.
TWENTY-YEAR TRENDS OF AUTHORSHIP AND SAMPLING IN APPLIED BIOMECHANICS RESEARCH In conclusion, the data from two serials supported the hypothesis of changing patterns of authorship in applied biomechanics research from 1989 to 2009. Clear trends of increased numbers of coauthors, percentages of articles with six or more authors, and decreasing percentages of articles by single authors were observed. The samples sizes of applied biomechanics research reports varied widely and have not likely changed over the last 20 years.
A bibliometric analysis of research papers published on photosynthesis: 1992-2009 This study shows that photosynthesis research mainly focuses on factors such as water, stress, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and climate change which have been the hottest topics from 1992 to 2009 and will continue to be the key issues in photosynthetic research in the near future. Keyword analysis successfully offered interesting insights into the dynamics of this field. The USA, Germany, Japan, the UK, and France were ranked as the top five countries by TA on photosynthesis.
Quantifying the influence of scientists and their publications: distinguishing between prestige and popularity In this paper, we proposed an iterative algorithm named AP Rank to quantify the scientists' prestige and the quality of their publications via their inter-relationship on an author-paper bipartite network. We found that some scientists with a lower CC rank may have a higher influence than that indicated by their citations, because they are appreciated by prestigious scientists. In other words, these papers are popular but not prestigious. Certainly in the near future, with the advance of technology, more information and data can be conveniently obtained and are expected to foster the design of better-ranking metrics to face these challenges.
Getting funded. Multi-level network of physicists in Italy In this paper I analyse the structure of collaboration to physics research projects in Italy using social network analysis.
Self-selection and the citation advantage of open access articles The findings are contrary to the existing theory that a higher citation rate of open access articles is caused by authors posting their best articles online.
Scientometric research in South Africa and successful policy instruments Identification of the forces affecting positively the growth in the number of research publications in the country indicates that the primary incentive fuelling the recent growth is the new funding formula in the country which subsidizes the universities by more than R100 000 for each publication that their staff produces.
Is Google Scholar useful for bibliometrics? A webometric analysis Google Scholar lacks the quality control needed for its use as a bibliometric tool; the larger coverage it provides consists in some cases of items not comparable with those provided by other similar databases.
'Cognitive mobility' or migration of authors between fields used in mapping a network of mathematics We conclude that in addition to disciplinary maps using citations and co-word analysis for which considerable literature exists, our novel use of migration or cognitive mobility also appears to give a fairly rational map of disciplinary connections, in this case within Mathematics.
Growth of scientific production in Colombian universities: an intellectual capital-based approach We identify three growth trends in the number of scientific publications by Colombian universities: EEG, LEG and LIG. Therefore, it would be possible to define a roadmap to improve the knowledge production in Colombian universities. Research toward understanding these feedback structures is proposed as future work.
Delineating the scientific footprint in technology: Identifying scientific publications within non-patent references The analysis presented in this article reveals significant differences between indicators based on all NPRs vis-à-vis indicators relying solely on the subset of SNPRs. This indicates the relevancy of distinguishing scientific references among NPRs if one is interested in assessing the presence and impact of scientific references in relation to technology development. These observations further corroborate the relevancy of delineating scientific references when constructing science-technology indicators based on NPRs.
Using 'core documents' for detecting and labelling new emerging topics Core documents proved to be more than supplements to term representation of the outcomes of clustering exercises. As was shown in the present study, core documents can be used to identify important nodes in the hybrid citation/lexical network of the found clusters and their cross-citations links with corresponding clusters in other periods can provide information about possible emergence.
Key factors and considerations in the assessment of international collaboration: a case study for Austria and six countries A differentiation of the bilateral and multilateral components is certainly necessary when assessing ISC.
Author disambiguation using multi-aspect similarity indicators To summarise, our method retains all data and discards no information, accounts for activity of authors in different fields or specialties (year difference) and in different capacities (AAC); uses no arbitrary thresholds; is scalable; and provides highly accurate disambiguation results. Author ambiguity is a serious enough issue to warrant more attention. We hope that through our method we will be able to improve upon past efforts and to eventually present a user-friendly, open-source tool for scientists, policy-makers and evaluators, so that decisions based on error prone results become less common.
Structural indicators in citation networks This new look on a well-known network may provide new ways of studying small sub-fields. The results imply that the four indices perform a basic connective role in the evolution of citation generations. We are convinced that many interesting findings will result from further investigations using these structural indices.
Validating online reference managers for scholarly impact measurement The significant correlations between CiteULike/Mendeley user counts and WoS citations suggest that the two online reference managers can be used as additional sources of evidence for research evaluation.
Optimal and hierarchical clustering of large-scale hybrid networks for scientific mapping In this study we have presented a new hybrid clustering strategy based on graph model, which proved efficient and extremely fast.
The proximity of co-citation Our results indicate that sentence-level co-citations are potentially more efficient candidates for co-citation analysis because they tend to preserve the essential structural components of the corresponding traditional co-citation network and they tend to appear much infrequent in comparison to loosely coupled article-level only co-citations. These findings are important to improve our understanding of some of the fundamental factors that may influence the outcome of co-citation analysis. Our study has identified several potential routes for future research.
Research performance and collaboration in the Novosibirsk region The Novosibirsk region shows a high level of research performance. Its share of R&D expenditure was 2.5%. However, its RO amounted to 10% of the total Russian RO in 2004–2008. The key drivers of research performance are institutions of the Siberian Branch of the RAS.
Alone or together: examples from history research Humanities researchers do not constitute a homogeneous category.
Individual cognitive structures and collaboration patterns in academia This study enables to reveal ‘strategic' preferences of scientists at picking issues to publish.
Visualization of research fronts and knowledge bases by three-dimensional areal densities of bibliographically coupled publications and co-citations Co-citation and bibliographic coupling techniques have been reported in the literature to detect, delineate, characterize and visualize research fronts.
Comprehensive bibliographic coverage of the social sciences and humanities in a citation index: an empirical analysis of the potential But we find that the tendency to publish in more dispersed and specialized publication channels can be found only in the international journal literature of the SSH.
Citation genetic genealogy: a novel insight for citation analysis in scientific literature In this article, we used some basic notions in genetics and introduced citation genetic genealogy to describe citation relationships.
Science funding and research output: a study on 10 countries Funding plays an important role in science studies and paper publishing. The result shows that in China, the proportion of funding supported SCI papers is as high as 70.34%, much higher than other countries. For the main funding agencies in 10 countries, the results show that China, Germany and Spain are single funding agency predominated. In contrast, America, Japan, Canada and Australia are double funding agencies predominated. In addition, for the other 3 countries, including UK, France, Italy, the source of funding is diversified.
Identifying the global core-periphery structure of science In summary, even though there is a distinct and quantifiable core-periphery structure evident that varies across fields of science. The countries that tend to compose the majority of the core are similar with variations around the edges of the core. However, those countries left in the periphery are becoming increasingly isolated from the scientific elite.
Where demographics meets scientometrics: towards a dynamic career analysis Both the scientometric age pyramid and the age curve of the h-core proved interesting tools for the dynamical career analysis of individuals and journals.
Mapping interactions within the evolving science of science and innovation policy community Though the highly interdisciplinary SciSIP community is still young and resists widespread bibliometric analysis, it is possible to use network and content analysis methods to describe different facets of the community for a more comprehensive view of how the field is developing. This research shows that while the analysis of formal collaborations suggests some degree of isolation among award recipients, many of those recipients do participate in a diverse and active online community. This paper takes the first early step toward mapping the SciSIP community, but as the community continues to grow and change, so too must the methods of description and the questions around which the explorations revolve.
An application of co-word analysis and bibliometric maps for detecting the most highlighting themes in the consumer behaviour research from a longitudinal perspective The bibliometric maps help detect future trends.
Indian institutional repositories: a study of user's perspective The present research findings provide a picture of institutional repositories from the users' perspectives.
Co-authorship and productivity among Italian economists This article presents a study of the collaborative beha-viour (co-authorship) of a community of 1620 econo-mists working in Italian universities during the period 1969 to 2006, to examine whether this behaviour has a (relevant) effect on their scientific productivity. The econometric analysis shows that, in addition to individual characteristics, the individual productivity of an Italian economist positively depends on his/her propensity to collabo-rate and on the individual's 'international' reach of the co-authorship network.
Invisible institutional repositories: addressing the low indexing ratios of IRs in Google Transforming metadata to GS-preferred metadata schemas is very likely to raise indexing ratio of IRs. The second and third pilot projects described in this paper were successful, demonstrating that transforming from Dublin Core metadata tags to more precise bibliographic Highwire Press tags increased the sample data set GS indexing ratio from 0 percent to 62 percent in the second pilot, and then to more than 90 percent in the third.
Conceptualizing and Advancing Research Networking Systems We hope that this article stimulates the human-computer interaction, computer-supported cooperative work, and related communities to pursue a broad and comprehensive agenda for developing research networking systems.
Decoupling the scholarly journal Importantly, this system is able to evolve from the current one, requiring only the continued development of bolt-on services external to the journal, particularly for peer review."
Career progress in centralized academic systems: Social capital and institutions in France and Italy At a theoretical level, our findings on social capital suggest that it is advisable to analyze networks of scientists not only in terms of knowledge diffusion..., but also in terms of power and rewards for political exchanges.
Global excellence at the expense of local diffusion, or a bridge between two worlds? Research in science and technology in the developing world The paper provides evidence that in a country that is behind the technological frontier, world-class researchers act as important conduits of knowledge into the local academic research community.
A linear ordering of a multi-parameter universe is usually nonsense Complex situations cannot be described by one parameter, one number.
BIBLIOMETRIC METHODS FOR DETECTING AND ANALYSING EMERGING RESEARCH TOPICS Based on the above review of the structural analysis of sci-entific disciplines, the following conclusions can be drawn.
Who Are the Giants on Whose Shoulders We Stand? Exploring this concept empirically, we demonstrate that authors of the most-highly-cited papers published in economics during the period 2001–2005 were influenced little by the expert panel-identified 'best' papers published in our flagship journal, the American Economic Review and, with a few notable exceptions, influenced little by the work of Nobel Prize-winning economists. This suggests: (1) that the scientific contributions contained in these 'best' papers and produced by Nobel Prize winners are not compelling, (2) that if compelling, these contributions are not temporally durable, and/or (3) that the intellectual property rights to these contributions disappear over time and this knowledge becomes common property.
Does networking improve research? Our data support the assumption that networking leads to good articles. However, it is not possible to determine the cause and effect in a cross-sectional study design. Lastly, our analyses mentioned earlier suggest that it is not the quantity of your network as much as the quality that leads to good results.
'Reading' in the digital environment Publishers are still not comfortable with that and this article helps explain why they have to be.
Open access central funds in UK universities "Universities in the UK generally provide an infrastructure for green OA through the pro-vision of institutional repositories but centrally co-ordinated support for gold OA publishing is still only provided by a minor-ity."
Pricing principles used by scholarly open access publishers Many of the pricing principles correspond directly with the cost structure of publishing, whereas others are linked to the author's ability to pay. The share of OA journals using APC funding is still only around a quarter of all OA journals, but their share in the number of articles is much larger. This business model seems to be here to stay.
Seasonal bias in editorial decisions for a physics journal: you should write when you like, but submit in July So one might be tempted to conclude: you should write when you like, but submit in July.
The impact of university library resources on university research achievement outputs First, the study identified university library factors that have an impact on research achievement.
A continuous description of discrete data points in informetrics Using spline functions In this article we proposed that spline functions should be used more in our field, and this for illustrative as well as modelling purposes.
State-led Technological Development: A Case of China's Nanotechnology Development China has made enormous progress in nanotechnology development since the National Nanotechnology Develop-ment Strategy was enacted in 2001.
Making an impact: research, publications, and bibliometrics in the BJGP While the IF scores provide a ready tool to make judgements about the 'quality' of research published in a journal, IFs alone are self-evidently a limited measure of the real impact of an article on professional behaviour and health outcomes.
ANALYSIS OF REFERENCE RELATIONSHIPS AMONG RESEARCH PAPERS, BASED ON CITATION CONTEXT Our research provides a solution to this problem and can help researchers to make a clear overview of the related papers. Compared to the traditional citation network, our citation network indicates not only the citation relationship but also the reference relationship. Our citation network is useful for researchers to find the answer to fundamental questions, such as the researcher's shortcomings, the lineage of research ideas or methods, improvement on a research and comparisons of several researches.
A Small World of Citations? The Influence of Collaboration Networks on Citation Practices Our paper expanded on the notion of self-citation to analyse the relationship between co-authorship and citation in many disciplines of the NMS and SSH, using vast quantities of data and a new algorithm.
Head in the clouds and feet on the ground: Research priority setting in China In general, China is moving in the direction of pluralist priority-setting, but even bottom-up consultation processes bear traces of central control.
Health Research Evaluation and its Role on Knowledge Production We conclude that Health System Research evaluation could be used as a mean for implementing policies and promoting knowledge production.
Citation Rates of Award-Winning ASCE Papers These findings indicate that although citations provide a quantitative measure of use, they are imperfect indicators of quality and significance.
Author affiliation in supply chain management and logistics journals: 2008-2010 Specifically, author affiliation rankings (Table I) demonstrate notable changes from the previous study (2005-2007), with several schools achieving significant advances within the top 25 ranking and other schools realizing inaugural entrance to the list. Moreover, diversity of both author school affiliation (Figure 1) and authors (Figure 2), as measured by market concentration, continue to expand at a steady pace. These results imply that the presence of SCML in academic business programs is increasing and that the growth of researchers will not soon subside.
PAV: A novel model for ranking heterogeneous objects in bibliographic information networks In this paper, we proposed a novel model, called PAV, for ranking heterogeneous objects, such as authors, papers, and venues in bibliographic information networks.
Scientific publications in urology and nephrology journals from China: A 10-year analysis The quantity of scientific articles from three regions of China has increased significantly in the past decade.
Influence ratio: An alternate means to assess the relative influence of hospitality and tourism journals on research "This study shed light on the influence that different journals have on hospitality and tourism scholarship through the development and testing of the influence ratio metric."
Mining term networks from text collections for crime investigation In conclusion, this article contributes by presenting an inte-grated term-relationship mining method and proposing evi-dence-based exploration for term network applied to crime investigation.
Research in orthopaedics from China has thrived over the last decade: A bibliometric analysis of publication activity In conclusion, the number of published articles from China dramatically increased during the 2000-2009 period. Chinese researchers in the field of orthopaedics have been more and more active in the global orthopaedic community during the past 10 years. ML seems to have caught up to HK and TW regarding research output.
Runaway events dominate the heavy tail of citation distributions Aggregate citation distribution for the set of "old" Physics papers is better fitted by the discrete power-law (Waring) distribution rather than by the log-normal distribution.
Australasian Plant Pathology: an analysis of authorship and citations in the 21st century Given its increasing proportion of authors from outside Australia, the many countries citing it and its usage relative to similar journals, APP makes a broad regional contribu- tion with global recognition.
Peer Effects in Science: Evidence from the Dismissal of Scientists in Nazi Germany I have used the dismissal of scientists as exogenous variation in the quality and quantity of peers and have shown that peers do not seem to affect the productivity of scientists. This is a surprising result given that many researchers believe that local peer effects are important. Geographic location of researchers may therefore not have been very important for more established researchers.
Collaboration and Team Science: From Theory to Practice There are many factors that come together and contribute to successful collaborations. Just as there is no one formula for successful leadership, there is no one formula for establishing an effective team. Trust is among the most critical elements we have encountered that influence team cohesion in our research and practice.
Tracking the impact of the National Institutes of Health Clinical and Translational Science Awards on child health research: developing and evaluating a measurement strategy The metrics presented in this study provide an important starting point for evaluating the impact of CTSAs on CH research.
Physician-Scientists in Japan: Attrition, Retention, and Implications for the Future Although the total number of physician-scientists was relatively unchanged during the period studied, it is essential that educators and policy makers develop approaches to address underlying demographic changes to ensure an adequate age- and gender-balanced supply of physician-scientists in the future.
Change in Academic Coauthorship, 1953-2003 Overall, this article highlights cohort succession as a source of change in coauthorship, and underscores the importance of accounting for generational differences in studies of scientific careers. This research has not explained why coauthorship increased during the second half of the twentieth century, but it has helped to clarify what needs to be explained. By distinguishing between sources of change in scientific practice, we learn more about the dynamic relationship between scientists and the social environments in which they work.
Peer Review As Boundary Work Finally, the sociological concept of ‘boundary work' is introduced, and it is concluded that peer review is a form of ‘boundary work.' Assigning scholarly status to a journal is clearly a human activity, and this process can therefore be more adequately described and understood by a perspective that emphasizes the human element in the production of knowledge, rather than one which treats the process as if it were in some way objective. The practical implications of a constructivist approach are that when librarians teach information literacy and talk about the peer-review process, they should do so with qualification, emphasizing the uncertainty and fallibility of the process.
THE TREND TOWARD MORE ATTRACTIVE AND INFORMATIVE TITLES: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST 1946-2010 Successful titles of journal articles should attract and inform potential readers, especially in an age when readers scan dozens of titles output by computerized search engines in relatively short periods of time.
Exploring the relationships between media and political parties through web hyperlink analysis: The case of Spain Findings from the study suggest the potential of using link analysis to gain new insights into the inter- actions among media and political parties.
Shaping the landscape of research in information systems from the perspective of editorial boards: A scientometric study of 77 leading journals The landscape of research in IS has been investigated in this article. We tackled the research question “What are the characteristics of journals in IS?”
A bibliometric chronicling of library and information science's first hundred years We have presented here a condensed history of a field. Two major structural shifts emerge from the data: in 1960, the field's character altered. As demonstrated by the world analysis, LIS changed from a professional field focused on librarianship to an academic field focused on information and use; and in 1990, LIS began to receive a growing number of citations from outside the field, notably from Computer Science and Management, and saw a dramatic increase in the number of authors contributing to the literature of the field. LIS has come of age and is now attracting attention from its academic near neighbors.
Scientific subject categories of Web of Knowledge ranked according to their multidimensional prestige of influential journals Here, we have presented a ranking of the 174 scientific subject categories of Web of Knowledge as of 2010 based on the measurement of multidimensional prestige of influential journals.
The Hirsch index of a shifted Lotka function and its relation with the impact factor In this article, we presented, based on a shifted power model, an implicit relation between the h-index and the total number of sources, and between the h-index and the impact factor (average number of items per source).
Editorial responsiveness, journal quality, and total review time: An empirical analysis Our results revealed that Chinese authors tend to rank the quality of a journal higher if the attitude and behavior of the journal's editors are positively perceived. The findings also suggest that the total review time will not impact Chinese authors' perceptions of editorial responsiveness and journal quality, though a long review process for manuscripts frequently lead to authors' complaints and criticisms (Bornmann & Daniel, 2010). As Chinese authors are getting more familiar with English-language journals, future research could extend the current study to international journals for improving the external validity.
Revisiting size effects in higher education research productivity This study has examined the correlation between productivity of a research group and its size, in order to determine whether or not there are variable returns to size in research activity. The subsequent analyses demonstrate that 106 fields of research are largely charac-terized by constant returns to size. The results of the analysis negate any such considerations in most fields.
Benchmarking citation measures among the Australian education professoriate Using these measures, the h- and g-index scores for members of the Australian education professoriate were collected and used to develop benchmarks that might be useful both to individual researchers seeking a comparative assessment of their own performance and to organisations assessing research performance for a variety of purposes.
A Time-Lag Analysis of the Relationships Among PISA Scores, Scientific Research Publication, and Economic Performance Using a time-lag structure, both of the results yielded from principal component regression and ridge regression concur with Chen and Luoh's (2010) finding that when other standard variables for international comparison were taken into account, the number of scientific and technical journal papers per capita in 2000, instead of PISA scores, emerges as the most significant predictor to GDP per capita in 2007. Instead of solely focusing on reforming STEM education as partly measured by international test scores, improving the R&D infrastructure and openness in trade are potentially crucial to the future of the economy.
The comprehensive competitiveness evaluation of American universities in Bridge Engineering Based on scientometrics, this article filters the ranking of comprehensive competitiveness of American universities in Bridge Engineering.
A quantitative analysis of Arctic related articles in the humanities and social sciences appearing in the world core journals This bibliometric study focuses on world-wide core journal articles on Arctic research in the social sciences and humanities, attempting to understand research productivity in this field. For more than a century, scholars worldwide have never been absent in this field, and are becoming more and more active in recent years. As time goes on, Arctic research has gradually expanded from the historical, archaeological, and anthropological fields to political, social, educational, and cultural sciences, international relations, music, art, etc.
The taxonomy of research collaboration in science and technology: evidence from mechanical research through probabilistic clustering analysis Through a clustering analysis using the GMM, this study demonstrates the taxonomy of research collaboration and the relevant characteristics of each collaboration type.
The role of Chinese-American scientists in China-US scientific collaboration: a study in nanotechnology This paper focuses on the collaboration of individual scientists between China and the USA.
Metrics to evaluate research performance in academic institutions: a critique of ERA 2010 as applied in forestry and the indirect H2 index as a possible alternative Some of the bibliometric data (especially mean RCI) collated by the ERA and tabulated for presentation to RECs are potentially problematic.
A comparative study of interdisciplinary changes between information science and library science "The results confirm that the trend toward interdisciplinarity in both information science and library science has risen over the years, although the degree of interdisciplinarity in information science is higher than that in library science."
Using complex networks concepts to assess approaches for citations in scientific papers In an analysis of a considerably large corpus of 1,800 articles from two research areas, we have found that two important procedures in a literature survey are not followed by authors.
A publication index that is independent of age Then the resulting index can be compared for young and old researchers.
Identifying attractive research fields for new scientists In this paper we studied the problem of identifying attractive research areas for new scientists. Our methods have been attested experimentally by employing a large set of self-crawled research articles. The experiments provided some significant conclusions: The first is that there are exist some research fields which despite their popularity, they are not attractive for scholars who are now starting their career. On the other hand, some research fields are unpopular however, they provide excellent opportunities at these scientists.
Global competition and technological transition in electrical, electronic, information and communication engineering: quantitative analysis of periodicals and conference proceedings of the IEEE This comprehensive analysis of the IEEE publications over a period of almost 30 years revealed that the IEEE technical and publishing activities have expanded not only globally but also locally.
Citation rates in mathematics: a study of variation by subdiscipline Given the evidence above, the low citation rate in algebra is not due to either being a small sub-discipline or holding lesser importance in the opinion of scholars, which are the reasons suggested by the NRC (2010, 2011a). The NRC explanation is not borne out in mathematics, and so other possibilities arise. To the extent that citation counts and rates affect hiring and funding decisions or other assessments, variation of citation counts and rates by subdiscipline needs to be taken into account.
Collaboration network patterns and research performance: the case of Korean public research institutions These findings are implicit in relation to the Korean Government's R&D policies on collaborating strategies to produce sustained research results with the advent of the convergence research era.
Author self-citations in the field of ecology Although a lot of variance remained unexplained, my study successfully showed regularities in the propensity of ecologists to include self-citations in their research articles.
A bibliometric tool to assess the regional dimension of university-industry research collaborations The present study proposes a complementary support instrument for regional policy makers, to assist them in identifying and quantifying the sectorial demand and supply of knowledge in the market for public-private research collaborations. The instrument also permits measurement of the relative capacity of the region to maximize, through public-private collaboration, the local economic benefits arising from new knowledge produced by its own universities, both in each technical-scientific sector and for the aggregate level. Future developments of this work could include the application of bibliometric network analysis through mapping and clustering techniques which have flourished in recent years (Waltman et al. 2010; Leydesdorff and Rafols 2009; Noyons and Calero-Medina 2009; Boyack et al. 2005).
State of the art on the Systems of Innovation research: a bibliometrics study up to 2009 The Innovation Systems approach has proven to be an adequate focusing device to understand the complex interrelationships emerging between different actors from the public, private and academic sector in order to achieve economic development. The next step for this research would be to run a qualitative analysis using expert-based opinions to include a more descriptive and analytical flavor to this quantitative study and to bring a more in depth discussion into the results that have been introduced in the former sections.
Energy indicators and percentile ranking normalization In this paper, some thermodynamically inspired considerations and thought experiments are offered and the EEE scheme is applied in conjunction with the percentile ranking approach for normalizing quality to determine the best aggregated indicator for performance.
Equal contributions and credit given to authors in anesthesiology journals during a 10-year period It is increasingly common to give authors equal credit in original research articles in major anesthesiology journals.
Research on the cross-citation relationship of core authors in scientometrics The study selected 32 highly productive authors, 62 highly cited authors and 94 core authors considering both number of publication and citation in scientometrics field for mutual cross-citation analysis and finally drew network map comprising each of these 3 groups.
A bibliometric study of research activity in ASEAN related to the EU in FP7 priority areas In total, this study helps to understand the research landscape South East Asia in seven selected FP7 thematic areas and provides insights into cooperative research outputs with the European Union's countries.
On the age-independent publication index This suggests that that citation acceleration a is also a convenient measure to compare the publication output of different authors.
A Bibliometric Analysis of 20 Years of Globalization Research: 1990-2009 There was an even distribution of globalization literature across different subject categories, indicating the interdisciplinary nature of globalization research. International organizations appeared on the list of most cited authors, which suggests that reports and data produced by these organizations were a solid knowledge repository of globalization research. A keyword analysis found a terminological preference on ‘globalization', suggested net-works' central position in studies of contemporary globalization, and revealed several major strands in globalization studies.
Benchmarking Individual Publication Productivity in Logistics This study provides a set of comprehensive, useful and recent benchmarks for individual publication productivity in the logistics discipline within the selected journal outlets. Our distributions represent mechanisms by which logistics authors, and those who may evaluate them, can assess their position within the field.
The changing landscape of technology and innovation management: An updated ranking of journals in the field The updated ranking of TIM journals reported in this study further supports the notion that TIM is a multidisciplinary field which continues to grow and evolve over time. In conclusion, this study pays respect to the continuing growth and evolution of the technology and innovation management field. There are many benefits to revisiting the ranking of TIM journals as highlighted at the beginning of this paper.
STAR METRICS and the Science of Science Policy In sum, the goal of the STAR METRICS project is to build a data platform that can be used to describe to whom, when, and where federal funds were invested with the intention of developing a more accurate approach to describing the short- and long-term results of the investments.
Exploratory factor analysis for the Hirsch index, 17 h-type variants, and some traditional bibliometric indicators In this paper we have examined the relationship of the h-index with other related indices measuring research performance using EFA. We have shown for our dataset consisting of a wide variety of bibliometric indices, that a distinction is possible to one of the two basic dimensions of scientific performance, namely the quality and quantity of scientific output. But it seems to be unnecessary to utilize one of the more complicated variants, rather than the original h-index or the likewise simple g-index, where the former is closer to n, i.e. the productivity dimension, and the latter is closer to ĉ, i.e. the impact dimension.
Mining patterns of author orders in scientific publications With the dominant practice of multi-authored papers in modern academic communities, author orders and credit assignment will continue to gain attention. Our future work includes investigating the dynamics of author sequences across time.
Time-aware PageRank for bibliographic networks ...and find the new time-aware methods to outperform standard PageRank and its time-unaware weighted variants.
Ranking economists on the basis of many indicators: An alternative approach using RePEc data In this paper, we provide some cautionary remarks concerning the interpretation of rankings provided by the RePEc network.
Betweenness centrality as a driver of preferential attachment in the evolution of research collaboration networks In other words, during network evolution existing authors who have the power of controlling the communication and information flow (that is, higher betweenness centrality), attract more new co-authors than authors who have more co-authorship links (degree centrality) or those who have more direct connection to all other nodes in the network (closeness centrality).
Reflections on the activity index and related indicators The problem studied in this article occurs for all indicators that are constructed using the same formalism as the activity index. It seems that the problem we pointed out has no real consequences for the interpretation of large-scale activity indices as published in the literature. Yet, we warn that there is a theoretical flaw in the construction of this type of indicators and in some circumstances it may really matter. This study can be considered another addition to the line of inquiry which takes a mathematical, often axiomatic, look at scientometric indicators.
Factors affecting web links between European higher education institutions We conclude that, while the presence of a web link cannot be directly related to its underlying motivation and the type of relationship between HEIs, patterns of network ties between HEIs present interesting statistical properties which reveal new insights on the function and structure of the inter organizational networks in which HEIs are embedded.
Calibration against a reference set: A quantitative approach to assessment of the methods of assessment of scientific output The present results confirm the usefulness of standard bibliometric indicators and of a few less-well-known bibliometric indicators for assessment of mature chemists.
Two-year citations of JAPPL original articles: evidence of a relative age effect In summary, the longer an article has been out there, the more citations it collects.
Increasing Complexity of Clinical Research in Gastroenterology: Implications for the Training of Clinician-Scientists The complexity of clinical gastroenterology and hepatology research has increased dramatically, highlighting the need for advanced training of clinical investigators.
Four decades of health economics through a bibliometric lens The growth has been astonishing, well outrunning its initial stable-mate, the economics of education.
A CONCEPTUAL SNAPSHOT OF THE FIRST DECADE (2002-2011) OF THE INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & DECISION MAKING The purpose of this paper has been to offer an expeditious perspective of the first decade (2002–2011) of the IJITDM by identifying themes, predicting emerging trends, and determining relationships with other themes/fields.
New Journals in Education and Psychology: General Trends, Discoverability, and Ubiquitous Journals of the Decade, 2000-2009 The study provides much cause for concern about the comprehensiveness and currency of exist-ing discovery tools. It also offers evidence that the relationship between libraries and publishing conglomerates deserves further examination. We must provide access to as many items as possible and give all authors a level play-ing field in the exchange of ideas.
Map of nonprofit organization websites in Israel Our results are significant for two reasons. First, they constitute the first attempt to define the attributes and struc- tures of nonprofit organizations. Second, we have compared the topological properties of nonprofit sites in Israel with the university environment and from results found at the macro level for the entire World Wide Web. Furthermore, we also found similarities. This evidence may generalize and strengthen the universality of previous results.
Interactions between journal attributes and authors' willingness to wait for editorial decisions In this work, we applied a discrete choice experiment to determine the willingness-to-wait in the context of journal submissions.
Seed journal citation network maps: A method based on network theory In summary, the method and results presented here should be considered a starting point for developing a comprehensive methodology to identify from a dynamic perspective the citation environment of a journal.
Applying the Publication Power Approach to Artificial Intelligence Journals This evidence suggests that power ranking can contribute to evaluat-ing artificial intelligence journals.
Characteristics and trends of research articles authored by researchers affiliated with institute of chemical engineering in Taiwan Findings of this paper revealed that research articles authored by researchers affiliated with institutes of chemical engineering in Taiwan increased considerably during 1973-2010.
Scientific productivity of OECD countries in dermatology journals within the last 10-year period Nearly half of all publications were performed by the European origin OECD countries, and one-third of all publications were performed by USA.
Partial Perspectives in Astronomy: Gender, Ethnicity, Nationality and Meshworks in Building Images of the Universe and Social Worlds From our preliminary findings it has become clear that the study of meshworks has significant explanatory value, revealing distinctive practices which vary according to gender, ethnicity, and national origins.
Collaboration in Art and in Science: Approaches to Attribution, Authorship, and Acknowledgment Both "Big Science” and “Big Art” have embraced various forms of collaborative activity, notably, coauthorship.
Tracking the evolution of waste recycling research using overlay maps of science Two different overlays have been done following the technique explained in Rafols et al. (2010), to map the evolution of WRS from 2005 to 2010, identifying the main cognitive areas behind this science and the main cognitive areas related to them.
Navigating the impact-innovation double hurdle: The case of a climate change research fund Using this research funding process as a single study, we found that trying to clear the impact-innovation double hurdle in a single funding initiative ultimately compromises both goals.
Prevalence of Honorary Coauthorship in the American Journal of Roentgenology A substantial proportion of articles had evidence of honorary authorship. The rate of honorary authors was higher among authors who worked in an environment where senior members were routinely added to all manuscripts submitted for publication, authors who perceived that a coauthor listed had only reviewed the manuscript, and authors who reported that someone suggested they should include an honorary author.
Finding a good job: Academic network centrality and early occupational outcomes in management academia Overall, our measure of ANC (based on cumulative PhD exchanges in management departments) was a significant predictor of four separate measures of academic prestige measured at both the departmental and institutional levels. Paradoxically, whereas the benefits of ANC matter for getting new jobs in prestigious departments, it seems they matter much less for getting quality early career publications.
Trends in Nanotechnology Patents Applied to the Health Sector Generally speaking, there has been a rise in the number of patents in the health sector that make use of nanotechnol-ogy.
Research performance evaluation: the experience of an independent medical research institute The Research Performance Evaluation methodology described here provides a fair and transparent means of disbursing internal funding.
Contribution of Case Reports to Brain Metastases Research: Systematic Review and Analysis of Pattern of Citation In conclusion, research activity has increased in the time period between 2006 and 2010 and case reports continue to contribute approximately 20-21% of all publications. It cannot be excluded that case reports without citation provide interesting information to some clinicians or researchers, but their ultimate role is difficult to quantify. Apparently, case reports describing unexpected therapeutic success gain more attention, at least in terms of citation, than others.
A Reverse Engineering Approach to the Suppression of Citation Biases Reveals Universal Properties of Citation Distributions We believe that the methods and results reported in this paper can be of great relevance for the entire scientific community.
Environmental and ecological economics in the 21st century: An age adjusted citation analysis of the influential articles, journals, authors and institutions On the basis of our analysis, we can come up with a clear perspec-tive of what the most influential articles are, journals, and institu-tions.
China/USA nanotechnology research output comparison-2011 update China's rapid growth in NN research publications in the SCI continues unabated.
Publication records of accounting and finance faculty promoted to professor: evidence from the UK The study establishes promotion publication benchmarks in relation to the quantity, quality and nature of research outputs associated with promotion to the senior rank of professor in the UK.
Publications by Doctoral Candidates at Charite University Hospital, Berlin, from 1998-2008 The past decade has seen an increase in the number of publications by doctoral students at the Charité and a rise in the average impact factor of the journals concerned.
The 100 most-cited articles in Pediatric Surgery International The 100 most-cited articles published in PSI were predominately original articles from English-speaking countries dealing with clinical topics.
Subject librarians' perceptions of institutional repositories as an information resource This study was exploratory, involving only a small sample size and one geographic area. Our findings and conclusions are affected by this limitation and therefore must be treated with caution. If IRs are to become accepted as an information resource, library managers as well as those in charge of the development of IRs must work closely with subject librarians to understand their perceptions of IRs as information resources, thereby learning about, and possibly rectifying, negative attributes of their IRs such as poorly designed interfaces and gaps in content of importance to the institutions' clients, as well as their positive attributes. Future research might investigate the role played by tools such as Google Scholar, OAIster, Arrow Discovery Service, KRIS and other databases in the diffusion of IRs as an information resource.
Representation and Negotiation of Complementary and Alternative Medicine: A Citation Context Analysis The results from all three studies have migrated to a great variety of journals and different types of documents.
Citations to Australian Astronomy: 5-and 10-Year Benchmarks The histograms and percentiles presented here provide a valuable snapshot of the performance of our nation's astronomers, and also allow individuals to see how they may be fairing.
Legitimate textual borrowing: Direct quotation in L2 student writing Although overuse of direct quotations is commonly associated with less successful writing, in this study it was the more successful writers who were found to quote directly more frequently than less successful writers.
Articles with short titles describing the results are cited more often Some features of article titles can help predict the number of article views and citation counts.
Bounds and Inequalities Relating h-Index, g-Index, e-Index and Generalized Impact Factor: An Improvement over Existing Models In this paper, we described some inequalities relating h-index, g-index, e-index, and generalized impact factor.
Drawing a line: Setting guidelines for digital image processing in scientific journal articles In this paper I have suggested that, while trying to develop practical, working solutions to the perceived problem of digital image altera-tion in biology, journal editors must negotiate four complex and interrelated concerns: the relationship between image production and image processing; the line between appropriate and inappropriate image alteration; the relationship between authors and readers of journal articles; and the meaning of objectivity in the digital age. In sum, the recent image-processing guidelines, despite their internal contradictions about the role of images in knowledge production and their ambiguities concerning ques-tions of acceptable and unacceptable practices, can be understood as tools that help to (re)structure and make explicit relationships of accountability among authors, editors and readers of journal articles when it comes to making, interpreting and validating images in publications. Ultimately, these questions concern whether the guidelines help to restore the perceived crisis of trust in published images. Pursuing these lines of enquiry should, in turn, deepen our understanding of whether and how objectivity may be undergoing recalibration in the digital age.
Mapping the Knowledge Structure of Research on Patient Adherence: Knowledge Domain Visualization Based Co-Word Analysis and Social Network Analysis The dynamic of this field is mainly divergent, with increasing number of new sub-directions of research.
Ranking International Business Institutions and Faculty Members Using Research Publication as the Measure Update and Extention of Prior Research This study has updated and extended prior research by measuring and ranking the productivity of academic institutions and faculty members based on their number of publications appearing in top three core international business journals between 2001 and 2009.
Factors Influencing Chinese Authors' Perceptions of Journal Quality: A Comparison Between Two Academic Fields The findings indicate that the critical factors influencing author-perceived journal quality are different between the two areas.
An update of gender diversity in editorial boards: a longitudinal study of management journals This study's findings clearly indicate that there is still much that can be done to narrow the gender imbalance in most editorial boards of management journals. Monitoring women's representation in editorial boards of management journals is only one of the steps needed for successful change to occur. This follow-up study serves that purpose in the field of management, a largely neglected field until recently.
Research teams as complex systems: implications for knowledge management The paper argues that elements from complexity theory can provide the building blocks for integrating previous empirical results on teams, with the use of a model, which can be formalised and can integrate insights in the fragmentary field of knowledge management and orga- nisational learning.
Holistic observation and monitoring of the impact of interdisciplinary academic research projects: An empirical assessment in Japan "In this study, the empirical analysis and verification of an evaluation framework with KPIs was carried out on two different research institutes for interdisciplinary and collaborative research."
Innovation: Exploring the knowledge base The analysis presented in this paper shows that a sizeable literature on innovation has developed, mostly from the 1950s onwards (although a few contributions, such as those by Schum-peter, are older), with a particularly strong growth in recent years.
Science and technology studies: Exploring the knowledge base The methodology has succeeded in identifying 155 'core contributions' to STS as perceived by the authors of chapters in a number of authoritative handbooks.
Knowledge flows - Analyzing the core literature of innovation, entrepreneurship and science and technology studies The overall main conclusion from our analysis is that the social science literature on knowledge, technological change and innovation has developed in a progressively more compartmentalized manner.
Mobilizing for change: A study of research units in emerging scientific fields Such local research units, it is argued, play a very important role for the field they belong to, for example by mobilizing financial support, offering job opportunities, attracting talented recruits, and providing adequate training.
How journal rankings can suppress interdisciplinary research: A comparison between Innovation Studies and Business & Management More importantly, it has shown that the widespread use of ABS journal rankings in BMS results in a bias in favour of disciplinary research, while conversely the research of interdisciplinary IS units tends to be assessed as being of lower quality.
Aggregating post-publication peer reviews and ratings I have argued that the aggregation of post-publication peer reviews and ratings can play an important role for revolution- izing not only scientific publication, but also the evaluation procedures that support funding decisions.
Measuring researchers' use of scholarly information through social bookmarking data: A case study of BibSonomy Social bookmaking data can be used to augment other methods to measure the use of scholarly information, such as surveys, citation analysis or server transaction logs.
Egocentric analysis of co-authorship network structure, position and performance The results of our analysis show that research performance is positively associated with a researcher's ego-network structure (i.e., degree centrality, ego-betweenness centrality, density) and a researcher's position within the collaboration network (i.e. efficiency and constraint). Thus, within the context of this research, we may suggest that scholars should rather than continuing collaboration with authors within the same cluster which lead to lower efficiency and higher constraint, ought to "bridge structural holes" by connecting with new and diverse research groups (e.g., inter-disciplinary groups) and fostering collaborations in order to improve research publication and prolificacy. In brief, results from our data analysis show that the research performance of scholars is significantly correlated with scholars' ego-network measures.
The distribution of Web citations Determining the distribution of Web sites or Web scientific resources based on Web citations is a new area for bibliometric research in the Internet era. The tests show that Web citations are similar to traditional citations and that their distribution is regular to some extent. Web citation may play an important role in using and managing Web information resources, including the evaluation of academic Web sites, the discernment of academic behavior via the Web, and the selection of Web resources (Yang et al., 2010).
Towards a representation of diffusion and interaction of scientific ideas: The case of fiber optics communication In this contribution we studied articles acting as concept symbols and defined functions characterizing the actual temporal behavior of the citation diffusion process leading to "citation life histories". Applying the principles explained in this contribution informetrics may reveal the regularities along which science is developing. The full realization of our ideas depends on the extent to which one is able to eliminate the randomness effect.
Intended and Unintended Consequences of a Publish-or-Perish Culture: A Worldwide Survey The results presented in this article show that the publish-or-perish culture can have both beneficial and detrimental effects, according to members of the demographers community.
Scholarly Network Similarities: How Bibliographic Coupling Networks, Citation Networks, Cocitation Networks, Topical Networks, Coauthorship Networks, and Coword Networks Relate to Each Other We find that topical networks and coauthorship networks have the lowest similarity, and these two types of networks set two boundaries (social and cognitive) for all six networks; cocitation networks and citation networks have high similarity; bibliographic coupling networks and cocitation networks have high similarity; coword networks and topical networks have high similarity, and so forth. In addition, through MDS, two dimensions can be identified and used to describe the six types of scholarly networks, where Dimension 1 can be interpreted as noncitation-based versus citation-based, and Dimension 2 can be interpreted as social versus cognitive. The findings of this study indicate that future research on this topic would benefit from evaluating different approaches to hybrid networks or heterogeneous networks through the possible application of gold standards (such as award lists or expert judgments) that can help determine which approach yields more precise clustering results and useful information for scientific evaluations and science policy making.
Complex Systems Science: Dreams of Universality, Interdisciplinarity Reality Our empirical study of the complex systems field shows that its overall coherence does not arise from a universal theory but from computational techniques and successful adaptations of the idea of self-organization. On a more local level—specifically the interdisciplinary level—trading zones allow for coordination between vastly different scientific cultures, which differ in their conception of an interesting topic, but can nonetheless work together around specific tools (a DNA microchip) or concepts (a network). In summary, we have obtained a global point of view on the structure of the complex systems field.
Measuring the Usage of E-Research Infrastructure as an Indicator of Research Activity The type of indicator developed in this study can be used to measure research activity in fields in which e-research has become important.
Changes in Publication Languages and Citation Practices and Their Effect on the Scientific Impact of Russian Science (1993-2010) Our analysis thus clearly points to the conclusion that if the objective of a country is to maximize the international visibility and impact of its scientific work, then the effort should go into the promotion of publication in already recognized English-language jour-nals rather than in investing scarce resources in the trans-lation of local journals or even the publication of local journals in English.
A Visual Representation of Relative First-Citation Times Response-time indicators for journals thus need their own approach and they supplement impact measures by providing deeper insight into the mechanism of citation processes at this level.
Mapping (USPTO) Patent Data Using Overlays to Google Maps As mainly descriptive techniques—despite the z testing—the explorations above lead primarily to results raising questions and giving directions for further research. However, the routines also produce the file geo.dbf, which contains all the quantitative information generated. A longer term objective is the transversal combination of information across databases such as the WoS or Scopus, patent databases, and perhaps PubMed to trace innovation trajectories from an information science perspective (cf. Swanson, 1990; Fagerberg & Verspagen, 2009).
Citation Measures at the Micro Level: Influence of Publication Age, Field, and Uncitedness This study used a high-quality data set of Leibniz Prize winners to illustrate the effect of different degrees of normalization on the ranking of authors.
Alternative Thoughts on Uncitedness This has been a theoretical investigation, and we acknowledge that this approach has deficiencies in that the results can only be as good as the model assumptions.
Political Science in Australia 2011: Grants and Staffing We can only provide a snapshot of the political science profession from the available data.
Bibliometric assessment of publication output of child and adolescent psychiatric/psychological affiliations between 2005 and 2010 based on the databases PubMed and Scopus In conclusion, our study is the first to evaluate bibliometrically the biomedical publication output related to scientific activity of affiliations related to child and adolescent psychiatry/psychology worldwide using the databases PubMed and Scopus. Our data indicate a sharp difference between countries with a high versus low GDP with regard to scientific activities in child and adolescent psychiatry/psychology. Our initial report might encourage European and international child and adolescent psychiatric associations to more precisely address the qualitative output of research within this field.
A ranking of safety journals using different measurement methods Concluding this section, from a statistical point of view, the expert ranking and the 5-year IF ranking are indistinguishable and can be aggregated without difficulty.
Profile of Brazilian scientific production on A/H1N1 pandemic influenza The present study supplies a first attempt for sci-entometric approach that visualizes research ac-tivity in the field of influenza A (H1N1) pandemic flu 2009.
Research Blogs and the Discussion of Scholarly Information In conclusion, the sample's science blogs share characteristics with other means of scientific discourse. We believe that tracking and recording this communication will become a part of future research evaluation metrics.
Characterizing Interdisciplinarity of Researchers and Research Topics Using Web Search Engines These findings suggest the notion of "interdisciplinarity" of a researcher should be understood as a multi-dimensional concept that should be evaluated using multiple assessment means.
Measuring the Surgical Academic Output of an Institution: The "Institutional" H-Index The institutional h-index appears to be a viable indicator for the measure of academic success of institutions in a subject area.
Reconceptualizing Stars: Scientist Helpfulness and Peer Performance By expanding the current conceptualization of star scientists and focusing on both the productivity and helpfulness dimensions of scientists, I find that the quality (but not quantity) of a coauthor's output is most heavily influenced by ties to scientists with high helpfulness and not by ties to scientists that are merely prolific.
Living with the h-index? Metric assemblages in the contemporary academy This paper has examined the relationship between metrics, markets and affect in the contemporary UK academy. It has argued that the emergence of a particular structure of feeling amongst academics in the last few years has been closely associated with the ‘autonomization' of metric assemblages from auditing processes in the academy.
The role of references in scientific papers: Cited papers as objects of research Therefore, adoption of a common standard for citation of papers selected as objects of research in different journals is unrealistic.
Assessing research network and disciplinary engagement changes induced by an NSF program RCN funding has induced increased collaboration, as attested to by multiple measures.
Sub-field normalization in the multiplicative case: High- and low-impact citation indicators Normalization reduces the US/EU high-impact gap by a non-negligible 14.4% in the all-sciences case, but in- creases it in 27 out of 59 disciplines and four out of 18 fields.
Cyclical long-term development of complex technologies-Premature expectations in nanotechnology? With these patterns nanotechnology exhibits typical characteristics of the cyclical development of complex science-based technologies which may be labelled double-boom development.
From bench to bedside: The societal orientation of research leaders: The case of biomedical and health research in the Netherlands We have demonstrated that, on average, principal investigators have a slightly positive attitude towards the increased emphasis that policy makers and research managers put on the societal impact of research.
Trends in Fisheries Science from 2000 to 2009: A Bibliometric Study The findings of this study, however, indicate a positive tendency in this direction. A growing rate of publications based on international collaboration was recorded, and such publications also demonstrate a higher number of citations than the single-country publications. Therefore, it could be crucial to establish a consensus on standardized protocols that would be used in the field of development of the fishery models.
International collaborative patterns in China's nanotechnology publications This paper provides an overview of the status of China's ICPs via bibliometrics and science mapping. Collaboration with the outside world appears to be a key factor contributing to the increase in the acceptance rate of China's publications by the journals with high IF. We suggest that the payoffs from pursuing international collaboration are substantial and worth significant technology management attention.
Trends in research and collaboration in the Canadian Model Forest Network, 1993-2010 First, the analy-sis thus far shows that the publication and use of Model For-est-supported research varies among Model Forests and indi-vidual projects.
The most frequently cited adsorption research articles in the Science Citation Index (Expanded) Finally, the BET and Langmuir isotherms introduced in two early classical articles have been frequently cited during the time period under investigation and still have a strong influence. The articles related to the pseudo-second-order model of adsorption kinetics, and the modified nudged elastic band method have experienced a high growth rate of citations.
An evolutionary factor analysis computation for mining website structures This paper has developed a tool for identifying website link structures considering websites as social networks.
The academic jungle: ecosystem modelling reveals why women are driven out of research Based on this analysis, we provide strategies for researchers (particularly women) who want to devote substantial time to raising their families while still remaining engaged with their profession. In particular, we demonstrate that careless application of metrics is likely to further reduce female participation in research, and so reduce the pool of talent available. Getting female students in the doors of university is the easy part. A real measure of success of female participation in engineering and science is their position in the workforce one, two and three decades later, which ultimately must account for women’s role as primary care givers in most families.
Good news for the people who love bad news: an analysis of the funding of the top 1% most highly cited ecologists Profoundly, this implies that increased funding to the citation elite ecologists does not necessarily improve citation rates further whereas increases to ecologists with dramatically lower funding levels would likely do so – at least initially by increasing the number of papers we could publish.
Influential Publications in Social Work Discourse: The 100 Most Highly Cited Articles in Disciplinary Journals: 200009 As such, this study offers insights into key pro- fessional priorities in social work discourse.
How to measure the internationality of scientific publications The current study shows that it is possible to establish how to measure the internationality by asking the members of the scientific community about its meaning.
Measuring Impact in Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery: An Analysis of the Top 100 Most Highly Cited Works and the Citation Classics in the Field We identified the top 100 most highly cited papers in the functional neurosurgery literature, of which 61 publications can be designated as citation classics. The publications highlighted in this paper represent particularly important contributions to the field and provide residents, beginner and experienced surgeons with a snapshot in time of the 'must-know' works in the field.
Research status and characteristics of library and information science in Taiwan: a bibliometric analysis The results for journal articles show that LIS and Technology and Book, Documentation, and Archive were the most popular topics, whereas the ratio of Library and Librarianship became increasingly small due to related research in Taiwan focusing more on sophisti-cated issues rather than on general topics. For thesis, the most well-received topics were LIS and Technology, User Services, and LIS Theory and Foundation, which accounted for more than 65 % of the graduate theses. The same is true for research projects, with the three subjects having a ratio of more than 70 %.
A comparative study on world university rankings: a bibliometric survey For the comparison of inter-correlation of different rankings, the results show that ARWU and PRSPWU (both rankings focus on academic research performance) have stronger correlation. In contrast, WUR (2007–2009) has weak correlation to ARWU and PRSPWU. However, after WUR revised its indicators, the ranking of WUR (2010) shows much stronger correlation to ARWU and PRSPWU. This demonstrates similar ranking perspectives result in the similar ranking results.
The development and empirical study of a literature review aiding system We have developed a literature analyzing and structuring system, which may facilitate novice user to perform tasks that are usually suited for trained professionals. The empirical evidence supports the hypothesis that the system provides useful information that facilitates citation analysis and literature review. We plan to introduce more LE related constructs from relevant models such as technology mediated learning (Oliver and Herrington 2003) to further test the learning effects.
Scientific publications by anesthesia departments in East Asia In conclusion, the quantity of publications from East Asia still lagged behind that of the USA.
Collaboration patterns of Taiwanese scientific publications in various research areas This study shows that the frequency of Taiwan’s scientific col-laboration is growing year by year, and that the US is the major partner in Taiwan’s scientific research. With increasing exchanges between Taiwan and China, China will be an important partner in the future. A further analysis on how each collaborative group forms is desirable, especially collaboration among universities, research institutes and industry.
Bibliometric characteristics of highly cited papers from Taiwan, 2000-2009 Taiwan ranked 23rd among the top 30 countries by number of highly cited papers in 2000-2009, and the percentage of highly cited papers in the country's total output was found to be generally increasing. Our findings suggest a strengthening research network of Taiwan with European nations in recent years. Understanding these multiple factors would better inform research managers and help Taiwan to formulate and prioritize its scientific policies.
FOSE: a framework for open science evaluation The organization of research evaluation will always be competed for by a multitude of players; integrating their contributions into a cohesive framework promises the most efficient way to aggregate peer review, and ultimately to reliably reflect scientific impact.
Does Gender Matter in Grant Peer Review? An Empirical Investigation Using the Example of the Austrian Science Fund In line with the current state of research (Bornmann et al., 2007; Ceci & Williams, 2011; Marsh et al., 2009) and our first hypothesis, this study shows that the final decision of the board of trustees at FWF is not affected by applicant's gender or by any correspondence between gender of applicants and of reviewers (matching hypothesis).
Between the Ivory Tower and the Industrial Laboratory: Universities in the West German Innovation System, 1945-1990 In sum, the West German higher education system could be praised for a certain democratisation of access to studies and a differentiation within the curricular offer, a development that was translated into the university of applied science system.
A citation and profiling analysis of pricing research from 1980 to 2010 This study has used citation and profiling analysis to identify and categorize published research in pricing. The results provide insight into what articles, individuals, and institutions have had an impact on pricing research in the marketing area. Clearly, pricing remains one of the most important topics in the marketing domain.
Applying an automatic approach for showing up the hidden themes in financial marketing research (1961-2010) These outcomes are completed and en-riched in Part 2 with a revision of 45 additional scientific papers that make reference to the methodological sophistication, type of methodologies used and the themes and content covered, clearly distinguishing between three periods: the eighties, the nineties and the new millennium.
CONNECTING CLOSED WORLD RESEARCH INFORMATION SYSTEMS THROUGH THE LINKED OPEN DATA WEB This paper proposes the extension of a relational ERM standard model (CERIF) to enable the exposition and thus interconnection of RISs through LOD technologies.
Responsible Conduct of Research Training and Trust Between Research Postgraduate Students and Supervisors In sum, we found an interesting, if somewhat troubling, finding that, measured across disciplines, training in RCR correlates with a decrease in students' level of trust their supervisors.
STOCHASTIC MODELING OF CONGRESS The system for a sufficient period is close enough to its critical state to pro- duce power-law-distributed avalanches.
Assessing the scientific productivity of Italian forest researchers using the Web of Science, SCOPUS and SCIMAGO databases Italian scientific productivity in forestry has been increasing for the last 15 years and is now ranked approximately 10th at international level with respect to all three indexes, number of papers published, number of citations and the h-index. Both WOS and SCOPUS databases were suitable sources of information for evaluating the scientific productivity of Italian authors. This study confirmed that the h-index is a robust bibliometric index producing similar values for the two databases, and may be recommended for operational performance assessments.
Hotspots, research productivity and collaboration networks in remote sensing and GIS in Australia from 1991 to 2010 This study examined the clustering of research productivity of spatial scientists in the disciplines of remote sensing and GIS in Australia from a review of journal articles from 1991 to 2010, and also for four separate sub-periods: 1991–1995, 1996-2000, 2001–2005 and 2006–2010.
Semantic distances for technology landscape visualization This paper presented a novel use of bibliometric techniques in the visualization of technology. It seems clear that methods such as the ones demonstrated here will be very useful to researchers seeking a better understanding of the key patterns and trends in research and technology. On the other hand, there are still many problems which will have to be solved before such techniques can be developed into tools useable by end-users in need of “black box” technology visualization solutions.
Scientific production in cancer rehabilitation grows higher: a bibliometric analysis Cancer rehabilitation is an expanding area with a growing scientific production. The rapidly ageing population, the higher number of cancer survivors, and the increasing need of resources for the after treatment of cancer patients contribute to explain the interest for this field.
The Skewed Few: Does "Skew" Signal Quality Among Journals, Articles, and Academics? Although such attributions are at times warranted, I hope my analysis encourages some skepticism in their making, and focus greater attention to the "many" authors, articles, and journals not among the skewed few.
Digital repositories ten years on: what do scientific researchers think of them and how do they use them? "High deposit rates were found but this can probably be put down to the high proportion of physical scientists in the sample."
Publications About Hearing in Otorhinolaryngology Journals from Chinese Authors: A 11-Year Survey of the Literature In conclusion, the number of articles about hearing published from ML, TW, and HK increased significantly during the past 10 years.
Identification and Bibliometric Characterization of Research Groups in the Cardio-Cerebrovascular Field, Spain 1996-2004 Collaboration between the healthcare sector and the universities dominated cardio-cerebrovascular research, although international collaboration rates were poor, standing at levels below the mean for biomedicine.
Design and Update of a Classification System: The UCSD Map of Science When evaluating the map with a listing of desirable features for maps of science, the updated map is shown to have higher mapping accuracy, easier understandability as fewer journals are multiply classified, and higher usability for the generation of data overlays, among others.
How is occupational medicine represented in the major journals in general medicine? The importance of occupational medicine in the four major journals of general and internal medicine, and did not increase over the last 10 years.
Supporting virtual communities through disciplinary repository development Supporting emerging fields through the development of virtual communities in disciplinary repositories can be approached in different technological implementations.
Scientometric Analysis of Nuclear Science and Technology Research Output in Iran Nuclear science and technology research performance in Iran has improved appreciably during the past few years, in terms of both relative output of publications and impact on internationally published research productivity. Academic institutions are the main source of nuclear science productivity. The diversity of disciplines confirm that nuclear science and technology research in Iran is the result of the interests of individual researchers and not part of an orchestrated effort to develop particular lines of expertise and research in the country.
Top-cited Articles in Chemical Engineering in Science Citation Index Expanded: A Bibliometric Analysis In this study, Y-index was successfully applied to evaluate publication character of authors, institution, and countries/regions.
Impact Factor, Citation Index, H-Index: are researchers still free to choose where and how to publish their results? The search for fame and glory of a scholar and the decisions and choices linked to this can reflect on the society and consequences in the field of geoethics, where scientific, technological, methodological and socio-cultural aspects have to be considered in an order different to what would be expected in a pure meritocracy. Avoiding 'small' arguments or less-widely distributed journals can, in the long term, interfere with the freedom of the single researcher. In my opinion, a good compromise between the current rating scheme and a more ethically correct one would be to assign a fraction of the score to the scholar that is proportional to his/her contribution to a study.
The persistence of error: a study of retracted articles on the Internet and in personal libraries The benefits of decentralized access to scientific articles may come with the cost of promoting incorrect, invalid, or untrustworthy science.
Journal evaluation based on bibliometric indicators and the CERIF data model The complete evaluation approach proposed in this paper is based on the CERIF standard that allows an easy application of this evaluation approach in any CERIF-compatible CRIS system. This paper proves it is possible to create a research management system which: is interoperable with other systems based on the CERIF data model and can store bibliometric indicators about journals that can be used for evaluation of scientific-research results published in journals.
Positive and negative aspects of citation indices and journal impact factors An analysis of individual citation indices (in particular of the Hirsch index h) and of the journal IFs shows the usefulness of such numerical descriptors for characterizing on one hand the individual scientific outputs as reflected by the scientific community via citations, and on the other hand, also via citations, the collective efforts of scientific journals with higher IF values (mainstream journals) or lower IF values.
Journal report card In this paper we defined a report card for a journal which is made up from a number of measures that describe the citation distribution of items published in the journal.
The impact factor: its place in Garfield's thought, in science evaluation, and in library collection management From the above it is evident that IF is measure with serious defects, and that doing such things as mathematically constructing evaluative indexes on the basis of it is a questionable practice at best. But does this mean, as Vanclay has suggested, that Thomson Reuters should stop producing this measure and limit itself to ‘journal certification’? The answer is a resounding ‘NO’!!!! One thing IF does—and it does it very well—is to pinpoint small journals, which for some reasons are very important.
The effect of several versions of one and the same manuscript published by a journal on its journal impact factor Since the different approaches for calculating the JIF have their advantages and disadvantages, we need a comprehensive study that compares the JIFs for all journals (and not only a selected small sample) based on different approaches.
What do the scientists think about the impact factor? The current study reflects the opinion on the subject of a broad sample of scientists from all over the world.
To cite or not to cite: author self-citations and the impact factor In this article I have argued that author self-citations can be an important factor in determining journal impact factors.
The pragmatics of a diachronic journal impact factor The proposed DJIF has the pragmatic advantage of being citing and cited side restricted to proper document types and being reproducible in the WoS database by means of the Search facility tool.
Grim tales about the impact factor and the h-index in the Web of Science and the Journal Citation Reports databases: reflections on Vanclay's criticism This commentary along with a companion paper (Jacso 2012b) will alert librarians and other information professionals, as well as university administrators and fund providers to think twice before cancelling their Web of Science, JCR and/or Scopus database subscriptions, and joining the cult movement of advocating the use of GS and its reported h-index for bibliometric and scientometric assessment of the research produc-tivity and impact of faculty. In nationwide exercises of rating and ranking of research activities at various aggregated levels, and in decisions related to journal collection management the consequences can be quite drastic. In addition, the process is not transparent, neither reproducible when using GS as a bibliometric tool.
Alternatives to the journal impact factor: I3 and the top-10% (or top-25%?) of the most-highly cited papers In sum, I3 provides a measure that is statistically warranted and leaves the user free to select from a number of options, such as the choice of a normative evaluation scheme. The problems with the statistics involved in measuring impact can thus be solved. Further research is needed because the proportion of 10% most-highly cited documents may insufficiently distinguish among a potentially large group of journals with no or few publications in the top-10%.
Comments on a critique of the Thomson Reuters journal impact factor So, once again, we reaffirm the view that the impact factor is but one of a growing diversity of well-informed indicators and methods (Moed, Glanzel and Schmoch 2004) amidst a plethora of possible data around research evaluation (European Commission 2012).
Evaluating journal performance metrics The present re-interpretation of the study of metrics (Raj and Zainab 2012) clearly shows that journals need to be ranked for quality using impact factors, and for overall performance using a composite of quantity and quality indicators.
Rank normalization of impact factors will resolve Vanclay's dilemma with TRIF Comments on the paper by Jerome Vanclay Concluding our remarks we state that IF (or TRIF) is a viable, widely used and informative measure of journal visibility and frequency of use.
Discussing some basic critique on Journal Impact Factors: revision of earlier comments This paper presents the results of a study on the development of citation impact over time, and more in particular on the validity of the increasing impact in time, in comparison with short term impact measurement as applied in the impact measurement of the classical Journal Impact Factor.
Properties of journal impact in relation to bibliometric research group performance indicators We argued that the ISI journal impact factor is unsuitable for the use in bibliometric studies in general and particularly for evaluation studies.
The Garfield impact factor, one of the fundamental indicators in scientometrics It follows, GF represents the most valuable part of the information in journals quantitatively, and even therefore it may be regarded as a reliable impact indicator.
Visualizing nanotechnology research in Canada: evidence from publication activities, 1990-2009 This paper suggests that Canada's enormous investment in nanotechnology has resulted in a number of quantifiable results.
A 54 year analysis of articles from Mpilo Central Hospital, Bulawayo, Zimbabwe-168 articles cited 999 times. This study adds to the body of knowledge on teaching hospital research performance assessment particularly in low-income settings, a topic with few studies. These aforementioned publication trends highlight the predictable circumstance that research output is related to the prevailing social, economic and political climate.
Mapping the network structure of science parks An exploratory study of cross-sectoral interactions reflected on the web This exploratory study introduced a web-based approach based on interlinking networks within a community. These web-based networks probably reflect collaboration between academia and government to generate an infrastructure that hosts heterogeneous organisations which are dedicated to exploiting the local research basis in order to promote knowledge-intensive industry in the region. The novel method introduced is able to extend previous webometric attempts that study R&D networks and provide a broad overview of a complex and highly institutionalised innovation infrastructures developed in the studied region and that could be further analysed by other approaches.
Reference accuracy in library and information science journals The error rate in these four top-ranked journals (according to the impact factors of 2006) is high, ranging from 41.3 percent to 49.1 percent. Errors most frequently occurred in the author field, 55.5 percent of the time. The least frequent type of error was in the journal title (1.9 percent).
Content Factor: A Measure of a Journal's Contribution to Knowledge In sum, while Content Factor cannot be defended as the lone metric of merit, to the extent that performance data informs journal evaluations, Content Factor- an easily obtained and intuitively appealing metric of the journal's knowledge contribution, not subject to gaming- can be a useful adjunct.
A study of open access journals using article processing charges Our data show that over 100,000 articles were published in APC-funded OA journals in 2010 and the number is rapidly increasing.
The hybrid model for open access publication of scholarly articles: A failed experiment? The overall conclusion of this study must be that the hybrid experiment, at least in the case of the major publish- ers and with the current price level, has failed as a way of significantly adding to the volumes of OA articles, and that hybrid OA will remain a very marginal phenomenon in the scholarly publishing landscape.
SciMAT: A new science mapping analysis software tool "We have presented here a new open-source software tool called SciMAT, to perform longitudinal science mapping, SciMAT has been developed on the basis of the science mapping approach proposed in Cobo et al. (2011a)."
Approaching the "reward triangle": General analysis of the presence of funding acknowledgments and "peer interactive communication" in scientific publications The analysis of acknowledgments attached to publications is without doubt a very relevant but relatively untapped aspect in bibliometric studies. Our main conclusion from the analysis of PIC acknowledgments is that they have a positive relationship with the impact of the publications. Further research will be necessary to study more deeply the role of FA, and acknowledgments in general, in scientific publications.
(INTER)NATIONAL ORIENTATION OF CROATIAN SOCIAL SCIENCES AND ARTS AND HUMANITIES JOURNALS INDEXED IN THE WEB OF SCIENCE DATABASE The results of this research showed a strong orientation toward Croatian authors regardless of the three analysed groups. Despite the strong national orientation regarding the country of origin of the author in all three categories, SSM journals are more internationally oriented than others considering the language of the journals' title and papers. In the following period, it is to be expected that being included into the WoS citation indexes will help Croatian journals to become more open to the world scientific community, increasing the share of authors from abroad, especially the region, as well as in increasing the share of co-authored papers, which can, along with the possible shift to English as the language of publication, increase the possibility that papers in those journals will be cited.
Heavy use of equations impedes communication among biologists Our analysis suggests possible strategies for enhancing the presentation of mathematical models to facili-tate progress in disciplines that rely on the tight integration of theoretical and empirical work. Overall, equation density has a strong negative impact on citation rates and, thus, presumably impedes the wider dissemi-nation of theoretical predictions. To maximize the scientific impact of their work, biologists should consider re-ducing the equation density in the main text of their theoretical articles.
Top-cited articles in environmental sciences: Merits and demerits of citation analysis The results of this study demonstrate highly cited articles with their yearly citations. This study also highlights the top productive institutions and countries. We had also observed that this analysis could not be considered as a direct measure of the impact or importance of a particular scholarly work but rather provides a marker of its recognition within the scientific community.
SCIENTIFIC AUTHORSHIPS AND COLLABORATION NETWORK ANALYSIS ON CHAGAS DISEASE: PAPERS INDEXED IN PUBMED (1940-2009) The present study identifies and characterizes the collaboration among the scientific community with regard to the study of Chagas disease over a long period of time (70 years), coinciding with the consolidation and expansion of Big Science from the mid-twentieth century to the present. The Chagas disease network identified constitutes a "small world," characterized by a high degree of clustering and a notably high number of Brazilian researchers. To strengthen the critical mass of knowledge generated in different countries, it is essential to promote cooperative and translational research initiatives.
The 50 most cited articles in pediatric orthopedic surgery The level of evidence for highly cited papers was low.
The evaluation of research papers in the XXI century. The Open Peer Discussion system of the World Economics Association The only thing I am sure of is that the future of dissemination and evaluation of research will look very different from the present. Point (2b) raises the probability of the reviewers being able to spot errors, fraud or ground breaking research. The involvement of many commentators increases the likelihood of researchers belonging to different schools/paradigms contributing. One of the major problems in economics research and publication can, therefore, be avoided.
Comparative Study of Scientific Publications in Urology and Nephrology Journals Originating from USA, China and Japan (2001-2010) Although China has undergone significant increase in annual number and percentage of scientific publication in urology and nephrology journals in the past decade, it still lags far behind USA and Japan in the field of urology and nephrology in terms of quantity and quality.
To Be or Not To Be Cited in Computer Science ACM, Scopus, and WoS must develop better reference-parsing technology to fix the significant undercitation in their databases.
Multiple Authorship and Article Type in Journals of Urology across the Atlantic: Trends over the Past Six Decades The multiple-authorship trends observed in both European and North American urology journals were similar and appeared to be mainly due to changes in original articles and case reports. The type of article had also changed over time with a decrease in the percentage of case reports and an increase in the letters to the editor/editorials. An increase in the awareness of these trends among the urology community might help in guiding towards a better selection policy for articles in urology.
An Initial Log Analysis of Usage Patterns on a Research Networking System We describe a query log design and analysis method to understand usage patterns of an RNS.
The evolution of interdisciplinarity in physics research In conclusion, there has been an increase in the interdisciplinarity within physics, as indicated by the evolution of interconnections between different branches of physics. In addition there is an increase in the importance of Interdisciplinary Physics that also has connections to fields outside physics, as indicated by its share of the core in the PACS network. Nevertheless, we feel that it would be very interesting to compare our results with a study of the network of inter-relations between physics sub-fields constructed by using some other data than the PACS codes and recent methods such as community structure analysis of citation or co-authorship networks used to define the subfields.
Authors' sources of information: a new dimension in information scattering Findings in the Tables 4, 5, and 6 show that there is a considerable difference among various subject fields and Table 3 shows some differences at the institutional level with respect to the number of core journals. It reveals that authors frequently read and cite a small number of core journals, which cover a large portion of their information needs. Therefore, this group of small core journals may be browsed by scholars continuously and may be best searched by browsing.
ASEAN benchmarking in terms of science, technology, and innovation from 1999 to 2009 The results of the quantitative analysis indicate that ASEAN member states had differing patterns of STI performance.
Progressive nucleation mechanism for the growth behavior of items and its application to cumulative papers and citations of individual authors Equations 5 and 8, based on the concepts of PNM predict that: (1) the fraction of items produced by successive systems is additive, (2) the cumulative fraction αsum(t) of maximum number of sites is the sum of contributions of fractions of maximum number of items produced by different systems, and (3) the values of time constants Θ0 and exponent q0 increase with the addition of fraction of items produced by subsequent systems, but their values are the lowest for individual systems.
Knowledge mapping of the Iranian nanoscience and technology: a text mining approach This study indicates that Nanotechnology research production has grown dramatically in the last decade among Iranian scientists; however, the growth is a global phenomenon (Kostoff et al. 2007a, b).
A deductive approach to select or rank journals in multifaceted subject, Oceanography In this scenario, citation analysis of a large number of articles published at national or institutional level is better choice for multi-interdisciplinary subject like ‘Oceanography' in getting core journal list or rankings. The decrease in ranking correlation coefficient from one time period to other with respect to increase or decrease in ranking of these PCJ in the ranking lists of BA confirms the growth of this subject at its early stage. So such studies at regional level (national or institutional level) will be very useful in understanding the alignment of the research activities in the field and planning future course of action.
The success-index: an alternative approach to the h-index for evaluating an individual's research output This paper focused on a generalized index based on the Kosmulski's NSP-index, which stands out for its particular simplicity and immediacy of meaning, comparable to those of the h-index. We point out that the scale of measurement of the success-index is much richer (ratio scale) than the h-index's (ordinal scale). These and other possible applications of the success-index denote the great potential of this indicator and deserve the attention of future research.
Application of progressive nucleation mechanism for the citation behavior of individual papers of different authors The PNM satisfactorily describes the time dependence of cumulative citations L of the papers published by different authors with sufficiently high citations ΔL, as represented by the highest yearly citations ΔLmax during the entire citation period t (normal citation behavior).
Relative absorptive capacity: a research profiling In this paper, we profile the ‘relative absorptive capacity of knowledge' research in order to explore characteristics and properties of the field. The research is mostly concentrated on Europe, North America and Asia, and there is a lack of contribution from African and Latin-American countries. We encourage using multilevel analysis involving individuals, groups, units, firms, alliances, sectors, industries, countries.
South African universities in world rankings If a South African university aspires to rise in the rankings, it needs to increase publications, citations, staff-student ratio, and proportions of postgraduate students, international students and international staff.
Brazilian scientific production in science education Our results clearly show the Brazilian expansion in the production of scientific knowledge linked to teaching of sciences and mathematic, considering all the analyzed parameters.
Analysis of the relationship between citation frequency of patents and diversity of their backward citations for Japanese patents While the results in (1) exhibited statistically significant (p < 0.001) but weak correlations, notable differences have been identified between the two groups (the ratio is from about 1.5 to about 4) in (2). However, on the basis of the results of (2), it is considered that the diversity of backward citations can be utilized in the evaluation criteria for grouping that roughly identifies the often cited patents or eliminates a large part of less frequently cited patents. In future studies, we will more thoroughly examine and clarify the relationship between the number of times a patent is cited and the diversity of classifications of documents cited by the patent, including the aspect of reference to academic papers, i.e., the viewpoint of science linkage.
Research status and trends in limnology journals: a bibliometric analysis based on SCI database The USA attained a dominant position in the limnology research by contributing the greatest number of single-country and internationally collaborative papers. As a result, the trends of research in limnology were changing to water quality or eutrophication, aquatic and relevant techniques. To conclude, the most frequently cited papers had caused a significant influence on the limnology research and it would mean a lot more for the future.
A bibliometric study of earthquake research: 1900-2010 Our analysis suggested that there has been steady growth in the scientific outputs in earthquake research and confirms the dynamic collaborations in this field. This paper could also be useful to informed decisions on curriculum development, library subscription, and/or research performance evaluation. The most commonly used keywords appeared in the articles were evolution, California, deformation, model, inversion, seismicity, tectonics, crustal structure, fault, zone, lithosphere, and attenuation, all of which remained the core of research activities in earthquake studies.
Field normalized citation rates, field normalized journal impact and Norwegian weights for allocation of university research funds The results for the article level show that WoS-FNJI-based evaluation of journals correlate rather good with manual classification of journals into quality levels. It holds, then, that the three indicators give rise to very similar research fund distributions. However, under the hypothesis, which future research should further test, that the approaches WoS-FNCR, WoS-FNJI, both combined with production component, and NM produce very similar distributions of research funds, we are inclined to take the view that NM is preferable.
Testing differences statistically with the Leiden ranking In summary, it seems fortunate to us that two major teams in our field (Granada and Leiden University) have agreed on using an indicator for the Scopus and WoS databases, respectively, that allows for testing of statistically significant differences of scientific performances.
The Google effect in doctoral theses By conducting a longitudinal study of doctoral theses at MIT EECS, we have demonstrated that the number of distinct documents that are referenced has increased from 2004 until 2011. These scientometric findings suggest a Google effect that is indicative of a cognitive change in research students. Although this study has been restricted to doctoral theses in a single academic department, it would be of interest to repeat the analysis for other scientific corpora.
The phenomenon of all-elements-sleeping-beauties in scientific literature Some important scientific literatures could become ‘all-elements-sleeping-beauties’, as well as normal or standard ‘sleeping beauties’.
Publication trends of research articles from infectious diseases specialty in a medical journal from India Infectious diseases specialty contributes about 15% of articles per annum in JAPI.
Search and research: the influence of editorial boards on journals' quality It shows that when editors exhibit strong differences in their quality standards, a low equilibrium can occur: the journal publishes only few papers of low quality.
CONTRIBUTION OF PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF STATISTICS IN 'STATISTICS AND PROBABILITY' LITERATURE: AN ANALYSIS BASED ON THE JOURNAL CITATION REPORT (2010) Islamic countries have to make a lot of effort to make their academic importance felt in the academic world. Producing a high quality work is required. The Islamic countries have to start collaborative researches with the academically advanced nations.
Scholarly Impact Revisited Our results indicate that top performers in terms of impact inside the Academy do not necessarily have a similarly high level of impact outside the Academy.
Assessing the Publication Productivity of Clinical Psychology Professors in Canadian Psychological Association-Accredited Canadian Psychology Departments The current study sought to provide normative data that could inform standards for professorial achievement with respect to research, using indices of peer-reviewed journal articles and citations. Quantification of such indices captures only one aspect of professorial responsibility and achievement, and is therefore limited in scope. The current data represent a snapshot of current productivity wherein the design makes a retrospective longitudinal analysis almost impossible.
Strategies for Expanding the International Influences of Academic Journals: An Example from Chinese Pharmaceutical Journals In conclusion, the present international influence of most Chinese pharmaceutical journals remains unsatisfactory.
Open Access Journals in China: The Current Situation and Development Strategies On the basis of these findings, we have summarized the current status and history of Chinese OA journals and made recommendations for the future.
Scholarly Journal Publishing and Open Access in South Korea The level of OA currently being offered in Korea now estimated at 36.40 percent scores relatively high compared with an international average of 8–15 percent (Hedlund & Rabow, 2009; Björk & Hedlund, 2009). In order to accelerate the OA movement in Korea as well as expand publication of English versions of Korean journals, it is essential to note the points set forth below. Experience has indicated that readership of Korean journals has noticeably increased since the transition to OA journals.
Publication trends of neurology articles in a biomedical journal from India Our analysis showed that neurology as a subspecialty contributed about 14% of articles in JAPI every year.
Collaboration in a Multidisciplinary, Distributed Research Organization: A Case Study Our case study confirms the fact that ICTs mainly support but do not facilitate collaboration between (remote) researchers. Physical meetings remain essential for coordination and collaboration activities. However, organizational tensions between fundamental and applied research, specialization and collaboration, and proximity and specialization will remain within distributed research centres and require continuous attention from management.
Collaborating in Life Science Research Groups: The Question of Authorship This micro-level study adds to this growing concern about current incentive systems and their negative social and epistemic consequences, and further suggests including authorship conventions to the list of incentives to review.
The Selection of Scientific Talent in the Allocation of Research Grants First of all, the moderate correlations between the criteria indicate that talent has different dimensions. Secondly, the scores change considerably between the phases. Thirdly, the role of the external peer review in the quality assessment seems modest (Langfeldt et al., 2010).
The role of online videos in research communication: A content analysis of YouTube videos cited in academic publications This shows both the disciplinary differences and the wide variety of innovative research communication uses found for videos within the different subject areas.
Where you publish matters most: A multilevel analysis of factors affecting citations of internet studies Our study sheds some new and mixed light on the citation process.
Author name disambiguation: What difference does it make in author-based citation analysis? White and McCain (1998) reported their experience that author cocitation counting and analysis appeared largely immune to the problem of author name ambiguity incurred by lumping together the oeuvres of all authors with the same last name and first initial, even when citation ranking by the same method had recognizable problems. From the present study, we can conclude that that immunity no longer holds when studying research fields that have significant Chinese and Korean research programs, because names in these two cultures quite simply work very differently from the way names of European origins work.
A new approach for measuring the value of patents based on structural indicators for ego patent citation networks The structural indicators introduced in this article reflect, from different points of view, a patent's performance in its ego subnetwork, taking direct and indirect, backward and forward citations into account. Our research provides a new and, we think, useful approach to finding a promising patent. Although our new approach and test are suggestive rather than conclusive, we think that the use of the structural indicators introduced in this article is innovative and promising for future applications in a business context.
European research in the field of production technology and manufacturing systems: an exploratory analysis through publications and patents This paper proposed a structured comparison between groups of researchers from nine European countries in the area of production technology and manufacturing systems. The study has highlighted some interesting differences in the tendency to publish and patent of European researchers. Of particular interest is the construction of a hGROUP map for depicting the positioning of researchers on the basis of their publication and patent output.
Evidence-based editing: factors influencing the number of citations in a national journal "Publication language has no influence on the citations received by a national, non-English journal."
The Visible Colleges of Management and Organization Studies: A Bibliometric Analysis of Academic Journals The goal of this study was to shed a dynamic perspective on invisible colleges and to examine empirically how they evolve in the course of time.
Multi-investigator collaboration in orthopaedic surgery research compared to other medical fields Our data demonstrate significantly more multi center studies with greater numbers of authors both in other surgical disciplines and general medicine compared with orthopedics.
Laryngeal cancer: Quantitative and qualitative assessment of research output, 1945-2010 This work represents the first attempt to provide quantitative and qualitative analysis of laryngeal cancer research output, whilst in tandem identifying the key bibliometric benchmarks to which those involved in the production of that output might aspire.
The human potential of Russian science The weakening of the human component of the scientific potential is a serious obstacle on the way toward the innovation-based reconstruction of Russia’s economy and an increase in its competitiveness in the world market of high technologies.
The electronic Scientific Portfolio Assistant: Integrating scientific knowledge databases to support program impact assessment Cross-linking scientific knowledge datasets in a systematic fashion provides a unique and useful method for analyzing research productivity across a portfolio and may provide a basis for reporting on portfolio performance.
Bridging knowledge translation gap in health in developing countries: visibility, impact and publishing standards in journals from the Eastern Mediterranean "Journals from the Eastern Mediterranean are visible in and have impact on global scientific community. Coordinated effort of all stakeholders in journal publishing, including researchers, journal editors and owners, policy makers and citation databases, is needed to further promote local journals as windows to the research in the developing world and the doors for valuable regional research to the global scientific community."
A 10-year performance trajectory of top nutrition journals' impact factors The IF illustrated changes in relative rankings of five highly cited journals included in the "nutrition and dietetics" category of the Web of Knowledge.
The influence of Iranian scientific journals in disseminating medical information Improving scientific credibility of Iranian scholarly journals calls for a precise scientific and executive administration in publishing standards and also in the quality of content.
Science growth in Iran over the past 35 years If this scientific growth of Iran continues, it would not be surprising to see Iran as one of the most powerful countries in the field of science in the World.
National medical research ranking and scientific productivity: Where do we stand? The study indicated that Isfahan University of Medical Sciences witnessed striking improvement in scientific productivity, research performance and national research grade during 2010-2011.
Secular trends in impact factor of neonatology publications over a 10-year period The number of RCTs per year in the field of neonatology has stabilized in the past 10 years, and RCTs with positive or negative results are published in journals of similar IF.
Measuring Nepotism through Shared Last Names: Are We Really Moving from Opinions to Facts? Thus, the analysis of shared last names is not useful for guiding research policy. Our results suggest that the analysis of shared names should not be used as a tool to measure the diffusion of nepotism in academia or in any organization.
Nanotechnology research among some leading OIC member states A careful analysis shows that these six countries can be categorized into two distinct groups. Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Malaysia each have a national program in nanotechnology, Iran leading the initiative in this direction in the early 2000 and is now leading the Islamic world in the number of publications. The other group of countries namely Turkey, Pakistan, and Egypt do not have any program at the national level regarding nanotechnology.
Ranking US Economics Programs by Faculty and Graduate Publications: An Update Using 1994-2009 Data Rankings of economics programs may contain information that is useful to economists and to others.
The Economics Olympics: Ranking US Economics Departments Based on Prizes, Medals, and Other Awards Thus, the novel approach to ranking U.S. economics departments employed here that is, on the basis of faculty who hold prestigious prizes, medals, and other awards in economics—performs remarkably well when compared to traditional rankings that are based on citations to scholars’ research.
Information systems as a discipline in the making: comparing EJIS and MISQ between 1995 and 2008 In more detail, our insights indicate that IS has gone through stages of differentiation, competition and is currently in a stage of absorption, in what appears to be a consolidation of positivist and behaviourally oriented research oriented to study and manage IS acceptance and use. For practitioners and researchers who are interested in seeing IS as a discipline with core elements and properties, they can claim that it now exhibits a selection of concepts in particular relating to IS research on IS acceptance with common statistical measures of rigour and clear guidelines for validation (e.g. Boudreau et al, 2001). We hope our paper makes a valuable contribution to show our audience where IS has been and where it could go next.
Applying Psychometric Theory and Research to Developing a Continuously Distributed Approach to Making Research Funding Decisions Therefore, if funding agencies seek to fund the most meritorious scientific endeavors, use of continuously distributed measurement estimates of scholarly merit and funding allocation would result in more accurate allocations of research funds relative to dichotomously distributed measurement esti-mates.
An Integrated Impact Indicator: A new definition of 'Impact' with policy relevance I3 has the added advantage of enabling and quantifying classifica-tions such as the six percentile rank classes used by the National Science Board's Science & Engineering Indicators. Using a refined indicator can improve the efficiency of research spending by increasing the likeli-hood that the most relevant or appropriate researcher or research unit receives funding. In times of difficult budget choices, it is even more important to ensure the accuracy of the basic measures of the research system and its compo-nents—the benefit offered by using the I3.
Funding decisions, peer review, and scientific excellence in physical sciences, chemistry, and geosciences A general conclusion is that the three councils analyzed in this study do support scientific excellence, in the follow-ing sense. Firstly, they tend to attract research proposals from the better groups in the fields they cover. Secondly, the applicants whose submitted proposals were granted—and the research groups they represent tend to generate a higher citation impact at their international research fronts than those whose submissions were rejected. The question why for at least one research council the citation impact of applicants with more than three granted applications have an impact similar to that of authors whose applications were rejected, awaits further research.
Research assessment and monetary rewards: the overemphasized impact factor in China Summarizing, in mainland China, the IF can be used for all sorts of purposes in the assessment of scientific research. In other words, the IF is overemphasized.
Quality and influence in literary work: evaluating the 'educated imagination' In this article, we focus on the discipline of literary art, theory, and criticism where vocational and epistemic works are recognized as products of the educated imagination. The role of the evaluator is to observe how these models of experience are judged in terms of quality, and identify areas in scholarship and society where they have the most influence. In sum, the emphasis needs to be placed on that which is a critically valued and made ‘public’ across different parts of the arts and humanities, rather than requiring scholarly output to always be in the form of an article, book, or monograph.
Science in South Africa: The dawn of a renaissance? South Africa's scientific performance during the period 2000-2010 was analysed. The analysis identified that research publications in South Africa are on an ascending path. Provided that the existing incentives continue and the plan of the Minister of Science and Technology to increase the research and development expenditure in the country materialises, South Africa may be on the verge of a scientific renaissance.
Development Patterns of Scientific Communities in Technology Enhanced Learning Overall, all five conference series have developed constantly, though at a different pace. Nevertheless, we see that conferences in TEL are building their community in a way that shapes a clear core. In this sense, maintaining and promoting key members who play the role of gatekeepers and connectors is very important. In future work we are planning to augment the findings drawn from structural analysis of the conference communities with semantic analysis of papers published at conferences by different authors and author groups.
The trend of concentration in scientific research and technological innovation: A reduction of the predominant role of the U.S. in world research & technology In brief, there is apparently a declining trend in geographic concentration of scientific research and technological innovation over the past three decades.
Revisiting the scaling of citations for research assessment The study tests six scaling factors on the dataset for a full hypothetical national research assessment concerning all hard science fields.
Jazz discometrics - A network approach The partnership ability index (φ) used in this paper - analogously to other h-type indices in bibliometrics – combines extensive and intensive characteristics, in the jazz discometrics example, the size of the partnership network (n) and its average density (x = s/n).
Total influence and mainstream measures for scientific researchers The main contribution of this study is that the two new indices proposed are valuable complements to the traditional scientific performance measures.
Stata commands for importing bibliometric data and processing author address information Following the demand for bibliometricians and information scientists to use more and more complex statistical methods, we introduce four Stata commands here (1) which can be used to easily import publication sets from WoS to Stata, (2) to preprocess address information given on publications for further processing, (3) to geocode author addresses, and (4) to calculate the minimum and maximum distances between several co-authors of a publication. For the future it is planned to extend the four commands in our toolbox with further options and to introduce further commands. We highly appreciate feedback from users of our toolbox, and are interested in problems in running the commands and further options which could optimize the functionality.
An international comparison of journal publishing and citing behaviours In answer to the first research question, the findings confirm that a large proportion of the publications in all international journals originate in economically and scientifically developed countries. The decreasing rate of high-income and SAC publications in all journal percentiles, particularly in the top 1% of journals, in comparison with the increasing rate of publications of other groups over the ten years examined, shows increasing progress in the acceptance rate of publications of non-high-income/non-SAC countries in the top international journals. In other words, for researchers in less developed countries research cooperation is a bridge through which they can publish in the highest impact journals.
Author bibliographic coupling analysis: A test based on a Chinese academic database This paper first discusses some basic concepts of ABC by clarifying its relationship with document bibliographic coupling and distinguishing different methods of coupling strength calculation.
Sub-field normalization in the multiplicative case: Average-based citation indicators In brief, for most purposes using the crown or the MNCS indicator at the field or the discipline level does not make much of a difference in any of the three geographical areas.
Modifying h-index by allocating credit of multi-authored papers whose author names rank based on contribution A researcher playing more important roles in significant work will obtain higher hmcr-index.
Aggregating different paper quality measures with a generalized h-index We noted a very high instability of author’s ranking under the elements’ scaling. This puts the validity of (at least prominent) authors assessment and ranking using the h-index into question.
Selection committee membership: Service or self-service We did find three effects: (i) CMs submit more applications. (ii) The higher number of applications of the CMs pays, as it also leads to substantially more grants. (iii) The success rate of CMs is higher than expected when taking into account the higher number of applications.
Development a case-based classifier for predicting highly cited papers In this paper, we show a quantitative support of prediction future highly cited papers by accessible bibliometric indicators.
Nemo iudex in causa sua? The result of the test was negative, that is, newly introduced bibliometric indices did not favor their authors. All other scientists received worse scores in their own indices than their average scores. The analysis of normalized indices may suggest that the scientists design scientific indices against their own interest, which is opposite to the thesis suggested by the two examples coined in Section 1.
Exploring the directed h-degree in directed weighted networks In this work, we introduced a measure set, based on the notion of directed h-degree, to abstract the structure information in directed weighted networks.
The citation-based indicator and combined impact indicator-New options for measuring impact The indicators CII and CBI can avoid the defects of metrics based on percentile ranks and application of the two indicators is simpler.
The order in the lists of authors in multi-author papers revisited There are at least two factors systematically affecting the order of authors in the authors' list, which are different from the fractional contribution of the author to the paper.
How important is choice of the scaling factor in standardizing citations? In bibliometrics, any serious comparative analysis of research performance for individuals or organizations requires field standardization of citations, due to the presence of different citations behaviors across different fields of research. Ultimately, the scaling factor that generally produces the least variation is the citations median of cited-only publications. However this variation is only "least" among the various standardization methods that are compared to the benchmark scaling factor: the citation average of cited-only publications.
Exploring scientists' working timetable: Do scientists often work overtime? This investigation on scientists' timetable may in some ways call attention to the unwritten rule of working overtime in academia.
"Everything is plentiful-Except attention". Attention data of scientific journals on social web tools So far, the connection between a publication and its reader has been described as impact.
Further clarifications about the success-index We believe that the information given here is sufficient to demonstrate how inappropriate and unjustified the Kosmulski's criticism is, since it is based on a “far-fetched interpretation” of the success-index.
A further step forward in measuring journals' scientific prestige: The SJR2 indicator Beyond the metrics of the prestige of scientific journals which weight the Citation in terms of the prestige of the citing journal, the present SJR2 indicator solves the problem of the tendency for prestige scores to decrease over time by the use of stochastic matrices.
An extension of the h index that covers the tail and the top of the citation curve and allows ranking researchers with similar h A two-sided extension to Hirsch's h index has been proposed that tessellates the area under the citation curve and, thus, reflects the distribution of non-core citations in the tail of the curve and excess citations at the top of the curve.
An empirical analysis of the use of alphabetical authorship in scientific publishing During the past three decades, there has been a consistently declining trend in the use of alphabetical authorship.
Comparison of the citation distribution and h-index between groups of different sizes By calculating the expected values of the reduced distribution and hr-index with our approach, this disadvantage is eliminated.
Statistical inference on the h-index with an application to top-scientist performance The analysis of the considered dataset emphasizes that bibliometrics and scientometrics should require the application of a correct statistical approach, since the adopted methods often appear pre-statistical and pre-inferential.
Social Policy Excellence - Peer Review or Metrics? Analyzing the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise in Social Work and Social Policy and Administration At least in this subject, metrics are more suited as handmaiden to peer review than its replacement.
Research and citation impacts of publication of the Nuclear Physics Division at Bhabha Atomic Research centre This paper has attempted to highlight the impact of research carried out by the scientists of NPD at BARC during 2003-2008. The results indicate that 80.16 percent of the cited papers have received their first citations within five years of their publication indicating that NPD publications were noticed immediately by the researchers working all over the world in this field and well integrated in the evolving research front. It will be quite interesting, if one attempts to study the motivations, for which Nuclear Physics Division publications received citations.
Proximity and Matthew Effect in co-authorship pattern of Iranian top universities In this paper, the scholarly co-authorship system of top universities of under the jurisdiction of MSRT Iran was depicted, highlighting Matthew effect regarding the scholarly collaboration pattern of the universities sampled. The collaborative system of the researches of the top universities is more inclined towards the proximity rule, which means that universities that have less geographical distance have more scholarly collaboration and their collaborative outputs are higher than the others. Findings of this study may have implication on how collaborative works should be weighted to measure scholars' publication productivity and impact.
Author-team diversity and the impact of scientific publications: Evidence from physics research at a national science lab Having a more senior scientist as the first author and lower average seniority levels within the author team increased the likelihood of the publication receiving citations.
Service's scientific community: a social network analysis (1995-2010) Our results depict the co-authorship relationships between researchers who have published in top major journals of operations, marketing, human resources and services management, in the period from 1995 to 2010 and that were identified by ABI/Inform Proquest.
Bibliometric analysis of publications by South African viticulture and oenology research centres In conclusion, this study provides indicators to assess the state of South African research in viticulture and oenology and its evolution over the past 20 years, using articles published in international impact scientific journals. In short, we have identified a significant growth in South African research in recent years, with a high degree of internationalisation and a constant level of domestic collaboration.
Citation classics in acute pancreatitis "Citation classics" about acute pancreatitis are detected in both experimental and clinical research field, which provide a historical perspective on the scientific progress and allow for recognition of important advances in this specialty. Citation analysis can helps us recognize important advances in research about acute pancreatitis and adds useful perspective on historical developments in our specialty. It can also supply quantitative information about authors, institutions, and journals that is helpful to identify classic works and high-impact journals.
Relative h-index to compare the scientific performance of researchers The Relative h-index can be very useful for research support institutions, universities, and institutes to rank researchers for the purposes of recruitment, promotions, awards, and grant funding for projects.
Current trends in nanotechnology research across worldwide geo-economic players In conclusion, this paper has explored main worldwide trends of nanotechnology research, and main lessons learned are:
Ethics in Nanotechnology: What's Being Done? What's Missing? This finding indicates that an abundance of effort should be conducted on these emerging themes to maximize the benefits of nano- technology while minimizing its potential harm.
Distribution of the h-Index in Radiation Oncology Conforms to a Variation of Power Law: Implications for Assessing Academic Productivity In this study, we found that the underlying h-index distribution of academic radiation oncology, similar to the results previously described for the field of neurosurgery [12], conforms to a variant of classic power law. This demonstrates that there is a small, but highly productive group of physicians responsible for the majority of academic productivity in the field of radiation oncology. Bibliographic analyses may seem trivial, but also have practical implications in terms of resource allocation, individual and department self-assessment, and analysis of social phenomenon within scientific fields.
A critical assessment of the h-index These analyses showed that the h-index follows a specific pattern with a close association to the number of publications.
The Social Structure of Communication in Major Accounting Research Journals The evidence suggests that the communication structure of academic accounting, as represented by citations in five journals for a 25-year period, is part normal academic field (the organizational incentives cluster), part small world (the auditing economics and experimental clusters), and part tribal (the EBAF cluster).
Iran's "Twenty-Year Vision Document": An Outlook on Science and Technology It seems that Iran needs to reach a consensus about the notion of what constitutes its "region" in its "Twenty-Year Vision Document," for any ambiguity on this will distort its realistic plans towards science and technology goals.
Scholarometer: A Social Framework for Analyzing Impact across Disciplines We introduced a Web Science approach to gather scholarly metadata.
Automatic Plagiarism Detection Using Similarity Analysis We have made an attempt to identify solutions for two different types of plagiarism attempts namely "copy paste" and "paraphrasing" type plagiarisms.
Development of Arabic library and information science An analysis utilizing Whitley's theory of the intellectual and social organization of sciences The overall results of the current research suggest that an association exists between the level of social organization of the Arabic LIS and its intellectual organization. The social organization of the Arabic LIS, as reflected in the types of affiliation and lack of resource accessibility and funding, can be described, according to Whitley (2000), as relatively weak. For the development of Arabic LIS in particular, it is recommended that the Arabic LIS institutions should build and foster regional and international collaboration in order to construct a well-organized social structure for LIS, which in turn will be conducive to progress in the development of a sound intellectual structure for the field in the Arab World.
Measuring the web impact of digitised scholarly resources Where digitised resources are situated on shifting URLs, or amalgamated into larger online resources, their impact is difficult to measure with these methods, however.
Harvesting footnotes in a rural field: citation patterns in Swedish literary studies Bibliometric analysis of fields within the humanities needs to go beyond established databases and materials. Citation analysis of non-English sources offers further knowledge about scholarly fields with a local and “rural” profile. The approach of using references in grant applications provides a novel and promising venue for bibliometric research.
Korea's Contribution to Radiological Research Included in Science Citation Index Expanded, 1986-2010 In conclusion, the number of scientific articles published by Korean radiologists in radiology SCIE journals has increased significantly over the past 25 years. Korea was ranked 4th among countries contributing to radiology research during the last 5 years. The authors hope that the increasing rate of international publications in the field of radiology will further encourage Korean investigators in other fields to participate in medical research.
A Comparison of Salary Structures Between Economics and Agricultural Economics Departments We add to the literature on salary determination in academic labor markets by asking whether structural differences exist in the prevailing salary structures for doctorate-granting economics and agricultural economics departments at public, land-grant universities in the United States.
Web data as academic and business quality estimates: A comparison of three data sources Our study found that all three types of web data (Alexa inlink data, Yahoo! inlink data, and Google URL citation data) were highly correlated with academic and business quality data so they can be used as quality estimates. All three types of web data were also highly correlated with each other, suggesting that they can be replacements for each other in case a particular type of data source becomes unavailable. Therefore, Alexa is recommended for collecting inlink data.
Measuring author research relatedness: A comparison of word-based, topic-based, and author cocitation approaches In this article we have proposed three new methods for identifying author relatedness based on the content of their works: two word-based models and one topic-based.
Inconsistencies of recently proposed citation impact indicators and how to avoid them As shown earlier, by treating the tied papers in a different way, the erratic fluctuations can be drastically reduced.
Distributive h-indices for measuring multilevel impact The distributive h-indices were developed to meet two important components of multilevel impact: breadth and strength.
Remarks on the paper by A. De Visscher, "what does the g-index really measure?" A divergent vision from that of De Visscher (2011) has been presented: An impact measure should award noncon-sistency, i.e., the more citations over papers are unequally distributed, the higher the impact should be.
Exploring the h-index at the institutional level: A practical application in world university rankings The applicability of the h-index to assessing research performance at the institutional level proved to be valid. The results suggest that the h-index can be used to accurately measure the academic performance at the university level.
Google Scholar Metrics for Publications The software and content features of a new open access bibliometric service GSM could become a potentially useful complementary resource primarily by virtue of its brand recognition, and the convenience of not requiring the installation of additional software, but currently its bibliometric indicators are often inappropriate for decision making in matters of tenure, promotion, grants and accreditation. GSM would not get a passing grade for real use in tenure, promotion, grants and accreditation applications, but it deserves another chance after more attention is paid to the parsing and citation matching component, and the underlying Google Scholar database undergoes the badly needed cleansing project. Further tests on a larger set of marketing journals using different cited reference enhanced databases are the next steps of this research to reveal the differences in the positioning of journals in the league tables created from the Microsoft Academic Search, SCImago, and the Web of Science databases.
Impact factor in cytopathology journals: what does it reflect and how much does it matter? IF has its own benefits and original applications. IF is a quantitative measure that does not reflect the levels of evidence in cytopathology journals. IF should not be abandoned because it might encourage competition between cytopathology journals, but it should not dictate their contents.
The how and why of academic collaboration: disciplinary differences and policy implications Our first claim in this paper was that there is a useful analytical distinction to be made between collaboration (expressive) and Collaboration (instrumental), both for academic and policy purposes. Research policy and funding should bear these differences in mind when seeking to stimulate collaborative research, so as to gain better outcomes across a range of disciplines. Policy and funding should instead recognise the importance of the more expressive forms of collaboration for all disciplines, and the link between this and Collaboration, which appears to be stronger for sciences than for humanities and social sciences.
Underrecognition of Pathologist Contributions to Articles Published in a Major Multidisciplinary Medical Journal We conclude that important intellectual contributions of pathologists are underrecognized and suggest that the scientific credibility of pathology data is in doubt when pathologists do not take on full responsibility of authorship or are not acknowledged as contributors. We urge the editors of multidisciplinary biomedical journals to insist on involvement of diagnostic physicians such as pathologists and radiologists whenever intellectual contributions from these physicians are part of a published article. Diagnostic physicians must also recognize the importance of their contributions to publications in multidisciplinary journals, and where appropriate, they should undertake the full responsibility of authorship.
THE OTHER 1 PERCENT Unequal pay among researchers contributes significantly to a nation's success in attracting the best and the brightest.
Managing technological knowledge for supporting R&D activities: scientometrics-based approach The results of this paper will assist analysts in grasping appropriate analytic processes of technological knowledge for R&D planning according to their objectives. From these efforts, this paper can provide a rationale as to how to investigate technological knowledge with reasons as to why policymakers should use scientometrics, and contribute to devising an effective means to extend the research areas of technological knowledge management. Thus, the future challenge of knowledge management in S&T areas should tackle the applications of systematic methodologies of scientometrics.
Future of resource sharing in Turkey: can open access be an alternative? Open access has a bright future in Turkey because of its promise for eliminating barriers to scientific information and reducing the costs of scholarly publication.
Is Internet Use Associated With Reporting Fewer Problems in Collaboration?: Evidence From the Scientific Community in Chile Our results do not support our guiding hypothesis that Chilean scientists who employ Internet technologies more also report fewer problems in collaboration, when controlling for other factors. Moreover, across some dimensions, the Internet is actually associated with reporting more problems. This suggests caution in assessing how e-mail communica- tion and web access may facilitate the research process outside the advanced nations of the North. These findings question the prevailing “inevi- tability of collaboration” argument espoused by many science policy makers today.
The hb-index, a modified h-index designed to more fairly assess author achievement The h♭-index is improved by calculating the h♭-index which is the h-index plus a value (√e) with e defined as the excess citations (the citations in excess of the minimum total number (h²) that can define the h-index). The h♭-index credits citations that otherwise have no weight, differentiates among authors who have the same h-index, and is especially useful for distinguishing among publication records of young researchers with modest h-indices but significant papers that are 'ripening' but not yet highly cited.
Infectious diseases publications in leading medical journals-a comparative analysis This study underlines the importance of infectious diseases as a medical discipline in clinical research.
Citation rates for experimental psychology articles published between 1950 and 2004: Top-cited articles in behavioral cognitive psychology Although not all of our findings may generalize to other areas of psychology, or even to other subdisciplines in cognitive psychology (e.g., articles that focus on the neural bases of cognition), we believe that a number of our conclusions are applicable to other areas of psychology.
Revisiting 'Weinberg's Choice': Classic Tensions in the Concept of Scientific Merit Although priority setting and institutional choice are central problems in STI policy, they remain highly contested issues in the dialogue between science and policy.
Preparing Whistleblowers for Reporting Research Misconduct We encourage RIOs to provide as thorough an understanding of the process to complainants as they can, so complainants stress is reduced as they learn there is a process in place. Hence, additional training, contact with peers, and coaching about the allegation review process may increase the RIOs' skills in how to more thoroughly explain the process to the complainants. In addition, we think the potential complainant might also wish to review the check list (provided in this article) so that they can evaluate what issues they may want to discuss with the RIO—and thus the complainant could also be better prepared for the discussion.
On property rights and incentives in academic publishing In the present paper we have argued that contractual relationships between authors and editors are at the core of academic publishing.
Extramural research grants and scientists' funding strategies: Beggars cannot be choosers? First and foremost, the results show that the claim that virtually all funding processes are meritocratic and based on past scientific achievements needs qualification.
The impact of national research funds: A regression discontinuity approach to the Chilean FONDECYT Summing up, our results clearly indicate that FONDECYT successfully contributed to increase the quantity of scientific pro- duction of the Chile's National Innovation System (NIS), but not its quality.
Research evaluation. Part I: productivity and citedness of a German medical research institution "Leaders are more prolific and more cited than the regular scientists."
Research evaluation. Part II: gender effects of evaluation: are men more productive and more cited than women? "It was found that in the whole population male scientists are more prolific and cited more often than female scientists."
The different flavors of research collaboration: a case study of their influence on university excellence in four world regions There is a positive correlation between the degree of collaboration and the normalized impact (the more collaborators → the more impact; and vice versa).
China and India: The two new players in the nanotechnology race The study highlights China's emergence as a major player in nanotechnology. India has been a relatively late starter but now making its presence felt. China's research is more sophisticated and addresses nano-materials and its applications whereas India's research shows healthy trend towards addressing developmental problems.
Publication and patent analysis of European researchers in the field of production technology and manufacturing systems Nevertheless, the fact remains that this work has provided some remarkable initial results on the propensity to publishing and patenting of European researchers in the discipline of interest. Regarding the future, some cues for future research are (1) extending the study to a larger sample (both in terms of researchers and examined countries); (2) studying the time evolution of the attitude to patent/publish by researchers from different countries; (3) investigating the predominant types of technologies that are being used in each country and whether they are worthwhile to the industrial community; (4) studying the possible correlation between the number of publications/patents of a group of researchers and the relevant funding.
Reflection of cross-disciplinary research at Creative Research Institution (Hokkaido University) in the Web of Science database: appraisal and visualization using bibliometry The analyses and interpretations attempted so far, though largely descriptive, have demonstrated the usefulness of bibliometry as a tool for recognizing the comprehensive knowledge structure (output and outcome) at the level of an institute at Hokkaido University. CRIS is an institute with the mission of promoting/conducting cross-disciplinary research, and the body of knowledge already produced there indeed involved teamwork and collaboration. Finally, we emphasize that there is a clear need for applying bibliometric data objectively, with due consideration of the mission, structure, temporal characteristics, etc., of the research establishment in question.
The role of core documents in bibliometric network analysis and their relation with h-type indices The application of the degree h-index for networks helps reduce arbitrariness in the selection of core documents in such cases.
Tracing the wider impacts of biomedical research: a literature search to develop a novel citation categorisation technique Overall, therefore, the literature review helped us identify the objective and subjective elements to include in our categorisation of citations. The survey, however, has revealed both objective and subjective techniques that could assist the development of a simple and informative assessment method to categorise citations.
Gender bias in journals of gender studies In accordance with our expectations that potential gender bias may be related to the subject matter of journals, we have analysed fourteen journals of gender studies using several methods and indicators.
The evaluation of Indian cancer research, 1990-2010 We have shown that Indian cancer research is flourishing, with a doubled percentage presence in the world over 20 years, more citations, and more reviews.
Collaboration structure and knowledge diffusion in Turkish management academia Empirical findings from knowledge diffusion literature as well as from exemplary case of this research suggest the need for deliberation on the nature of knowledge that is exchanged, shared or transferred through social networks.
Web visibility of scholars in media and communication journals Results show that Web visibility of scholars is related with their publication performance, places of academic affiliation, and language uses. These imply that Web visibility, Web-based and open access indicator, might replace traditional performance indicators.
Exploring Web keyword analysis as an alternative to link analysis: a multi-industry case The study found that the Web visibility of a company as measured by the number of Webpages on which the company name appears correlates with the company's business measures.
A new approach to bibliometrics based on semantic similarity of scientific papers In our quest to find an adequate solution, the study proposes an index based on citation value weighting (by a semantic similarity degree - Equation 6), which solves the issue without using journal bibliometric information or empirical constants (calculated for specific research areas).
Enabling Policy Planning and Innovation Management through Patent Information and Co-Authorship Network Analyses: A Study of Tuberculosis in Brazil The analysis of all this data about TB publishing and patents clearly demonstrates the importance of maintaining the continuity of Brazil's production development policies as well as government support for infrastructure projects to be employed in transforming the potential of research.
Publication Rates of Public Health Theses in International and National Peer-Review Journals in Turkey Publication rates of Turkish PHDT and PHST are low.
Impact factor trends for general medical journals: non-English-language journals are lagging behind From 2001 to 2010, IFs increased significantly for English-language and non-English-language journals. In an international scientific community with English as the universal language of science, non-English-language journals should consider changing publication language, and adopt either a bi- or a monolingual approach. Publishing in English will increase citation counts and thus IFs, but, more importantly, scientific findings will be accessible to a much wider audience.
Assessing the quality of the peer review process: Author and editorial board member perspectives This survey of authors and Board members provided important insights into perceptions of the peer review process and identified areas for improvement.
U.S. publication trends in social and administrative pharmacy: Implications for promotion and tenure Results of this study can be used as a guide by U.S. SAdP faculty and P&T committees to assess the quality of publications by pharmacy administration faculty with the caveat being that pharmacy versus nonpharmacy journals will be chosen based on the fit of the article with the audience.
Higher education research 2000-2010: changing journal publication patterns First, the increase in the volume of high quality higher education research being published in journals based outside of North America is striking. Second, the increasingly international orientation of the leading higher education research journals, outside North America and, to a lesser extent, Australasia, is suggestive of a body of researchers increasingly talking to each other across frontiers. Third, higher education research has shifted from being a field dominated by men to one in which women play a more equal role, and may soon come to dominate in turn.
Productivity of Doctoral Graduate Placement Among PhD-Granting Geography Programs in the United States: 1960-2010 In summary, we first provided an assessment of the productivity of research doctoral geography programs in the United States based on data about the placement of doctoral graduates over the period from 1960 to 2010.
Authorship, Collaboration, and Gender: Fifteen Years of Publication Productivity in Selected Geography Journals The results from this study show that there are nominal differences in male and female authorship rates and collaboration in the Annals and PG. Males dominate total authorship and first author on collaborative articles, especially in the Annals. As collaboration becomes more the norm in geography and its subfields, academic units will need to confront the question of how authorship position is evaluated in tenure and promotion.
Science ethics education: Effects of a short lecture on plagiarism on the knowledge of young medical researchers Even a short lecture focused on plagiarism contributed to the students' awareness that there are many forms of plagiarism, and that plagiarism is a serious violation of science ethics. This result confirms the largely accepted opinion that education is the best means in preventing plagiarism. Since higher levels of understanding are associated with lower levels of fraudulent behavior [16], we hope that our students have learned and adopted the rules of honest scientific writing and, being aware of this, they will self-restrain from any form of plagiarism when writing a research paper.
Estimating Business and Management journal quality from the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise in the UK We have shown, both in terms of internal reliability and in terms of correspondence with existing ranking lists such as the ABS list, that the results we have generated have a high degree of plausibility. With these results, we have been able to comment on several issues that have arisen concerning the conduct and effects of the RAE, as well as produce an RAE-based ranking for around 700 journals in Business and Management and related areas.
Characterizing the frequency of repeated citations: The effects of journal, subject area, and self-citation The present work has examined the pattern of repeated citations in nine academic journals taken from three research areas: economics; computing; and medicine & biology. The frequency, f, with which a reference is cited N or more times was quantified and found to be consistent across the sampled journals and topic areas, but affected by self-citations.
Counting Highly Cited Papers for University Research Assessment: Conceptual and Technical Issues "The x-index is calculated considering only the papers that are included in the world's top 1% of cited papers and this amount of papers is very restrictive in comparison to indicators that consider all papers."
National representation in the emergency medicine literature: a bibliometric analysis of highly cited journals United States is the most productive country in the field of emergency medicine.
Neurotree: A Collaborative, Graphical Database of the Academic Genealogy of Neuroscience "Data documenting the tradition of academic mentorship naturally provoke curiosity to most people who have participated in the system."
ORCID: a system to uniquely identify researchers "By creating a registry for researchers and working with stakeholders to link digital research documents and other contributions to this registry, ORCID aims to provide a high-fidelity solution to the name ambiguity problem in scholarly communication."
Effect of reviewer's origin on peer review: China vs. non-China In general, China reviewers are more willing to accept the peer-review invitation and review the manuscripts more rapidly.
Statistics usage by French academic libraries: a survey Six years after the first publication on COUNTER in France, the findings of our survey seem to be encouraging as they clearly show that the usage statistics have become part of the daily work of most of the academic librarians.
Article and book reading patterns of scholars: findings for publishers Academics devote a large amount of their time to reading articles and books.
A survey on the use of Cross Check for detecting plagiarism in journal articles "The main results of this survey can be summarized as follows: (1) The plagiarism detection tool and similarity report are very useful and effective, and can assist editors to screen documents suspected of plagiarism. (2) Global editors have expressed a strong mainstream view of ethical standards even though there are slight variations between different disciplines and countries, as well as between non-Anglophone editors and Anglophone editors." "The study also suggests that further work is needed to establish a universal principle and practical approaches to prevent plagiarism and duplicate publication."
Peer review versus editorial review and their role in innovative science Peer review, though a widely accepted instrument for ensuring the quality of science, is not properly applicable to the evaluation of innovative, hypothetical science because as the controversial character of a paper or proposal increases, the likelihood for its rejection also increases.
Impact of public and private research funding on scientific production: The case of nanotechnology While more public research funds undoubtedly lead to more scientific articles, hence supporting proposition 1 and the work of other scholars (for instance Arora et al., 1998; Zucker et al., 2007), the relationship between private funds and scien-tific production is inexistent (in contrast with Van Looy et al., 2004), hence rejecting proposition 2. Public policy should not therefore consider industrial contracting as a threat to the creation of a collective knowledge base, not at the current level of industry involvement in any case. This last limitation exemplifies an important knowledge gap on research teams and raises a number of interesting questions regard-ing the organization of research between localized and delocalized teams, and how public funding contributes to the constitution of these teams, especially in light of the new 'networking' policies.
Russia's innovation policy: Stubborn path-dependencies and new approaches The present analysis has shown that the Russian innovation sys-tem inherited a lot of strong and weak features of the Soviet S&T system.
Return mobility and scientific productivity of researchers working abroad: The role of home country linkages The analyses show a significant relationship between the pres-ence of home country linkages in a population of researchers abroad, the probability of their return and their scientific productiv-ity. When home country linkages are present, both the probability of return and scientific productivity are increased. Thus, the pres-ence of those linkages has direct benefits for both countries, in addition to the indirect benefit of expanding their scientific net-works.
Quality of Scholarly Journals and Major Selection Criteria for Coverage by the Web of Science The publication in a prestigious international journal covered by WoS is the most reliable method for bringing the results of the research to the attention of the world scien-tific community.
Publication Activity of Russian Researches in Leading International Scientific Journals The publication activity of Russian scientists and the research efficien-cy of the leading scientific countries were reviewed. Moreover, the anal-ysis has demonstrated that Russia lost positions in the world science over the period from 2001 to 2011. By the next de-cade Russia may lose its status as one of the world's great scientific countries without timely reforms in scientific policy.
Bibliometric analysis of aerosol research in meteorology and atmospheric sciences In this study dealing with aerosol SCI-Expanded papers in meteorology and atmospheric sciences, we obtained some significant points on the worldwide research performance by exploring the bibliometric approach of output and impact assessment.
Evolutionary trajectories of the nanotechnology research across worldwide economic players The main findings are: (1) The concentration of nanotechnology research across scientific fields has been reducing over time and space (epistemological position); this result is confirmed by heterogeneity and entropy indices.
The influence of journal self-citations on journal impact factor and immediacy index Consequently there is no need for evaluations to exclude journal self-citations in journal or researcher evaluations. Considering the cost in terms of time and effort, the two-year JIF is sufficient in the discipline of environmental engineering. Therefore excluding journal self-citations is not necessary in research assessment.
The problems with the subject categories schema in the EigenFactor database from the perspective of ranking journals by their prestige and impact My tests showed levels of inaccuracy, inconsistency, and incompleteness in the process of the bibliographic description and classification of the journals in the EF database. The idea of the EFS and AIS was laudable, but their implementation is poor, and the software features of the EF database (browsing, searching) do not even come close to those of the JCR database. A follow-up study is being considered by the author to compare the rank and percentile rank position differences in the JCR and the EF databases using both the JCR and EF subject categories.
Perceptions about the political scientific community and its role in formulating the problems of public policy for science, technology and innovation in Costa Rica The Commission was a starting point in the debate, but as it was located within the Agricultural Commission of Congress, it did not enjoy a priority position in the national political agenda. In the end, it is clear that this matter needs a broad discussion of several topics, including: the participation of social and strategic actors; the governance, fragility, risk and sustainability of the type of S&T system; the quality of life and social cohesion required, starting from a symmetrical focus on access to opportunities as well as resources.
Vision 20/20: Preparing today for tomorrow's challenges However, based on the weak signals that can be derived from the tag clouds and the fruitful discussions we had during the conference, we can safely predict that the relational and collaboration aspects of PSM will remain important in the next decades.
Analysis of publication patterns in Korean library and information science research This study assessed research patterns and trends of library and information science in Korea by applying bibliometric analysis to 159 LIS professors' 2,401 peer-reviewed publications published between 2001 and 2010. Study results also suggested internationalization of LIS in Korea. The analysis of publication patterns conducted by the study, which is a first step in our aim to establish a multi-faceted approach for assessing the impact of scholarly work, will be followed up with analysis of references and citations to evaluate the quality of publications.
Sleeping beauties in ophthalmology The SBs in the current search accounted for 0.005% of original articles in 52 journals dedicated to ophthalmology. Nearly all of the SBs we have identified in the ophthalmic literature are description of new clinical diseases and innovation of medical and surgical treatments. Awakening of delayed citation recognition of SB is most probably achieved with appearance of PR.
Relationship between connectivity and academic productivity This finding could motivate university administrators to consider the importance of maintaining high level internet access and services in future financial plans. We believe that wider implications of internet impact should be considered a continuous concern, and research and informed action should be the main goal for new studies throughout the international academic community.
Defining the intellectual structure of information systems and related college of business disciplines: a bibliometric analysis Real-world business problems rarely are constrained to one function and therefore interdisciplinary research is necessary if researchers want to make a relevant contribution to the advancement of knowledge as it impacts business problems. This study explored the intellectual structures of IS and related COB disciplines in order to identify potential intra- and interdisciplinary publication outlets. The findings of this study can be used by researchers to identify promising journals to read and to target as research publication outlets, especially for interdisciplinary research.
Relative measure index: a metric to measure the quality of journals We have introduced a new journal quality index, the RM-index. It takes into account multiple indices in order to produce a more fair and all-rounded journal quality indicator. We hope that other researchers will examine this index, experiment with it and perhaps make suggestions and modifications that might lead to the contribution of a standard journal quality indicator that considers multiple indices.
How does the normalization of data affect the ARWU ranking? To remedy this issue, the analysis presented here has stressed potential weaknesses in the ARWU rankings in regard to the fact that the normalization of data significantly alters the rankings. With all of the evidence presented in this paper, it is essential to encourage the debate on how to determine criteria to best conduct and analyze universities' rankings (Leydesdorff and Shin 2011). Furthermore, this could contribute to the emerging efforts to map regions of academic excellence and scientific output (Bornmann and Leydesdorff 2011; Bornmann and Waltman 2011).
Science as instrumentation. The case for psychiatric rating scales This research points out the role of instrumentation in the study of depression and of mental disorders in general. As such, it demonstrates the heuristic value of the analysis model conceived by Shinn. For that reason, specialties in charge of such activities cannot be situated in a peripheral or interstitial position, as Shinn suggests in his model.
Reference classes: a tool for benchmarking universities' research In this article, we introduced a methodology for building reference classes on the basis of theoretically founded notions of dominance relations.
Changing publication patterns in the Social Sciences and Humanities, 2000-2009 The study reveals that the annual number of publications by SSH scholars working in Flanders increased significantly in the past decade, with output in the Social Sciences growing faster than output in the Humanities.
Geographical analysis of the academic brain drain in Italy The results of the analysis provide a set of specific inputs in search of the main determinants of the brain drain, likely to be factors of success for strategic planning policies to find a way to keep Italian academics in Italy and reduce over time the problem of migration.
Research productivity among trainee anaesthetists in Ireland: a cross-sectional study To conclude, bibliometrics of the research output of trainee anaesthetists were low, but this may reflect the young ‘research age’ of trainees.
Globalization and de-globalization in nanotechnology research: the role of China Thus two aspects of the globalization of science can work in opposing directions: diffusion to initially less scientifically advanced countries can depress international collaboration rates, while at the same time scientific advances in such countries can reverse this trend. Validating the application of this approach, we show that Stichweh's predictions, based on European scientific communities in the 18th and 19th centuries, seem to apply to the Chinese scientific community in the 21st century. This resonance with a set of theoretical predictions that are rooted in historical analysis provides significant comfort that scientific collaboration will continue to grow.
Hybrid documents co-citation analysis: making sense of the interaction between science and technology in technology diffusion The paper proposed the hybrid documents co-citation method, and implemented the ideas into the research work with two procedures.
Universality of performance indicators based on citation and reference counts Our work demonstrates that comparisons can be made between publications from different disciplines and publication dates, regardless of their citation count and without expensive access to the whole world-wide citation graph. Further, it shows that averages of the logarithm of such relative bibliometric indices deal with the issue of long tails and avoid the need for statistics based on lengthy ranking procedures.
A comparison of disciplinary structure in science between the G7 and the BRIC countries by bibliometric methods Based on this study, comparing the G7 and the BRIC countries, we conclude that there exists some certain relationship between the national disciplinary structure and the S&T level.
Revisiting country research profiles: learning about the scientific cultures Indeed, cultural identities, as well as differences, could be inferred from the data panels shown here, as depicted in Figs. 1–5, along with revisiting the patterns for publication profiles, suggesting a fine tuning of the four paradigmatic patterns in current use (e.g. Hammarfelt 2010; Andersen et al. 2011).
Publication patterns in Russia and the West compared The comparative analysis of scholarly publications produced in the two different types of the institutional environment confirms that authorship and citation patterns in the two cases diverge. Efforts to adapt Western standards of academic management as exemplified by the HSE have not been successful so far. The proposed study has the following limitations.
A Comprehensive Survey of Retracted Articles from the Scholarly Literature Retracted articles occur across the full spectrum of scholarly disciplines. Despite recent increases, the proportion of published scholarly literature affected by retraction remains very small. However, better mechanisms are still needed for raising researchers' awareness of the retracted literature in their field.
Ranking Institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences by the Russian Science Citation Index: The case of Chemical Research Institutes Despite the harsh criticism and, sometimes, total rejection of the use of bibliometric indicators for the assessment of scientists' work, the calculation of vari-ous bibliometric indicators implemented in the biblio-graphic databases is certainly very helpful as it enables like-like comparisons, including research organizations working in the same disciplinary area. Note that experts agree that it is important to be extremely cautious with bibliometric indicators, particularly when making managerial decisions, and to apply them only in combination with expert opinions. We should emphasize that scientists themselves can contribute to the further development and improve-ment of RSCI.
A new citation index for researchers Nevertheless, the second of the above variants of calculating the EC seems more objective, although it is much more difficult to implement in practice.
Publication misconduct and plagiarism retractions: a systematic, retrospective study In conclusion, this study showed that plagiarism accounted for almost half of all misconduct retractions and that there was a significant association between plagiarism misconduct and first authors affiliated with lower-income countries.
Research visibility, publication patterns and output of academic librarians in sub-Saharan Africa The case of Eastern Africa This study has raised important issues that relate to the research visibility of university librarians and their institutions, their research publication output, and whether they should publish. We suggest that the promotion of university librarians to senior library positions should be linked to research output and publications, as they serve a vibrant academic community whose research requirements and services can best be achieved by a person who not only conducts research, but also disseminates research results through scholarly publications.
Co-evolution of departmental research collaboration and scholarly outcomes Although individual scholarship was dependent upon individual centrality and effective egonet size, research collaboration within the department depended upon reciprocity, transitivity and scholarly productivity of its constituent investigators.
Piecework versus merit pay: a mean field games approach to academic behavior In this paper, we showed that merit pay, i.e. remuneration according to ranking, is more efficient than piecework remuneration in the sense that it increases competition and fosters academic output.
Misconduct accounts for the majority of retracted scientific publications In conclusion, a comprehensive review of 2,047 articles retracted from the biomedical literature reveals that misconduct has played a more prominent role than previously appreciated. Given that most scientific work is publicly funded and that retractions because of misconduct undermine science and its impact on society, the surge of retractions suggests a need to reevaluate the incentives driving this phenomenon. We hope that the present study will prompt discussion among scientists and the society they serve to find measures to improve the quality and reliability of the scientific literature.
Citation analysis of mental health nursing journals: How should we rank thee? This study shows that researchers need to consider more than one ranking method when deciding where to send or publish their research.
Assessing Obliteration by Incorporation: Issues and Caveats Obliteration by incorporation was observed at both the level of the database record and the citation-in-context.
The weakening relationship between the impact factor and papers' citations in the digital age Should this pattern continue, it might bring an end to the use of the IF as a way to evaluate the quality of journals, papers, and researchers.
Citation patterns of the pre-web and web-prevalent environments: The moderating effects of domain knowledge In conclusion, all the hypotheses proposed in this study are empirically supported by our results. Our results in this study indicate that the Internet and its applications help researchers expand their search scope and access relevant documents that are less likely to be read. Most interestingly, the knowledge level of information users moderates such Internet effects.
Multiplicative and fractional strategies when journals are assigned to several subfields In brief, although the similarity of citation characteristics of articles published in journals assigned to one or several subfields guarantees that choosing one of the two strategies may not lead to a radically different picture in practical applications, the list of categories with high-impact values at any aggregate level may considerably differ depending on that choice.
Identifying interdisciplinarity through the disciplinary classification of coauthors of scientific publications The implications of this type of analysis concern both strategic and organizational policy.
International collaboration in Medical Research in Latin America and the Caribbean (2003-2007) The recent increase in Latin American medical research production and citations has raised the region's presence and participation in the international scientific arena.
Bibliometric perspectives on medical innovation using the medical subject Headings of PubMed The main focus of the present article may seem technical and methodological, but our argument also is theoretical.
Mapping academic institutions according to their journal publication profile: Spanish universities as a case study This type of representation offers a new model for visualizing universities' relationships that can show more clearly than other types of mapping (such as collaboration or web-link maps) the multidimensional similarities and dissimilarities between academic institutions.
It takes time: A remarkable example of delayed recognition It is acknowledged that the work of the famous scientist and philosopher C.S. Peirce was often ahead of its time and has been influencing various research fields long after his death (Brent, 1993; Burch, 2010). To conclude, the simple ideas presented in Peirce's note have been reinvented and rediscovered several decades or even more than a century later.
Similarities and Differences in Philanthropic and Federal Support for Medical Research in the United States: An Analysis of Funding by Nonprofits in 2006-2008 These results indicate that nonprofit organizations play an important role in developing careers and advancing research in significant disease areas such as cancer and diabetes, and in basic science areas such as genetics.
A New Family of Cumulative Indexes for Measuring Scientific Performance Thus, the cumulative indexes better reflect the assessments by peers than the original variants and are useful extensions of the original indexes. In contrast to many other measures of scientific performance proposed up to now, the cumulative indexes seem not only to be effective, but they are also easy to understand and calculate. What is important, and what follows from this study, is that the cumulative family of indexes can be a source of well-grounded and commonly used indexes to assess scientist performance.
The Evolution of Academic Performance in Nine Subspecialties of Internal Medicine: An Analysis of Journal Citation Reports from 1998 to 2010 The IF of internal medicine journals showed an increasingly positive trend, in which gastroenterology and hepatology increase the most.
Heterogeneity of Inter-Rater Reliabilities of Grant Peer Reviews and Its Determinants: A General Estimating Equations Approach Especially in biosciences, the number of reviewers of each proposal should be increased so as to increase the ICC.
How the Scientific Community Reacts to Newly Submitted Preprints: Article Downloads, Twitter Mentions, and Citations Our results, though preliminary, are highly suggestive of a strong tie between social media interest, article downloads, and even early citations.
Evaluating the performance of Russia in the research in nanotechnology This study has shed light on some facts of Russia's policy in the NT field.
British Scholarly Journals on Film Studies: Study and Evaluation of Their Internationality The predominant use of (anonymous and external) peer review of sub-mitted works is a sign of the rigour and level of professionalization of the journals analysed. In the British journals analysed, the level of internationality on editorial boards is significant. For this reason, the question must be raised about whether internationality should be used as a criterion for all journals regardless of the journal's subject matter.
Detecting the temporal gaps of technology fronts: A case study of smart grid field With a high percentage of frontrunners or uniquers among the US fronts, the US definitely plays an important role in developing smart grid technology.
VISUALIZING THE INVISIBLE COLLEGE: COMMUNITY AMONG AUTHORS IN TOP SOCIAL WORK JOURNALS This exploratory study is hardly conclusive, but it shows that at least one limited and local- ly based community emerged among top- rated social work journal authors, and that network was growing and becoming more cosmopolitan. The initial discoveries report- ed in this article suggest a limited but growing collaboration network that is associated with better-quality scholarship. That growth sug- gests that social work may be poised for rapid development of a large and integrated network of scholars.
The social construction of indicators for evaluation: Internationalization of Funding Agencies The work confirms the importance of indicators assessment forums for designing indicators, and how these arenas allow constituting a common language, enable the actors to discuss their representations, and favour collective learning.
Characterizing researchers to study research funding agency impacts: The case of the European Research Council's Starting Grants With our DAS framework we aimed to characterize re-searchers themselves rather than to look in isolation at the output of their labours.
Funding programmes for young scientists-Do the 'best' apply? In summary, with respect to bibliometric indicators (number of articles, CPP, JPP), the actual applicants’ group shows higher performance than the potential applicants’ group in both fields in the early phase of their career.
The representation of the social sciences and humanities in the Web of Science-a comparison of publication patterns and incentive structures in Flanders and Norway (2005-9) The use of English is clearly on the rise in peer-reviewed journal publishing in the SSH in Flanders and Norway.
Relational arenas in a regional Higher Education system: Insights from an empirical analysis In conclusion, there are three major lessons for higher education policies in general: first, the importance of taking into account cooperation patterns between universities when designing policies and the related need to produce indicators on collaboration; second, the importance of geography in the relationships between universities; third, the fact that there are strong interactions between research and educational component of universities which might lead to some unexpected impacts of public policies and funding mechanisms.
World Scientific Production in Psychology In this study, with a representation of less than 20% of the world’s countries publishing in Psychology, we have been able to cover over 98% of the total world production in this subject area. The U.S. is the leading producer, followed by the U.K. and Canada. Outside the North American and Eu-ropean context, it stands out the subject specializa-tion of Colombia and Israel, with the case of China being noticeable in the opposite sense.
Research Governance and the Role of Evaluation: A Comparative Study Evaluation practice fits its national research governance structure.
Where you search is what you get: literature mining - Google Scholar versus Web of Science using a data set from a literature search in vegetation science Researchers should give more prominent recognition to Google Scholar as a search tool, especially when conducting quantative reviews and meta-analysis. We conclude that literature queries may yield superior results when conducted within GS compared to WOS, based on our analyses.
Different but Equal? On the Contribution of Dissident Economists This special issue considers how to document the contribution of dissident economists.
Citation Analysis of Hepatitis Monthly by Journal Citation Report (ISI), Google Scholar, and Scopus None of the three databases succeed to record all articles published in the journal.
In science "there is no bad publicity": Papers criticized in comments have high scientific impact On the other hand, comments can be also viewed as positive labels for criticized papers because they statistically represent early indicators of the future impact of criticized articles.
Bibliometrics and urban knowledge transfer This paper demonstrates, we believe, that such clusters do indeed exist.
Communicating and compromising on disciplinary expertise in the peer review of research proposals This study has also demonstrated that most disagreements can be settled through deliberation.
Counting citations in the field of business and management: why use Google Scholar rather than the Web of Science Overall, the new evidence provided by this study suggests that the data compiled with the GS database provide a better coverage than those compiled with the WoS database for scholars in management and business, for major performance indicators such as the number of contributions, citations, and the h-index. Moreover, the results of this study provide some evidence suggesting that mode 1 and mode 2 are not substitute modes of knowledge production but knowledge production modes that might be entirely compatible. As a consequence, the various assessment exercises undertaken by university administrators, government agencies, and associations of business schools should complement the data provided in WoS with those provided in GS.
The d-index: Discovering dependences among scientific collaborators from their bibliographic data records In conclusion, considering the presented user study, our proposed measure resulted both valid and reliable, demonstrating to be effective, from a user's point of view, for all the presented categories of users.
Transnational citation, technological diversity and small world in global nanotechnology patenting This paper makes several theoretical, methodological and empirical contributions to the current understanding of nanotechnology, patent citations and small world networks.
Discovery of factors influencing citation impact based on a soft fuzzy rough set model In summary, our results suggest that the papers' citation impact could be predicted by objective bibliometric factors. Both the variables about papers' external bibliometric features and the variables about papers' quality were considered in constructing papers' feature space. And those following factors were proved to be the key features: (a) The research capabilities of the first author, represented by his/her h index before the publication of this paper; (b) The papers' quality, represented by the papers' earlier knowledge diffusion properties and the first-cited properties in the scientific community.
Discovering and analyzing the intellectual structure and its evolution of LIS in China, 1998-2007 This article studies the intellectual structure and its evolution of LIS in China using the data from CSSCI, a proper database for the ACA study purpose.
Participation of women in software engineering publications The study shows, amongst other things, that women are not underrepresented as editorial boards members and as editors-in-chief of the journals studied, although their representation as editors-in-chief is low. These two sets of simulations allow us to conclude that women are not underrepresented in these two categories in relation to the population data with a confidence level of 95 %. As a final conclusion, our work confirms the results of Ceci and Williams (2010) which address the underrepresentation of women in some scientific disciplines, and conclude that there is no discrimination in publishing.
A comparison of top economics departments in the US and EU on the basis of the multidimensional prestige of influential articles in 2010 From the results showed in this paper, the top four economics departments (in 2010) were US economics departments: (1) Department of Economics, Princeton University; (2) Department of Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); (3) Department of Economics, University of California-Berkeley; and (4) Department of Economics, Harvard University. From these results, it also follows that the best overall behaviour of selected EU departments is given by UCL Economics Department, closely followed by Warwick Economics Department. In this paper we argue that this type of analysis, for example, may be relevant to the evaluation of research output using objective metrics in several dimensions such as citation impact and journal ranking models, which may guide student choice of a university and department to pursue a graduate degree.
Blockmodeling of co-authorship networks in library and information science in Argentina: a case study In this study, blockmodeling detected a core-periphery structure with small multiple cores. The scientists from a core co-authored with all or most of the colleagues in this core.
Assessing insularity in global science Based on these data we argue that insularism (higher than average levels of national self-citation) may reflect scientific cultures whose priorities and focus are less tightly linked to global scientific norms and agendas.
Prescribed practices of authorship: review of codes of ethics from professional bodies and journal guidelines across disciplines In conclusion, the lack of and variety of authorship definitions in journals and professional organizations across scientific disciplines may be confusing for the researchers and lead to poor authorship practices.
Ten challenges in modeling bibliographic data for bibliometric analysis The main idea behind this work is that bibliometrics needs multidimensional data and analysis, and that reducing bibliometric analysis in search of one-dimensionality is a stretch.
A general framework for describing diversity within systems and similarity between systems with applications in informetrics The main contribution of this article is to provide a simple and easy-to-generalize analytical framework to study systems' balance and the homogeneity of systems.
Bibliometric analysis for development of research strategies in agricultural technology: the case of Taiwan We hope to share our experiences with the countries that have the prospective need and help them to choose the proper foresight issues for their countries.
The growth of science and database coverage By introducing the journal categories “start”, “new”, “additional”, and “recurring”, it is possible to differentiate between the growth due to the growth of science and that due to the policy of enlarging the database's coverage.
Mapping Iranian patents based on International Patent Classification (IPC), from 1976 to 2011 Overall, it can be concluded that patent-activities are highly country-specific, the results indicate that Iran is focused on “chemistry, metallurgy” technology.
Gender differences in scientific productivity: a persisting phenomenon? Our analysis suggests that the gendered performance differences are disappearing.
Beyond the basemap of science: mapping multiple structures in research portfolios: evidence from Hungary Results confirmed, in the first place, that distinguishing between different types of patterns underlying research profiles has several pay-offs.
The contingent nature of brain gain and brain circulation: their foreign context and the impact of return scientists on the scientific community in their country of origin This paper hopes to add to this body of literature by an analysis of how the context of the foreign experience impacts the effect of return migrants on their country of origin. This suggests that the effects return migrants can have on their country of origin might well be contingent on the quality, nature, and context of their foreign labor experience. For policy, these results imply that it is not necessarily beneficial to send people abroad to acquire skills, knowledge, and access to knowledge networks.
In public peer review of submitted manuscripts, how do reviewer comments differ from comments written by interested members of the scientific community? A content analysis of comments written for Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics All in all, it appears that 'reviewer comments' better than ‘short comments' by interested members of the scientific community support the two main functions of peer review: selection and improvement of what is published.
Effects of war on scientific production: mathematics in Croatia from 1968 to 2008 From 1968 up to date the scientific production, as an indicator of the development of mathematics in Croatia, can be divided into two stages, separated by the War in Croatia: the transitional period of socio-economic transformation, then peace, show the trend of productivity growth in publishing in international journals, which was interrupted by war activities, continued in the quiet conditions after the war until today.
Effects of international collaboration and status of journal on impact of papers The influence of international co-authorship of papers on citation impact is not a one-way street.
Visibility in international rankings. Strategies for enhancing the competitiveness of Spanish universities The data show that a university system such as Spain's, with a uniformly acceptable level of quality (11 universities among the ARWU 500) but no elite institutions could benefit from restructuring to consolidate resources and constitute a university with inter- national visibility.
Economic, linguistic, and political factors in the scientific productivity of countries To sum up, this study shows that the resources that each country mobilizes for research activities in what is regarded as “international science” is contingent upon the different scientific disciplines.
On the relationship between citations of publication output and Hirsch index h of authors: conceptualization of tapered Hirsch index hT, circular citation area radius R and citation acceleration a It was found that different values of the Hirsch constant A for different scientists are associated with the discreteness of h and are related to the tapered Hirsch index hy by A1/2 ≈ 1.21h.
What is the appropriate length of the publication period over which to assess research performance? We conclude that the choice of a 3 year publication period would seem reliable, particularly for physics, chemistry, biology and medicine. A doubt that a publication period of 3 years might not be sufficient to reasonably reduce the effects of the random component of value of productivity was relieved by an analysis of the variations in productivity between contiguous triennia. The variations observed seem truly representative of structural trends for change, bad or good, in the performance of individual researchers.
S&T publications output of Nepal: a quantitative analysis, 2001-10 Conclude that for increasing the research output and improving the quality of research, there is a need to expand the existing infrastructure and equip the existing infrastructure with modern facilities, improve the research climate and investments in R&D, deployed more qualified manpower in R&D and attract back NRI scientists in R&D activities.
Evaluation index system for academic papers of humanities and social sciences In this paper, the core paper zone, DACRP and DADRP are mainly discussed, the evaluation index system are constructed and verified. Core paper zone can better reflect the characteristics of disciplines, and DACRP/DADRP based on a smaller proportion of core zone can be used to eliminate the differences between disciplines more effectively. Generally speaking, the evaluation index system constructed in this paper is rational and operational, and can provide a reference for paper prize awarding activities, but still needs to be verified and improved continuously through practice.
Scientific production and citation impact: a bibliometric analysis in acupuncture over three decades This study evaluated acupuncture treatment by using bibliometric methods, which resulted in some significant points that may provide practitioners, patients, and policy-makers with identified information and more accesses to rational, effective and efficient acupuncture intervention.
Ranking of research output of universities on the basis of the multidimensional prestige of influential fields: Spanish universities as a case of study Here we have presented a comparison of 56 Spanish universities based on the measurement of multidimensional prestige of influential fields of study (i.e., MPIF measure) during the period 2006-2010.
A bibliometric analysis of solar power research from 1991 to 2010 It could be concluded that the materials of solar cells would be the emphasis of solar power research in the twenty-first century.
Papers written by Nobel Prize winners in physics before they won the prize: an analysis of their language and journal of publication First, the languages of papers are mainly English and German. The share of English is gradually increasing, while that of German is decreasing. Second, the prizewinning scientists' papers have been published mainly in national and US journals. Journals of their home countries are very helpful for the laureates early in their careers.
Pharmaceutical Science Faculty Publication Records at Research-Intensive Pharmacy Colleges and Schools Significant differences exist in yearly and cumulative publication rates for faculty members and bibliometric indices among pharmaceutical science disciplines and academic ranks within research-intensive colleges and schools of pharmacy.
Overlap between Humanities Faculty Citation and Library Monograph Collections, 2004-2009 The fact that almost one quarter of the monographs cited by humanities faculty in their research were not owned by the library certainly has implications for collection development and interlibrary loan, but further analysis of the titles not owned would be needed before any generalizations could be made about the causes for this deficiency. While interesting results have been presented, the authors encourage others to replicate the study using their own collections and their faculty's published work so that a larger base of data becomes available upon which to draw conclusions.
The Citation Landscape of Scholarly Literature in LGBT Studies: A Snapshot for Subject Librarians This citation analysis reveals several interesting patterns in literature use among scholars in LGBT Studies.
The Citation Merit of Scientific Publications In this paper we have proposed a new simple and intuitive method to assess the citation merit of any set of scientific papers in any field.
Engineering Small Worlds in a Big Society: Assessing the Early Impacts of Nanotechnology in China We find that the country's effort to join the world leaders in nanoscale R&D has made significant progress. Although several effects are difficult to capture, cross-country and cross-regional collaborations, institutional development, regional spread, industrial and enter- prise development, as well as research and education capabilities, have been influ- enced positively by the new programs in China's nanotechnology initiative.
A Kuhnian Critique of Psychometric Research on Peer Review Reflecting on the various ways in which epistemic values can be interpreted and applied, Kuhn suggested that “essential aspects of the process generally known as verification will be understood only by recourse to the features with respect to which” researchers “may differ while still remaining scientists” (1977, 334).
Emergency Medicine Journal Impact Factor and Change Compared to Other Medical and Surgical Specialties Emergency medicine journals rank low in impact factor summary statistics and growth trends among 31 medical and surgical specialties.
Leadership in the Academic Field of Business and Management and the Question of Country of Origin: A Commentary on Burgess and Shaw (2010) Our findings point towards the need for finer differentiation of what constitutes the concept country of origin, but also that its relevance should be questioned in, at least, globalized contexts.
Flows of Research Manuscripts Among Scientific Journals Reveal Hidden Submission Patterns The network we have built from submission links (16) revealed that despite the prevalent fear of manuscript rejection (14, 22, 23), most pub-lished articles were initially targeted at the journal that would publish them and resubmission even-tually paid off in terms of citation impact. Further aspects of the submission process could be in-vestigated with this network, and it will be in-sightful to formally compare it to other social networks (4, 24). Just as for citation analysis, a great step forward could come from concerted efforts at recording the meta-knowledge contained in manuscript flows.
Statistical Analysis of the Hirsch Index Hence, practitioners may largely benefit from these considerations in order to understand the importance of quantifying variability for an appropriate comparison analysis of the research performance based on the h-index.
Dynamics of Journal Impact Factors The currency of today's academic market is publications in top-ranked journals. Rankings of journals and their impact factors are important signals of academic quality, which influence resource allocation in academia.
Iranians' contribution to world literature on neuroscience Progress of neuroscience in Iran is mostly seen in the neuropharmacology and the neurology subfields. Other subfields should also be considered as a research priority by health policymakers. Our study showed an unbalanced research trend among different subfields of neuroscience.
Explaining geographic diversity of editorial boards: the role of conference participation and English-language skills This study contributes to our current understanding of the internationalisation of editorial boards of academic journals, which is considered to be an important phenomenon for the growth of management knowledge (Hodgson and Rothman, 1999; Baruch, 2001; Özbilgin, 2004; Stremersch and Verhoef, 2005; Tung, 2006; Feldman, 2008). Specifically, geographic diversity in editorial boards of Management journals is partly due to the internationalisation of top US and European academic conferences.
Advancing Science on the Knife's Edge: Integration and Specialization in Management Ph.D. Programs In this study, we find that management indeed draws heavily on the foundational disciplines of economics, sociology, psychology, and political science.
What are we to do with feral publishers? We therefore suggest that the only reasonable response is to demand that Informa repay the tax which it has thus far appropriated for itself and its executives.
"3 . . 2 . . 1 . . Impact [Factor]: Target [Academic Career] Destroyed!": Just Another Statistical Casualty Again, the basic point to be emphasized is that scientific worth cannot and should not be reduced simply to a number value,140 (Figure 4) whether it be the Thomson Reuters Impact Factor, the rankings from any other indices (including Google Scholar and Elsevier SciVerse), or even usage factors.
Coverage of Google Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science: A case study of the h-index in nursing More than one tool should be used to calculate the h-index for nursing faculty because one tool alone cannot be relied on to provide a thorough assessment of a researcher's impact. If researchers are interested in a comprehensive h-index, they should aggregate the citing references located by WOS and Scopus. Because h-index rankings differ among databases, comparisons between researchers should be done only within a specified database.
Citation distribution profile in Brazilian journals of general medicine The main conclusion from this analysis is that, for the three jour-nals analyzed, the results pointed to skewed distributions, with a large number of articles with zero or close to zero citations. Moreover, despite using the same database, it was not possible to exactly reproduce the IFs that are provided by the ISI website.
Investments in Scientific Research: Examining the Funding Threshold Effects on Scientific Collaboration and Variation by Academic Discipline Although unlike those previous studies, this paper demonstrates the presence of a threshold level in the relationship between government support and collaboration.
Finding Citations to Social Work Literature: The Relative Benefits of Using Web of Science, Scopus, or Google Scholar The results of this analysis demonstrate the need to determine what resources constitute scholarly research and reflect the need for future researchers to consider the merits of each database before undertaking their research.
Assessing political science quality: 'excellence in research for Australia' Not only do the ERA results appear not to provide any reliable benchmarking disciplines against international standards, or allocating funds basis for between competing disciplines, the heavily skewed and clustered results in astronomy alone can hardly serve as a reliable indicator for allocating funding within that discipline.
Predicting Scholars' Scientific Impact Our results have shown that the existing citation indices do not predict citations of future work well, and hence should not be given significant weight in evaluating academic potential. Even combining multiple citation indicators did not significantly improve the prediction: apart from citation indicators, no better predictor of the impact of future work exists.
Towards a "Book Publishers Citation Reports". First approach using the "Book Citation Index" Thanks to the launch of the Book Citation Index, it is currently possible to develop scientific publisher's rankings similar to the Thomson Reuters 'Journal Citation Reports'. We called these rankings ‘Book Publishers Citation Reports'. The 19 rankings presented in this paper could be only useful for characterize the Anglosaxon domain because there is a strong bias to commercial and English speaking countries. A ‘Book Publishers Citation Report' based in the BKCI maybe is no useful for research evaluation purposes in the same way as the JCR is.
Booms, Busts, and the World of Ideas: Enrollment Pressures and the Challenge of Specialization The physicists' bubble has the potential to illuminate comparable shifts in other fields across the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities.
Science is all in the eye of the beholder: Keyword maps in Google scholar citations The population analyzed here shows a strong presence of profiles from English-speaking countries, mainly from the U.S. and the U.K.
A new methodology for constructing a publication-level classification system of science In this paper we introduced a new methodology for con-structing a classification system of science.
The Leiden ranking 2011/2012: Data collection, indicators, and interpretation Compared with other global university rankings, in particular the popular ARWU and THE rankings, the Leiden Ranking offers a number of important advantages. First, the Leiden Ranking refrains from arbitrarily combining multiple dimensions of university performance in a single aggregate indicator. Second, the Leiden Ranking does not rely on data supplied by the universities themselves and also does not use questionable survey data. We plan to further extend the Leiden Ranking in the next editions.
Referencing patterns of individual researchers: Do top scientists rely on more extensive information sources? In this article, different aspects related with the use of information by individual researchers have been analyzed, assuming that bibliographic references are key elements in the communication of scientific research and new ideas. A plausible explanation for this pattern is that top researchers have (or display) a broader knowledge of the current literature existing in their respective fields. Finally, further research on this topic is still necessary. This type of analysis should be extended to other sets of researchers (from other research organizations, countries, and fields) to corroborate and/or discuss some of our results and conclusions presented here.
World scientific production on renewable energy, sustainability and the environment The analysis has shown that total world production increased over the course of the period studied (2003-08), and that some developing countries stand out in the world as a whole for some of the variables studied. The countries can be classified into 5 groups: The institutions were classified into 6 groups:
Comparison of Journal Self-Citation Rates between Some Chinese and Non-Chinese International Journals Our results show that generally Chinese scientific journals have higher self-citation rates than those of world journals. Consequently, Chinese scientific journals tend to have lower visibility and are more isolated in the relevant fields. Considering the fact that sciences are rapidly developing in China and so are Chinese scientific journals, we expect that the differences of journal self-citation rates between Chinese and world scientific journals will gradually disappear in the future.
World citation and collaboration networks: uncovering the role of geography in science Our thorough analysis of the world citation and collaboration networks has revealed that the effects of geography on the dynamics of science are relevant, despite the recent advances in communication and transportation.
A Measure of Total Research Impact Independent of Time and Discipline The discussed measures tori and riq eliminate the most important systematic factors affecting the use of citations to measure the performance of individuals: the number of authors of each paper, the number of references in each paper, and the age of the individual.
How Are Academic Age, Productivity and Collaboration Related to Citing Behavior of Researchers? "Contrary to some previous findings and expectations, we found that senior researchers (who still published in core journals) used references at the same rate as their junior colleagues, with similar rates of re-citation."
What are Scientific Leaders? The Introduction of a Normalized Impact Factor In summary, assuming that our hypotheses (i) and (ii) above are meaningful, it seems fair to conclude that the NIF provides useful and novel information about the scientific work of individuals and of their corresponding communities.
An Analysis on the Research Ethics Cases Managed by the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) Between 1997 and 2010 From the present study, it can be seen that the ethical cases managed by COPE have not increased alarmingly, despite better awareness in both the academic world and the general population.
Citation Classics in Suicide and Life Threatening Behavior: A Research Note Having published 1,250 works on suicide since 1975, SLTB led all journals in the universe covered by the Web of Science.
Open access versus subscription journals: a comparison of scientific impact In summary, gold OA publishing is rapidly increasing its share of the overall volume of peer-reviewed journal publishing, and there is no reason for authors not to choose to publish in OA journals just because of the 'OA' label, as long as they carefully check the quality standards of the journal they consider.
Anatomy of open access publishing: a study of longitudinal development and internal structure OA journal publishing is disrupting the dominant subscription-based model of scientific publishing, having rapidly grown in relative annual share of published journal articles during the last decade.
Correlation of publication frequency with impact factors in 1058 medical journals in SCI-expanded database We concluded that the IF and 5-IF are increased with the increasing of journals' PF. More studies are needed to confirm the notion that positive correlation exists between PF and IF.
International Contribution to Nipah Virus Research 1999-2010 Our findings indicate that published research on Nipah Virus is still on the increase and especially so from 2009 onwards. The productive authors, who produced at least 7 articles mainly comes from three countries, the USA, Australia and Malaysia. In general, the findings show that “Nipah Virus" research is a subject that has generated global concern and this have opens floodgates of research conducted with the goal of battling and controlling the epidemic.
Sri Lanka S & T output during 2001-2010: A scientometric asssessment The study concludes that Sri Lanka needs to increase its output and bring about improvement in the quality of its research efforts. This paper concludes that Sri Lanka's output can be further increased by expanding and modernization of S&T infrastructure, investing more in R&D and deployment of more qualified manpower.
A tapered diffusion impact indicator: A preliminary exploration on the journal level We proposed a tapered diffusion index to measure the diffusion impact of individual papers. From the theoretical analysis and experimental examples, the D_T index proved an efficient function for differentiating the scope of citation diffusion. The more citing journals (large diffusion of scientific ideas) the higher the D_T index.
Co-authorship network of scientometrics research collaboration This study has examined the scientometrics co-authorship networks of authors, institutions, countries and by academic fields using the data from the journal Scientometrics. Unlike a similar analysis of the information systems community (Xu and Chau 2006), the scientometrics scene was not dominated by a couple of key researchers as quite a significant number of popular researchers were identified. The scientometrics research community was found to be a healthy small-world community that kept evolving in order to provide an environment that supports collaboration and sharing of ideas between researchers in quantitative study of research communication.
Disciplinary Networks and Bounding: Scientific Communication Between Science and Technology Studies and the History of Science Our analyses show that very few members of the history of science cliques function as shortcuts between the common alters of STS's entrance journals and the history of science. In fact, given the relatively impermeable nature of the history of science network, the latter partially depends on STS to reach some of its neighboring disciplines. Perhaps they may also offer the opportunity to reflect on how we are disciplined by our disciplines.
Why do Scientists Migrate? A Diffusion Model We believe that modelling decision-making of scientists has the advantage of identifying, as Kitcher explains (Kitcher 1995), relevant variables and their causal interrelationships.
Program-level assessment of research centers: Contribution of Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centers to US Nanotechnology National Initiative goals Overall, the NSEC program addresses the goals of the NNI (Table 7).
Social network analysis comparing researcher collaborations in two cardiovascular cohort studies This work provides a preliminary glimpse into understand-ing the mechanisms of collaboration among research studies.
Identifying Audiences of E-Infrastructures - Tools for Measuring Impact Our contribution in this paper can be summarized in that we applied the concept of 'audiences' as an indicator for measuring research impact and we proposed a computational, adjustable and easy to use method to classify VOs into meaningful categories.
An Open Access Policy for the Scientific Output of Cuba's National Health System The type of policy proposed here entails the com-pulsory register and deposit of scientific articles, PhD and Master's Degree theses, and books about health and biomedical sciences in the CUMED database, as well as their availability in open access without economic barriers or required permission, whenever possible.
Factors Influencing Acceptance of Open Access Publishing among Medical Researchers in Iran The results of the study suggest that positive attitudes of researchers regarding OA as well as providing the required facilities had significant influence on the ac- ceptance of OAJs. Also, experience, familiarity, type of university and academic rank had significant in- fluence on the acceptance of OAJs. However, both 75.9% of the variance in intention and 77.7% of the variance in self-reported publishing was still unexplained, suggesting that further research is necessary to identify other additional factors.
Research trends on nitrate removal: a bibliometric analysis In this study, we provide an alternative perspec-tive on the global research trends in nitrate removal.
What are Research Expectations? A Comparative Study of Different Academic Disciplines This study of 348 universities found that in almost all cases there are statistically significant differences in what constitutes research activity when comparing 27 separate fields of study.
Use and Availability of Scholarly Journals in Catalan Academic Libraries The results confirm the major importance that researchers give to journals as the main source for scientific information, thereby justifying the money that libraries spend on subscriptions. As previous research suggested, electronic journals have become the preferred format. However, this point requires further research, since according to the results of the availability study performed in the second phase of this study, 96% of the articles cited in their publications are available at one library or another in the Consortium.
Generating favourable contexts for translational research through the incorporation of basic researchers into hospitals: The FIS/Miguel Servet Research Contract Programme The implementation of a human resources programme for the incorporation of basic researchers into hospitals may have a positive effect by promoting interactions between basic researchers, clinical researchers and healthcare professionals, and ultimately by fostering trans-lational research. However, barriers to translational research at NHS hos-pitals were identified. The absence of an established research career path within the NHS... resulted in uncertainties about the status of FIS researchers within hospitals with regard to their place in the organizational structure, their responsibilities, and their occupational and professional rights.
Impact of fellowship training on research productivity in academic otolaryngology Fellowship-trained otolaryngologists had higher h-indices, and faculty members trained in the subspecialties with the highest research productivity were disproportionately represented in positions of leadership within academic otolaryngology, probably reflecting the importance of research contributions in the academic advancement process, although other factors, such as educational contributions and clinical performance, may also be important factors.
Assessing the national productivity in subspecialty critical care medicine journals: A bibliometric analysis The United States is the most productive country in the subspecialty critical care medicine.
WAEA Presidential Address Deciding Where to Publish: Some Observations on Journal Impact Factor and Article Influence Score The Article Influence Score represents an improvement over the Impact Factor in comparing journal quality by correcting for self-citation bias and disciplinary differences in how citations are used.
The Impact of the International Journal of Lexicography It is not easy to make clear what exactly the impact of IJL is. Personally, I believe it is quite substantial for most of its readers. I hope the time will come soon when we can look back and pity the citation indexes and impact factors of a foregone era. For the time being we have to comply.
Publication of Original Research in Urologic Journals - A Neglected Orphan? The publication policy of urologic journals does not expressly reflect the increase in scientific knowledge, which has occurred over the period 2002-2010.
Assessing the Effect of Highly Cited Papers on the Impact Factor of Journals in the Field of Public Health We concluded that the ranking of journals in the field of public health is not affected by the individual papers with unusual number of citations.
Rich Media and Rich Science; Web Squared Cumulativity Conceptualization If we redefine our approaches to research through the web squared cumulativity conceptualization, science will see improved collaboration, access and visibility.
Fifty most cited articles in orthopedic shoulder surgery Articles that introduced instruments for outcome evaluation or that introduced classification systems (methodologic) were highly cited regardless of the date of publication.
The top cited clinical research articles on sepsis: a bibliometric analysis Our bibliometric analysis provides a historical perspective on the progress of clinical research on sepsis. Articles originating from the United States and published in high-impact journals are most likely to be cited in the field of sepsis research.
Formation of Citation Networks by Rational Players and The Diffusion of Ideas Our basic findings are: (i) In a complete information model, the rule by which a new entrant chooses to cite the work of earlier entrants among whom she is indifferent determines the equilibrium. The most efficient case for dissemination of ideas is the rule by which the new entrant chooses randomly when different, the so-called “mixed” rule. Ex post efficiency cannot be guaranteed, but ex ante efficiency is sometimes attainable.
DETERMINANTS OF THE MATURING PROCESS OF THE MEXICAN RESEARCH OUTPUT: 1980-2009 "Quantitative evidence is presented that supports the hypothesis that Mexican scientific activity in this pe-riod under consideration did go through a maturing process in terms of growth in the number of articles published in main-stream journals, the respective number of citations, as well as the number of active researchers and certified graduate pro-grams."
The Possible Role of Resource Requirements and Academic Career-Choice Risk on Gender Differences in Publication Rate and Impact Our findings have significant, field-specific, policy implications for achieving diversity at the faculty level within the STEM disciplines.
Russian brain drain: Myths v. reality The authors conclude that a more effective policy could be based on the use of diverse forms of cooperation with the Russian academics abroad, both with or without their permanent relocation to the country, providing for the inclusion of the Russian science into the international academic networks.
Stem cell research: bibliometric analysis of main research areas through Key Words Plus "The results we harvested and present here give substantial information about the state of research involving stem cells in Spain to date, and allow us to draw profiles from different viewpoints."
Web co-word analysis for business intelligence in the Chinese environment Knowing the applicability of the Web co-word method to the Chinese environment contributes to the knowledge of this new Webometrics method. The study found that the Web co-word method could potentially be applied to the Chinese environment. Information on business competition generated from this kind of study is useful for people who need a global view of an industry such as industry analysts or policy makers.
Full text coverage of marketing journals in databases The results clearly show that there is much more to be learned about the real profile of the content of databases before making a commitment to licensing, or even for choosing the primary database for a search. It is also obvious that in spite of the budget crunch in libraries, it is very reasonable for a university to license, for example, two very large business databases such as BSP and ABI, as the University of Hawaii did, because of the differences in the time-span of full-text coverage of key journals in many sub-disciplinary areas. A follow-up to this study will analyse the volume of full-text coverage in marketing-focused journals and conference proceedings of the Hult-50 sample.
Protecting Students' Intellectual Property in the Web Plagiarism Detection Process In this study, we concentrated on architecture for a PDS. First of all, this novel architecture makes student copyright protection a main goal and guarantees that no third party directly or indirectly makes profit from student work. A second distinctive feature is the decision to outsource the most time-consuming part of the plagiarism checkup to a third party, thereby reducing the workload on the university IT infrastructure.
Accounting Journal Rankings, Authorship Patterns and the Author Affiliation Index Our results suggest that the ABDC ratings are consistent with the AAI-based rankings. The co-authorship patterns suggest that top AAI and near-top AAI journals have more co-authorship from scholars in top programs and scholars in other programs (both ranked 21–100 and ‘others’). In addition to accounting journal ranking, we also introduce a modification to the AAI method by using the histograms of AAI deciles to show typical distribution patterns of top and other journals.
Rising Publication Delays Inflate Journal Impact Factors We thus suggest that indexing of articles in citation databases and calculation of citation metrics should be based on the date of an article's online appearance, rather than on that of its publication in print.Our results show that the delay between online availability of articles and print publication has been steadily increasing over the last decade, and that this can have significant effects on journal impact factors.We believe our results raise the issue that overreliance on very specific metrics such as impact factors should be taken with care, as they can be prone to distortion and/or manipulation.
An evaluation of forestry journals using bibliometric indices We derived a comparative ranking on the most important forestry journals which, in addition to the previous analyses, proposes an indicator supplementary as to the journal h-index, as an effort to account for the different dimensions of the forestry journals.
Assessing research impact in academic clinical medicine: a study using Research Excellence Framework pilot impact indicators While the 2010 pilot exercise has confirmed that the majority of the proposed indicators have some validity, there are significant challenges in operationalising and measuring these indicators reliably, as well as in comparing evidence of research impact across different cases in a standardised manner.
Using ontology-based annotation to profile disease research This work utilizes disease ontology (DO)-based annotation to profile effectively the landscape of biomedical research activity.
Costa Rica Publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: A bibliometric analysis for 1981-2010 "In conclusion, the scientific output of Costa Rican authors is strong in the areas related to conservation but the impact is higher for biomedical articles, and Costa Rican authors need to improve their position within research teams."
Tracking the impact of research on policy and practice: investigating the feasibility of using citations in clinical guidelines for research evaluation The study found that there is great potential for guidelines to be used as sources of information on the quality of the research used in their development and that it is possible to track the source of the funding of the research.
What happens to clinical training fellows? A retrospective study of the 20 years outcome of a Medical Research Council UK cohort This is the first analysis of outcome of CRTFs in the UK and provides robust evidence of the importance of this capacity building mode of funding to underpin research excellence at the University-NHS interface. It appears that the MRC CRTF scheme has helped to capacity build a cohort of clinical academics across the UK embedded in research and education, 40% of whom progress to a professorship and 20% of the 1991 cohort have been awarded Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences, which is a widely accepted marker of International research excellence.
Two h-Index Benchmarks for Evaluating the Publication Performance of Medical Informatics Researchers Our 10-level benchmark provides an objective basis to evaluate and compare the publication performance of medical informatics researchers with that of their peers using the h-index.
The More Publication, the Higher Impact Factor: Citation Analysis of Top Nine Gastroenterology and Hepatology Journals The number of articles and self-citation have definite effects on IF of a journal and because IF is the most prominent criterion for journal's quality measurement, it would be a good idea to consider factors affecting on IF such as self-citation. This work can be useful for the journals' editors and editorial boards or to whom working in the field of medical journalism. Also it can be helpful for the readers and authors of hepatitis monthly.
Examination of the impact of animal and dairy science journals based on traditional and newly developed bibliometric indices Based on our analysis, the top journals according to the overall ranking by the bibliometric indices were as follows: Journal of Dairy Research, Journal of Dairy Science, Journal of Animal Science, and Animal Genet-ics.
Publication Growth in Biological Sub-Fields: Patterns, Predictability and Sustainability Exponential growth in publication numbers is clearly not sustainable. Synthetic and systems biology are problematic from the point of view of knowledge dissemination, because in these fields more than 80% of existing papers have been published over the last five years. The evidence presented here casts a shadow on how sustainable the recent increase in scientific publications can be in the long term.
Open access theses in institutional repositories: an exploratory study of the perceptions of doctoral students This study shows that awareness of open access and institutional repositories is still fairly low, even in a research-focussed community of doctoral students. The key recommendation for the library and information profession is to ensure that the mandatory submission policies and the benefits of repositories are communicated to students through a variety of channels including academic supervisors, official research school communications, handbooks, library workshops and other liaison or outreach services in order to ensure that each student understands the purpose and benefits of archiving their theses.
Stimulation of Ideas through Compound-Based Bibliometrics: Counting and Mapping Chemical Compounds for Analyzing Research Topics in Chemistry, Physics, and Materials Science We have applied bibliometric methods to the field of chemistry in order to reveal and quantify the compound basis and the corresponding scientific literature of three selected research topics (rare earth compounds, rare earth cuprates, and quasicrystals).
Misconduct Policies in High-Impact Biomedical Journals Only a third of top-ranking peer-reviewed journals had publicly-available definitions of misconduct and less than a half described procedures for handling allegations of misconduct.
Research Blogging: Indexing and Registering the Change in Science 2.0 We believe that blogging is still an important way to give visibility to science in a more complete and detailed format.
A BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY ON THE WORLDWIDE RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY OF SCIENTISTS IN Elaeis guineensis Jacq. AND Elaeis oleifera The literature on E. guineensis Jacq. and E. oleifera has shown a steady growth from the period of 1995-2010 as the number of publications has doubled in the last five years. Malaysia is the most prolific and productive country in producing literature related to palm oil, especially as it is the second largest producer of palm oil. Moreover, the results of this study will make an important contribution to pave the way for future oil palm research directions and international collaboration with better management of funds and resources.
(Un)Available upon Request: Field Experiment on Researchers' Willingness to Share Supplementary Materials Overall, the results of our experiment are somewhat reassuring.
Collegiality and careerism trump critical questions and bold new ideas: A student's perspective and solution If crowd funding can realize its potential, it may prove to be the laymen, not the scien-tists, who solve one of sciences biggest problems: scientific funding.
Seeding a field: The growth of bibliometrics through co‐authorship ties This admittedly constrained overview of the overlapping communities of five pre-eminent bibliometrics researchers gives an idea of how the field has evolved over time and how much work has been done by these five researchers to support and be supported by other scholars doing related work.
Fine-Tuning the Institutional Repository: Evaluating the Self-Archiving Behavior of Researchers in Music Our study identified three different types of self-archiving: in institutional repositories, in “other” repositories, and on personal websites; while certain options have proven more popular than others, it is clear that faculty from a wide range of institutions are not in the habit of self-archiving and making their work freely available.
Conform and be funded We think our findings suggest that this aim is not being met.
The decade of metrics? Examining the evolution of metrics within and outside LIS This short paper provides an historical account of the use of bibliometrics and other related metric research inside and outside of LIS. It provides evidence that metrics are increasingly important in LIS literature, as metric-related authors occupy a growing proportion of top-cited authors. Given the wide interest in one of the main applications of bibliometrics – research evaluation and monitoring – it can be expected that its importance will continue to increase in the medical and natural sciences.
<i>JASIST</i> 2001–2010 In this paper we studied the first decade of articles published in JASIST– after the journal changed its name from JASIS to JASIST. Although there are significant correlations between the Mendeley readership counts and the citation counts, the correlations are only around 0.5, indicating that reading and citing are two different scientific activities. These issues, as well as the reliability of information retrieval from reference managers, should be further explored.
Open access in developing countries: African open archives1 University appears clearly as the most active and more involved in open access projects.
Accessibility and self-archiving of conference articles: A study on a selection of Swedish institutional repositories1 The study has shown that the institutional repositories fill an important function in spreading knowledge about conference publications. We have found that no less than ca. 50% of the conference articles can be published as postprints in our institutional repositories. It is, therefore, of great importance to use local institutional repositories as a publishing channel, not only for primary published material such as dissertations and reports, but also as a source for finding these conference articles "without a home".
An Examination of Author-Paid Charges in Science Journals This study of the top-tier journals shows that Sciences journals have more frequent page charges than Social Sciences journals. In conclusion, results show that Sciences journals had more page charges than Social Sciences journals and some charges are hidden. This research should raise awareness of author-charges as the trend is for more articles to become available through open access.
<i>h</i>-Index and <i>m</i>-Quotient Benchmarks of Scholarly Impact in Criminology and Criminal Justice: A Preliminary Note Based on these results, we can make preliminary determinations of h-index standards for CCJ. Our results will be useful to CCJ departments and faculty members when making decisions about important career points such as raises and promotions. We have simply tried to show the utility of including at least one, relatively standardized measure as part of the quantitative component of the entire package of information.
Peer review versus citations – An analysis of best paper prizes In this paper, I documented the difference in evaluation outcomes based on peer review and citation counts.
Monitoring knowledge flow through scholarly networks The proposed knowledge hierarchy is effective in organizing scientific knowledge.
Citation gamesmanship: testing for evidence of ego bias in peer review Ego does not seem to intrude on the peer review process, at least as far as JASIS&T is concerned. Referencing the editor or reviewers does not statistically significantly influence editorial decisions or reviewer recommendations. Further, this behavior was most closely associated with major revisions, which suggests that reviewer self-citing serves a clarifying purpose, allowing reviewers to highlight inaccuracies in the representation of their work in the manuscript under review.
Predicting scientific success Our formula is particularly useful for funding agencies, peer reviewers and hiring committees who have to deal with vast numbers of applications and can give each only a cursory examination.
Facets of access Benchmarking this diverse and complex phenomenon in this way allows us to make comparisons, and through abstraction understand this activity and its anatomy as it unfolds both historically and in the contemporary information environment. It is also hoped that by illuminating some of the attributes that past and current systems have exhibited, this typology will help to inform thinking about the kinds of attributes designers might include in future systems for information dissemination: in a time where new such systems emerge on virtually a daily basis, such consideration can help to lend a more deliberate cast to discussions about the kinds of social entities that those systems might aspire to be.
Which Are the “Best” Cities for Psychology Research Worldwide? Implications of the results for the publication strategies of psychologists in non-English speaking countries are discussed as well as the neccessity to care for qualitative criteria in evaluations in addition to quantitative, scientometric criteria.
Universities: Challenges to the last guild in a new information age In conclusion, the essential structure of the craft of science is likely to remain intact in Society 2.0.
Modified Impact Factor (MIF) at Specialty Level: A Way Forward Modified Impact Factor is new concept based on existing ISI Journal IF (JIF) to remove intra and inter-discipline controversies to make it more acceptable to researchers, publishers, departments and universities.
Applying Web Mining Techniques for Constructing Webometrics Ranking early Warning System WRES is constructed for the purpose of providing automatic early warnings for university website managers, and giving them more details and deeper insight of the WR ranking indicators. WRES facilitates website managers to observe the indicators from multiple points of view and to adopt effective approaches to improve the indicator scores and ranking positions. The whole WWW population will finally benefit from the WR ranking improvements of university websites, because in the mean time more high quality academic materials are shared and spread through ubiquitous media – the Internet.
Industry influenced evidence production in collaborative research communities: A network analysis Industry-based authors are more central in their networks and are deeply embedded within highly connected drug research communities.
A Bibliometrics Analysis of Canadian Electrical and Computer Engineering Institutions (1996-2006) Based on IEEE Journal Publications This paper presented a bibliometric assessment of publications by the Canadian researchers in the field of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) from 1996 to 2006, based on publications in IEEE Transactions journals. The survey identified the top institutions over a 10-year period.
Bibliometric and webometric methods for assessing research collaboration The advent of e-research has facilitated collaborative research, and the near ubiquitous use of scholarly web sites by both individuals and institutions has made such collaborations increasingly transparent.
Relevant Changes in Scientific Publishing in Mathematics and Physics We believe that digital to be the dominant form in scientific publishing in the near future.
World Trends in Psychological Research Output and Impact Policy makers in organized psychology need to assist developing countries promote psychological research, and research psychologists individually must do more to internationalize research in psychology. At the individual level, research psychologists need to create opportunities for networking with psychologists in developing countries through study leave, vacation contacts, invitations to visit, co-authorship of publications, and by including researchers from developing countries, where the opportunity presents, as reviewers or members of editorial boards. They need to make themselves more aware of psychology in other countries by learning more about research in those countries, developing their own cultural competence, and respecting emerging indigenous psychologies (Stevens & Wedding, 2004).
Decay and half-life period of online citations cited in open access journals Electronic publishing brings many benefits for academic research, but also raises some new questions. The need for archiving becomes paramount in this new digital environ- ment (Dimitrova & Bugeja, 2009). Publisher should archive the URLs cited in the articles they publish.
RefWorks Usage Patterns: Exploring the First Four Semesters of Use by Faculty, Graduate Students, and Undergraduates The patterns of RefWorks usage that emerge from our study inform reference services and instruction initiatives directly.
Conversion of Cardiovascular Conference Abstracts to Publications One third of abstracts were translated into publications by 2 years after presentation and less than one half by 5 years after presentation. Our findings suggest that efforts to understand the barriers to publication and to facilitate the rapid dissemination of new knowledge are needed to speed up the transition of scientific discovery into clinical practice. This study has shown that the scientific yield, as measured by number of abstracts from the 3 major cardiovascular conferences resulting in a peer-reviewed article, was about 1 in 3.
Exploring alternative cyberbibliometrics for evaluation of scholarly performance in the social sciences and humanities in Taiwan Our analyses revealed significant correlations between the newly created metrics and the existing bibliometrics-based metrics.
The Future of Peer Review: Four Possible Options to Nothingness We must act, and act now. Some of the initiatives mentioned are a good start, but, to be more successful, they need to be less proprietary. If we do what academia is famous for doing—stall, delay, argue, assign it all to a committee—we will see the landscape change on its own, without us, and without our ethical resolve to save the best part of the scholarly publishing system.
A better alternative to the h index the author would like to draw attention to the indicator Ptop 10% as a better alternative to the h index. Ptop 10% offers the following three crucial advantages over the h index:
On a possible decomposition of the h‐index The above decomposition suggests that to rank a group of scientists in the same field, we can compute both m and r for each of them, so as to have a more complete assessment, distinguishing impact from concentration. Then, the h-index for the first is surely higher than the h-index for the second researcher. from the plot we see that the economists considered in the study are much more heterogeneous in terms of impact than in terms of concentration of citations.
Spreading the Word: Geography, Policy, and Knowledge Spillovers This study examines how geography, and university and state policies, affect knowledge spillovers from university innovation.
Bibliometric practices and activities at the University of Vienna Bibliometrics is an ideal field for academic librarians to develop and provide innovative services for both academic and administrative university staff. In so doing librarians make sure to take an active part in the development of new strategies and in fostering innovation. Furthermore bibliometrics and scientometrics are emerging fields in “Information Science”, thus librarians should make use of their experiences gained from bibliometric services provided or projects engaged in and disseminate their findings in the scientific community.
Co-Authorship and Scientific Publications: A Case Study at Shahed University The rate of co-authorship is high (91.27%) in comparison with single authorship (8.73%). One can conclude that the co-authorship in general is high (91.27%) at Shahed University but co-authorship with colleagues outside of Shahed University (18.26%) and international colleagues (6.08%) is not high. Therefore, it is recommended to Shahed University faculty members to expand their collaboration to researchers outside of Shahed University in Iran and also expand their collaboration with other researchers at the international level.
Knowledge production and nanotechnology: Characterizing American dissertation research, 1999–2009 In sum, the preceding analysis demonstrates that doctoral research on nanoscale phenomena has experienced meteoric growth over the last decade, far outpacing growth in related fields. These trends are characteristic of nanotechnology's emerging visibility and substantive importance within the American science and engineering community. Finally, the volume and rate of graduate research appears to be positively correlated with federal funding.
Will We March to Utopia, or Be Dragged There? Past Failures and Future Hopes for Publishing Our Science None of the reservations I have raised about incentives, though, should discourage us from taking action on our own as scientists.
Four Decades of Materials are Used by Researchers in Mathematics: Evaluating Citations' Age and Publication Types in Mathematical Research Interestingly, our results confirm Butkovitch findings (2010) that 40 years of mathematics research is required to cover 90 percent of the mathematics citations.
The Top 10 Alternative search Engines (ASE) - within Selected Categories Ranked by Webometric Indicators With the help of webometric indicators we were able to create a ranking of ASEs within selected categories.
The inhibiting factors that principal investigators experience in leading publicly funded research Our results have captured the significant inhibiting factors and the associated tensions for publicly funded PIs, but have implications for public funding of science, formation and professional development of PIs, universities and public funding agencies.
Dependence of Research Productivity on Transaction Costs Firstly, an increase in young researchers' number along with a little rise in the transaction costs of information search results in the jump in publication activity of scientific organizations, with the share of young researchers in the institutions studied being directly related to the scientific activity dynamics when the articles are published in Russian academic journals.
On the Commodification of Science: The Programmatic Dimension This article offers a characterization and a critique of the processes of commodification of science situated in the first dimension of economic life; and it is part of the wider research project that aims to complement it with companion articles that deal with the second and third dimensions.
Changing the Peer Review or Changing the Peers — Recent Development in Assessment of Large Research Collaborations To our mind the Likert scaling decision model we have seen in the case will hamper real breakthroughs in science and innovation. Any revision of the process must respect an open dialogue with the expert reviewers. This is a contribution to the assessment of new roles of peer reviewers in large policy decision-making systems like research funding, and an input to further discussions.
Narrowing the Gap? Revisiting Publication Rates in Chemistry Education Much has changed in the chemistry education research field over the last 15 years, including publication rates for many CER faculty members.
The new Excellence Indicator in the World Report of the SCImago Institutions Rankings 2011 As the interpretations and calculations described in this Letter to the Editor show, the simple percentage of top-10% papers for an institution - the new Excellence Indicator - offers already a lot of possibilities for the comparison of an institution against an expectation or reference standard, and with other institutions by using non-parametric statistics for testing significance. Leydesdorff and Bornmann (2011) further developed this statistics to the Integrated Impact Indicator (I3) which allows for more refinement of the choices, but this measure is perhaps less intuitively easy to understand than the top-10% for a non-specialist audience (Bornmann & Leydesdorff, in press).
British Scholarly Journals on Film Studies: Study and Evaluation of Their Internationality The predominant use of (anonymous and external) peer review of submitted works is a sign of the rigour and level of professionalization of the journals analysed.
Revised h index for biomedical research In summary, I propose the r index, which is a revision of the h index aimed at evaluating the total effective scien-tific output of a biomedical researcher or, more generally, a researcher working in a field where contributions of the first and last authors are substantially higher, on average, than those of middle authors.
On plummeting manuscript acceptance rates by the main ecological journals and the progress of ecology Given that the plummeting acceptance rates of major journals is impeding dissemination of research results and thus progress in ecology, and that there is no evidence that when journal acceptance rates are in the order of 10-20% the papers that they accept are any better than many of those that they reject, a substantial change in culture regarding publication is needed.
A quantitative study on the effectiveness of peer review for academic journals Much effort has gone into raising the quality of peer reviewing by journals. However, only a limited number of studies have investigated this process in terms of quantitative evaluation, which is the primary innovation in the present research.
Past and future trends in cancer and biomedical research: a comparison between Egypt and the World using PubMed-indexed publications The Egyptian contribution to world's biomedical and cancer publications needs significant improvements through research strategic planning, setting national research priorities, adequate funding and researchers' training.
New economics of science, economics of scientific knowledge and sociology of science: the case of Paul David In this paper, we argued for a difference between NES and ESK, providing clarifications on the meaning of these expressions and taking Paul David’s work as a case study.
A new Price’s estimate on the size of scientific specialties based on scientific community structure In this article I have argued that a specialty consists of 100 professors and 420 students, with students turning over in a 3 year time span.
How good is research really? "Percentile distributions and percentile rank classes allow a simple and fair citation assessment of publications against a reference data set of similar publications."
Performance Indicators for the Advancement of Malaysian Research with Focus on Social Science and Humanities This paper has proven that there was an overall upward trend to all research areas including social science and humanities research in Malaysia and UiTM.
Any publicity is better than none: newspaper coverage increases citations, in the UK more than in Italy In sum, results suggest that the publicity effect is strongest for English-speaking media, whilst non-English reporting has mostly a local influence.
Some Limitations of the<i>H</i>Index: A Commentary on Ruscio and Colleagues' Analysis of Bibliometric Indices However, in our view, the h index has significant limitations as well. Future research should focus on bibliometric indices (e.g., the highly cited publications index) that benefit from the attractive features of the h index while not suffering from its counterintuitive properties. Preferably, bibliometric indices should be studied within a multidimensional framework.
How far does China still need to go to internationalize her academic journals? The findings of the aforementioned four assessments are shocking, not only showing that many Chinese scholars have difficulty in expressing theoretical concepts and technical findings in English, but also reflecting the fact that some of China's English-language editors do not have the ability to readily correct mistakes; or in other words, that their English is not proficient enough to even tell wrong sentences from right ones. After all, a journal's quality is determined by the quality of its editors, the quality of their language capacity and editing skills and, above all, sense of responsibility. As understanding grows between China and the rest of the world, and with new generations of English students growing up in an era of easy and convenient access to international help and facilities for language learning, we can be hopeful that Chinese academic journals published entirely or partly in English can be equipped with more qualified editors who possess higher English proficiency and that the distance for China to cover in order to internationalize her academic publication will be shortened.
Fifteen years of publishing in English language journals of sport and exercise psychology: authors' proficiency in English and editorial boards make a difference However, the present results show that quality of research is not the sole criterion for publications. This underscores the important role of authors' proficiency in English (Man et al., 2004). Importantly, our scientific community should be aware of systematic errors that might occur in the review process of manuscripts describing findings in non-English-speaking countries which have never been published in English language journals.
Publication Outcomes of Abstracts Presented at an American College of Rheumatology/Association of Rheumatology Health Professionals Annual Scientific Meeting These results reflect high research productivity with a publication ratio of approximately 60% for abstracts presented at the 2006 Annual Scientific Meeting. These results show higher research productivity than other medical societies and reflect appropriate selection of abstracts for presenta-tion by the ACR/ARHP. Nonetheless, approximately 40% of the abstracts were never published, warranting cautious interpretation of the studies that are presented at the ACR/ ARHP Annual Scientific Meeting.
Examining the international internet using multiple measures: new methods for measuring the communication base of globalized cyberspace The use of multiple measures provided a more nuanced description of the structure of the international internet.
Doing Good and Doing Well: On the Multiple Contributions of Journal Editors Our results provide evidence in support of Aguinis and Vaschetto’s (2011) contention that past editors who do good also do well.
Citation Behavior of Undergraduate Students: A Study of History, Political Science, and Sociology Papers This study of select SUNY Oneonta undergraduates revealed very constructive information regarding their citation behavior. This study has a number of limitations. Further study would provide Oneonta librarians with more insight into the nature of the students' citation habits and could help to enhance library services and collections.
A quantitative analysis of WWW, hypertext and JCDL conferences in the last decade The values of the metrics for JCDL and HT were on similar levels and somewhat lower than WWW. It is important to understand that the conferences are different, with very different range of topics (although there is some overlap) and different number of papers accepted per year. We believe it would be misleading to compare these conferences on the values of the metrics alone. It is more useful to analyze each individual conference's metrics from year to year, and correlate them with the SIGWEB members' experiences in attending these conferences.
National peer-review research assessment exercises for the hard sciences can be a complete waste of money: the Italian case The moral: not only would the application of bibliometric techniques be more precise, more robust and notably less expensive, but the entire direct and indirect costs of the VTR for the hard sciences could be completely avoided by resorting to zero-cost rankings, and these would give results of equal or greater level of accuracy.
Consideration of Research Profiting of the Faculty Members and the Factors Related to it According to the findings each faculty member of Islamic Azad University of Kermanshah has each year 1.5, research academic rating in average that are presenting articles in conferences, publishing articles in valid magazines and writing books and accomplishing research design. The findings of this research approved the relationship between scientific rating and research rating. In this study assistant professors had research productivity more than instructors.
Journal publishing challenges: A case of STM scientific journals in Croatia Journal publishing in Croatia in the fields of science, technology and medicine is challenged by many problems. The recommendation is to professionalize the management of the journals to allow editors and their associates to dedicate their time solely to this job in order to facil-itate the transformation of scientific journals from paper to electronic versions and to partic-ipate actively in the scientific communication paradigm shift. Despite the problems, journal editors and editorial teams are continuing their work in order to improve working conditions in their journals and to provide support to the scientific community.
La production scientifique issue de la formation initiale à la faculté de médecine d’Angers entre 2002 et 2008 : de bonne qualité mais insuffisante Scientific publications issued from initial medical education at the Faculty of Medicine of Angers was of good quality but quantitatively insufficient, and contributed poorly to the University Hospital funding despite a significant number of diplomates. Logistical support should be considered in order to promote scientific production after initial medical education.
Existe-t-il une corrélation entre le score SIGAPS et les publications en français ? There was a high negative correlation between SIGAPS score and the publication rate in French for RUH's researchers (author's deciles).
Accessibility and decay of web citations in five open access ISI journals Finally, some suggestions and recommendations are presented to stop the decay phenomenon.
Nonneutralities in Science Funding: Direction, Destabilization, and Distortion The general story that emerges from such an analysis is that concentration of funding sources is not conducive to the stability of the scientific order, and that a regime dominated by government funding and the sheer magnitude of its funding leverage may be particularly prone to generating unanticipated effects that decision makers themselves find undesirable or which may threaten science itself as a knowledge-generating order.
Relations among the number of Citations, References and Authors: Revisited In these two journals, it has been clearly observed that there is no strong linear relationship between • References and citations • Authors and citations • References and citations per year • Authors and citations per year. Based on the respective R-square values as given in Table 1, it is argued that the linear relationship between any of the above two variables is very weak and thus the number of citations cannot be predicted based on the number of references. Thus as observed in item number iv and v in section 2, the distributions of citations and references are unlikely to be same.
Commentary on Ruscio et al.: “Measuring Scholarly Impact Using Modern Citation-Based Indices” We believe that the current as well as similar studies, reinforce the idea that using only one or two indicators, both traditional and more modern, is always inadequate for the research assessment of individuals. This direction of research does not seem to be the one necessary for setting up standards for the assessment of research impact. Thus, future investigations toward methodologies of rating scientific performance based on combining h-type indices proposed in the literature with older bibliometric measures could provide a more accurate picture of a scientist's productivity.
Co‐authorship patterns in East Asia in the light of regional scientific collaboration Finally, it offers further suggestions on East Asian integration from the perspective of scientific collaboration. A consistent result shows that East Asian scientific collaboration has been substantially strengthened since 1997. Political leaders ought to attach importance to scientific collaboration since is a possible way to build up trust and create common interests among countries and thus supports the deepened progress of East Asian integration.
Eggs, beans, and crumpets These findings may have implications for the study, design, and evaluation of collaborative research.
Using Bibliometrics to Advance Your Academic Career Bibliometrics is a rapidly advancing field that promises to incorporate an objective element into a long-standing process of measuring scholarly impact. The availability of electronic databases and downloadable tools to ease these calculations will likely increase their use, and add an objective measure to the subjective letter of reference. Bibliometric values for promotion at other institutions may be lower, but these values can provide a benchmark for comparison from 5 examples of GI divisions in the United States.
An Alternative Data Source for Web Hyperlink Analysis: “Sites Linking In” at Alexa Internet Based on these findings, “Sites Linking In" is proposed as an alternative inlink data source if yahoo! inlink data become unavailable in future.
Regimes of science production and diffusion: towards a transverse organization of knowledge In science, differentiation and interaction comprise two sides of the same coin.
Research Trends of Mechanism and Machine Theory Using Bibliometrics (1) The ratios of the MMT papers in each journal have a trend of growth and have been centered on the certain two magazines.
Impact,<i>H</i>, and Authorship For all of these reasons, I believe the target article justifies the strong claim that h should be the default index for assessing the citation impact of individual scientists (perhaps including the career-stage-corrected variant mq when scientists of markedly different seniority must be compared). Adjusting impact metrics for authorship is not only fair in itself, but it should also partially correct for this potential research field bias. The quantitative assessment of research impact is growth industry, and the target article has the potential to educate those who carry out this important work and to improve their practice.
Bibliometric Study of Publication By Indian Prosthodontists Between 1996–2007: A Medline Approach Descriptive study of Indian Prosthodontists publication during 1996-2007 in Medline database is presented. The loco-regional variation and inter-annual variation are presented. The result of this study could be used by various professional societies, individual scientists, scholarly institutions, and funding organizations to frame essential policies regarding the improvement of the science of prosthodontists in India.
Editing Academic Books in the Humanities and Social Sciences: Maximizing Impact for Effort The persistence of edited volumes within the HSS sector despite the myriad attacks on the format stands as strong evidence of its continued utility. The recent rise of Google Scholar Citations as an impact-measurement tool will consolidate and potentially improve the position of the edited volume, as chapters are electronically and publically searchable and their citations impact now loads into individual authors' profiles (which can also be made publicly viewable). Nonetheless, in the short term, potential editors or co-editors need to be mindful of the limitations of the format in the eyes of their peers—especially those in distant disciplines and fields—and adjust the time they dedicate to the edited project accordingly.
Mapping scientific communities to scale-up ethnographies Our poster will describe the multistep process of how to produce mappings of research fields and their community structure. Such maps are intended to support the strategic sampling of ethnographic field sites for the comparative study of collaboration and communication practices across scientific fields. Future work will add a temporal dimension to the analysis.
Indicators for analyzing institutional repositories' performance The preliminary findings suggest some potential indicators for analyzing IRs performance between and across countries. Initial results proved that R&D expenditure does not correlate significantly with any of these variables. On the other hand, the development level correlation to mandates requires more in-depth investigation, which will be target in a future study.
Use of social network analysis tools to validate a resources infrastructure for interinstitutional translational research: a case study Knowledge management and social networking utilities validated the efficacy of the Indiana CTSI resources infrastructure and demonstrated visualization of collaboration.
Collaboration in the sciences and the humanities An examination of some of the distinctive cultural differences between the human-ities and sciences suggests that the benefits of collaboration may come to play an increasingly significant role in the future of humanistic research.
Reply to Chitnis and Smith, Fernandes, Gibbons, and Kane: Communicating theory effectively requires more explanation, not fewer equations Although our results indicate that theoretical papers are not penalized in terms of citation rates, our broader claim that the proportion of theoretical papers is declining remains intact and robust.
Webometric Ranking of European Universities Although, Aguillo et al. started ranking of world universities with noble intention of raising academic public awareness about the importance of publishing information on the university websites, they unfortunately made several methodological errors in conceptualizing the research and data collection, which seriously compromised their results.
Scientometric Analysis of Nuclear Science and Technology Research Output in Iran Nuclear science and technology research performance in Iran has improved appreciably during the past few years, in terms of both relative output of publications and impact on internationally published research productivity. It can thus be concluded that Iran has developed its scientific resources.
Coercive Citation in Academic Publishing Overall, the empirical results from the author survey and the journal-based data tell a consis-tent story. Coercive self-citation exists and is more common in the business disciplines than in economics, sociology, and psychol-ogy. Without action, the situation is likely to deterio-rate, because the strategic nature of coercion continues to put pressure on edi-tors to coerce.
Comments on “A publication index that is independent of age” by Abt He further argued in favour of considering the Hirsch-rate, or h-rate, and concluded that “the h-rate is a far more useful indicator of a scientist's contribution than the basic h-index, in particular because it compensates for different career lengths—it is quite possible that younger scientists could feature high on such a ranked list (of h-rates)”.
Published, not perished, but has anybody read it? Citation success of finance research articles Our results suggest that the rank of the journal and the rank of authors’ universities are the most significant factors influencing the number of citations or the time to the first citation.
International Research Collaboration among Academics in China and South Korea First, it is clear that research collaboration among academics has increased during the last three decades, and international co-authors' geographical distribution has diversified.
Promoting Agriculture Knowledge via Public Web Search Engines: An Experience by an Iranian Librarian in Response to Agricultural Queries Through this study, findings reveal that major public search engines are suitable alternative for finding agricultural information.
The Dedisciplining of Peer Review First, evaluation of broader societal impacts is not different in kind from evaluation of intellectual merit. Second, the scientific community may actually bolster its autonomy by taking a broader range of considerations into its peer review processes.
The Polish mathematical journals in world corpus of scientific journals presented in DBs JCR: bibliometric analysis (1) Normalized impact factor (K) is a tool for comparison of journals across fields of knowledge, which is very important in assessing national contributions to world science.
Myths and realities of digital reference services By comparing the state of visibility and accessibility among the two clusters of universities' web sites the findings of the study revealed as expected that those top rank universities' web sites are more visible and accessible.
A study of scientometric methods to identify emerging technologies via modeling of milestones Overall impressions of these datasets reveal that the initial product offerings were a result of support from the IETF standards committee. Once companies started offering specific products, scholarly publications began appearing in 1992 with patents appearing within a year. Future research will continue to address the dynamic nature of these collective networks and websites as well as considering: (1) social networks (multiple connections between people), (2) interdependent technologies emergence/evo-lution, (3) organizational stakes, and (4) funding sources at the enterprise, state/federal and international levels.
Rigor, Impact and Prestige: A Proposed Framework for Evaluating Scholarly Publications We emphasize that these ideas constitute a proposed theoretical framework for how scholars could make and justify, to those from other disciplines, decisions about where they choose to publish their research.
Gender and ethnicity trends in journal peer review: An empirical investigation using <i>JASIST</i> Of the four hypotheses, all have some support in the findings.
An investigation of the web citations in Iran's chemistry articles in SCI In this article, we showed that the use of web citations in the articles of Iranian chemistry researchers has increased from 9 to 39 percent.
The payoff of corporate portal usage in an academic institution The results indicated that the use of corporate portal results in significant returns on both employees and business processes.
NSF's ‘Big Pitch’ Tests Anonymized Grant Reviews The Big Pitch format could "remove bias and allow better support of smaller, innova-tive research groups that otherwise might be overlooked," Taylor adds.
Temporal network analysis of emerging technologies: Topic transition in World Wide Web (WWW) conferences In this study, we proposed a temporal network analysis of conference sessions to detect and identify the evolutionary process of emerging technologies.
“Books” and “book chapters” in the book citation index (BKCI) and science citation index (SCI, SoSCI, A&amp;HCI) "Book chapters" can be considered as an additional categorization to a subset of articles and reviews.
Growth and nature of international LIS research: An analysis of two journals The present study attempted to analyze the research productivity in the area of Library and Information Science using two important international journals, the International Information and Library Review (IILR) and Library & Infor- mation Science Research (LISR), for the period 2000-2010, and for the "Top 25 Hottest Papers" for 2006-2010. The results of the study indicate that there is an upward trend in LIS research productivity, specifically in India and the United States. While exten- sive further study is needed, the authors expect a promising future in LIS research around the world.
From “Publish or Perish” to “Grant or Perish” Although this study did not employ longitudinal data, it provides some evidence of many programs reporting greater emphasis by the university and their own communication unit than ever to bring in external funding, yet very few have been successful to date.
Korean and Chinese Webpage Content: Who Are Talking About What and How? The results suggest that WST is no longer sufficient for explaining the hyperlink use of Korean and Chinese users because economics is not the only factor influencing the development of a state. The results, consistent with the arguments of globalization and regionalism, show that elements like culture may be more crucial in the digital age. Finally, the results suggest a need for examining WST by using other units of analysis relevant to ICT-related activities in the digital age.
The advantage of the use of samples in evaluative bibliometric studies With statistical tests it is possible, based on a cluster sample, to verify the statistical significance of results (such as performance differences between two universities). If a statistical test which looks at the difference between two research institutions with regard to their performance turns out to be statistically significant (given a specific null hypothesis), it can be assumed that the difference has not arisen by chance, but can be interpreted beyond the data at hand (the results can be related to the population). If a (cluster) sample is used, the results from the selected earlier publication years, which enable reliable performance estimates, can be generalized to all the (very recent) years.
Finding the Easter eggs hidden by oneself: Why Radicchi and Castellano's (2012) fairness test for citation indicators is not fair Their rescaled citation indicator obfuscates this problem and allows them to declare that their indicator is fair, while their results confirm nothing beyond what was already hidden in their premises. Nonetheless, I believe Radicchi & Castellano are right to criticize fractional citation counts for not capturing the problems raised by cross-disciplinary comparisons (manuscript in preparation), however how they do it is unfair.
Research Performance Assessment Based on T-Indicator This new article assessment method, via the application of T-indicators, was established successfully for correcting differences among disciplines.
Someone's loss might be your gain: A case of negative results publications in science Preliminary findings indicate that JNRBM has a large scope in terms of international diversity. We plan to expand data collection to other negative results journals and compare authors' h-indexes and articles citation scores with top traditional journals within the same discipline. Furthermore, due to the novelty and the lack of studies in this topic in the Information Science domain, we suggest complementary qualitative studies to investigate researchers' acceptance and attitudes toward negative results articles.
The structural relationship between politicians’ web visibility and political finance networks: A case study of South Korea’s National Assembly members This study systemically examines the structural relationships between the online political network (in terms of the co-occurrence web visibility for pairs of politicians); the offline political network (in terms of the dyadic difference in the amount of financial donations between pairs of politicians); and socio-demographic attribute networks (e.g. party affiliation, constituency, gender, age, career/experience and committee affiliation). This study empirically supports the normalization perspective on the basis of comparing the interconnections of politicians in a global system including both online and offline worlds. Thus, future research should consider changes in such relationships over time to provide a deeper understanding of political structures.
The contribution of women in Iranian scholarly publication A significant difference in research productivity was considered with males being more productive than their female counterparts, a trend that is consistent during the study period.
The Eigenfactor™ Score in Highly Specific Medical Fields The Eigenfactor Score™ seems to better capture the prestige of a journal than the Impact Factor.
ACADEMIC LANDSCAPE OF INNOVATION RESEARCH AND NATIONAL INNOVATION SYSTEM POLICY REFORMATION IN JAPAN AND THE UNITED STATES In this paper, we analyzed the academic landscape of innovation research, NIS in Japan and the United States, and compared trends.
Open Evaluation: A Vision for Entirely Transparent Post-Publication Peer Review and Rating for Science OA and OE together have the power to revolutionize scientific publishing and usher in a new culture of transparency, constructive criticism, and collaboration.
Sri Lanka in global medical research: a scientific analysis of the Sri Lankan research output during 2000-2009 The Sri Lankan medical research output during the last decade is relatively small, with minimal contribution to the global research output.
Joint Funds of National Natural Science Foundation of China: Strategy, Practice, and Development First of all, the Joint Funds orientation is very important for the further development. Thirdly, the Joint Funds program evaluation criterion need to be optimized. It is strongly recommended that Joint Funds should give beneficiaries more flexibility in using grant funding, in order to employ excellent postdoctoral fellows in the programs.
Minerva and the Development of Science (Policy) Studies The development which began with the launch of Minerva and came to an end in the 1980s can be interpreted as the emergence of a field that provides a reflection theory about the relations between science and society.The decline of document types with a descriptive character (i.e. chronicles and reports and documents), the growing relevance of scholarly journal document types together with the symmetrical relations between incoming and outgoing citations of science and technology policy journals since the late 1990s can be taken as indicators that Minerva later became part of a professionalized field that reflects on the role of science in society.Minerva aims to provide a platform open to this diversity and, in doing so, the journal intends to build bridges between the relevant disciplines to attain a more comprehensive understanding of the relation between science and its social, cultural, political, and economic environment.
Assessing the diffusion of nanotechnology in Turkey: A social network analysis approach We mapped the structural and temporal evolution of nano-related technologies in two prominent universities (Hacettepe & Bilkent) during 2000-2010 in Ankara, Turkey.
Application of Social Network Analysis to Health Care Sectors The social network analysis method is useful for tracking changes in research topics over time.
Is publication rate an equal opportunity metric? Publication quality and impact provide more equitable metrics of research performance and should be stressed above publication quantity. Enhancing self confidence and expectations may be the single most significant step in encouraging and retaining women in science. In the interim, employers and funding agencies should be aware that differences in publication rates exist and use more equal opportunity metrics, such as publication quality and impact.
The <scp>A</scp>nna <scp>K</scp>arenina principle: A way of thinking about success in science In this article, we presented the AKP as a concept that can be used to explain success in science: Success in science at the excellence level always depends on several key aspects that must all be fulfilled. One missing aspect can lead to failure (science at most at the medium level) and makes the failure a unique matter.
A Tribute and BioBibliometric Study of Ellis Mount, the First Editor-in-Chief of<i>Science &amp; Technology Libraries</i> In this paper, the literary work of Ellis Mount has been extensively exam-ined, and in doing this study, his exceptional productivity as an editor, a bibliographer, and writer has been revealed. Nevertheless, the collective impact of his work to librarianship and the role played by hundreds of authors in this process is incalculable. Ellis Mount had a tremendous impact in the development of the science and engineering library literature from the early 1960s to the first decade of the twenty-first century.
Paradigmatic plurality or citation market? Our own view is that building a reasonable number of paradigms requires a system of give-and-take.
Dispelling the myths surrounding the Research Excellence Framework We conclude this perspective with our opinion that the journal impact factor undoubtedly has its roles and uses but the utility of this metric as a proxy for article quality in an evaluation system that is measured among different cita-tion criteria is imprudent and incongruous to the parameters of the framework in which it is placed.
Citation behavior in popular scientific papers: what is behind obscure citations? The case of ethnobotany Citation analysis reveals an interesting phenomenon, as the majority of citing texts do not consider the theoretical contributions made by the articles cited.
Open access to the scientific journal literature – status and challenges for the information systems community The aim of the OA movement is to enhance the communication function of this overall system. The easiest and quickest route to quickly increase global availability is the green route. The main barrier for achieving improved availability is, in fact, the lack of awareness that only a modest effort on our part could help substantially and that these efforts are in our own best interests.
Evaluation of ninety-three major Greek university departments using Google Scholar The viability of the adopted method for measuring and ranking the scientific performance of higher education departments proved to be quite high. The importance of the reported data is increased by taking into consideration the absence of similar large-scale studies. A forthcoming research goal is to implement such a web service in order to have data for each academic, department, school and university.
Effects of international collaboration and knowledge moderation on China's nanotechnology research impacts However, international collaboration, through direct links or through the indirect route of collaboration through a CKM, has effects on raising the research impact of Chinese nanotechnology publications.
Is Hirsch's<i>H</i>the Best Predictor of the Number of a Researcher's Extremely Highly Cited Articles? Overall our data show that although a researcher's h index can be used to predict the number of extremely highly cited papers that he or she will produce, other measures such as a, r, and g, which are more heavily weighted by impact than by number of publications, do a better job.
Collaboration of Turkish Scholars: Local or Global? As a result of this study it could be said that the increasing trend of multiple authorship in the global scientific literature is also observed in the production of Turkey addressed publications.
Scientific Utopia: I. Opening Scientific Communication The technical and financial challenges of moving toward our scientific utopia of scientific communication are solvable. If the scientific community manages to accomplish the changes suggested in this article, we believe that daily laboratory practice would be largely unchanged but that the flow of information would be much greater. We may never reach utopia, but we can improve on the present reality.
Festschrifts in the information sciences, with special attention to Eugene Garfield’s festschrift “The Web of Knowledge” Festschrifts are a special genre of scientific books.
Toward broader impacts: Making sense of <scp>NSF</scp>'s merit review criteria in the context of the <scp>N</scp>ational <scp>S</scp>cience <scp>D</scp>igital <scp>L</scp>ibrary By examining all funded NSDL projects' abstracts from an 11-year period, we found that many issues raised by Roberts' study were applicable to these NSDL abstracts as well. For example, many studies lacked a Broader Impacts statement in the publicly available data, there were misunderstandings of the NSF criteria, and many statements were vague or lacked substance within grant activities, making them unlikely to be direct outcomes from the proposed project. As a result, it should not be assumed, given the lack of understanding and alignment of project activities to the Broader Impacts criterion in individual projects, that the larger NSDL could achieve the overarching social and educational goals as premised in the RAND evaluation (Bikson et al., 2011).
BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATA: A DIFFERENT ANALYSIS PERSPECTIVE Concerning to topic models, LDA and CTM assume that documents are exchangeable within the corpus and, for many corpora, this assumption is inappropriate. In the future we will study the evolution of topics over time and the similarity between them. Concerning to distribution laws, a simulation study will be implemented to identify the factors that could influence them: field or area, time period, type of publication and so on.
Percentile ranks and the integrated impact indicator (<i>I3</i>) In summary, we regret with hindsight our suggestion to deviate from quantiles (however computed) as a basis for the ranking because Rousseau's contribution makes clear that we may have opened a parameter space of other possibilities.
Measuring Scholarly Impact Using Modern Citation-Based Indices Modern citation-based indices of scholarly impact have much to offer as research tools and as supplements to qualitative information in many important decision-making contexts. The use of one or more well-chosen metrics based on readily available citation counts, as opposed to more laborious coding of inconsistently available qualitative data, should greatly facilitate research on scholarly impact. In conclusion, to evaluate individuals' scholarly impact we believe that in most cases Hirsch's (2005) h index should be seriously considered.
The propagation and dispersal of misinformation in ecology: Is there a relationship between citation accuracy and journal impact factor? Only about half of the citations examined here were judged completely accurate.
¿Favorece la publicación en abierto el impacto de los artículos científicos? Un estudio empírico en el ámbito de la medicina intensiva Open access publishing and the Hirsch index of the first signing author increase the impact of scientific articles. The open access advantage is greater for the more highly cited articles, and appears in the 30-35 months after publication.
Redundancies in<i>H</i>Index Variants and the Proposal of the Number of Top-Cited Papers as an Attractive Indicator The author would like to draw attention to the percentile indicator “number of class 10% publications” as a better alternative to the h index.
Web-Visions as Controversy-Lenses Based on the review, the theoretical discussion and the empirical insights it was argued that WVA offers additional and different analytical strategies for constructing and interpreting web-based visualizations of emerging technologies. WVA was argued to most distinctively differ from the reviewed approaches in suggesting to use case study logics as the basis for making empirical choices in process of constructing and interpreting visualizations. Such insights could guide a useful monitoring of technological development that is quite different to the approaches reviewed earlier.
The evolution of scientific journal articles in the periphery: a case study and analysis of the <i>Raffles Bulletin of Zoology</i> from 1928 to 2008 Through a genre analysis of the journal articles in the RBZ over the past 80 years, this study has outlined the evolution of a scientific journal in the academic periphery. It is argued that a longitudinal study of journal articles in the academic periphery enhances our understanding of: (1) the adaptive nature of knowledge production, organization, use and retrieval in various knowledge domains; (2) the importance of understanding the interplay between social factors in the scientific communication process; and (3) the increasing demand for the provision of efficient and effective information systems to meet the pressing need of information organization and retrieval. Despite the differences in certain features in the RBZ as discussed, similar to the evolution of scientific journals in the academic centre documented in previous studies [5-7], the RBZ has undergone dramatic changes inside and out, developing from a simple and eclectic way of writing in its rudimentary period to a more orderly, sophisticated and professional way of writing in its current period.
Exploring the bibliometric and semantic nature of negative results The bibliometric analysis shows that there is no specific community for the publication of negative results in devoted literature like the used role model JNRBM.
The inconsistency of the <scp>H</scp>‐index This discussion suggests that the X indicator is a size-dependent indicator which consistently captures the overall or total scientific impact of a portfolio of papers, whether belonging to an individual or to an aggregate group (institution or journal). It is correct and consistent in its ability to aggregate publications and citations data into a single number. The h-index is unable to do this.
Using doctoral dissertations for a new understanding of disciplinarity and interdisciplinarity This data demonstrates the growth in dissertation, the rising number of single and second level subject categories, the growing trend towards interdisciplinarity and the variations in levels of dependency. Therefore, future research will analyze at both the second and first level categories, for a more nuanced understanding of disciplinarity and interdisciplinarity. Future analyses would do well to build upon this platform by combining and analyzing heterogeneous datasets.
Web of Science based ranking of Indian library and information science journals The study has explored the possibility of using the ‘cited reference search' feature of the WoS databases to rank the India LIS journals and found that the results corroborate with that of earlier studies. Carrying out further such stdies on non-SCI covered journals in other disciplines can ascertain the possible useful-ness of adopting the WoS cited reference search feature for journal assessment. Even as the number of journals grow, it is necessary to focus on the qualitative aspects for visibility and citedness.
Access to Scientific Information We envisioned how repurposing basic opera-tional data from this enterprise-wide information sys-tem could strengthen agencywide efforts to ensure sci-ence quality and excellence.
The Journal Impact Factor For our discipline, that produces a troubling possibility.
Measuring science: Emerging tools for analysis of federal R&amp;D investments We conclude with a presentation of the political and practical challenges that emerged during the portfolio assessment for the BioEconomy Blueprint, and a discussion of implications for the wider use of these new systems.
Why Sirtes's claims () do not square with reality In conclusion, the analysis presented by Sirtes contains serious methodological flaws. Even if such flaws are removed, a statistically grounded approach, presented here, contradicts Sirtes's claims. The present results support instead the validity of the work by Radicchi and Castellano (2012).
Scientific Production in Psychology In this study, with a representation of less than 20% of the world’s countries publishing in Psychology, we have been able to cover over 98% of the total world production in this subject area. The U.S. is the leading producer, followed by the U.K. and Canada. The first group of countries was the only one with a greater percentage of citations than of production, and it was the group with the greatest percentage of countries with works of excellence.
The strength of strong ties in scientific collaboration networks In conclusion, we have found that in networks of scientific collaboration, the relationship between tie strengths and network topol- ogy is different from ordinary social networks.
Electronic Resources and Heterodox Economics As a general conclusion, we can say that each electronic resource shows advantages and disadvantages, each proving more useful for certain purposes and less for others, but the perfect electronic resource for counting citations with a view to determining relevance (or even, simply, ‘influence') over a long span of time does not yet exist.
STATISTICS OF STATISTICIANS: CRITICAL MASS OF STATISTICS AND OPERATIONAL RESEARCH GROUPS To summarise, we have applied a mean-field inspired model to examine the relationship between the quality of research teams in statistics and operational research and the quantity of researchers in those teams. Our analysis indicates that the majority of statistics and operational research groups within the UK are comparatively under-resourced in terms of staff numbers.
Open Access Journals in China: The Current Situation and Development Strategies In the present study, we have systematically selected and examined all 685 Chinese OA journals listed in CNKI's CAJ full-text database and have analyzed their OA-related characteristics such as the number of OA journals, their regional and disciplinary distribution, publishing characteristics, and Web and full-text availability characteristics. On the basis of these findings, we have summarized the current status and history of Chinese OA journals and made recommendations for the future. Therefore, China needs to radically reform the current publication system and mechanism for scholarly journals including the approval system, operating mechanism, the management system, publishing mechanism, and business mode.
What are Research Expectations? A Comparative Study of Different Academic Disciplines This study of 348 universities found that in almost all cases there are statistically significant differences in what constitutes research activity when comparing 27 separate fields of study.
Strategies for Developing Chinese University Journals through a Comparison to Western Academic Journal Publishing With the opening-up and development of the Chinese publishing industry, university journal publishing can learn from western academic publishing practice and potentially integrate these publishing experiences within the current framework of Chinese academic publishing.
Editing Academic Books in the Humanities and Social Sciences: Maximizing Impact for Effort THE RISE OF THE EDITED VOLUME AND GOOGLE SCHOLAR CITATIONS
Growth and nature of international LIS research: An analysis of two journals The present study attempted to analyze the research productivity in the area of Library and Information Science using two important international journals, the International Information and Library Review (IILR) and Library & Information Science Research (LISR), for the period 2000-2010, and for the "Top 25 Hottest Papers" for 2006-2010. The results of the study indicate that there is an upward trend in LIS research productivity, specifically in India and the United States. While extensive further study is needed, the authors expect a promising future in LIS research around the world.
Decay and half-life period of online citations cited in open access journals Electronic publishing brings many benefits for academic research, but also raises some new questions.The need for archiving becomes paramount in this new digital environment (Dimitrova & Bugeja, 2009).Publisher should archive the URLs cited in the articles they publish.
Strategies for Expanding the International Influences of Academic Journals: An Example from Chinese Pharmaceutical Journals In conclusion, the present international influence of most Chinese pharmaceutical journals remains unsatisfactory.
Factors Influencing Chinese Authors' Perceptions of Journal Quality: A Comparison Between Two Academic Fields From Chinese author's viewpoint, this study explores and discusses factors that are relevant to author-perceived quality of computer science and technology journals and library and information science journals. The findings indicate that the critical factors influencing author-perceived journal quality are different between the two areas. As Chinese authors become gradually familiar with English-language journals, future research could extend the current study to international journals to improve the external validity and to examine the differences in contributors to the quality of top Chinese and international journals.
Journal publishing challenges: A case of STM scientific journals in Croatia Journal publishing in Croatia in the fields of science, technology and medicine is challenged by many problems. The recommendation is to professionalize the management of the journals to allow editors and their associates to dedicate their time solely to this job in order to facil- itate the transformation of scientific journals from paper to electronic versions and to partic- ipate actively in the scientific communication paradigm shift.
Citations and the h index of soil researchers and journals in the Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar From this analysis it can be concluded that the choice of the database affects widely-used citation and evaluation metrics but that bibliometric transfer functions exist to relate the metrics from these three databases. This analysis has shown that the choice of the database affects the assessment of scientific impact for academic promotions, grant evaluations, job vacancy candidates or the evaluations of university departments and research centres. It is recommended that we should quote these bibliometric indices for all three databases as they reflect different types of publications.
The (uncertain) invisible college of Spanish accounting scholars At a preliminary analytical level, these findings lead us conclude that the Spanish invisible college is "dysfunctional", since Ph.D. degrees do not seem to be adjudicated by the most competent researchers.
Reprint of "Citation analysis as a measure of article quality, journal influence and individual researcher performance" The article concludes that citation analysis is a valuable tool for researchers to use for personal reflection and research planning, yet there are inherent dangers if it is used inappropriately.
Project screening with tiered evaluation In this paper we investigate the effect of changes in payoff parameters on the efficiency of the equilibrium outcome in a game where the owner of a project of unknown quality faces a tiered system of evaluation to which he can submit his project for review. Unlike previous results from the literature, in a system of evaluation with multiple tiers, a higher submission cost may decrease the quality of projects that are submitted. Finally, by comparing the equilibrium outcomes from a tiered system of evaluation with the outcome from a system with only one tier, we provide support for a tiered system of evaluation as a more efficient project screening mechanism.
The top 100 cited articles in urology: An update It is important to acknowledge the top cited articles as they mark key topics and advances in urology.
Demand spillovers of smash-hit papers: evidence from the 'Male Organ Incident' This paper presents evidence of hit papers' spillover effects by utilizing the demand shock from 'Male Organ and Economic Growth: Does Size Matter?' (Westling 2011) as a natural experiment. Reflecting on the findings with both approaches, the spillover thesis seems quite robust. We stress, however, that our measures capture only short-term spillover effects.
Detecting evolution of bioinformatics with a content and co-authorship analysis In this work, we find that the field of Bioinformatics keeps growing. More researchers enter the field and collaborate with others although the collaboration rate is not as high as the publication growth in the field.
A bibliometric analysis of global forest ecology research during 2002-2011 The findings of this study may be applicable for planning and managing forest ecology research and partners involved in such research may use this study as a reference. A serial java program was developed and applied to conduct keyword frequency analysis. That improved the efficiency of data processing and provided an ana-lysis method.
Nutrition research in the first decade of 21st century in Iran: the necessity of road Map The publication type, subject and study design of the article do not follow coordinated planning and policy making.
Crossdisciplinary research contributions to the United Kingdom's National Ecosystem Assessment Our results suggest that the UKNEA integrated knowledge more successfully between neighboring disciplines, but struggled to overcome barriers between natural and social science.
Bibliometric Indicators: Why Do We Need More Than One? As such, we conclude that the adoption of more metrics, with complementary features, to assess journal quality would be very beneficial as it would both offer a more comprehensive and balanced view of each journal in the space of scholarly publications, as well as eliminate the pressure on individuals and their incentive to do metric manipulation which is an unintended result of the current (mis)use of the IF as the gold standard for publication quality.
Twelve years of nanoscience and nanotechnology publications in Mexico First, the great majority of publications are the product of researchers affiliated with public institutions.
Citation Classics in Deviant Behavior: A Research Note This article provides the first overview and analysis of the citation classics published in Deviant Behavior between 1979 and mid 2011. There are ten such highly cited articles, comprising 1% of the 960 works published in the time frame. The citation classics, received between 43 and 103 citations with a median count of 55.5.
Thinking inside the box? Intellectual structure of the knowledge base of innovation research (1988-2008) A strategy along with a framework is suggested for making research contribution to the field. This study constitutes an empirically grounded framework that can be used by all researchers to identify the opportunities for research contribution in the field according to the state of their expertise. The organization of knowledge in various domains or 'boxes' helps understand as well as create new knowledge.
Success Breeds Success: Authorship Distribution in the Red Journal, 1975-2011 Bibliometric analysis shows that authorship distributions in IJROBP approximate those of the scientific literature in comparable scientific journals. Our results suggest that the majority of publications in the field of radiation oncology are produced by a small but highly productive group of authors.
Scholarly Productivity and Impact of School Psychology Faculty in APA-Accredited Programs Rankings of scholarly productivity and impact were substantially correlated, indicating that the most productive scholars also tend to have the biggest impact on the field in terms of total citations. Results of this study indicate that the field of school psychology compares favorably with other applied fields, such as clinical psychology, in overall scholarly impact and productivity (e.g., Stewart, Roberts, & Roy, 2007). In any case, as our study shows, the field of school psychology continues to be highly productive and to have high impact on the social and behavioral sciences.
Scientific retractions and corrections related to misconduct findings The most important finding of our study is that scientists frequently do not fully and honestly explain why an article associated with research misconduct is being retracted or corrected. An encouraging finding is that our study suggests that retractions and corrections pertaining to articles associated with misconduct are becoming more honest and transparent over time. To promote research integrity, scientific journals should consider adopting policies concerning retractions and corrections similar to the guidelines developed by the Committee on Publication Ethics.
Improving the Quality of Manuscript Reviews: Impact of Introducing a Structured Electronic Template to Submit Reviews The introduction of a structured electronic template significantly im- proved the quality of manuscript reviews submitted.
Library and Information Science Journal Prestige as Assessed by Library and Information Science Faculty This convergence of opinion between fac-ulty and deans seems to affirm the existence of an elite high-prestige group of LIS journals.
Russian doctors of sciences working in analytical chemistry We can make a conclusion that Doctors of Sciences working in analytical chemistry exhibit rather high creative activity.
Measuring the international spreading of the knowledge produced by French dental master theses In this work, carried out over a period of 3 years, we find that the diffusion of knowledge produced by French dental master theses is very low (0.6%). The main reasons for the very low diffusion rate of French dental master theses are the lack of specific training for the students; the low awareness and little engagement of students more concerned with their imminent private practice work; and the low personal commitment of the supervisors. To tackle the lack of appropriate training, we suggest that a specific course on scientific writing should be offered to the students in the last year of their dental master studies.
The Use of the h-index in Academic Otolaryngology The h-index is a reliable tool for quantifying academic productivity.
Is NIH Funding Predictive of Greater Research Productivity and Impact Among Academic Otolaryngologists? "The h-index has a strong relationship with, and may be predictive of, grant awards of NIH-funded faculty members in otolaryngology departments."
Document categories in the ISI Web of Knowledge: Misunderstanding the Social Sciences? This article reported on a comprehensive, 11 year analysis, of document categories for 27 journals in nine Social Science and Science disciplines. It showed that for the Social Sciences both the “proceedings paper" and the “review” document type were nearly always used incorrectly. By differentiating criteria between the Sciences and the Social Sciences, Thomson would substantially improve classification accuracy.
An evaluation of impacts in "Nanoscience & nanotechnology": steps towards standards for citation analysis The integrated impact indicator I3 provides us with a versatile instrument which (i) can be applied to institutional units of analysis and journals (or other document sets); (ii) takes both publication and citation rates into account like the h-index; and (iii) enables us to use non-parametric statistics on skewed distributions as against using averages.
Looking for the impact of peer review: does count of funding acknowledgements really predict research impact? It is concluded that count of funding acknowledgements should not be considered a reliable indicator of research impact at this level.
The bibliographic coupling approach to filter the cited and uncited patent citations: a case of electric vehicle technology The results showed that patents in the APCN were more relevant than OPCN and EPCN. The information of APCN was the most current among all PCN. Furthermore, APCN had the benefit to disclose the invisible technology clusters for the field. With filtering the irrelevant patents and supplementing the missing patent links, APCN offered an alternative to conduct better patent analysis.
Love dynamics between science and technology: some evidences in nanoscience and nanotechnology The results in this paper provide an understanding of S&T and their dynamic potential of interdependent in the selected 20 universities. According to the styles represented by the 20 universities, we noticed that at present nanotechnology more depend on the scientific-push rather than the technology-pull, which was in accordance with the results of Hullmann and Meyer (2003). Policy implications are at last put forward based on the several interesting findings for the interaction mechanisms between S&T in the field.
Assessing researcher interdisciplinarity: a case study of the University of Hawaii NASA Astrobiology Institute We find that the majority of the UHNAI team is engaged in interdisciplinary research, and suggest that our method could be applied to additional NASA Astrobiology Institute teams in particular, or other interdisciplinary research teams more broadly, to identify and facilitate collaboration opportunities.
Measuring international knowledge flows and scholarly impact of scientific research This paper has introduced a new quantitative measure of international scholarly impact of countries by using bibliometric techniques based on publication and citation data.
Geographical knowledge diffusion and spatial diversity citation rank In this paper, to solve the spatial bias in citation networks, we propose a SDCR and study it using citation data collected from ISI WoS in the subject category of “Transportation Science and Technology”. It is found that the SDCR of an author is highly correlated with the sum of spatial diversity weights ("strength") of all the in-links of the focal author, thus applying “strength” to rank authors by considering their spatial information is a good option in practice as well. The proposed SDCR is not only suitable to rank authors but also useful to rank cities, countries and journals in terms of citation networks.
Comparison of number of citations to full original articles versus brief reports In conclusion, articles published in the form of brief reports were cited less often than full-size articles.
Towards the automation of address identification The validity of the hypothesis has been proved taking into account not only the statistical measures, but also considering that the obtaining of general and detailed scientific output is less time-consuming and will be even less due to the feedback of these master tables reused for the same kind of data.
Certainty equivalent citation: generalized classes of citation indexes In the present study, we have drawn a comparison between the notion of “certainty equivalent income” implemented in the field of risk and income inequality measurement (Markowitz 1952; Atkinson 1970) and the h-type indexes proposed by Hirsch (2005), Egghe (2006a, b), Woeginger (2008a), and Tol (2009).
Medical subject headings versus American Psychological Association Index Terms: indexing eating disorders The weak agreement between keywords and indexing terms may hinder the cataloguing of eating disorder articles. The authors of these studies made greater use of keywords related to APA-Terms. In conclusion, an equivalence of just 1 out of 5 KW with the Indexing Terms (MeSH or APA-Terms) reveals a weakness when indexing articles published in eating disorder journals, which could cause a problem for the subsequent retrieval of this information.
A scientometric assessment of research output in nanoscience and nanotechnology: Pakistan perspective Research in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology started somewhere around the year 2000 in Pakistan.
Sectoral collaboration in biomedical research and development The results of this study show that current models of innovation that privilege the firm cannot appropriately model Vancouver's infection and immunity R&D network.
Twenty-five years of Australian nursing and allied health professional journals: bibliometric analysis from 1985 through 2010 "All sampled journals followed the same trajectory in that published research demonstrated a move towards greater collaboration among authors, the use of higher research approaches and greater quantification in reporting results."
Duplicate and fake publications in the scientific literature: how many SCIgen papers in computer science? The experiments suggest that they are of significant interest in detecting anomalies and allowing conference organizers and managers of databases to eliminate them.
The motivations for knowledge transfer across borders: the diffusion of data envelopment analysis (DEA) methodology This study identifies several crucial determinants for explaining personal knowledge diffusions across different locations.
The unbalanced performance and regional differences in scientific and technological collaboration in the field of solar cells The percentage of collaborations in papers is higher than in patents, and the rate of inter- national collaborations has rapidly grown.
The Matilda Effect-Role Congruity Effects on Scholarly Communication: A Citation Analysis of Communication Research and Journal of Communication Articles This study used the field of communication to examine differences in citation patterns in scholarly communication, drawing on gender-based reward inequities resulting from the public communication system of science. The so-called Matilda effect occurs when female scientists are underrecognized for their work as a result of their gender. Such substantial difference in recognition is very likely to affect tenure, promotion, and even hiring decisions. Ultimately, women's underrecognition and underrepresentation in higher academic ranks may threaten the goals of excellence in communication research, as has been suggested for other science disciplines (Cozzens, 2004).
A novel triangle mapping technique to study the h-index based citation distribution Generally, the h-index is not properly applicable in the e-index or t-index dominated regions.
An annual JCR impact factor calculation based on Bayesian credibility formulas Data necessary for the calculation of PI are already available in the data base Thomson Reuters Journal Citation Reports (JCR), and therefore it can be easily calculated. Although we cannot determine its efficacy (there is no universally accepted procedure measuring journal quality), we may ensure it provides a more credible yardstick for assessing the quality of journals as compared to the traditional IF. Future researches could focus on finding robust solutions in the context of the annual impact calculation (e.g. conditional F-minimax (Eichenauer, Lehn, & Rettig, 1988), posterior regret Г-minimax (Rios Insua, Ruggeri, & Vidakovic, 1995), least sensitive actions (Arias-Nicolás, Martín, Ruggeri, & Suárez-Llorens, 2009), etc.).
Axiomatizing the Hirsch index: Quantity and quality disjoined In this paper I argued that the two parameters can be treated separately: it is possible to axiomatize the index by appealing only to axioms that describe either the changes in the researcher's productivity or the changes in the impact of her published papers.
Comparison of different mathematical functions for the analysis of citation distribution of papers of individual authors Analysis of the data of citation rank-order distribution of papers of different authors revealed that the value of the goodness-of-the-fit parameter R2 is the highest for the empirical binomial relation (4), it was high and comparable for stretched exponential (2) and Langmuir-type functions (5), relatively low for power law (1) but it was the lowest for the logarithmic function (3).
Investigating the universal distributions of normalized indicators and developing field-independent index The scaling methods employed to develop a field-independent index are intriguing.
Would it be possible to increase the Hirsch-index, π-index or CDS-index by increasing the number of publications or citations only by unity? The results of the study show that the scientometric impact indicators may be influenced even by a single new publication or citation significantly.
The proposal of a broadening of perspective in evaluative bibliometrics by complementing the times cited with a cited reference analysis A proposal has been made in this paper for the measurement of citation impact on research in a specific field.
Normalized Similarity Index: An adjusted index to prioritize article citations Our principal conclusion is that the NSI can be used to prioritize the citations of given highly cited article, and represent knowledge flow from the target article. NSI is therefore a complementary method to citation analysis, which allows us to identify most relevant articles citing to highly cited articles.
A scientometric look at calendar events In conclusion, the answer to our opening question is yes; calendar events strongly influence the daily variability of the scientific research submissions.
An informetric model for the success-index This paper considers the s-index in the framework of Information Production Processes (IIPs) with particular reference to the context of articles (sources)-citations (items).
Mining diversity subgraph in multidisciplinary scientific collaboration networks: A meso perspective "The major contribution of this paper is to propose a novel framework of analyzing interdisciplinary collaboration, which provides an inspection of coauthorship network from an interdisciplinary angle and reveals previously hidden patterns in coauthors' expertise."
A probe into dynamic measures for h-core and h-tail In the cases of Physics, particles & fields and Sociology, we collected data from the period 2001 to 2010 and applied the related indicators to analyze h-core and h-tail, such as c-descriptor, t-descriptor, h-core centroid (Cx, cy), h-tail centroid (tx, ty), k-index and k'-index as dynamic measures in specific time span. The researches revealed that there are significant differences between natural sciences (Physics, particles & fields) and social sciences (Sociology) when c-descriptor, h-core centroid (Cx, Cy) and k-index are applied as dynamic measures. We suggest that the c-descriptor, t-descriptor, h-core centroid (Cx, Cy), h-tail centroid (tx, ty), k-index and k'-index indicators could be regarded as useful dynamic measures for studying and analyzing the development of academic fields, as well as for comparison across fields.
First in, best dressed: The presence of order-effect bias in journal ranking surveys The results ultimately confirmed the existence of order-effect bias in journal ranking surveys.
The use of percentiles and percentile rank classes in the analysis of bibliometric data: Opportunities and limits Percentiles and PR have been established in bibliometrics as an important alternative to the mean-based indicators with which to arrive at a normalized citation impact of publications.
The impact of unproductive and top researchers on overall university research performance In this study we have demonstrated that the possibility of calculating university performance net of unproductive researchers, for potential allocation of resources based on such a ranking list, would not lead to notable variations in rank.
On the time dependence of the h-index We have produced evidence that the index h/√AA, averaged over sufficiently large groups, is a sensible proxy for the contemporary h-index, and tends to stay constant in time in the interval between 12 and 24 years of research activity, which is the typical range for researchers to apply for permanent and/or higher positions. The plateau value the index h/√AA might therefore be used as a quality benchmark, even if its eminently statistical origin does not make it proper to employ it for any kind of ranking of individual researchers.
The functional relation between the impact factor and the uncitedness factor revisited In this paper we studied the relation between the average number of citations per paper (μ) and the uncitedness factor (U), i.e. the fraction of uncited papers.
Ratios of h-cores, h-tails and uncited sources in sets of scientific papers and technical patents Introducing the ratios RH, RT, SH, ST and Sz, we explored the three independent ratios RH = CH/C, SH = PH/P and Sz = Pz/P in more depth.
The importance of accounting for the number of co-authors and their order when assessing research performance at the individual level in the life sciences The outcomes of the study lead to a recommendation against using indicators or evaluation methods that ignore the different authors' contributions to the research results.
Independent research of China in Science Citation Index Expanded during 1980-2011 By focusing on China's independent top cited articles, this research has identified the discipline strength, research hotspots, and key contributors of China without considering external roles of international collaboration.
C-index: A weighted network node centrality measure for collaboration competence Built upon some well-known scientific measurement index such as h-index, g-index, this paper proposes a new index (c-index) and its derivative indexes (iterative c-index and cg-index) to measure the collaboration competence of a node in a weighted network.
Scientometrics reveals funding priorities in medical research policy In summary, the data reveal a pattern whereby (1) the mortality in high income countries is the best predictor of disease specific funding levels, (2) diseases with a higher relative burden in high income countries are more likely to be over funded with respect to their burden than diseases occurring mainly in low income countries and (3) large differences in funding priority exist within disease groups (e.g. heart diseases) that might be explained by differences in relative burden across populations.
On the relationship between symmetric maxitive, minitive, and modular aggregation operators In this paper we have examined the intersections between three classes of important aggregation operators.
Open-Access and Institutional Repositories in Fire Literature At NRC-IRC both grey and peer-reviewed fire literature produced by the institute receive unimpeded web access via the NRC-IRC Publications Database and, as a result, substantially more visibility compared to documents not posted in an open-access institutional repository.
Ranking journal quality by harmonic mean of ranks: an application to ISI statistics & probability The paper evaluated the ranking of academic journal quality and research impact using the ISI for 110 journals in the Statistics & Probability category.
Between the global and the national: Organising European science In this paper we sought to interpret the process of science organisation building at European level as a result of con-tinuous expansion to alleviate the tension between global research fields and national research spaces, and an outcome of three sets of historically specific conditions.
A framework for structuring interdisciplinary research management This paper is a contribution towards defining a plausible concept for support of interdisciplinary research management.
Study of the rank- and size-frequency functions in the case of power law growth of sources and items and proof of Heaps' law In this paper we studied a variant of the Naranan formalism: instead of exponential growth of the number of sources and items (by Naranan (1970)), we suppose that the number of sources and items grow according to a power law. We prove explicit formulae for the rank- and size-frequency functions in such systems. We also proved the validity of Heaps' law (from information retrieval) (or equivalently Herdan's law from linguistics) in these systems.
A bibliometric analysis of recent energy efficiency literatures: an expanding and shifting focus Based on the databases of SCI and SSCI, this paper studied the characteristics of the energy efficiency literature from 1991 to 2010 using bibliometric techniques, elucidating an expanding and shifting focus.
Reputations and Research Quality in British Political Science: The Importance of Journal and Publisher Rankings in the 2008 RAE These findings should encourage policy makers to consider more cost-effective and efficient ways of evaluating research. Articles published in top journals and books published with top presses are clearly associated with research excellence. The reputation of the publication appears to make a greater difference than the type of publication.
Social Dynamics of Science In summary, we introduced an agent-based model to simulate the evolution of science as a process driven only by social dynamics. The SDS model provides us with strong quantitative support for the key role of social dynamics in shaping the birth, evolution, and decline of scientific disciplines. Future "science of science" studies will have to gauge the role of scientific discoveries, technological advances, and other exogenous events in the emergence of new disciplines against this purely social baseline.
The Magnitude and Nature of Unfunded Published Cardiovascular Research Considerable published cardiovascular research is currently being conducted without direct financial support. This is particularly true for young clinical investigators. The inability to accommodate this investigation in the medical enterprise might substantially diminish the amount of new knowledge coming forth.
Selecting competent referees to assess research projects proposals: A study of referees' registers Many institutions resort to prepared registers of experts, drawing on them to select referees for evaluation of research projects or products, for national research assessment exercises and in support of supranational, national, and regional funding calls. This decision implies the risk of drawing on an assemblage that is not always adequate in terms of degree of scientific coverage and quality of the referees. The risk becomes greater with lesser size and internationalization of the register. All this seems to suggest a reconsideration of the choice to resort to registers that are prepared with bottom-up logic. Bibliometrics is now widely used in the area of research assessment, and produces classifications that make it possible (at least in the hard sciences) to have a top-down type of process for the identification of experts to use in peer-review of research proposals.
Evaluation of scientific books' publishers in social sciences and humanities: Results of a survey "The application of these results in processes of scientific evaluation should be carried out with the due limitations and precautions."
Twenty-five year history of the journal Psicothema In conclusion, Psicothema has been the first Spanish journal of Psychology indexed in the WoS (1993). It has shown an increasing evolution since 1995 and it has maintained its position in the last years (Figure 2). However, the most cited papers in this journal are related to "Psychological instruments" and "Bibliometrics/ scientific production".
Validating indicators of interdisciplinarity: linking bibliometric measures to studies of engineering research labs A chronological analysis of one researcher's published output over more than 40 years appears to provide a credible overview of cognitive integration as indicated by calculated integration scores involved in generating the results reported in these publications.
Characterizing a scientific elite (B): publication and citation patterns of the most highly cited scientists in environmental science and ecology In brief, we found that this group is both highly productive and highly cited, and their citation to publication ratios are more equitably distributed than is typical.
How does scientific success relate to individual and organizational characteristics? A scientometric study of psychology researchers in the German-speaking countries Reference values for scientific output provided in this study provide an anchor for monitoring and international comparison; despite considerable noise in data, we show that interactions of individual and organizational characteristics are relevant for scientific success and should be investigated further, e.g. by adopting various measures of organizational diversity and tracing a population longitudinally.
Is the university model an organizational necessity? Scale and agglomeration effects in science This paper examined the organizational model of universities.
Reproducibility of the Shanghai academic ranking of world universities results The main finding of this paper is that the accuracy of the computed scores attests to the reproducibility of the results of the Shanghai academic ranking of world universities in all its indicators.
Global maps of science based on the new Web-of-Science categories By thus adjusting to the new situation, we hope to have provided the community with a means to map inter- and multidisciplinary sets of documents in future research using the new version of the Web of Science (cf. Leydesdorff and Rafols 2009; Melkers and Hicks 2012; Porter and Youtie 2009; Soós and Kampis 2011).
The emergence of plate tectonics and the Kuhnian model of paradigm shift: a bibliometric case study based on the Anna Karenina principle Looking at the geosciences, we showed that a scientific revolution becomes highly likely only once certain prerequisites (see introduction above) are fulfilled.
Are CIVETS the next BRICs? A comparative analysis from scientometrics perspective The results may be of use to find the answer to the question “Are CIVETS the next BRICs” at least from the perspective of scientometrics.
The evolutionary patterns of knowledge production in Korea The results suggest that the patterns of accumulation of knowledge production in Korea gradually evolved from engineering to scientific activities. Important policy implications can be drawn from the findings for supporting scientific and engi-neering research activity in the latecomers in general and NIEs in particular. First, the development of basic research is strongly related to socio-economic demand; that is, it confirms a positive relationship between industrial technology and basic research in the latecomer countries context.
Evaluations of context-based co-citation searching The main conclusions of this paper are: (1) co-citation context has a positive effect on co-citation searching; (2) the normalization technique using cited frequency is useful for context-based co-citation searching; (3) approaches of using co-citation context tend to affect the characteristics of search performance.
Do citations and impact factors relate to the real numbers in publications? A case study of citation rates, impact, and effect sizes in ecology and evolutionary biology Citations are likely thus a poor proxy for the quantitative merit of a given treatment in ecology and evolutionary biology—unlike evidence-based medicine wherein the success of a drug or treatment on human health is one of the critical attributes.
Productivity analysis of research in Natural Sciences, Technology and Clinical Medicine: an input-output model applied in comparison of Top 300 ranked universities of 4 North European and 4 East Asian countries Now, if we were to reduce for the sake of argumentation ‘science ethos and academic potentiality' to the research productivity by the number of A++ ratings, we find that East Asian “science ethos and academic potentiality” manifests in the fields of Technology (East Asia gets 14 A++ universities against North Europe's 2) and Natural Sciences (11 against 5) whereas Northern Europe is doing well in Clinical Medicine getting 10 A++ universities against East Asian's 2.
Research output in pheromone biology: a case study of India The study reveals that the output of pheromone biology research in India has gradually increased over the years.
LIS journals scientific impact and subject categorization: a comparison between Web of Science and Scopus This study has analyzed the 162 unique LIS journal titles covered in WoS and Scopus with the aim to examine the suitability of WoS for bibliometric analyses for LIS journals in comparison with Scopus. This study's com- parison between JCR and Scopus impact factors and the overall normalized impact factors for the 45 common LIS covered in both databases showed high correlations, which indicates that one or the other may be used for evaluative purposes in terms of impact. We believe there is merit in revisiting the subject categorization of LIS journals in both citation databases especially in WoS, to get a fairer and wider coverage of LIS literature.
India's contribution on antioxidants: a bibliometric analysis, 2001-10 Indian authors have contributed a total number of 1,532 papers in antioxidants during 2001–10, with an average annual productivity of 153.2 papers.
Examining the relationship of co-authorship network centrality and gender on academic research performance: the case of chemistry researchers in Pakistan This study offers several academic implications for developing country researchers (particularly for researchers in Pakistan) as well as recommendations for future research. The findings indicate the positive relationship of degree (direct ties) and closeness centrality (quick flow of knowledge) on research performance of these Pakistani authors, with a stronger relationship for female authors. Female authors in the country could use co-authorship ties to surpass barriers faced in male dominated institutes.
Toward a more precise definition of self-citation By separating all self-citations to a given body of work, citation indicators will produce more meaningful results.
Doctoral dissertations of Library and Information Science in China: A co-word analysis In this paper, we investigated the intellectual structure of LIS doctoral dissertations in China by using co-word analysis, including hierarchical cluster analysis, strategic diagram and SNA.
Academic productivity correlated with well-being at work We can confirm that working environments with better organizational climate produce more productive academics.
Scientific Publications and Research Groups on Alcohol Consumption and Related Problems Worldwide: Authorship Analysis of Papers Indexed in PubMed and Scopus Databases (2005 to 2009) Research on alcohol is a consolidated field, with an average of 4,820 documents published each year between 2005 and 2009 in MEDLINE and Scopus.
Cisplatin for small cell lung cancer: Associated publications in Science Citation Index Expanded This study demonstrates trends in cisplatin-containing chemotherapy for SCLC.
The impact of internationalization on volume and quality of scholarly publication performance However, international teaching assignments increase the number of Al (journal articles in journals covered by the Web of Knowledge) and C publications (peer-reviewed conference proceedings and working papers).
Effects of the Language Barrier on Processes and Performance of International Scientific Collaboration, Collaborators' Participation, Organizational Integrity, and Interorganizational Relationships By investigating a case of international scientific collaboration between Korean and European engineers, this article demonstrates how the language barrier can seriously influence scientific collaboration. Furthermore, low-quality communication and lack of communication, shaped by the language barrier, can cause dissatisfaction with the scientific collaboration. This study reveals how the language barrier becomes a problem for both English-speaking and non-English-speaking organizations in international scientific collaboration.
Altmetric: enriching scholarly content with article-level discussion and metrics The promise of alt-metrics is twofold: Stakeholders can use alt-metrics data to come up with new, relevant metrics better suited to situations not well served by citation counts. Alt-metrics data may also act as a leading indicator for existing, traditional metrics such as citation counts. As time goes on and more data is accumulated we expect to be able to assess properly how useful the data Altmetric collects is a leading indicator of later success.
The future of learned associations in the humanities The representatives of the learned associations included in this study are cognisant of the ways in which the world is changing as result of the Internet and digital publication, but are uncertain about how they will adapt to this new environment.
Self-citation rates of scientific and technical journals in SCI from China, Japan, India, and Korea It appears that the academic influence of journals whose self-citation rates is either too low or too high is small.
Marketing OA journals now that authors are customers: the role of RSS Although some would say that authors have always been consumers in the journal publication chain, and that concerns about how a journal and its content is marketed have influenced article submission decisions in the past, the article process charges required for OA titles increase the desire for a better return on investment, and marketing, and the availability and quality of RSS TOC feeds, is undoubtedly part of this process.
The new multidimensional and user-driven higher education ranking concept of the European Union There is consensus on the need to assess the quality of higher education institutions, since the society needs more transparency on how institutions perform and users demand clear information for an informed choice on where to invest their time and resources.
The Use of Bibliometrics to Measure Research Performance in Education Sciences Our study of the research output of all educational research professors in Switzerland reveals four main results that can be significant with regard to the further use of biblio-graphic information to assess the research performance of scholars, also beyond education sciences and Switzerland. Thirdly, explanatory models for variance in research performances, which are consistent and compatible with the existing literature, are evident only in respect of Web of Science. The same analyses on the Google Scholar database identify virtually no statistically sig-nificant explanatory factors, indicating that the very low-threshold inclusion of publica-tions and citations in Google Scholar impedes finding explanations for the great disparities in individual publication rates.
Personality Psychology in the First Decade of the New Millennium: A Bibliometric Portrait The intensity and pattern of citations indicate that personality psychology indeed occupies one of the core positions at the heart of psychological knowledge.
National Representation in the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Literature A Bibliometric Analysis of Highly Cited Journals In conclusion, USA is the most productive country in the field of plastic and reconstructive surgery. When normalized to popula-tion size, some European countries might be more productive.
What Makes a Working Paper in Economics Publishable? A Tale from the Scientific Periphery Taking the estimation of a logit model into consideration, I have concluded that a recent working paper (i.e., one written between 2000 and 2005) in the area of regional and urban economics, co-written with a researcher affiliated with a foreign institution and involving assistant lecturers and professors (assistant and/or associate) has the highest probability of appearing in an international publication. This fact shows that countries from the scientific periphery—such as Portugal—with low-profile research institutions like FEP have a need for international scientific collaboration, which is a major aid in scientific upgrading and inclusion in international scientific networks.
Presentation of psoriatic arthritis in the literature: a twenty-year bibliometric evaluation There has been growing interest in psoriatic arthritis subject during these two decades. Between countries, institutions and journals; USA, university of Toronto, "Journal of Rheumatology,” “Annals of The Rheumatic Diseases," and "Arthritis and Rheumatism” have special contributions to body of literature published under this topic, respectively.
Quantifying the value of knowledge exports from librarianship and information science research First, when an export is defined on the basis of an existing subject classification in which journals may be allocated to more than one category, such as with the popular JCR subject categories, it is important to differentiate between what we refer to as part-exports and full exports.
Building Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Using Novel Collaboratives As universities seek new approaches to stimulate interdisciplinary research, the Evans Center and its ARCs are offered as a productive model for leveraging discovery.
Global Multi-Level Analysis of the 'Scientific Food Web' In conclusion, our study addresses the fact that indices exclusively oriented at knowledge production or consumption (such as numbers of papers or citations), do not measure the most crucial property of the ecosystem of science, which is knowledge exchange.
Bibliometric Analysis of Literature in Cerebrovascular and Cardiovascular Diseases Rehabilitation: Growing Numbers, Reducing Impact Factor The overall scientific production in the field of CCD rehabilitation showed a steep growth in the last decade, especially because of cerebrovascular research.
A simple, generalizable method for measuring individual research productivity and its use in the long-term analysis of departmental performance, including between-country comparisons The proposed indicator is feasible. The output score is dimensionless and can be used for comparisons within and between countries. The present work demonstrates the feasibility, utility and apparent validity of a simple and generalizable method of measuring research output.
Analysis of Aggregate Impact Factor Inflation in Ophthalmology In conclusion, when utilizing the IF and AIF as a bib-liometric tool, one has to keep in mind that they are in-fluenced by many factors.
Conversations with Four Highly Productive Educational Psychologists: Patricia Alexander, Richard Mayer, Dale Schunk, and Barry Zimmerman At the outset, we raised three research questions. One was, “Who are the top educational psychologists today?” Survey respondents from Division 15 of the APA told us that Patricia Alexander, Richard Mayer, Dale Schunk, and Barry Zimmerman were the most productive in terms of their contributions, visibility, and influence. HP is certainly a hard worker, logging about 50 work hours per week; but for HP, productivity is more about managing time. Our final conclusion, then, mimics that of Bloom (1985). What these productive scholars have accomplished almost anyone can accomplish through high motivation and by applying the lessons gleaned from the scholars' experiences, insights, and advice.
Measuring Academic Performance for Healthcare Researchers with the H Index: Which Search Tool Should Be Used? The H index appeared to be the most consistently calculated bibliometric between the databases for Nobel laureates in Physiology and Medicine.
Citation increments between collaborating countries When a country is involved in collaborations, it receives a positive CRIC.
Citation time window choice for research impact evaluation In addition, findings of this paper suggest a longer time window for screening out elites because the accuracy of using shorter citation time window is worse for elites than for lowly cited papers.
A rationale for the relation between the citer h-index and the classical h-index of a researcher We have interpreted the citer-h-index as the h-index of a transformed IPP (=researcher) by the linear transformation (5), being the model for the transformation number of citations → different number of citers. Since we were able to give a rationale for the linear relations between ch and h in Franceschini et al. (2010) we can conclude that the used assumptions are, at least approximately, valid.
Interdisciplinarity of nano research fields: a keyword mining approach First, technologies involved in one research area become more diverse over time. Secondly, the interaction pattern in different fields embodies the stage of knowledge development and transfer as well. From the above publication, citation and cooperation analysis, one can also see that nano technology (in all the five studied fields) becomes more mature and standardized, and as such more codified.
Scholarly publishing in social sciences and humanities, associated probabilities of belonging and its spectrum: a quantitative approach for the Spanish case "Most of the differences observed in the behavior between psychology and philosophy journals, could be associated with quality in a broad sense."
Scientific publishing in Benin as seen from Scopus This study computed some indicators regarding the scientific profile of Benin. It reveals that no source from Benin is indexed in international citation database like Scopus. We suggest the setting up of a national database to record national scientific and technical production; it should be a means to value the national production and depends less on international science production and cooperation.
Studying scientific migration in Scopus The authors conclude that a bibliometric study of scientific migration using Scopus is feasible and provides significant outcomes.
Meta-analysis in psychology: a bibliometric study In summary, the present study provides an overview of the evolution of scientific output as regards the use of meta-analysis in psychology.
A fitness model for scholarly impact analysis Overall, the analysis demonstrates the ability of the proposed model to produce results consistent with the data and to support meaningful comparison of citation scores.
Some differences in research publications of Indian scientists in India and the diaspora, 1986-2010 The main conclusion is that quantitatively Indian and diaspora papers may be comparable but qualitatively there are strong differences in journal impact and quality.
Visualization of patents and papers in terahertz technology: a comparative study By comparison, it brings out the major differences as well as similarities of patenting and publishing activity of terahertz technology, as described in details in the previous section.
A preliminary test of Google Scholar as a source for citation data: a longitudinal study of Nobel prize winners Our preliminary study provided a positive verdict on the stability and comprehen-siveness of Google Scholar and showed that in terms of comparability between disciplines Google Scholar might provide less biased results than Web of Science. The use of Google Scholar might therefore redress the traditionally disadvantaged position of the Social Sciences in citation analysis. Additional studies based on a larger and more representative set of researchers are necessary before we can draw any definitive conclusions on the usefulness of Google Scholar in research assess-ment exercises.
The generalized Pareto distribution fitted to research outputs of countries Above the threshold the three-parameter GPD fits the data well.
Discovering and assessing fields of expertise in nanomedicine: a patent co-citation network perspective From a methodological point of view, our results support the relevance of patent citations as a way to measure technological proximity between inventions. Generally speaking we cannot conclude that Canadian nanomedicine fields of expertise are ready for commercialization purposes. These observations thus show that following trends in multiple indicators offers new insights for forecasting future development in an industry.
Search strategies along the academic lifecycle In this paper we have developed a novel scientometric method to longitudinally map and statistically analyse the lifetime scientific output of individual scientists.
Visualizing and comparing four facets of scholarly communication: producers, artifacts, concepts, and gatekeepers Our research demonstrates that any single-facet measure of the scholarly landscape will produce partial results and that the utilization of multiple facets is necessary for a full understanding of the scholarly communication system. Future research should focus on ways in which we can more appropriately combine facets for holistic descriptions of the networks of scholarly communication.
Organization level research in scientometrics: a plea for an explicit pragmatic approach The main aim of this paper was to come to terms with the organization and organization level research in scientometrics.
A bibliometric study of service innovation research: based on complex network analysis It is concluded that there were more researchers who did investigation about service innovation in the category of Business and Economics, Engineering, Public Administration, Operations Research and Management Science, and Computer Science than those in other categories.
Iberian universities: a characterisation from ESI rankings The results presented in this paper indicate that scientific disciplines are paramount for the evaluation of universities and their performance.
Effects of large-scale research funding programs: a Japanese case study The main results of this paper are summarized as follows. In the fields of life sciences, humanities, medical sciences and mechanical engineering, we observed a statistically significant increase in the number of papers as a result of the COE program.
Publication trends in materials science: a global perspective The present work explores the characteristics of global materials science research during 2006–2010 based on the Web of Science database using the scientometric techniques. The PEI for most of the Asian countries except Singapore is very weak despite their large number of publications when compared to countries like Netherlands, Switzerland, USA, England, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Canada, France and Italy. It is further suggested to carryout co-citation analysis in materials science to map out the formation of new areas for further research.
The top-cited research works in the Science Citation Index Expanded The 3,652 top-cited papers in nine document types published from 1991 to 2010 were analyzed.
Citation and co-citation analysis to identify core and emerging knowledge in electronic commerce research The findings of this study provide core knowledge and directions for researchers and practitioners interested in the electronic commerce field.
Diabetes mellitus in South Asia: Scientific evaluation of the research output Regional research output on diabetes mellitus is unsatisfactory, with only a minimal contribution to global diabetes research. Publications are not highly cited and only a few randomized controlled trials have been performed. In the coming decades, scientists in the region must collaborate and focus on practical and culturally acceptable interventional studies on diabetes mellitus.
The CTSA as an Exemplar Framework for Developing Multidisciplinary Translational Teams We conclude that the CTSA can provide a rich infrastructural framework and scientific environment for the development of successful MTTs.
Research in Congenital Heart Disease: A Comparative Bibliometric Analysis Between Developing and Developed Countries The Arab world research output in the field of pediatric cardiology per capita is substantially low, estimated to be 29 times less than in developed countries. Despite the increase in published research articles in global periodicals, most of the research relating to pediatric cardiology continues to be far from innovative. The Arab countries cannot hope to catch up with the developed world or even to compete with many countries in the developing world without a substantial increase in R&D spending.
Experiments in interdisciplinary capacity-building: The successes and challenges of large-scale interdisciplinary investments "Without such support it is hard to achieve major advances in scholarship towards addressing some of the complex, multi-factorial problems that we face, such as climate change or poverty alleviation."
Opportunities for impact: Statistical analysis of the National Science Foundation's broader impacts criterion This study demonstrates that cultural differences exist between scientific fields and also supports existing policy recommendations that encourage the creation of organizations and partnerships at university level to allow scientists to more easily participate in activities with broader impacts.
Interdisciplinarity in biotechnology, genomics and nanotechnology Empirical examples in genomics, nanotechnology and biotechnology show that interdisciplinarity relates to distinct dynamic developments that interact and shape each other in a process of co-evolution, giving rise to different patterns of interdisciplinarity in each field.
Phylomemetic Patterns in Science Evolution-The Rise and Fall of Scientific Fields The correlations we have computed show that, on average, scientific fields follow a prototypical lifecycle: long-living fields are being structured after their emergence, and may follow several branching or merging events, before decaying when their coherence decreases, which is measured here with the density index.
Web clustering using social bookmark data regarding user network In this study we devised a method of web clustering using social bookmark data.
Faculty experiences with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) public access policy, compliance issues, and copyright practices There is a need to educate faculty with respect to the value of retaining their copyrights and self-archiving their publications to help advance public access and open access scholarship. Librarians may be able to play an important role in working with faculty to unravel the complexities of complying with the mandate, examine author agreements more closely, and make the connection between retaining copy- rights and complying with the NIH public access policy.
Environmental health citation patterns: mapping the literature 2008-2010 Environmental health citation patterns differ from other public health disciplines in terms of cited publication types, cited journals, and age of citations. Environmental health, like the larger field of public health, spans a wealth of different disciplines. Librarians supporting environmental health practitioners and researchers may wish to focus spending on serials.
Infectious diseases citation patterns: mapping the literature 2008-2010 The citations to current and older publications in a range of disciplines, heavy citation of journals, and citation of miscellaneous and government documents revealed the depth and breadth of resources needed for the study of infectious diseases. Libraries supporting infectious disease specialists may wish to focus their collection budgets on providing access to key journal literature, as it is overwhelmingly the most cited material. Librarians serving infectious disease researchers and practitioners should provide access to older materi-als, especially journal back files, to support the cyclical needs of their patrons.
Enhancing the h index for the objective assessment of healthcare researcher performance and impact This study supports the construct validity of the h index as a measure of healthcare researcher academic rank.
Readers' perceptions of authors' citation behaviour This small-scale study suggests that there is only limited level of agreement between reader and author judgments; accordingly, while reader-based studies of citation behaviour are relatively easy to carry out they are unlikely to provide accurate insights into the reasons why authors cite material in scholarly texts. We hence conclude that reader-reasons and author-reasons for citing particular references are typically so different that it would be unwise to use the former as a proxy for the latter, thus confirming the suggestion of Case and Miller (2010) that readers “[. . .] may make judgments that differ a great deal from the intentions of the original author [. . .]”."
Is standard multivariate analysis sufficient in clinical and epidemiological studies? In this work, we have shown that relatively simple and well known techniques from multivariate analysis, are sufficient to pro- vide the tools for an in depth scrutiny of data originating from dif- ferent screening methods used in the diagnosis of cancer, or epidemiological studies.
THE EFFECTS OF PUBLICATION LAGS ON LIFE-CYCLE RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY IN ECONOMICS Reconstructing the journal publication record of 14,271 graduates from U.S. and Canadian Ph.D.-granting economics departments from 1986 to 2000, we obtain strong evidence of productivity decrease as we compare younger to older cohorts.
Exploring Why and How Journal Editors Retract Articles: Findings From a Qualitative Study Our interviews helped explain some of the reasons why editors may be reluctant to retract articles and why the retraction process may take several months. The research also highlighted the complexities of some of the cases and of the resulting considerations to be taken into account. Nevertheless, COPE has used this study and its experience in the field to produce guidelines that it hopes will aid editors handle the difficult and time-consuming, but essential, task of retracting unreliable articles from their journals to ensure the integrity of the research literature.
Sino-Canadian Collaborations in Stem Cell Research: A Scientometric Analysis While China is increasingly courted in IC by developed countries as a partner in stem cell research, it is clear that it has reached its status in the field largely through domestic publications.
Mapping of drinking water research: A bibliometric analysis of research output during 1992-2011 An overview of the research in the drinking water field was presented with the information related to annual publications, categories, journals, institutions, countries, research emphases and tendencies.
The e-Research on Media & Communications: Attitudes, Tools and Practices in Latin America Researchers The paper evidences the gap between e-Research in Communications and e-Research in other disciplines; and makes recommendations for its implementation.
The Participation and Web Visibility of University Digital Repositories in the European Context Accordingly, the leading universities in relative participation share give more importance to the basic functions of storage and preservation that characterize institutional repositories. In this sense, the leading repositories in the dimensions considered gain importance as means of communication of teaching and research knowledge, with emphasis on the functions of storage, preservation and diffusion of knowledge. Although this study characterizes the main university repositories in terms of volume of digital content, participation in the supply of this content and web visibility, there is scope to continue this line of research with a causal analysis to identify the determining factors of the leading positions in the different dimensions.
Explaining the Decision to Plagiarize: An Empirical Test of the Interplay Between Rationality, Norms, and Opportunity Promising strategies to reduce plagiarism are also discussed.
A 10-Year Analysis of American Society for Radiation Oncology Junior Faculty Career Development Awards ASTRO JFAs over the past decade have been strongly associated with grantees remaining in academic positions, success in attracting private and NIH grants, and publication productivity.
Males Are Overrepresented among Life Science Researchers Committing Scientific Misconduct In summary, we emphasize two observations from this study: first, misconduct is distributed along the continuum from trainee to senior scientist. Second, men are overrepresented among scientists committing misconduct, with a skewed gender ratio being most pronounced for senior scientists.
Research in information systems: a study of diversity and inter-disciplinary discourse in the AIS basket journals between 1995 and 2011 Understanding where IS is currently at allows us to better understand and propose fruitful avenues for its development in both academia and practice.
Macro-Indicators of Citation Impacts of Six Prolific Countries: InCites Data and the Statistical Significance of Trends In broad agreement with other studies (described in the Introduction section), this study shows an increasing trend of normalized citation impact values for France, the UK and especially for Germany across the last thirty years in four subject areas. For future national comparisons, however, studies based on percentiles are very desirable (see here, e.g., the new Leiden ranking at http://www.leidenranking.com/ for the comparison of institutions) [20].
Scientific production in psychology: a gender analysis In summary, the study highlights a gender imbalance in Spanish scientific output in Psychology, and a higher proportion of male researchers in international networks.
Theoretical justification of the central area indices and the central interval indices We have shown that the CIIs and the CAIs do not always give higher impact values for more “selective” authors. However, if the citation curves follow the law of Zipf, then these indices give indeed higher impact values for more “selective” authors.
A historical review and bibliometric analysis of GPS research from 1991-2010 Our research pointed to several significant trends in global research performance throughout the period. “Ionosphere”, “Remote Sensing” and “Monitoring” are growing research subjects in the field of GPS, while “Deformation”, “Geoid” and “Tectonics” are becoming gradually less significant.
Are American astrophysics papers accepted more quickly than others? Part II: correlations with citation rates, subdisciplines, and author numbers We have provided a larger, more recent data sample that confirms some things you probably already knew.
Measuring co-authors' contribution to an article's visibility As we have already explained, an author's contribution to the article's contents is not necessarily the same as his contribution to an article's visibility.
Physics publication productivity in South African universities The international comparison shows that the South African professoriate has productivity similar to USA professors in mid-ranked universities (median 2 papers per year and 0.5 AU per year), which indicates that South African physics professors are meeting international norms.
Absolute and specific measures of research group excellence Thus, and almost paradoxically, our analysis indicates that citation counts could possibly form a basis for deciding on, how to fund research institutions, but they should not be used as a basis for ranking them in terms of quality.
The influence of scientific research output of academics on economic growth in South Africa: an autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) application The results of this exercise showed that for the period 1980–2008, the comparative performance of the academic research output in South Africa could be considered as a factor affecting the economic growth of the country. However, the opposite does not hold: economic growth did not influence the research productivity of South Africa. It can be argued that, for as long as this directional causality lasts, the science and technology authorities should maintain and increase their support to the research community.
Information metrics (iMetrics): a research specialty with a socio-cognitive identity? iMetrics is a very active research field experiencing a growth that justifies to talk about an explosion of iMetrics literature in the last decade. While previous works have strongly indicated that iMetrics is a research area with a clearly delineated cognitive focus, we have now shown that iMetrics represents a research specialty with a cohesive social and cognitive identity that is distinct with respect to the general information science.
Renewable energy research 1995-2009: a case study of wind power research in EU, Spain, Germany and Denmark According to the findings all these assumptions and expectations were not justified. The Wind Power research in the European Union decline with respect to world shares, citedness and citation impact. In contrast the productivity, world share and impact of Spain grow very substantially and constantly during the last decade.
A 'perverse incentive' from bibliometrics: could National Research Assessment Exercises (NRAEs) restrict literature availability for nature conservation? If NRAEs discourage peer-reviewed publication at any level they could exacerbate the trend not to publish information useful for applied conservation, possibly harming conservation efforts.
Thirty years of Brazilian research in Antarctica: ups, downs and perspectives An evident conclusion drawn from these results is the growth of the Brazilian scientific productivity in these 30 years, mainly from the 1990s.
Non-English journals and papers in physics and chemistry: bias in citations? Based on these studies we conclude that non-English journals are inferior in number of citations to pure English journals and this in all physics and chemistry subfields studied.
Capturing new developments in an emerging technology: an updated search strategy for identifying nanotechnology research outputs Scientific fields evolve, expand, emerge, and contract over time. For bibliometric analysis, this implies the need to maintain and update the mechanisms, keyword combinations and classifications underlying search strategies for targeted scientific and technological domains (Thomas et al. 2010). We hope that the updated approach will advance assesment of the impacts and implications of the ongoing development of this scientific and technological domain and also offer insights for search strategies in other emerging technologies.
Inconsistent transliteration of Iranian university names: a hazard to Iran's ranking in ISI Web of Science It was found that at its present shape Iranian universities are not receiving the rank they really deserve simply because authors affiliated to a university use university title forms inconsistently. Such inconsistencies will downgrade the ranking of Iranian universities in global ranking systems. There is a need to standardize the transliteration of Persian words, in general, and Persian university titles, in particular, into English.
Citation choice and innovation in science studies The combination of orthodoxy, closeness centrality and various particularistic variables explains a portion of the variance in which articles receive citations.
Home bias effect in the management literature This paper studied whether there was evidence of home bias in the citation pattern in the 300 most-cited articles published between 2005 and 2009 in the ten management journals having the highest average impact over the previous 5 years. These data led us to conclude that there was empirical evidence for home bias in citation patterns for the papers in our sample. Among the potential implications of this phenomenon, one should note the following risks: (1) Failure to fully exploit resources, given that ignorance of work carried out by other research communities prevents one drawing on their contributions in one's own research; (2) Knowledge stasis in local communities in the absence of stimuli fostering new ideas and the application or new methods. Under such circumstances, an academic community can all too easily become hidebound; (3) Growing conformism arising from lack of comparison with other settings, stemming from uncritical acceptance of established models and paradigms.
Benchmarking research performance at the university level with information theoretic measures In this paper we present four theoretic information measures for benchmarking research performance applying it in a case study in academic institutions based on the dissimilarity between the research outputs of universities. The main result of this study is that the selective information gain measure relates closely to similarity between universities as perceived by using different models. In conclusion, both theoretical and empirical results imply that it can be used to benchmark research performance of academic institutions using an information theoretic approach.
The end of the "European Paradox" The European Paradox is definitely put to rest.
Popular research topics in multimedia According to our analyses, multimedia research can be broadly classified into five research areas, Content, Applications, Systems, Human-Centered Multimedia (HCM), and Art (c.f. section “Hot research areas of multimedia”).
Citation Classics from Indian Pediatrics The concluding message is that 'Indian Pediatrics' has published many landmark papers that were heavily cited and made an impact. Most of these articles made significant impact in formulation of guidelines and/or change in practice and policy. In this analysis, we observed that almost all the top cited articles had significant impact as they contributed to development of guidelines or/and change in policy and practice.
Fate of Articles Rejected by Indian Pediatrics Rejection of a manuscript by IP does not preclude publication, but rejected manuscripts are published more often in non-pediatric journals or journals with a lower impact factor, although the occasional exception exists.
Journals Supporting Terrorism Research: Identification and Investigation into Their Impact on the Social Sciences "The study produced a suggested core list of 39 social science journals supporting the study of terrorism, which provides useful information to collection development librarians who may want to include more resources pertaining to the study of terrorism."
From Stacks to the Web: The Transformation of Academic Library Collecting By the early 2020s, it is easy to imagine the following: Print collections will have been reduced by at least half in most academic libraries. The space will be used for a combination of enhanced reader spaces and other activities.
Deal or No Deal? Evaluating Big Deals and Their Journals The present paper attempts to add methods and metrics to the librarian's toolbox to help determine which Big Deals merit retention, which termination, and what journals from terminated deals deserve individual subscription. Finally, even with well-ordered SFTARs data in hand, individual judgment, often on qualitative grounds, must be brought to bear to provide equitable access to journals among all subjects covered by the library's community.
Usage Patterns of Open Genomic Data The analysis helps paint a clear picture of free data usage out of the GEO data repository and verify the assumption that the raw data do support a wealth of high-quality investigations, that the rate of open data use keeps growing over the years, and that scholars in different countries show different rates of complying with data-sharing policies.
TOP RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY AND ITS PERSISTENCE: GENDER AS A DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD Analyzing the factors associated with the process toward top performance and its persistence, we contribute to the debate on concentration on excellence and cumulative advantages in academic research, with a specific emphasis on the much-debated gender dimension. A hazard model predicting the time toward first top performance confirms the importance of gender as a determining factor, with females being significantly less likely to reach first top performance. When analyzing subsequent top performances, we find strong support for a cumulative process, with the hazard to next top performance being significantly and (increasingly) positively affected by previous top performances.
Nine Facts about Top Journals in Economics We believe that these findings have poten-tially significant implications for academic economists, particularly with regard to the career paths of younger scholars.
Six Decades of Top Economics Publishing: Who and How? The purpose is not to test the roles of possible causes underlying the phenomena shown here, but to stimulate speculation and hopefully to generate formal examinations of them.
Uncertainty Measures for Economics Journal Impact Factors In this paper, I presented standard errors for the five year IFs for 230 economics journals. They show that the top two journals are clearly set apart from the others and that beyond this there is a group of seven mainstream long-established economics journals, which can be clearly distinguished from the vast majority of other journals. This paper shows that though this may be justified to some degree, for the majority of journals fine distinctions in rank are not possible using IFs.
Deepening our understanding of academic inbreeding effects on research information exchange and scientific output: new insights for academic based research Through a deeper parsing of the concept of “inbred,” this study contributes to the research on the effects of academic inbreeding on scientific production and research information exchange practices. The analysis reinforces recent research findings (i.e., academic inbreeding is detrimental to the production of scientific outputs; inbreds acquire research related information mainly within the university from which they graduated and which employs them), and contributes with new results concerning the relationship between academic inbreeding and mobility. These findings provide valuable, important information for university managers and research institute leaders about each academic career path concerning research practices and scientific communication behaviors (including the insertion within international knowledge-based networks).
Bibliometric analysis of leishmaniasis research in Medline (1945-2010) In conclusion, we have found an increase in the number of publications in the field of leishmaniasis disease.
Whom shall we Put on the Postage Stamps? We suggest, however, that the encultured student (as opposed to the simply qualified) is able to do more than list (albeit accurately) salient developments, and will be able to expound to some extent on how, when and why things occurred, including some knowledge of the major players in the development.
Active versus passive academic networking: evidence from micro-level data Implications for academic policy are discussed.
All Nations Depend on the Global Knowledge Pool - Analysis of Country of Origin of Studies Used for Health Technology Assessments in Germany According to our findings, there appears to be some discrepancy between the use of globally generated evidence and the contribution to the knowledge pool by individual countries. From the perspective of contributing countries, absolute numbers are misleading as they imply contributions, which do not exist on a per capita level but are merely due to a "large country effect". A better-balanced contribution of all countries to the generation of global knowledge and its translation into policy and practice are urgently required to eradicate these deficits [27].
Four types of research in the humanities: Setting the stage for research quality criteria in the humanities The factor and cluster analyses of the scholars' constructs, which were captured and rated using the Repertory Grid method, show that two conceptions of humanities research can be distinguished: 'modern' and 'traditional' research.
Competency-based assessment of academic interdisciplinary research and implication to university management This study seeks to establish systematic management methods for academic research, particularly interdisciplinary research.
Accountability, performance assessment, and evaluation: Policy pressures and responses from research councils For their part, research funding agencies, as intermediaries between government and science face a dual challenge as they are pressured towards greater adoption of the ‘indicator culture’ and the managerialism embodied in NPM approaches, while also ensuring the wellbeing of research cultures and academic systems.
Types of research output profiles: A multilevel latent class analysis of the Austrian Science Fund's final project report data If the aim is to include all disciplines in the ex post research evaluation, it is necessary to define the term 'research output' more broadly, as do the RCUK and the FWF, and to include—in addition to journal articles—also other output categories, such as monographs, anthologies, conference contributions, and patents, in order to treat all disciplines fairly with regard to research output.
Facilitating social and natural science cross-disciplinarity: Assessing the human and social dynamics program It can be concluded that NSF HSD has funded projects that integrate theories, methods, and/ or knowledge from multiple disciplines.
Publishing pays: Economists' salaries reflect productivity Compensation for economics faculty at the University of California is affected by faculty rank, field of specialization, university of employment, teaching awards, migration, and research productivity.
Publication patterns on neonatal surgery over 65 years Publication patterns for neonatal surgical conditions have changed significantly over time.
Analysis of oncology research from 2001 to 2010: A scientometric perspective Analyses of the main research centres and forefronts may assist researchers in addressing these forefronts and ascertaining the developing trends in oncology. Analysis of the academic communities performing oncology research may provide scientific evidence and suggestions for policymakers to select the most prolific academic groups and leaders and to effectively manage and finance future oncology research. These selected groups and individuals will carry out additional joint undertakings and solve complex problems encountered in oncology research.
Knowledge management vs. data mining: Research trend, forecast and citation approach Compared to DM, KM has more potential to grow up and becomes more popular.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Geographic Publication Variations in the Journal of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Anesthesia From 1990 to 2011 The present bibliometric analysis indicates that JCVA has changed from a journal that primarily published work from countries in North America and Europe to one in which the Middle East and Australasia now make a substantial number of contributions. These results suggest that JCVA has evolved into a truly international journal since its inception in 1987. The changing geographic profile of publication during its 25-year history suggests that JCVA has become a global journal.
Distribution of Scholarly Publications Among Academic Radiology Departments The number of publications in journals with high Impact Factors published by academic radiology departments more closely fits a Pareto rather than a normal distribution.
The h-index outperforms other bibliometrics in the assessment of research performance in general surgery: A province-wide study Our data suggest better construct validity for the h-index than for other bibliometrics, although the agreement of h-index values between databases can be problematic for some researchers.
Competence maps using agglomerative hierarchical clustering This paper proposes a method to build a citation network from a sample of patents.
Impact factors of orthopaedic journals between 2000 and 2010: trends and comparisons with other surgical specialties The quality of orthopaedic journals has significantly increased over the last decade and this has been accompanied by a rise in mean IF.
Comparison of scholarly impact among surgical specialties: An examination of 2429 academic surgeons h-indices among the different surgical specialties vary and are potentially impacted by the number of prac-titioners as well as research emphasis within a field.The mean h-index of academic otolaryngologists falls in the lower values for academic surgeons.The use of the h-index to evaluate research productivity is most appropriate when applied to faculty members within a discipline rather than to comparison of physicians from different fields.
Citation Performance of Malaysian Scholarly Journals in the Web of Science, 2006-2010 In this study, we used citation analysis to gauge the overall impact of Malaysian journals in WoS and to identify those specific journals that are cited and the journals citing Malaysian journals.
Academic Impact of Qualitative Studies in Healthcare: Bibliometric Analysis The median number of citations for qualitative studies was almost the same as the median of BMJ's impact factor during the survey period. For a suitable evaluation of qualitative studies in healthcare, it will be necessary to develop a reporting framework and include explicit discussions of clinical implications when reporting findings. Coordination between researchers and editors will be needed to achieve this goal.
Identification and analysis of the highly cited knowledge base of sustainability science We presented a bibliometric analysis of a set of highly cited publications from the knowledge base of sustain-ability science using data from the Web of Science (WOS) database. We found that themes related to the three pillars of sustainable development (environment, economy and sociology) are all present in the HCKB, although social science (not including economics) is less visible. Finally, we found increasing diversity of fields and clusters in the citations of the seed set, indicating that the field of sus-tainability science is not yet moving into a more transdis-ciplinary state.
A Systematic Appraisal of Peer Review Guidelines for Special Education Journals Findings are discussed within the context of the strengths and limitations of the peer review process with recommendations provided to foster a stronger community of researchers and practitioners. Common peer review definitions and standards would assist the field begin to think critically about the system and whether it is successfully fulfilling these primary objectives.
Open access, social norms and publication choice The overall picture reveals some interesting nuances. Though we generally think of academics as a unified group, their social norms are actually localized and vary across disciplines and national boundaries. When social norms do not make gold OA publishing valuable, they follow the alternative route of complying with the community's rules while at the same time supporting green OA, which thus acts as a sort of surrogate for gold OA.
Practicing what We Preach The Geographic Diversity of Editorial Boards Continued active management by editors, professional associations and individual academics alike is necessary to ensure that our editorial boards properly reflect the diverse management community. The challenge for future research in this area is to find the proportion, or the range, of geographic diversity in editorial boards that allows for new approaches and knowledge to flourish.
Credit where credit is due? The impact of project contributions and social factors on authorship and inventorship Our findings provide several insights. First, both authorship and inventorship are strongly predicted by contributions of a conceptual nature, in line with common authorship guidelines and legal definitions of inventorship.
Building global-class universities: Assessing the impact of the 985 Project The 985 Project is the most dramatic of a series of policies imple-mented by the government to move selected Chinese universities to the global scientific and technological frontier. Our results suggest that the lower-tier universities may have benefited more than did the first-tier universities. In policy terms, this may be most inter-esting because it suggests that targeted investment combined with incentives for performance can result in universities making rapid and significant improvements in their global status.
Brazilian scientific funding agency budgets have not matched the country's economic growth Finally, we believe that a long-lasting important change in investment policy in science is necessary in order to ensure financial security for the academic system as a whole. Whether a cause or a consequence, the fact that scientific output has grown without a corresponding increase in input is probably a symptom of a society that is not prepared to regard science as a means of adding value to its economy, industrial production and social improvement, as well as an academia that is far removed from society. Therefore, Brazil's relatively insignificant participation in the global economy, with regards to the technology and manufacturing segments (15,16), would seem to be explained by the disconnection between the country and its investments in science.
The three dimensions of informetrics: a conceptual view In summary, informetrics studies the interplay of the social, the documentary, and the epistemic dimensions.
Knowledge input for the domain of information science A bibliometric and citation analysis study The knowledge inputs for information science include mainly information science itself and social sciences and general science as well. Moreover, there are minor inputs from various subjects.
Intercultural relations: A bibliometric survey "The major conclusions of this study are the identification of influential authors, journals, works and subjects in the field of IR over the past 30 years, using a highly selective dataset representative of the field."
Multi-attribute comprehensive evaluation of individual research output based on published research papers Compared with the single indicator research evaluation, MAE takes more aspects into consideration; therefore it can effectively overcome one-sidedness of a single indicator.
International collaborations between research universities: experiences and best practices Public policies, funding agencies and universities need to take into account the inherent complexity of building capacity to generate knowledge through cross-country research.
Research collaboration across higher education systems: maturity, language use, and regional differences In this study, we found that the collaboration patterns differ across higher education systems: academics in the developed systems are more collaborative than their colleagues in the developing systems, academics in English-speaking countries are not more collaborative than their colleagues in non-English-speaking systems, and academics in European countries are more collaborative than their colleagues in non-European systems. This study recommends that the ranking schemes, especially global rankings, should include qualitative dimensions like collaboration as a primary indicator. Finally, this study proposes follow-up study for academic collaboration, especially who collaborates and why.
Characterizing scientific production and consumption in Physics In this paper we study the scientific knowledge flows among cities as measured by papers and citations contained in APS 31 journals.
A measure for the impact of research The suggested methodology to measure impact goes against the publish or perish dogma of modern science, putting forward an alterna-tive ideology to quantify scientific achievement. If taken seriously, and scientists do take measures seriously, the proposed measure may help cope with some of the problems caused by the modern structure of science.
Publications on dementia in Medline 1974-2009: a quantitative bibliometric study We have shown a large increase of the literature on dementia, relative both to the development of all medical research and to all psychiatric research.
Ranking of finance journals: Some Google Scholar citation perspectives We conduct rankings on finance journals based on a rich database of citations for all articles from a set of 23 finance journals during 1990-2010. Our study is a major improvement in the literature by directly measuring the impact of each article within a set of finance journals. The author concentration index and editorial board members' citations represent alternative methods to evaluate finance journals.
Universities Scale Like Cities In this paper we demonstrate that universities show a similar behavior as cities in the distribution of the 'gross university income' in terms of total number of citations over 'size' in terms of total number of publications.
Evaluating a department's research: Testing the Leiden methodology in business and management In this paper we have demonstrated how the Leiden methodology can be implemented for a sample of three UK business schools. Given this, our conclusion is that at the moment the LM is not suitable for evaluating the performance of departments in business and management although it is a good idea in principle. One possibility is for it to be based on Google Scholar instead.
Bibliometric approach of factors affecting scientific productivity in environmental sciences and ecology Focusing on the academic output from environmental sciences and ecology, the article confirms the results of some previous studies concerning the relevant explanatory variables: education financing, publishing of domestic journals and the English language.
Sympathy or strategy: social capital drivers for collaborative contributions to the IS community In conclusion, our study sheds light on individual differences in the conceptualization of engaging in academic collaboration and the resulting impacts on the emerging network-level configuration of a large international community of IS researchers.
How important tasks are performed: peer review Both the data and the model indicate refereeing is described by a “Deadline effect”: the task has to be completed in the presence of competing noise. The contribution of a referee is a crucial factor determining the duration of a review process.
The volume of full-text coverage of top-tier marketing journals in the ABI/INFORM and Business Source Premier databases - key indicators for database licensing The above described tests clearly indicate that it can be very misleading to rely on “hit counts" for sample journal sets in the ABI database for comparison with its primary competitor, BSP. It is also clear that for marketing topics ABI has more journals for the Hult-50 set than BSP, but it does not imply that it would have more full-text records for articles and other substantial items. The last phase of this research project -generously supported by a grant from the Business Reference Association (BRASS) of the Reference and User Services Association (RUSA) of the American Library Association (ALA) will analyze and compare the standing (impact, prestige) of journals in the Hult-50 set through databases/services which provide bibliometric measures and indicators.
Online scholarly publishing in China: Who? What? How? China's current online scholarly publishing still has many limitations which do not meet the demands of Chinese researchers well.
Ranking journals: could Google Scholar Metrics be an alternative to Journal Citation Reports and Scimago Journal Rank? In summary, what these data is telling us is that despite of the lack of control and standardization, GSM ranks journals in a very similar way to JCR and SJR and therefore, generally speaking, is a reliable and valid alternative to traditional indexes when measuring a journal's impact. If GSM can sort out its many shortcomings, and consolidate itself as a useful tool for authors and editors, it will offer a real challenge to established journal ranking products.
Information workflow of academic researchers in the evolving information environment: an interview study Most interviewees do not have a systematic strategy for keeping up to date.
Market-oriented reform in Chinese scholarly publishing On balance, it would seem wiser for Chinese publishers to find an efficient pattern for publishing scholarly works, one that depends on satisfying the real market demand – and then sharpening their own competitiveness.
Understanding the needs of international authors Publishing research in one’s native language is difficult enough, but second-language authors face additional challenges. Survey results from over 2,500 experienced researchers around the world point to several steps that can be taken by publishers who wish to make the publication process simpler for a growing pool of international authors.
Journal clustering of library and information science for subfield delineation using the bibliometric analysis toolkit: CATAR This paper describes a series of techniques to cluster LIS journals for subfield identification and analysis.
Bibliometric analysis of biotechnology research in Pakistan Research in the field of biotechnology started around the year 1980 in Pakistan. Ever since, then the number of research publications in this field has shown a rising trend.
The knowledge domain of the academy of international business studies (AIB) conferences: a longitudinal scientometric perspective for the years 2006-2011 We present a scientometric study of the AIB conference proceedings over the last 6 years. According to our hypothesis we may confirm that each of the conferences has its own keyword structure, where special topical research interests are emphasized (H1). There is also statistical evidence for the significant change of the structures from conference to conference (H2), and finally threads of the general keyword structure connect different conferences, diverge, converge, are interrupted and re-assumed at later times (H3).
Second order indicators for evaluating international scientific collaboration In this paper, we have showed how the use of energy like second order indicators are helpful in quantifying the effect and impact of collaboration and allow the “measurement” of the extent to which co-publication through international collaboration enhances the value of scientific output of an organisation or agency performing academic research. From these it is possible to define an index of foreign collaboration (IoFC) and another evenness indicator (IoEC) that show the size and evenness of the role foreign collaboration plays in the total academic output of the organization. These indices are compared with a modified “GIFCOL”, but now based on actual impact, while that originally proposed in Basu and Aggarwal (2001) used JCR impact factors.
Scientific collaboration in biotechnology: the case of the northeast region in Brazil Data showed that the dynamics of scientific collaboration in biotechnology in the studied region presents low institutional diversity, considering the predominance of universities and research institutes.
Selective linking from social platforms to university websites: a case study of the Spanish academic system The percentage of links from social sites is very small (in December only 1.72 %). In any case, this percentage presents a positive trend (is expected to grow), and it should also be considered that the existence of links in some of these services can be unusual for their users.
Comparative analysis of health public policy research results among Mexico, Chile and Argentina Health public policy research is in its infancy in Spanish speaking Latin America. While health care reforms have been implemented regionally in the last three decades, few (20 %) subject contents have been explored. Further research is needed to fill existing gaps; as well as bigger efforts to increase online full-text accessibility and dissemination of research results.
A bibliometric analysis of NOAA's Office of Ocean Exploration and Research In summary, mere citation figures have little meaning without normalization for subject category and publication year (and also for document type).
Comparing journals from different fields of science and social science through a JCR subject categories normalized impact factor The journal impact factor is not comparable among fields of science because of systematic differences in publication and citation behaviour across disciplines. A decomposing of the field AIF into five normally distributed variables shows that, for the JCR subject categories of science and social science, the variables that to a greater degree explain the variance in the impact factor of a field do not include the average number of references. In this sense, a normalized impact indicator based on the JCR subject category list is proposed and compared with the impact factor. This normalization is achieved by considering all the categories indexing each journal.
Researchers profile, co-authorship pattern and knowledge organization in information science in Brazil This exploratory study showed an overview of the Brazilian researchers and their researches in the area of information science. The study therefore showed an overview of this scientific community seeking to contribute to a better understanding of its characteristics and specificities. Based on the results presented, several studies can be developed detailing some topics covered in this research.
Relationship among research collaboration, number of documents and number of citations: a case study in Spanish computer science production in 2000-2009 Results also show that the collaborative level has increased over time as expected.
Tracing scientist's research trends realtimely In this research, we propose a method to trace scientists' research trends realtimely.
Dentistry scientometric analysis: a comparative study between Brazil and other most productive countries in the area After presenting and analyzing the data gotten from the SJR, we can evidence that Brazil is the only country in Latin America that is pictured among the most productive ones in the Dentistry area.
Geographical distance in bibliometric relations within epistemic communities We found that citation-based relations are several times more globalized in terms of MGD compared to co-authorships.
A mathematical model to optimize decisions to impact multi-attribute rankings We have presented a mathematical model based on a list of assumptions about how rankings are created and calculated to identify the optimal strategy to rise in the rankings. According to the model, the best strategy is to focus on a single attribute; more specifically, the one where the ratio of marginal cost of improvement to the weight used by the ranking agent is minimum. The result in this paper can be used to support the argument that a strategy for climbing in rankings, such as those to which universities are subject, should focus on increasing the value of fewer rather than more attributes.
A study of factors inhibiting research productivity of Iranian women in ISI It is hoped that such a monitoring on the research hindrances inhibiting women's science production can help women advance their sharing and confirm their role in the different fields of science stronger than before.
The role of editorial material in bibliometric research performance assessments Based on these findings, we came to two main conclusions that lead to the acceptance of some editorial materials as a potentially valid and consistent basis for research assessment procedures, while we still have an important additional consideration on the inclusion of editorial materials in our research assessment procedures.
Malaysian authors' acceptance to self-archive in institutional repositories Towards a unified view This study brought forth Malaysian authors' readiness to self-archive in institutional repositories through the application of the UTAUT model of Venkatesh et al. (2003).
Global ranking of knowledge management and intellectual capital academic journals: 2013 update "The developed ranking may be used by various stakeholders, including journal editors, publishers, reviewers, researchers, new scholars, students, policymakers, university administrators, librarians and practitioners. It is a useful tool to further promote the KM/IC discipline and develop its unique identity. It is important for all KM/IC journals to become included in Thomson Reuters’ Journal Citation Reports."
Open Access Initiatives in Africa - Structure, Incentives and Disincentives More than ten years after the rise in OA declarations, and despite research evidence of the pertinence of implementing the movement in Africa, the most crucial need of the region about the movement still remains awareness building among scholars, libraries, institu-tions, organizations and governments at local and regional levels. Although South Africa has moved ahead of other countries in Africa in this respect, its achievements from a continental perspective are dwarfed by the neglect of the movement in other countries.
Open Access versus Traditional Journal Pricing: Using a Simple "Platform Market" Model to Understand Which Will Win (and Which Should) The paper introduced a simple economic model to help understand trends in OA in the market for scholarly journals, both from a positive perspective-explaining what has happened and predicting what will happen-and from a normative perspective-suggesting what changes have benefited the scholarly community and what further changes might generate further benefits.
Publishing in Discipline-Specific Open Access Journals: Opportunities and Outreach for Librarians From the 8,000 journals that were listed in the DOAJ, only 32 (0.40%) survived the screening process to be identified as OA, discipline-specific journals in which it may be appropriate for librarians to publish. Discipline-specific OA journals which include pedagogy in their scope provide an avenue for librarians to submit manuscripts related to IL and thereby help steer the directional scope and focus of the journal. This presents a unique opportunity for librarians to outreach to faculty in the discipline and make a contribution to the OA movement.
ASSESSING THE INTERNATIONAL USE OF HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENTS: EXPLORING THE MERITS OF DIFFERENT METHODS WHEN APPLIED TO THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH RESEARCH HEALTH TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT (NIHR HTA) PROGRAMME Assessing international use is important when exploring the uptake of research evidence.
Effects of the durability of scientific literature at the group level: Case study of chemistry research groups in the Netherlands In general, we can conclude that the different types of dura- bility of publications have almost no effect on the assessment of the performance of research groups. It appears that both by biblio- metric indicators and by peer review assessments, research with a standard durability is valued and rewarded more positively. Our study also shows the consistency of peer review assess- ments with bibliometric indicators and especially with indicators of durability, in the sense that qualitative indicators also tend to reward "normal" science.
Competition and concentration in the academic research industry: An empirical analysis of the sector dynamics in Australia 1990-2008 We cannot confirm a 'winner-takes-all' process but there are signs of an increasing gap between universities, most likely due to accumulating advantages in the academic research sector. Competitive research income, however, seems to be more resistant to changes within universities, contributing to an increasing gap between universities. This paper has examined how competition affects the university sector in Australia.
Measuring the integration and coordination dynamics of the European Research Area In this paper, we have proposed an enriched definition of the Europeanisation of research, considering that it should be assessed along the major functions of the research systems and along various types of relationships among member states. We have shown that three main phases of development can be distinguished and that the most recent phase is not only characterised by the growing importance of Europeanised functions, but also by the emergence of a new mode of Europeanisation that is driven by coordination in programming and funding. In methodological terms, the framework developed and the data compiled represent a first step and a basis for a refined approach to the monitoring of the process of moving towards an ERA.
A Short Note on Pointless Reference Formatting The solution, already suggested by Friedberg and others, is very simple and straightforward to implement. All journals could adopt a unique reference style, like the URM. Hopefully, by a concerted effort of scholarly societies, as well as authors and editors of scholarly journals, this idea of a single reference style will become reality.
The production and recognition of psychiatric original articles published in languages other than English Non-English language general psychiatry journals contribute substantially to the body of research. However, recognition, and in particular recognition by the international research community is moderate.
The intellectual influence of economic journals: quality versus quantity First, we introduced and formalized a desirable property, and we derived analytically that the popular methods for ranking academic journals are inherently biased.
What inhibits authors to self-archive in Open Access repositories? A Malaysian case This study has provided an insight into Malaysian academic authors' perceptions towards self archiv-ing adoption. In light of these results, there is a need to create more awareness and to educate authors on the importance of self archiving. Ensuring free electronic access to public-funded research lies with the funding institutions, especially universities, which should set up appropriate repository infrastructures, advocate the public good and ethical implications of open access and even mandate self-archiving of research they fund.
External collaboration patterns of research institutions using shared publications in the Web of Science This study has analysed the impact of external collaborations on university performance and has extracted three profiles of universities regarding their external collaborations. Obtained results show a reduced top list of universities, responsible of the majority of collaborations, a second group of universities with lower intensity but wide scope in their external collaboration and a third group of universities with no external collaboration orientation. Both features intensity and scope of external collaborations are the main features to consider when assessing universities external policies.
Research and development in Central America: panorama and prospects for international cooperation The challenges to Central American S&T capacity development are many. Joint applied research projects and programming with international institutions play an important role in advancing these efforts. If this collection of small, middle-income countries can begin to make better use of scientific and technological resources everywhere to advance its development, then not only will Central America stand to benefit but also the region will serve as a model for similarly small and struggling middle-income developing countries in other regions of the world as well.
The 100 top-cited articles in orthodontics from 1975 to 2011 The 100 top-cited articles in orthodontics are generally old articles, rarely possessing high-level evidence. The common study design of the top-cited orthodontics articles is descriptive study. Articles using high-level evidence rarely appear in the 100 top-cited articles in orthodontics.
Chinese orthopaedic surgeons doing clinical research for international publication This cadre of diligent orthopaedic surgeons working in a Level 3-Grade A hospital in East China resembles clinician researchers/scientists, to use Anglo-American terminology.
Individual Differences in Faculty Research Time Allocations Across 13 Countries Using data from a survey of university faculty across 13 different countries, our analysis showed significant variation in the number of hours devoted to research within and between countries. A strong individual motivation towards research over teaching was the only variable which showed a significant and positive relationship with research hours in all 13 countries. The significance of this variable, compared to university allocation policies, may also be reassuring to those concerned about the state of faculty autonomy.
Citation Analysis May Severely Underestimate the Impact of Clinical Research as Compared to Basic Research Popular bibliometric indicators, such as the h-index and the impact factor, do not correct for differences in citation practices between medical fields.
A bird's-eye view of scientific trading: Dependency relations among fields of science We developed a set of concepts to describe scientific trading. Using these concepts, we fashioned a framework comprising four dimensions: (a) Discipline Self-dependence, (b) Exports/Imports, (c) Scientific Trading Dynamics, and (d) Scientific Trading Impact.
Factors affecting citation rates in environmental science Despite well-documented flaws in the Thomson-Reuters impact factor, it remains a strong indicator of journals likely to facilitate a high citation rate. Authors seeking to be well cited should aim to write comprehensive and substantial review articles, and submit them to journals with a high impact factor which has previously carried articles on the topic. Evidence in the present data remains equivocal regarding the contribution of an author's prior publication success (h-index) and the utility of open-access journals.
Some modifications to the SNIP journal impact indicator In this paper, we have discussed a number of modifications that were recently made to the SNIP indicator.
The validation of (advanced) bibliometric indicators through peer assessments: A comparative study using data from InCites and F1000 Since the field normalized indicators Percentile in Subject Area and Category Actual/Expected Citations showed the highest correlations with the ratings both should be preferred over other metrics in research evaluation studies using bibliometrics.
The h-bubble We have shown that the rise of the h-index can be compared to a stock market bubble.
Family-tree of bibliometric indices The above definitions of successful papers can be applied to independent citations. A family tree presented in Table 1 can be verbatim copied, only the data (Table 2) are different. Hierarchical indices (Kosmulski, 2006b) based on the idea of successful papers (successful scientists, successful research groups, etc.) can also be built.
A bibliometric analysis of academic publication and NIH funding Our results provide new insight and suggest that there is no significant racial bias in the NIH review process, in contrast to the conclusion from the study by D. K. Ginther et al.
How relevant is the predictive power of the h-index? A case study of the time-dependent Hirsch index Thus even if one does not perform as expected, one would not disappoint those evaluators who measure the performance in terms of the h-index after 3 or 5 years or even later. Although this is certainly not a new finding, I conclude that one should be very careful when using indicators like the h-index for the prediction of future scientific performance. Certainly more comprehensive future studies are necessary to validate the results, not only using larger datasets, but also comparing scientists from different disciplines and at different scientific age.
Does "birds of a feather flock together" matter-Evidence from a longitudinal study on US-China scientific collaboration Policy implications on research evaluation, human capital management, and public research and development allocation are also discussed in the end.
Archetypal scientists In this paper we introduced archetypal analysis to bibliometric research.
Correlation between Journal Impact Factor and Citation Performance: An experimental study Furthermore, it emerges that it is dangerous to infer the value of journal articles from a specific year using only the related JIF.
A case study of the arbitrariness of the h-index and the highly-cited-publications indicator In conclusion, the present case study has shown how the arbitrariness of the h-index can influence the ranking, in particular, when rather extreme values are chosen for the proportionality factor q, or, equivalently for the angle a of the line intersecting the histogram of the citation distributions in the graphical representation.
A mathematical characterization of the Hirsch-index by means of minimal increments We characterized functions f(n) for which I₂(n) = 0 for all n.
Institutional and country collaboration in an online service of scientific profiles: Google Scholar Citations The obtained results allow us to conclude, at the country level, that The United States scientists form the core of the world collaboration network, detecting two geographical poles: the Asian one, that is only connected with The United States and the European one, which constitutes an interconnected sub-network.
An index for evaluating journals in a small domestic citation index database whose citation rate is generally very low: A test based on the Korea Citation Index (KCI) database In a comparison study between S-index and IF using KCI data, we found that S-index has a higher differentiating power than IF.
Mapping citation patterns of book chapters in the Book Citation Index "In this paper we have introduced a representation improvement for analyzing the citation patterns of book chapters in the BKCI in four different disciplines: the 'heliocentric clockwise maps'."
Collective dynamics in knowledge networks: Emerging trends analysis New trends form as the result of collective activities.
The collaboration behaviors of scientists in Italy: A field level analysis More generally, the proposed approach certainly permits a more truthful picture of the propensity of researchers to collaborate in the various forms, either with their direct colleagues or with other organizations: in fact, basing the quantification of the collaboration phenomenon on counting of publications implies obvious distortions in the case where productivity, apart from collaboration intensity, is not distributed in homogenous fashion (the real-life situation) among researchers within the various fields that are analyzed.
Cross-field evaluation of publications of research institutes using their contributions to the fields' MVPs determined by h-index In this paper we have introduced a new approach to cross-field evaluation of publications of research institutes that is proven empirically to be reasonable, intuitive to understand, and uniform across fields of various publication and citation patterns.
Quantifying the interdisciplinarity of scientific journals and fields In summary, the combination of a new measure for interdisciplinarity exploiting the subject entropy and a novel way to build a citation network allowed us to identify the most interdisciplinary fields and their interconnections.
Impact and structural features of meta-analytical studies, standard articles and reviews in psychology: Similarities and differences These results have a number of implications that should be of interest to the scientific community, not just scientists themselves but also research evaluators, journal editors and bibliometricians. Finally, it should be noted that this study offers a broad overview of the behaviour of meta-analytical studies in the field of psychology, and therefore the results cannot be generalized to other disciplines.
Citation and impact factor distributions of scientific journals published in individual countries The results suggest that: (1) the values of a >1 are associated with a process that retards the generation of items (i.e. citations or impact factors), the difference (a – 1) being related to the dissemination of contents of the journals published by a country, and (2) the constancy of KN is related to the publication potential of a country. The constancy of the product of the Langmuir constant K and the number N of journals for the processes of citations and two- and five-year impact factors of journals published in different countries is related to their publication potential and is represented by the pair of two parameters K and N for a given country.
Efficiency analysis of forestry journals: Suggestions for improving journals' quality An examination of the efficiency of journals can lead to a large number of proposals and suggestions and even to corrections of some "inadequate practices" in terms of publishing policies on behalf of journals, in order to achieve the optimal efficiency and therefore the optimal inputs and outputs.
The Matthew effect for cohorts of economists This paper formally tests the Matthew effect for citations based on systematic deviations from Gibrat's law. Using citation data for almost 25,000 economists, it is shown that the citation distribution is more skewed than can be expected from quality differences alone. It is also found that the Matthew effect is stronger for older researchers.
Individual research performance: A proposal for comparing apples to oranges The average excluding nil values succeeds in appropriately rescaling the productivity values for very top scientists in general and outliers in particular, making it possible to obtain an objective comparison of their performance, independent of the SDSs to which they belong.
Correlation between variables subject to an order restriction, with application to scientometric indices Assessment of the association between variants of the h index (or other scientometric indices) is hampered because these variables are affected by order restrictions (see Rosenberg, 2011) that largely determine the value of conventional indices of association.
How to derive an advantage from the arbitrariness of the g-index In conclusion, now I recommend to use the generalized index ga instead of the h-index, the A-index, and also instead of the original g-index.
How to calculate the practical significance of citation impact differences? An empirical example from evaluative institutional bibliometrics using adjusted predictions and marginal effects When we compare research institutions in evaluative bibliometrics we are primarily interested in the differences that are significant in practical terms.
Uncovering the intellectual development of the Journal of Organizational Change Management A knowledge-stock and bibliometric study, 1995-2011 Grasping the intellectual development of the JOCM enables researchers and practitioners to better understand how issues are being approached by authors who publish in this journal. The findings discussed might also serve as a starting point for scholarly debate.
Research collaboration in health management research communities This study demonstrates that although it is growing steadily, collaboration behavior about health management study needs to be enhanced, especially between different institutions or countries/regions, which would promote the progress and internationalization of health management. Besides, researchers should pay attention to the cooperation of representative scholars and institutions, as well as the hot areas of research, because their experience would help us promote the research development of our nation. These results and proposal would provide an important reference for scholars, policy makers and managers on the aspect of researching and practicing health management deeply.
'Open for business': Do open-access psychiatry journals provide value for money? Whereas a decade ago open access was regarded by some as a fad that was unlikely to take hold, it is now clear with the benefit of hindsight to see that this was a myopic view. Over the next decade open access will no doubt continue to grow and may well become the dominant model for publishing. It is these last two steps that are critical for the open-access model to become an academic success that complements its financial success.
The Most Cited Articles in Hand Surgery Over the Past 20-Plus Years: A Modern-Day Reading List Many of the articles found on our list have shaped the way we practice hand surgery today. Moreover, this study illustrates a possible deficiency of level I randomized, controlled trials and economic/decision analysis studies. These types of studies could be an area of emphasis in future research.
TRENDS AND TOPICS IN SPORTS RESEARCH IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCE CITATION INDEX FROM 1993 TO 2008 The current study on sports articles published in SSCI-listed journals found some interesting trends in the development of research on sports during the period from 1993 to 2008. Bibliographic content analysis is an important contribution to so-cial science and provides useful information about the panorama of global sports research. In the fu-ture, further research can add data of the 2009–2012 period to this current study, making comparisons across five, four-year time periods to explore trends.
Evolutionary paths of change of emerging nanotechnological innovation systems: the case of ZnO nanostructures In this paper we have sought to quantitatively interpret the evolutionary nature of change in emerging nanotechnological innovation systems.
Proposal for a multilevel university cybermetric analysis model The proposed analysis model, based on parts (core and satellite), levels (institutional and external) and sublevels (contour and internal), is simple, independent of technique (allows constant updating of the model without having to modify its general architecture), and provides structured information which enables a complete analysis of each institution.
International scientific collaboration of China: collaborating countries, institutions and individuals China's international scientific collaboration is focused on a handful of countries, among which the USA accounts for more than 40 % of all. An important new finding is that Chinese lineage in the international co-authorship is obvious, which means Chinese immigrants scientists are playing an important role in China's international scientific collaboration. In addition, a relatively small number of elite Chinese institutions, including Zhejiang University, Peking University, Tsinghua University, etc., host over half of the international scientific collaboration of China, and work with a wide array of international institutions.
A scientometrics law about co-authors and their ranking: the co-author core Two main findings must be outlined as a summary and conclusion.
An empirical investigation of the influence of collaboration in Finance on article impact Our primary investigation based on the full WoS sample reveals that collaboration does indeed lead to articles of higher impact as measured by greater citation counts, and that impact steadily rises as we move from two authors to three and then four authors per article.
Creative accomplishments in science: definition, theoretical considerations, examples from science history, and bibliometric findings In sum, the paper argues that the conceptual scheme is a heuristic complementary to that of Kuhn (1962, 1970). First, the article argues that science progresses not only through the development of new theory but to significant parts also through advances in experimentation and instrumentation. Second, empirical studies on the level of research organizations can complement the conceptual analysis of this article.
Evolution of the publications in clinical neurology: scientific impact of different countries during the 2000-2009 period In conclusion, our study shows that both the productivity and visibility of publications in Clinical Neurology are increasing. Most of the publications and citations originate from only 14 countries, led by USA. European countries with relatively low population, such as Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Belgium, and the Netherlands, take part in this top group.
The automatic normalisation challenge: detailed addresses identification The results obtained by applying our methodology to a Spanish set have been statistically very reliable, allowing us to replace much of the manual encoding job. The methodology proposed in this study has meant a considerable upgrading on the techniques used by our group beforehand. The next steps will deal with those corporate sources that include various institutions and the detailed analysis of records not automatically encoded using approximate string matching techniques.
Progress in global parallel computing research: a bibliometric approach A new research upsurge in parallel computing emerged after the rapid development in the 1990s.
Quality of research: which underlying values? Four classes of researchers emerge from the analysis. Three of them, each representing about a third of the respondents, indicate three types of “quality values”. Returning to our first two questions that have initially guided our study we note that only a quarter of respondents are familiar with bibliometric approaches and with their utilization for evaluation purposes. Thus, the faculty, the department or the team who have to evaluate the quality of research must first clarify the specific values associated with it.
Citation success over time: theory or empirics? This study compares the citation success of theoretical and empirical papers and discovers very similar patterns over time. Both graphical representations and regression results indicate that empirical papers attract a significantly higher number of citations than theoretical papers. Moreover, the results indicate that amongst empirical papers, cross-country studies are most successful.
The changing dynamics in citation index publication position China in a race with the USA for global leadership China may already be leading the world in some publication attributes, although it could take several more decades to catch up with the USA in others.
Evolving collaboration networks in Scientometrics in 1978-2010: a micro-macro analysis Comparing results across the three levels reveals that results from one level might propagate to the next level, e.g., top rankings of a few key single authors can not only have a major impact on the ranking of their institution but also lead to a dominance of their country at the country level; movement of prolific authors among institutions can lead to major structural changes in the institution networks.
A citation-analysis of economic research institutes The quality of the publication outlet has a very significant, strong and positive effect on the number of cites an article obtains, but the increase is smaller the higher the journal quality is.
Scientific publishing in West Africa: comparing Benin with Ghana and Senegal The positions of the three countries vary depending on the considered indicator. This study pointed out the weakness of the intra-three countries collaboration, the lack of direct cooperation between Beninese, Ghanaian and Senegalese national institutions, apart from the main universities, and the domination external institutions, mainly Western ones, exerted on developing countries’ national research systems (Boshoff 2009, p. 416). The solution to the current situation of science in these countries goes through research status improvement and adequate funding of research activities by both national governments and regional integration institutions.
A scientometric analysis of the effectiveness of Taiwan's educational research projects The results/findings include: (1) there is a relatively high percentage of educational journal clusters that exhibit regional or cultural characteristics, in additional to topical characteristics; (2) The research output can be ranked differently if these characteristics are taken into consideration (such as ranking based on topical clusters only); (3) educational policies could shape or redirect the local research community in a tremendous way (in terms of publication pattern change in a short period of time) and Taiwan is evidence to this case.
The effect of database dirty data on h-index calculation This paper proposed a model for estimating the variability of the h-index by means of the informetric model by Egghe and Rousseau (2006), which relates the variability of h with that of C and P.
Profit (p)-Index: The Degree to Which Authors Profit from Co-Authors In conclusion, in the present article we have introduced a simple harmonic weighing algorithm for correcting citations and citation-based metrics such as the h-index for co-authorships. We then derived a measure estimating the degree to which authors profit from co-authors, called the ‘profit (p)-index’, which simply equals to the contribution of co-authors to the scientific work of a given author. We feel that these co-authorship-adjusted metrics may thus provide a more fair impression of the autonomous academic performance of a particular scientist.
An analysis of radiological research publications in high impact general medical journals between 1996 and 2010 A very small number (0.19%) in five high impact general medical journals was published by radiologists between 1996 and 2010. Further investigations are necessary to determine how many and where manuscripts generated by radiologists are published.
International relations research performance among Australian universities "in any case, we emphasise that our unit of analysis is the IR concentration in particular universities, not individual scholars."
CHINESE GRADUATE STUDENTS AND US SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTIVITY The contribution of this paper is to show that Chinese students enrolled in U.S. Ph.D. programs have a strong record of publications during their graduate studies.
A bibliometric analysis of the clinical development of drugs in Norway for the year 2000 In addition to a scientific standard secured by referees, three probably independent factors – industrial support, international cooperation and early phases of the research (phases I, II and III) – seem to promote publications in journals with high IF and a high SCI. A more active Norwegian contribution to the research should be encouraged. Our results indicate that international coopera- tion with support from the industry, and the early phases of the development of the drug (phases I, II and III) contributes to a high SCI and publication in journals with a high IF.
Intellectual structure of Korean theology 2000-2008: Presbyterian theological journals In examining the intellectual structure of Korean theology, we generated a Pathfinder Network with co-word analysis, using first-order cosine similarity and second-order correlation coefficients. This study suggests that the Pathfinder Network composed of second-order associations effectively presents the structure of this research domain. The outcomes of this study demonstrate that the major streams of Korean theology are classified as three clusters: Reformed theology, general theology and evangelicalism.
Topic segmentation model based on ATNLDA and co-occurrence theory and its application in stem cell field Following topic analysis, ATNLDA was found to be effective and feasible within the data set of stem cell field.
the contribution of ISI indexing to a paper's citations: results of a natural experiment The results of the analysis seem to confirm the hypothesis that ISI indexing tends to increase the number of citations received by a paper significantly, after controlling for other factors such as the issue number, the inclusion in a special issue, and the publication date. The main conclusion is that indexing by the ISI WoS serves not only as a valuable source of citation data from which to develop objective measures of academic impact, but can also improve the citation rate of papers included in the index. This means that in spite of the increasing competition from alternative providers, there is still no full substitute for the ISI WoS. Finally, the findings about the still dominant position of ISI in the market for academic indexing and search services may also have implications for competition surveillance authorities.
The rise and fall of interdisciplinary research: The case of open source innovation Our detailed analysis of the evolution of the field will be of interest to scholars within this growing field itself and to others beyond who can use it as a reference case.
Interdisciplinary research and the early career: The effect of interdisciplinary dissertation research on career placement and publication productivity of doctoral graduates in the sciences This paper provides several important insights that help us better understand the career pathways of U.S. doctoral graduates in the sciences and social sciences. This study shows that those who report conducting interdisciplinary dissertation research are more likely than other graduates to obtain employment within institutions of higher education. This research may serve an important role in assisting those involved in research policy-making, research administration, and research funding to understand how interdisciplinary approaches, which are being viewed as transformative developments in the nature of scientific research, are impacting individuals.
Journal Impact Factors: Their relevance and their influence on society-published scientific journals Perhaps the single most important finding of our analysis of JIF and journal rankings presented here is that in the 21st century (the dawn of commercial electronic publishing/distribution models), commercially published journals have been speeding past society-published journals in regards to growth in JIF. Our work leads to similar conclusions, and should give pause to anyone who, in judging a paper, author, journal or discipline, substitutes a numerical score for human judgment. And if professional societies are to continue to play a significant role in science publication, it is incumbent upon scientists-now more than ever-to send their best works to society-published journals.
Metrics-Based Assessments of Research: Incentives for 'Institutional Plagiarism'? The analysis presented here indicates that the rules of metrics-based systems can encourage universities, if not to pass work off as their own, at least to gain credit from research in which they played no part.
Ethical Modernization: Research Misconduct and Research Ethics Reforms in Korea Following the Hwang Affair First, this paper detailed the instances of scientific misconduct perpetrated by Hwang's team, and connected them with the failure of science governance.
Text-Based Plagiarism in Scientific Writing: What Chinese Supervisors Think About Copying and How to Reduce it in Students' Writing For the sample of Chinese scientists in this study, text-based plagiarism, which typically involves the replication or patchwriting of sentences from a source or sources, should be discussed in a framework of ethical research conduct.
Survival skills: the impact of change and the ERA on Australian researchers Ultimately, the use of a volatile and non-trans- parent framework appears to have caused significant stress and concern amongst individ- ual researchers, particularly those at the start of their careers and those whose employment is also unstable. Amidst widespread concern about the principles underlying research assessment, researchers find them- selves in conflict between their beliefs and actions, constantly changing their research and publication activities to meet new demands. The findings of this study suggest that survival as an academic researcher in Australia might now necessitate a thick skin, an entrepreneurial mindset and the adoption of multiple selves.
Journals with borders, journals without borders: under-representation of Asian countries in educational research journals Editors and editorial boards need to be very sure that all is in good order with respect to their influences upon the under-representation of Asian countries, before delving deeply into research-ing author, government and institutional influences.
Factors influencing university research performance Our study suggests the department does have the potential to influence, and departments where, according to Wood (1990, 89), ‘colleagues can provide stimulation and challenge’, might be key.
Where Do Radiologists Publish Their Work? A Comparative Analysis of Publications by Radiologists in Nonradiology Journals in 2000 and 2010 Radiologic publications in nonradiology journals have increased in terms of number, percentage, journal IF, and range of contributions.
Growth dynamics of citations of cumulative papers of individual authors according to progressive nucleation mechanism: Concept of citation acceleration Modeling the growth behavior of cumulative citations Lsum(t) of cumulative N papers published by a hypothetical author in his/her entire publication career spanning over t years according to the progressive nucleation mechanism (PNM) reveals that, for all nonzero values of constant publication rate AN, the time dependence of Lsum(t) may be represented in two distinct regions: (1) in the region 0 < t < Θ0, Lsum(t) slowly increases approximately proportional to the square of citation time t (see Eq. (17)), and (2) in the region t > T, Lsum(t) approaches a constant Lsum(max) at T.
Comparative study of four impact measures and qualitative conclusions Although the g-, R- and j-indices were defined to be more sensitive to the number of citations to the highest cited papers than the h-index, the above shows that these measures are very different. We also calculate the maximum and minimum values of all four indices from which again follow their differences. Finally we prove some general inequalities between these four indices. We leave open to conduct similar studies of other impact measures.
Trends in Citations to Books on Epidemiological and Statistical Methods in the Biomedical Literature Books were mainly cited to reference methods.
Identifying translational science within the triangle of biomedicine The Triangle of Biomedicine is a novel way to identify translational science and track changes over time.
Toward Marketplace Diversity: A Multimeasure, Multidimensional Study of the Journal of Public Policy & Marketing Our findings show that diversity plays out in the content of the journal's research.
Do Altmetrics Work? Twitter and Ten Other Social Web Services The results provide strong evidence that six of the eleven altmetrics (tweets, Facebook wall posts, research highlights, blog mentions, mainstream media mentions and forum posts) associate with citation counts, at least in medical and biological sciences and for articles with at least one altmetric mention, but the methods used do not shed light on the magnitude of any correlation between the altmetrics and citations (i.e., the correlation effect size is unknown). Nevertheless, the coverage of all of the altmetrics, except possibly Twitter, is low (below 20% in all cases and possibly substantially below 20%) and so these altmetrics may only be useful to identify the occasional exceptional or above average articles. Finally, the coverage of all the altmetrics except for Twitter seems to be low and so it is not clear if they are prevalent enough to be useful in practice.
Predominant sources and contributors of influential business ethics research: evidence and implications from a threshold citation analysis Based on the threshold citation analysis, our results, in general, indicate the presence of a silo effect in influential business ethics research.
An application of the text mining approach to select technology centers of excellence The result of this research was appealing to Iran's nanotechnology policymakers.
Mapping the literature of addictions treatment Addictions treatment literature is widely dispersed among multidisciplinary publications with relatively few publications providing most of the citations. Results of this study will help researchers, students, clinicians, and librarians identify the most important journals and bibliographic indexes in this field, as well as publishing opportunities. MEDLINE provides the most comprehensive cov-erage of addiction treatment literature, but PsycINFO should also be searched for comprehensive searches.
Measures of health sciences journal use: a comparison of vendor, link-resolver, and local citation statistics Link-resolver data correlate well with vendor and citation data, but due to anomalies, low link-resolver data would best be used to suggest titles for further evaluation using vendor data.
Are UK otorhinolaryngologists maintaining their research output? These results are encouraging as they refute the fall in UK research output observed by other authors.
Assessing Nanocellulose Developments Using Science and Technology Indicators Nanocellulose S&T developments were investigated by using bibliometric indicators obtained from scientific publications and patent documents from 2001 to 2010.
Scientometrics Analysis on the Intellectual Structure of the Research Field of Bioenergy Findings of our study show that the study on bioenergy is a nascent and rapidly emerging field.
Academic Performance Indicators for Departments of Geography in the United States and Canada In this article, we proposed a set of indicators of academic performance based on measures of scholarly output and recognition. Our application of the proposed indicators to a selection of geography departments in the United States and Canada reveals some notable patterns across departments and the primary subfields in geography. Finally, differences in productivity, citation, and h-Index scores between male and fe-male geographers are apparent but attributable to differences in academic age and subfield choice (human geography) rather than gen-der.
Group Heterogeneity Increases the Risks of Large Group Size: A Longitudinal Study of Productivity in Research Groups Our analysis of the productivity of 549 research groups indicated that more PIs on a project increased productivity, but heterogeneity reduced the marginal productivity of research groups when members were from multiple disciplines or institutions.
Referees Often Miss Obvious Errors in Computer and Electronic Publications Given the code problems mentioned here, it is risky to consider critical systems to be truly 'safe.'
Comparing Research Productivity Across Disciplines and Career Stages An aggregate understanding of faculty productivity patterns across disciplines and career stages can serve as an important policy guide for administrators and department heads in evaluating faculty work.
A Compendium of Multi-Item Scales Utilized in Logistics Research (2001-10): Progress Achieved Since Publication of the 1973-2000 Compendium Our data show substantial and sustained advancement in the composition and construction of the multi-item measurement scales representing a core element of the foundation supporting logistics and supply chain management research.
Productivity in Physical and Chemical Science Predicts the Future Economic Growth of Developing Countries Better than Other Popular Indices Results suggest that the economies of middle income countries that focus their academic efforts in selected areas of applied knowledge grow slower than countries which invest in general basic sciences. For historical periods with no global financial catastrophes, the economic growth of middle income countries can be predicted with high accuracy by looking at their relative academic productivity in physical sciences and engineering. No country with exclusive preferential investment in technology, without investment in basic science, achieved relatively high economic development.
Traffic medicine-related research: a scientometric analysis Summarizing the present data it can be stated traffic medicine-related research productivity grows annually. Also, an active networking between countries is present. The data of the present study may be used by scientific organisations in order to gain detailed information about research activities in this field which is extremely important for public health.
Experimenting with the partnership ability φ-index on a million computer scientists These results suggest that the Schubert-Glänzel's model of q-index is accurate and robust on the domain-wide bibliographic dataset of computer science.
Can a personal website be useful as an information source to assess individual scientists? The case of European highly cited researchers Today a researcher can have a diverse and rich web presence through various channels such as research group websites, institutional repositories, disciplinary repositories, scholarly databases or social websites; however they mainly provide information related to scholarly publications.
Evaluating research institutions: the potential of the success-index The paper showed—through several practical applications—the relative simplicity and flexibility of the success-index when comparing groups of researchers from different disciplines. In particular, it is shown that, apart from a field-normalization at the level of the individual paper, this indicator makes it possible to achieve: (1) normalizations on the basis of the staff number or other “resources” considered, (2) compositions of the results related to multiple years, by a simple sum of the annual contributions. In the future, we will extend the application of the success-index to a large-scale analysis of all the Italian universities (public and private).
Patterns of authors' information scattering: towards a causal explanation of information scattering from a scholarly information-seeking behavior perspective As an author's number of contributions to science increases, his/her cited journals take the form of a core-scatter distribution.
The interdisciplinary structure of research on intercultural relations: a co-citation network analysis study Based on the results, a structural framework of the knowledge domain of intercultural relations research is proposed to represent thematic relatedness between topical groups and their relations. This framework is useful for placing research themes into the intercultural relations domain context so that researchers can be informed of salient topics and directions and find opportunities for bridging sub-areas especially with those that have just come into Ring I. However, albeit the extra care and given to the datasets, its coverage bias cannot be controlled or mitigated, and caveats should be kept in mind while interpreting and applying the results from this study.
Detecting the knowledge structure of bioinformatics by mining full-text collections The contributions of our paper are three-folds: (1) it is the first attempt to fully utilize text mining techniques to understand the knowledge structure of a field. (2) We chose PubMed Central full-text data and automated citation analysis based on the PubMed Central data. 3) we conducted comprehensive content as well as citation analysis. As a follow-up study, we plan to compare the results of our approach to PubMed Central data with the traditional approach which is based on Web of Science citation data.
Global remote sensing research trends during 1991-2010: a bibliometric analysis This study provided an alternative perspective on the global research trends in remote sensing studies during 1991-2010.
On the impact of Gold Open Access journals The identified top Gold Open Access journals proved to be well-established and their impact is generally increasing for all the analyzed indicators.
An exploration of link-based knowledge map in academic web space In this paper, we report a case study of building a core-extension-based web knowledge map in the area of information retrieval to demonstrate our proposed strategy.
Comparison of independent research of China's top universities using bibliometric indicators Peking University and Tsinghua University were pretty even with many similarities in the quantity and quality of total publications, the trend of annual production, and common co-authorship. THU focused on engineering while PKU concentrated on science. Although the widely used indicators, namely, h-index and CPP have been employed to characterize the performance of THU and PKU’s independent research, some limitation should also be noticed.
Perceptions of author order versus contribution among researchers with different professional ranks and the potential of harmonic counts for encouraging ethical co-authorship practices This method may also discourage unethical publication practices such as ghost authorship and gift authorship.
Methodological quality in clinical trials and bibliometric indicators: no evidence of correlations This study of antibiotic prophylaxis in surgery does not support the hypothesis that bibliometric indicators are a valid instrument for assessing methodological quality in clinical trials. This is a worrying observation, since bibliometric indicators have a major influence on research funding. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that the usefulness of bibliometric indicators as a measure of quality, in particular methodological quality, is subject to question and far from settled. However, more studies are needed.
Measuring the similarity between the reference and citation distributions of journals The "Jaccardized Czekanowski index”, JCz, an indicator measuring the similarity between the cited and citing journal list of a given journal is proposed in the paper.
Impact of foreign external PhD examiners on academic collaboration patterns The use of foreign external examiners stimulates academic intercourse in general and sets a useful benchmark for common PhD standards but does not markedly increase international collaboration after the examination.
Multiple regression analysis of a patent's citation frequency and quantitative characteristics: the case of Japanese patents The number of classifications of cited patents exhibits a statistically significant positive correlation with the citation frequency in linear, logistic, and ZINB models (p < 0.001).
Opinion paper: thoughts and facts on bibliometric indicators Following the model by Dieks and Chang (1976) introduced in ‘The stochastic nature of bibliometric indicators' one approach could be to pick up the notions embodied in their paper, and further develop these into a model that would be able to deal with aggregations of papers.
Marketing's SEM based nomological network: Constructs and research streams in 1987-1997 and in 1998-2008 The marketing discipline, as captured by the interconnection of the discipline's latent constructs found in SEMs, converges on two research streams.
Views on the peer review system of biomedical journals: an online survey of academics from high-ranking universities We conclude that academics are divided on the issue of whether biomedical journal peer review is fair, scientific and transparent.
Hindsight, insight, and foresight: a multi-level structural variation approach to the study of a scientific field We have presented an explanatory and computational theory of transformative discovery and demonstrated how this theory can guide the development of more effective and direct measures of the potential impact of newly published scientific articles.
Innovation as a nonlinear process, the scientometric perspective, and the specification of an "innovation opportunities explorer' The scientometric perspective contributes to the over-arching problems of ecological and social mechanisms in complex phenomena by focusing on the process of nonlinear innovations in knowledge-based economies.
Just how difficult can it be counting up R&D funding for emerging technologies (and is tech mining with proxy measures going to be any better)? This paper helps to address this question by presenting a framework for examining the strengths and weaknesses of different ways of tracking organisations’ activity around emerging technolo-gies.
When does centrality matter? Scientific productivity and the moderating role of research specialization and cross-community ties Our study provided evidence that building social capital through central positions within the scientific community matters for productivity. Our study offers interesting practical implications for scientists, research managers and policy makers. Our study has some limitations that may represent avenues for future research.
Social media and scholarly reading Although most UK academics use one or more forms of social media for work-related purposes, frequency of use is not as high as might be expected. For now social media is not replacing traditional scholarly resources for research and teaching, but rather enhancing their use. Academics who read more than average are also more likely to be above average users of social media.
The Perception of Brazilian Researchers concerning the Factors that Influence the Citation of their Articles: A Study in the Field of Sustainability Four factors explain the perceptions of the participating researchers regarding influences on citation performance.
Theses Submitted by Doctoral Students of Physical Research Laboratory, India: A Citation Analysis Major conclusions that can be drawn from the consolidated findings are that PhD students at PRL are displaying an enhanced use of electronic resources since 2001; so much so that the proportion of print and elec-tronic resources cited seemed almost equal by 2006. The researchers hope that this information will be useful to the institute's decision makers for future research planning and collection building. Evaluating the citation rate after the institutional repository was built at PRL is the subject of a future study.
Researchers' green open access practice: a cross-disciplinary analysis Approximately half of the authors reported self-archiving a version of their journal article(s) in an OAR, although a majority of these indicated that someone else had made their work available in an OAR for them.
A bibliometric study of taxonomic botany There are several conclusions to be drawn from this study. The attempt to create a Bradford-type distribution of the bare frequencies with which journals were cited, was successful. A "core” of 12 most highly-cited journals has been identified. Most of these are already viewed as authoritative in the field, and this is confirmed by the present study. This study has confirmed and underlined two unsurprising facts about botanical publications: (1) that books are relatively more important than in other sciences; and (2) that older materials are relatively more important than in other sciences. Finally, it appears that taxonomic botany journals are not adequately covered in citation indexes.
Profile and scientific output analysis of physical therapy researchers with research productivity fellowship from the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development The scientific output of the researchers with research productivity fellowship in the field of physical therapy stands out in their indicators, since the figures are very promising for a relatively young area and as it can be observed by the amount of published articles and citations obtained by the national and international research community.
Does tuition for journal referees work? A quantitative evaluation of a half-day tuition course Consultants already have the expertise to decide whether a paper should be rejected.
Research discourses surrounding global university rankings: exploring the relationship with policy and practice recommendations This study has considered the ways in which differing research perspectives influence the nature of public policy recommendations proposed in the emerging field of interest in global university rankings. The analysis has shown that research problems formulated in relation to a priori theoretical positions tend to favour structural and systemic policy responses. Such research may help identify new developmental lines for international transparency instruments that are regarded as being more ‘fit for purpose’.
Determining scientific impact using a collaboration index This paper provides strong evidence that evaluating researchers on the basis of metrics like the total number of publications and the H-index can be misleading and that fairer evaluations of a researcher's individual scientific impact can be made by taking into account collaborative tendencies. The strength of the P-index lies in its ability to compare researchers with different collaborative tendencies, using the A-index to balance quantity and quality of research. We anticipate that the axiomatic approach of credit assignment will become a main tool in development of academic assessment or peer review systems (15).
Robust analysis of bibliometric data In this work, we suggest handling the same bibliometric indicators derived from different databases in order to balance the shortcomings of a single database. In the near future, we want to carry out a simulation study in order to find empirical evidence that supports the use of forward search to produce a generalised ranking.
Bibliographic coupling and network analysis to assess knowledge coalescence in a research center environment This article examined the measurement of centerness through bibliographic coupling in comparison with two other methods.
A study of global and local visibility as web indicators of research production Findings highlight that it is not only relevant the count of links received by an institution but also the position occupied by this institution among the rest of them.
Incorporation of Early Career Researchers within multidisciplinary research at academic institutions Currently it is felt that ECRs are an underused resource within multidisciplinary research as most networking opportunities are found at higher levels.
Modeling the dissemination and uptake of clinical trials results Evaluating the pace of clinical research, results dissemination, and knowledge uptake in synthesized literature can help establish realistic expectations for the time course of clinical trials research and their relative impact toward influencing clinical practice.
Evaluating transformative research programmes: A case study of the NSF Small Grants for Exploratory Research programme The analysis shows that SGER was highly successful in supporting research projects that produced transformative results as measured by citations and as reported through expert interviews and a survey.
Elsevier Compendex and Google Scholar: A Quantitative Comparison of Two Resources for Engineering Research and an Update to Prior Comparisons Although this investigation was primarily a quantitative comparison of two indexing tools, it is worth adding depth to the findings with some qualitative concerns. Given that even students and faculty who have received extensive instruction in the use of databases and indexing tools often reported that they still reached for Google as a 'first search' tool... it is worth considering whether a continuing investment in these indexing and abstracting tools is worthwhile when a comparable and maturing alternative exists and with which users are intuitively comfortable, free of charge.
Bibliometric analysis of service innovation research: Identifying knowledge domain and global network of knowledge Our results show that there are two main groups of research relating to service
Reliability of Reviewer Ratings in the Manuscript Peer Review Process: An Opportunity for Improvement We demonstrate that there is disagreement across questions in a check-list at our journal. We argue that this could be because we are asking reviewers to make global judgments and propose that reviewer focus be brought to specific, important, concrete items during the peer review process. We anticipate trialing our proposed tool at Clinical Medicine and Research and are hopeful that the outcome will be a demonstration of improvements in accountability for both our authors and readers.
Rank variability of the Publish or Perish metrics for economics and finance journals This article sets forth a list of journals for economics and finance. This article specifically highlights some economics and finance journals that have particularly high rank SD across the 10 PoP metrics. Inquiry into the deeper issues driving the rank dispersion among economics and finance journals would be a sensible avenue for future research.
Research output at US economics departments Individual faculty members and administrators may find our results helpful.
Which Journal Articles are Uncited? The Case of the Asia Pacific Journal of Tourism Research and the Journal of Travel and Tourism Marketing Generally speaking, our empirical findings show that most uncited articles were non-research articles, including book reviews, conference reports, and columns.
Doing Hirsch proud; shaping H-index in engineering sciences The h,H-indices are the general measure of the position of the given subject (person or organisation) but cannot be universal.
Geographic trends in research output and citations in veterinary medicine: insight into global research capacity, species specialization, and interdisciplinary relationships In conclusion, bibliographic data documented geographic trends in research output and quality, species specialization, and interdisciplinary affiliations, and their relationship with demographic and economic factors that underlie many of the changes affecting the veterinary profession.
How Does the Market Use Citation Data? The Hirsch Index in Economics In this paper, I have examined the degree to which Hirsch-like citation indexes are aligned with market outcomes for economists.
A label for peer-reviewed books? Some critical reflections All the critical observations and remarks that have been made notwithstanding, the introduction of the GPRC label in Flanders has undoubtedly been a huge step forward in the context of the ever-increasing importance of academic output, both for the evaluation of individual scholars and for the distribution of financial resources among universities and their departments. Taking all these elements into consideration, a generally accepted label for peer-reviewed books remains a wonderful ideal to pursue, but its establishment, let alone implementation, is not yet just round the corner. For the time being, if ever, scholarly publishers seem to have no reason to stop working on their good old reputation.
Republication of conference papers in journals? Republication of a paper which has previously appeared in conference proceedings has long been relatively common and widely accepted in the field of computing and EEE. However, some journals now question the value of doing so and prefer to focus their content on completely novel work.
Beyond online preprints: formalization of open initiatives in China However, this article suggests that developments in China also provide important lessons about the potential of digital technology and government policy to facilitate a large-scale shift towards more open and networked models of scholarly communication.
Clinical trials in Brazilian journals of ophthalmology: where we are The number of citations and the quality of reporting of clinical trials in Brazilian journals of ophthalmology still are low when compared with the foreign journals of ophthalmology with highest Impact Factor®. The situation is worse to the articles published in Portuguese.
Influence of English language in the number of citations of articles published in Brazilian journals of Ophthalmology The number of citations of articles published in Portuguese at Brazilian ophthalmology journals is lower than the published in English. The results of this study suggest that the editorial boards should strongly encourage the authors to adopt English as the main language in their future articles. This effort may contribute to the improvement of Brazilians Ophthalmology journals impact factor.
DNA Repair: A changing geography? (1964-2008) The major changes in the geography of DNA Repair are the changes which have affected the geography of scientific activities in general.
Participation in university-based research centers: Is it helping or hurting researchers? Our research shows that tenured full faculty members benefit the most from affiliation with a research center, in terms of collab- oration and productivity rates.
Landscape of ecological research in Australia: A bibliometric analysis of trends in research output and hotspots of research from 1991 to 2010 Quantification of the spatial arrangement of ecological research in Australia has highlighted a number of hotspots and revealed several regional centres of high ecological activity.
Detecting salient themes in financial marketing research from 1961 to 2010 This longitudinal approach provides a snapshot of the thematic evolution of financial services research and predicts where such research could lead. These findings indicate the potential usefulness of bibliometric studies in uncovering the intellectual structure and evolution of different research fields. This evolution provides an opportunity to anticipate interesting developments in these fields with respect to key topics, as well as predicting which topics are less likely to assume a central role in the literature in the near future (Cho & Khang, 2006; Echchakoui & Mathieu, 2008). Finally, these data, results and maps could be useful for practitioners and researchers to gain a better understanding of the ‘state of the art’ in the FMR community and predict future paths of research.
Reflecting on GIS-related research in South Africa: 1980-2012 Overall, a significant amount of GIS-related research has taken place in South Africa from 1980 to 2012.
Rhetoric and Change in Innovation Policy: The Case of South Africa This analysis suggests that many of the post democracy expectations for S&T and innovation remain to be addressed: how will priorities for S&T and innovation be set in an accountable manner; what coordination mechanism is appropriate and workable; how can CEOs of the PRIs be held to account; given the persistence of linear model thinking is the idea of an innovation system mere rhetoric or of substance?
Multilevel-statistical reformulation of citation-based university rankings: The Leiden ranking 2011/2012 First, our results show that approximately 5% of the PPtop10% total variance can be attributed to differences among universities; approximately 95% is attributable to variance within the universities. Thus, we recommend that not only in the LR but also in other university rankings Goldstein-adjusted confidence intervals should be used to present the results. In addition to the implications that follow from our results mentioned above, in the future we would like to see university rankings that also take into account the range of disciplines/fields at a university (van Vught & Ziegele, 2012).
A Citation Analysis of Atmospheric Science Publications by Faculty at Texas A&M University From the analysis, the authors conclude that, in their 119 publications from 2008 through 2009, the faculty of the Atmospheric Sciences Department at Texas A&M University cited journal articles as their primary source format at 91 percent of the total citations, followed by books as the secondary format at 5 percent. Overall, it is clear that the TAMU Libraries' collection for this group of researchers meets their needs quite well. In hard economic times, many libraries are forced to cancel journals. So the results could also form the beginnings of a broader list of infrequently used titles (across multiple departments) as candidates for potential cancellation or for storage.
Correlations between bibliometrics and peer evaluation for all disciplines: the evaluation of Brazilian scientists It is not unreasonable that some of the correlations should be high, maybe higher than other published results.
Are more senior academics really more research productive than junior academics? Evidence from Australian law schools The purpose of this article has been to re-examine the issue of whether more senior academics exhibit higher research productivity than less senior academics, specifically taking into account the endogeneity of academic rank. Our main finding is that, once endogeneity of academic rank is addressed, more senior academics at Australian law schools do not publish more articles in top law journals than their less senior colleagues. If research expectations are tied to academic seniority, they should be specified in terms of citation metrics, rather than publications.
Heterogeneity of collaboration and its relationship with research impact in a biomedical field Our data show the growing role of collaboration in the Pharmacology and Pharmacy field in Spain as evidenced by the upward trend in the number of authors, institutions and countries per paper.
Predicting author h-index using characteristics of the co-author network This analysis suggests that the highest h-index will be achieved by working with many co-authors, at least some with high h-indexes themselves.
Careers in science: policy issues according to Nature and Science editorials We identified the main topics on scientific careers in Nature and Science editorials as being career conditions while in academia, the attractiveness of science as a career to potential entrants, merit-based career policies, the effect of research funding on scientists’ careers, specific groups underrepresented in science, and the mobility of scientists.
Disparities in publication patterns by gender, race and ethnicity based on a survey of a random sample of authors Gender and racial disparities have greatly diminished in academia over the last 30 years, but attrition rates among women and minority faculty still remain high.
A comparison of citation contexts between natural sciences and social sciences and humanities This study shows that no significant differences exist in the distribution of concept categories between NS and SSH articles citing LSBS, but that a reverse result exists in the distribution of citation functions between them. Although NS and SSH articles cited the same content in certain instances, the reason for citing the certain content may differ between NS and SSH articles because of the complex reasons behind the use of literary citations. Concepts related to characteristics of big science and scientific collaboration have the longest half-lives.
Retraction of global scientific publications from 2001 to 2010 Although global scientific publications increased in recent years, the increase in the number of retractions was more significant.
On the correction of the h-index for career length We show that this happens in classical informetric cases giving evidence to Abt’s claim that this indicator often is t-independent. So the first method (although too simple in its definition) performs equally well as the second method, hence the first method should be preferred due to its simplicity. We encourage the reader to conduct further experiments on these three types of “age-independent” indices and to define new variants of these three methods.
The impact of misconduct on the published medical and non-medical literature, and the news media The results of this comprehensive survey of articles retracted due to misconduct suggest four trends that all stakeholders in scholarly research should bear in mind:
Comprehensive geometrical interpretation of h-type indices With the help of these plots, it is easier to understand indices and we can quickly apply indices to real issues.
Two simple new bibliometric indexes to better evaluate research in disciplines where publications typically receive less citations This paper introduces two indexes which try to improve on the h index, by far the most widely used bibliometric index. k and w may be particularly useful when used to comparatively evaluate research performances in many disciplines in Social Sciences and Humanities, where citations per paper tend to be lower, yielding lower values of the h index and a strong concentration of scientists in very few (low) values of the index. Finally, whether or not we normalize citations to take into account co-authorship does make a difference.
h-Type hybrid centrality measures for weighted networks Several metrics are proposed for nodes in a weighted network that can be regarded as new centrality measures.
Reverse-engineering conference rankings: what does it take to make a reputable conference? In this paper we presented our results on “reverse-engineering perceived reputation of conferences with the aim to reveal to what extent existing conference rankings reflect objective criteria, specifically submission and acceptance statistics and bibliometric indicators.
Capturing and Tracking Performance of Patent Portfolio Using h-Complement Area Centroid Based on the citation distribution of a competitor's decreasingly sorted patent portfolio, we define an h-complement area and then propose to use the centroid of the h-complement area, which characterizes the shape of the h-complement area or the shape of the entire rank-citation curve, to capture the competitor's portfolio performance.
Honorary authorship epidemic in scholarly publications? How the current use of citation-based evaluative metrics make (pseudo)honorary authors from honest contributors of every multi-author article This would be a strong disincentive against honorary authorship and publication cartels, because it would transform the current win-win strategy of accepting honorary authors in the byline into a zero-sum game for each contributor.
Response to the commentaries of Melissa S Anderson and Murray J Dyck My proposal could, at best, make the system fairer and, at worst, not reduce the options that evaluators already have.
How Large-Scale Research Facilities Connect to Global Research The paper has examined the role of LSRFs as “knowledge attractors” (Colombelli & von Tunzelmann, 2011), focusing on the factors affecting their ability to act as magnet for global research talent through collaborative projects. The overall message of this study is that while connectivity among researchers may have some stochastic dimensions, it also has quite profound self-organized regularities.
Referencing practices in physical geography: How well do we cite what we write? The results presented here indicate that at least 19% of the citations in the physical geography journals examined do not provide adequate support for the statement made.
Look Who's Talking: Compositional Effects of Gender and Status on Verbal Contributions at Sociology Conferences "Social context is of considerable importance. Men's duration of spoken contributions declines and women's speech duration increases when there are more women in the audience."
Has Large-Scale Named-Entity Network Analysis Been Resting on a Flawed Assumption? "These results can be explained in part by the fact that lumping artificially creates many intransitive relationships and high-degree vertices."
The Impact of Long-term Scientific Mobility on the Creation of Persistent Knowledge Networks This research addressed the impact of long-term international mobility on knowledge network building and network persistence. More importantly, it found a high incidence of foreign organisations that had been part of the mobile scientists’ PhD and post-PhD professional trajectory in their core knowledge networks. Overall, the results of this research add to our understanding of the mechanisms that are behind the association between scientific mobility and network formation. These results will subsequently be explored in more depth, through on-going qualitative research, based on interviews and also by integrating in the analysis information about shorter-term mobility events.
The development of computer science research in the People's Republic of China 2000-2009: a bibliometric study The data presented here demonstrates clearly the very substantial increase in the productivity of Chinese research output in our three chosen areas of computer science.
Availability and visibility of open access digital repositories in ASEAN countries This paper reports on the current state of Open Access repositories in ASEAN based on three authoritative monitoring bodies, which are OpenDOAR, ROAR and RWWR. In general, the trend of repositories for ASEAN countries was quite similar to the trends of world repositories, where there was a rapid increase in the number of repositories in recent years. Open Access repositories and archives could make ASEAN research available and visible and increase the chances for use and exchange of ideas among scholars in this region within similar disciplines.
Management Education Journals' Rank and Tier by Active Scholars The comprehensive and endogenous ranking based on the Active Scholar Assessment methodology offers useful information to authors, libraries, editorial boards, as well as promotion and tenure committees.
Research Evaluation and Competition for Academic Positions in Occupational Medicine Although citation analysis should be just a threshold element to be considered in the evaluation process of academic performance, younger researchers should be aware of this new approach based on transparent threshold rules for career advances and need to understand the new evaluation system.
Scientific Evaluation of Charles Dickens This suggests that the quality of Dickens's prose is the same as of that of Bulwer-Lytton. I began this paper with the question: Are famous writers different from their obscure colleagues? The answer is: Yes, they have more readers.
The research collaboration in Chinese cardiology and cardiovasology field The government should provide important role in supporting or encouraging the research collaboration among different regional areas. The research studies in the field of collaboration network will provide important role to assist researchers to master the forefront research subjects, and to help research scientists to apply for scientific project funding. In conclusion, this study reveals the present status of the collaboration activities in Chinese C&C field, and provides scientific evidences and suggestions for policymakers to establish a more efficient system for guiding and funding the Chinese C&C research in the future.
Impact of GDP, Spending on R&D, Number of Universities and Scientific Journals on Research Publications among Asian Countries The Asian countries who spend more on R&D have a large number of universities and scientific indexed journals produced more in research outcomes including total number of research publication, citations per documents and H-index in various science and social science subjects.
How Productivity and Impact Differ Across Computer Science Subareas Our productivity analysis found that al- though the productivity of the CS areas range from 2.5 (MIS) to 7.8 (DC) papers per year, the only significant differ- ences are between the extremes of the spectrum.
Backgrounds of, and Factors Affecting, Highly Productive Leisure Researchers The 36 prolific leisure researchers who participated in our study were (a) largely middle-aged, male, full professors who obtained their PhDs on average 19 years earlier and at universities other than where they currently worked; (b) intrinsically motivated, perseverant and self-disciplined, and committed to the field and/or research enterprise; (c) at universities where research was expected, graduate student mentorship was possible, and other resources were available; (d) in supportive relationships, able to access research monies when needed, and “in the loop” when it came to funding and/or publishing opportunities; and (e) time-deficient in terms of their own leisure, but of the opinion that leisure often acted as a creative conduit that enhanced their research productivity. Overall, these results appear largely consistent with those found with highly productive non-leisure researchers. Finally, we recommend a future study examine not only all leisure scholars' research requirements, products, and concerns but also their teaching and service requirements, outputs, and concerns as well.
Three Decades of Spanish Communication Research: Towards Legal Age The longitudinal nature of the study enables us to detect significant changes over the period which confirm the rapid path towards the coming of age as a scientific discipline.
Spanish Scientific Output in Communication Sciences in WOS. The Scientific Journals in SSCI (2007-12) The data presented here shows that the field of Communication has been through a process of expansion in recent years. We may conclude that there are still some goals left to achieve, such as: to reach a higher international production in order to maintain a level playing field with other European countries with similar academic developments; to continue the improvement of the rankings and the recognition of other prestigious national journals; to accommodate the increasing rate of local production; and, finally, to gain visibility and facilitate the integration within the international community through the collaboration of national and international authors, as well as through the publication of documents in foreign journals.
Internationalization and Co-authorship in Major Communication Journals in Spain Finally, the work shows that investigative alliances are confined to Spain and when they go international collaborations are almost exclusively with Latin American authors. The data admit another important interpretation: there is evidence of a slow, steady and perhaps irreversible shift towards team research over individual research. Correcting this trend is a key challenge to be faced in the future if Spanish journals are to both grow and acquire an international reputation. Internationalizing this profile is a complex task that is still in its initial stages. Nonetheless, the growing international presence of a small group of journals since 2008 may be cause for some optimism.
The Impact of Scientific Journals of Communication: Comparing Google Scholar Metrics, Web of Science and Scopus We conclude that Google Scholar Metrics is a tool capable of identifying the main journals in Communication Studies offering results as reliable and valid as the ones Web of Science and Scopus show. Being built on Google Scholar, GSM is based on the most thorough and least biased academic and scientific data source currently in existence.
Altmetrics: New Indicators for Scientific Communication in Web 2.0 To conclude, the main limitations of altmetrics are highlighted, alongside a reflective consideration of the role altmetrics may play in capturing the impact of research in Web 2.0 platforms.
Spanish Communication Academia: Scientific Productivity vs. Social Activity Our conclusions point to a disconnection between scientific productivity and the international scope of researchers and their role in the social network. Nevertheless, the consequences of this situation are tempered by the non-hierarchical structure of relations between communication scientists. Scientific productivity (and its underlying indicators, which have a day-to-day effect on the activities of researchers and academics in the field of communication, such as publications, citations or the impact factor of the journals in which they publish) as an objective measure of good scientific practice does not occupy the most relevant place among the selection criteria in important scientific activities, such as those analysed here.
Multidisciplinarity in Spanish and Foreign Communication Journals One immediate conclusion, directly derived from the evidence shown, is the relevant difference regarding the disciplines of the citing journals between Spanish and non-Spanish journals, and more specifically, between Communication and Education journals.
Exploring technology evolution and transition characteristics of leading countries: A case of fuel cell field To study the evolution of the technology topics and the corresponding leading countries, we have borrowed from the social network theory and employed a bibliometric analysis to explore the issued patents of fuel cell technology in USPTO longitudinally.
The use of different data sources in the analysis of co-authorship networks and scientific performance This study focuses on the co-authorship patterns of the community of Italian academic statisticians as they emerge from three data sources which contain different kinds of scientific publications.
Social sciences in the field of power - the case of Danish social science Using SMCA on survey data, I showed how we can understand the social sciences as a social space structured by two antagonistic struggles.
A Dynamical Approach Toward Understanding Mechanisms of Team Science: Change, Kinship, Tension, and Heritage in a Transdisciplinary Team This micro/meso level study suggests such mechanisms and dynamics are key features of team science and as such can inform problems of integration, praxis, and engagement in teams.
Publication Times, Impact Factors, and Advance Online Publication in Ophthalmology Journals Publication time lag in ophthalmology journals was not correlated with journal impact factors.
Bibliometric Analysis of Theranostics: Two Years in the Making Our bibliographic and multidisciplinary analysis aligns squarely with many of the stated goals of Theranostics in their inaugural commentary [3]. Our document and co-citation analysis examines the growth and overlap of established knowledge networks with the incorporation of fields, topics, and disciplines; the quantification can also reflect the intellectual activity in combining leading edge developments in solidly grounded specialties. This method could be applied to extrapolate the previously mentioned research fields individually or examine another multidisciplinary field with a similar approach.
Facets of digital data dissemination: value addition through "imprints collection" Advantages of Institutional Digital repositories are undisputable. “Imprints Collection", an offshoot of this, encompasses a unique style of looking at the scholarship of an institute or an organization and presenting research activities in a novel way for better utility and visibility. This facility is envisioned to be a support service to enhance the creativity and collaboration among scientists of the Institute within and across different research institutes in the country and across the world.
Local contents and the development of open access institutional repositories in Nigeria University libraries Challenges, strategies and scholarly implications This study has been able to identify some of the local content materials particularly those that are relevant for publication in institutional repositories. It is therefore very imperative that a country like Nigeria with the vision of being one of the world's twenty great economies in the year 2020 should adequately fund its universities to make them ready to face the challenges of the present information economy.
Conceptual foundations for representing robotics history in a non-linear digital archive This paper provides conceptual foundation for the creation of a non-linear digital archive of oral histories of roboticists.
Improving the accuracy of co-citation clustering using full text The results of this study provide strong evidence that the use of reference proximity information from full text significantly increases the accuracy of co-citation clustering.
Using bibliometrics to support the facilitation of cross-disciplinary communication The overlay map-inspired technique that we have employed provides a rigorous characterization confirming that Toolbox workshops conducted to date have focused on teams working in the environmental or biological domains. It also reveals that the domain of CL, in which some workshops have been conducted, represents a robust CDR area that merits more Toolbox attention. By bringing the techniques of bibliometrics to bear on a qualitative social science effort such as the Toolbox Project, we have supplied an example of the synthesis called for by Wagner et al. (2011).
Tracing the Footprint of Knowledge Spillover: Evidence From US-China Collaboration in Nanotechnology This study shows evidence in support of the linkage between the emergence of new research stream(s) of Chinese researchers and the event of U.S.-China collaboration. It also shows that the triggered research stream diffused further via extended coauthorship.
Knowledge popularity in a heterogeneous network: Exploiting the contextual effects of document popularity in knowledge management systems This study examined how multiple attributes of knowledge that are embedded in a heterogeneous network mutually interact with each other to influence knowledge popularity.
Full-text citation analysis: A new method to enhance scholarly networks Based on the MAP@n and nDCG@n evaluation, we find that PageRank with publication priors and citation transitioning probability distributions extracted from full-text data can produce reliable, high-quality, topic-ranking results, which significantly outperform a list of baseline algorithms.
The thematic and conceptual flow of disciplinary research: A citation context analysis of the journal of informetrics, 2007 In- and out-discipline analysis of citations in context provides an additional dimension to our understanding of an article. Our analysis shows that the articles deal with broad science evaluation and policy issues, examining individual output, using bibliometric methodologies, and arriving at networks and collaboration perspectives on the topic. The in- and out-discipline analysis by section in the articles demonstrates the manner by which cross-disciplinary science works and reveals the connections between the issues, methods, analysis, and conclusions coming from different research disciplines and coming together in the studies.
Parsimonious citer-based measures: The artificial intelligence domain as a case study We presented a new parsimonious citer-based metric to measure the impact of a paper. This new measure is robust to manipulation by a scientist who asks his colleagues to help increase his citations dishonestly. This new measure is less affected by the authorship practices of the examined domain and can better differentiate between prominent and nonprominent researchers in the field of artificial intelligence.
The Australian contribution to the literature on atypical antipsychotic drugs: a bibliometric study Despite Australian publications on AADs appearing in reasonably high impact journals, most were con-fined to a single Australian psychiatry journal and overall publications did not show exponential growth over the period studied.
Paradigms lost and gained: has psychiatry in Australasia lost its voice? Of the three strategies employed, the qualitative approach (canvassing the views of historians and of highly cited authors) captured the paradigm changes, or at least theoretical or research trends, more accurately than the quantitative citation analysis.
Hiding in plain sight: Paratextual utterances as tools for information-related research and practice The findings suggest that two LIS areas can benefit most from the peritextual exploration and study: readers' advisory and research. Specifically for libraries, it offers a wealth of connections, indeed more than traditionally exploited, between books, between genres, between items on multiple supports, and between the book and users. The peritext does indeed reveal much of publishing trends and information-sharing tactics (including omissions), as well as underlying societal and cultural values placed on various types of information shared. This, in turn, provides two avenues for further research.
Where on earth to publish? A sample survey comparing traditional and open access publishing in the oncological field Dissemination and access to research results continue to be of priority concern to leading scholars [24].
The growth momentum of China in producing international scientific publications seems to have slowed down This might indicate that China has reached a point of change in its growing speed in producing scientific publications.
An Adaptive Approach to Facilitating Research Productivity in a Primary Care Clinical Department During a decade of strategic investments and evolving strategies, the DFMCH at the University of Minnesota (Twin Cities campus) realized laudable and sustained gains in its collective research productivity and emphasis.
Interestingness and the essence of citation Citations originate from the interestingness of the phenomenon that has been addressed in the old article and considered again in the new one.
Self-Plagiarism in Academic Publishing: The Anatomy of a Misnomer Self-plagiarism sits poorly with the current academic publishing system.
What is the enduring value of research publications in clinical epilepsy? An assessment of papers published in 1981, 1991, and 2001 Although there are other reasons for publishing papers, the fact that the great majority of published papers lack enduring value in terms of advancing knowledge should be a concern to the medical and scientific community. However, in view of the fact that less than 5% of published papers can be considered of 'high enduring value' and 'over 70%' of 'no enduring value', it seems to us that resources are being wasted. To improve this situation, it seems to us that, most importantly, a culture change is needed.
The Socio-Political Construction of a European Census of Higher Education Institutions: Design, Methodological and Comparability Issues First, the process of defining categories for statistical analysis is bound with conceptual controversies. Second, while controversies are in most cases rooted in concrete clashes of interests, actors almost never formulate their positions in open terms. Third, social scientists should not advocate the role of knights of objectivity, although this is what policymakers typically ask of them. By shaping indicators, we are shaping the future governance of science systems as well, in a way that we cannot, however, fully control.
The 'Economy of Memory': Publications, Citations, and the Paradox of Effective Research Governance If left unaddressed, this may in the long run seriously undermine the capacity of the publicly funded research system more generally.
Information needs analysis of the aerospace discipline To provide for aerospace research, a library collection needs to include the databases of the field, and commercial and open access journals that cover aerospace engineering, related disciplines and the sciences in general. Aerospace research, the discipline at the center of this study, was shown to be multidisciplinary.
Value of academic reading and value of the library in academics' own words Overwhelmingly, academics place value on scholarly reading, in particular journal articles, and the readings impact the quality of their research and other work activities. The open-ended comments confirm the overall value of scholarly articles and the library on the quality of academic work. Our findings add to the previous studies which establish the overall value of the library to the academic endeavor.
Contributions of Pakistani authors to foreign library and information science journals An evaluative study The results of this study are expected to have a positive impact on Pakistani authors as they start preparing articles according to the quality requirements of JCR-ranked journals in the future. The present study has opened up opportunities for academics and working librarians to do further research on the topics of ranking of LIS journals using some other methods, such as SCImago Journal Rank (SJR), Eigenfactor, H-index or a combination of one or more methods and compare the results with IF scores to find out which is more accurate and reliable method.
Adding value to scholarly journals through a citation indexing system MyCite is a Citation Indexing system and was developed in-house collaboratively between Malaysian Citation Centre and the Information Technology Centre University of Malaya.
Trends in World Dental Research: an overview of the last three decades using the Web of Science Conclusions Scientific production in dentistry has changed in the past three decades both quantitatively and qualitatively, as well as their geographical distribution despite being structured around the same specialties. Clinical relevance In this study, along with some key mes-sages about the key shifts in publication trends, in terms of subject, where published and by whom, we propose a new methodology which could be useful to professionals as well as researchers, in which the exhaustivity and precision rates for scientific information retrieval improve. Finally, the broad traditional thematic areas, i.e. specialties, of Den-tistry have persisted over the last 30 years, with the other subordinate areas.
Worldwide research productivity in the field of rheumatology from 1996 to 2010: a bibliometric analysis The USA and Western Europe clearly dominate the production of scientific publications in rheumatology. However, some smaller European countries have high scientific output relative to their size. A very conspicuous increase in the Asian contribution to scientific literature was also observed.
An assessment of academic productivity in pediatric neurosurgery Overall, we conclude that the h index metric is a rea-sonable measure of academic productivity in the pediat-ric neurosurgery arena.
Bibliometric analysis of research activity in the "Agronomy" category from the Web of Science, 1997-2011 The category "Agronomy" from the Web of Science database.has experimented an irregular growth of 51% in the number of publi-cations since 1997. The increase in collaboration on all scales (authors, centers, and countries) seems to indicate a greater globalization and structura-tion of the research carried out, with more complex and articulated research networks present. The rapid economic and demographic growth of the new emerging powers necessitates a growth in food production, which is causing strong development in research in these countries, especially in public centers and universities.
What happens to computer science research after it is published? Tracking CS research lines We find out that only 23% (journal) and 30% (conferences) of the papers published in CS have extensions, indicating a continued line of research.
Assessing the accuracy of the h- and g-indexes for measuring researchers' productivity The results from the current work diverge from those by Jensen et al. (2009) and Ball (2007), while seeming to align with the position exemplified by the works of Marchant (2009) and Bornmann et al. (2008). Although they are easy to understand, quantify, and communicate, such indica- tors conceal a level of inaccuracy in measuring research productivity that is generally unacceptable for most of the intended uses and objectives. Our recommendation then is to avoid the use of the h-index and its variants in comparative assessments of research productivity.
Inconsistencies in the highly cited publications indicator It has been shown that the HCPs indicator behaves in a counterintuitive way in specific situations, which can be interpreted as inconsistent behavior leading to inconsistencies in the ranking of scientists, which who achieve the same performance improvements.
How can journal impact factors be normalized across fields of science? An assessment in terms of percentile ranks and fractional counts Fractional counting of the citations diminishes the between-field level differences by more than 90% if the 5-year citation window is used.
Theory of the topical coverage of multiple databases In this paper we studied the topical coverage of multiple databases. We showed that, when a₁ (0 < a < 1) denotes the fraction of the sought documents (on a certain topic) of the ith database, we cover a fraction f (a₁, ..., an) = 1-Π(1-a) of the sought documents on a certain topic.
Peer review in a changing world: An international study measuring the attitudes of researchers While researchers recognize that peer review is imperfect, it appears that most believe it is the most effective mechanism for ensuring the reliability, integrity, and consistency of the scholarly literature. There is clearly some dissatisfaction with peer review, but rather than being "in crisis" or "broken," as suggested by Myers (2009), the opposite could be argued, namely, that peer review is going through a period of vibrant innovation and renewal.
Cross-campus collaboration: A scientometric and network case study of publication activity across two campuses of a single institution Results suggest that cross-campus collaboration is increasingly common, but is accounted for primarily by a relatively small number of departments and individual researchers.
Exploring the effects of a transition to open access: Insights from a simulation study Our results indicate that for scholarly communication in general, a transition to Green OA combined with a certain level of subscription-based publishing and a migration of few top journals is the most beneficial development. This study contributes to theories related to OA in differ-ent ways, for example, by substantiating the argument of a citation advantage of OA articles. We hope that our results are somewhat helpful for adjusting future strategies.
Author-level Eigenfactor metrics: Evaluating the influence of authors, institutions, and countries within the social science research network community Although ranking for its own sake may or may not offer net benefits to the community, we believe that advances in scholarly ranking will have at least two consequences that benefit science greatly.
Journal impact and proximity: An assessment using bibliographic features The project studied 66 journals categorized in IS&LS by the 2009 Journal Citation Reports and attempted to correlate various bibliographic characteristics with the journals' impact factors. Several characteristics did correlate with JIF: Number of papers published; Number of authors per article; Number of editorial board members; Number of years a journal has been published (longevity) (negative correlation); Indexed in SSCI as well as Social Sciences Citation Index. This proposed (and admittedly imperfect) model does illustrate the relationship between JIF and other journal features.
New patterns of scientific growth: How research expanded after the invention of scanning tunneling microscopy and the discovery of Buckminsterfullerenes This paper assembles and discusses comprehensive quan-titative evidence that demonstrates the inadequacy of con-ventional interpretations of scientific change as theoretical progress and disciplinary specialization, with respect to the growth patterns of follow-up research in empirical discovery and research instrumentation.
Empirical evidence for the relevance of fractional scoring in the calculation of percentile rank scores Using four examples, empirical evidence has been given that the determination of PR scores can be problematic not just for small publication sets.
A visual analytic study of retracted articles in scientific literature The contributions of our study include demonstrating the extent to which retracted articles could impact subsequent research; specifically, retracted articles are not isolated in co-citation networks and sentence-level contexts where eventually retracted articles were cited so one can better estimate the negative impact. We also show how these techniques, when taken together, offer a visual analytic approach to gain insights into the interrelationship between retracted articles and the rest of the scientific literature. New tools and services are needed to enable researchers and analysts to better deal with the increasing prevalence of retractions and safeguard the integrity of scientific literature.
Venue-author-coupling: A measure for identifying disciplines through author communities This work explored a novel method for examining similarity among journals, by overlapping author profiles.
A macro analysis of productivity differences across fields: Challenges in the measurement of scientific publishing In our study, scientists from medicine, the natural sciences, and technology are found to be more productive than their colleagues from the humanities and social sciences when productivity is measured using whole counts of publications.
Lifting the fog of scientometric research artifacts: On the scientometric analysis of environmental tobacco smoke research In conclusion, parallel application and optimization of the various search algorithms to the same set of records allowed identification of errors of omission and commission leading to severe misinterpretations of the obtained results (including even the detection of mutually inverse trends in the research output).
On the calculation of percentile-based bibliometric indicators We show in a formal mathematical framework that our approach leads to indicators that do not suffer from biases in favor of or against particular fields of science.
Quantifying the benefits of international scientific collaboration We have shown that international collaboration increases the impact of a country's scientific production and, as indicated in Lancho-Barrantes et al. (2012), that this is not an artifact of a national bias in the different collaborating countries. Logically, there is a certain decrease in the gain in impact of collaboration papers relative to the overall average. The network of scientific collaboration among the 37 countries with the highest production in the period of study had a center and periphery structure, with a core comprising mainly the United States and EU countries, although there also appear with low impact the large Asian producers of China and Japan, and the major Latin American producer, Brazil.
Capitalizing on order effects in the bids of peer-reviewed conferences to secure reviews by expert referees This work contributes to the integrity of peer review, which is mandatory to maintain public trust in science.
A label for peer-reviewed books The GPRC label fills a gap in the area of book publishing because it is often unclear whether a monograph or an edited book has been subjected to PR prior to publication.
The ripple effect: Citation chain reactions of a nobel prize Using the 2005 Nobelist Robert J. Aumann as a case example, we have explored how the award of the Nobel Prize in 2005 affected not only the citations to his own work, but, moreover, how it affected the citation frequency of the references in his scientific oeuvre.
Supposedly uncited articles of Nobel laureates and Fields medalists can be prevalently attributed to the errors of omission and commission "In conclusion, the vast majority of the uncited database records of highly visible scientists can be explained by the inclusion of editorial material, progress reports presented at international meetings (e.g., meeting abstracts), discussion items (e.g., letters to the editor, discussion), personalia (e.g., biographic items), and by the errors of omission and commission of the WoS database and of the citing documents themselves."
Correlation over time for citations to mathematics articles For the highest tier of 500 top cited papers, taken at various periods, there generally is a good correlation of citation rankings from one decade to subsequent decades.
How to analyze percentile citation impact data meaningfully in bibliometrics: The statistical analysis of distributions, percentile rank classes, and top-cited papers Although a number of publications have looked at the calculation of percentiles and the assignment of publications to percentile rank classes (see the introduction), only a few have considered the analysis of these data, leading to meaningful results in evaluation studies.
Placing articles in the large publisher nations: Is there a "free lunch" in terms of higher impact? In this paper we presented our hypothesis, which is, the citation rates of a country's publications depend on the country the respective journal is published in. In summary, we conclude that there is a "free lunch" in terms of a citation premium associated with publishing in the large publisher nations. These results suggest that evaluations of publications based solely on their citation rates and in turn especially quality estimations based on their citation rates might be skewed due to a hidden signaling effect, as proposed by Bornmann and Daniel (2008).
The differences between latent topics in abstracts and citation contexts of citing papers We have compared latent topics identified from citing abstracts and from citing sentences to the target reference based on topic modeling techniques. The results show that these two sources yield different sets of topics. In particular, topics from citing sentences tend to include more specific terms than the abstracts of citing papers. Therefore, topics identified from citation contexts should be considered when possible.
Uncertainties and ambiguities in percentiles and how to avoid them In conclusion, fractional scoring is strongly recommended.
Delayed open access: An overlooked high-impact category of openly available scientific literature What this study demonstrates is that delayed OA, which is provided mainly by society and commercial publishers and university presses, is important both in volume and in granting access to highly cited scholarly articles.
Opportunities for and Limitations of the Book Citation Index This study also shows that it is inadvisable to use book citation data in the same way as data on journals or proceedings articles, and as always highlights the need to normalize any bibliometric analysis for subject field and document type.
Scientific communities as autopoietic systems: The reproductive function of citations In this article autopoiesis theory has been applied to scientific communities with the aim of suggesting the reproductive function of citations, which work as proxies in the scientific (sub)system.
Power-law link strength distribution in paper cocitation networks In summary, we have demonstrated that the link strengths in paper cocitation networks usually follow an approximate power-law distribution. For network science, these results provide evidence that in networks, universal patterns can emerge from links. The power-law distribution occurs not only in nodes or actors, but also in links and connections.
Citation Content Analysis (CCA): A Framework for Syntactic and Semantic Analysis of Citation Content In summary, we consider CCA a powerful yet workable way to improve current citation analysis and a necessary supplement for traditional citation metrics.
Formulae for the h-Index: A Lack of Robustness in Lotkaian Informetrics? However, and more important, it is found that they both seriously underestimate the true h-index, and we suggest that the reason for this is that this is a context—the citation distribution of an author—in which straightforward Lotkaian informetrics is inappropriate. Our view is that the publication/citation process for a single scientist is complex, as observed earlier (see, e.g., Burrell, 2007), and that it is unreasonable to believe that a simple one-parameter model, such as the Lotka or even the shifted Lotka, can capture anything other than a general qualitative description, especially when the model itself seems to have no reported empirical support in this context. Indeed, in an ideal world, we would argue that all theoretical informetric studies, including those invoking the Lotka model, should either provide supporting empirical evidence to justify the investigation or explicitly acknowledge that none has so far been provided.
What does scientometrics share with other "metrics" sciences? A similarity of cognitive patterns was found in most of the studied metrics fields.
Paper-based productivity ranking of Chilean forestry institutions The quantification and qualitative evaluation of the productivity of the research institutions in forestry will permit to know the importance of each institution, its contribution to the scientific development of the sector and the main subject of research. Regarding the two databases used, our findings suggest that to accurately evaluate and/or rank scientific productivity, one should employ both WoS and Scopus because these databases largely complement, rather than replace, each other.
Do second-order similarities provide added-value in a hybrid approach? We conclude that there is no added value for the clearly defined clusters but that the second-order similarity can provide an additional viewpoint for the more general clusters. To summarise, the two approaches, the direct similarity and the “similarity profile" clustering do not alter the situation whenever the method provides clusters of quality (e.g.,
Cluttered writing: adjectives and adverbs in academia Following Mark Twain, the scientists should kill much of the adjectives and adverbs to make the academic prose readable and spare us from the unnecessary increase in the volume of research output.
Author name disambiguation in scientific collaboration and mobility cases In reality, name disambiguation is impossible to automate.
Source normalized indicators of citation impact: an overview of different approaches and an empirical comparison Based on our empirical analysis, in which we have used the different indicators to assess the citation impact of journals in the WoS database, the following conclusions can be drawn:
A bibliometric analysis of global laparoscopy research trends during 1997-2011 In this study dealing with SCI journal publications, we acquired some significant points on global laparoscopy research trends and performances throughout the period from 1997 to 2011.
Statistics for the dynamic analysis of scientometric data: the evolution of the sciences in terms of trajectories and regimes The following scientometric research questions can provide a focus that require advancements in the statistics: 1. Dynamic models are different from static (or comparative static) ones; furthermore, dynamic models are different from evolutionary ones (e.g., Chen 2006; Leydesdorff 2010). Evolutionary dynamics contain feedback mechanisms and the dynamics may change because of bifurcations and path-dependent transitions; 2. One needs a transition to the domain of non-parametric statistics given the prevailing skewedness in scientometric distributions (Bornmann and Mutz 2011; Leydesdorff et al. 2011); selection mechanisms have to be specified as hypotheses.
Graph-based algorithms for ranking researchers: not all swans are white! By comparing these sophisticated algorithms with some simpler methods like citation count and sum of paper ranks, we have identified the following challenging questions worth studying.
International collaboration in scientific publishing: the case of West Africa (2001-2010) Multi-authorship is gaining importance in the scientific output of West Africa. West African scientific output is extraverted. The study suggests national authorities to express in actions their commitment to allot at least 1 % of their GDP to science and technology funding. It also suggests regional integration institutions to encourage and fund research activities that involve several institutions from different West African countries in order to increase intra regional scientific cooperation.
Year-based h-type indicators In this article we introduced the author's career years h-index, the diffusion speed h-index and similar h-indices to characterize the impact of research in a wider framework.
Bibliometrics evaluation of research performance in pharmacology/pharmacy: China relative to ten representative countries It may need a long time to fill in the gap, in terms of the scientific quality, between the developing countries and the developed countries.
On bibliographic networks In the paper we showed that the bibliographic data can be transformed into a collection of compatible networks. Using network multiplication different interesting derived networks can be obtained. In defining them an appropriate normalization should be considered.
Scientometric assessment of engineering in Malaysians universities However, for better decision making purpose, this can be used for broader contextual peer assessment process along with other indicators.
Principal parameters affecting R&D exploitation of nanotechnology research: a case for Korea The conclusions suggest that research results with high impact value should be endorsed by the Korean government and should try to keep a balance between R&D exploitation in open science and closed science.
Limited validity of equations to predict the future h index "Although the validity of these regression equations could still be investigated in additional cross-validation studies, an alternative approach to predicting future h indices is outlined and illustrated in this paper."
Scholastic Activity Among Radiation Oncology Residents at US Academic Institutions: a Benchmark Analysis The h index is a useful metric to assess residents' early dedication to scholarly endeavors.
How Do Reviewers Affect the Final Outcome? Comparison of the Quality of Peer Review and Relative Acceptance Rates of Submitted Manuscripts "There was correlation between the quality of peer review performance and the relative acceptance rate of the manuscripts."
Citation Classics in Radiology Journals: The 100 Top-Cited Articles, 1945-2012 Our study presents a detailed list and analysis of the 100 top-cited articles published in radiology journals, which provides insight into historical developments in the field of radiology.
The pediatric surgeon's road to research independence: utility of mentor-based National Institutes of Health grants Pediatric surgeon-scientists successfully compete for NIH funding. Our data suggest that although the K-series funding mechanism is not the only path to research independence, over half of the pediatric surgeons who receive a K-award are successful in the transition to independent investigator. This study demonstrates that pediatric surgeons as a group continue to have a strong interest in pursuing research as surgeon-scientists with successful career development and competitive grants.
Ranking Journals The essential message we wanted to put across in this article is that it is too simplistic to put all journals into cast-iron categories. It is also clear that no single bibliographical measure, of the ones we have used, fully captures the economist's view of journals. Combining different measures in a non-linear manner gets us closer.
On the Use and Abuse of Economics Journal Rankings The usefulness of journal rankings generally depends on two things: the reliability of the opinions and/or data that the rankings are based on and the applicability of the criteria used to develop the rankings to the nominal purpose for which the rankings are being used.
HOW SHOULD PEER-REVIEW PANELS BEHAVE? This article proposes a way in which evaluation panels could blend citations data with publications data. The paper formalises a way of thinking that may already be held, albeit informally, by some peer-review panels and researchers. We would not recommend that solely mechanistic procedures be used in REF-like evaluations of universities, scholars, departments, or disciplines.
Entitymetrics: Measuring the Impact of Entities This paper proposes entitymetrics to measure the impact of knowledge units at different levels.
Global competencies of regional stem cell research: bibliometrics for investigating and forecasting research trends These findings provide a rational way of evaluating research policies and forecasting research trends.
A multi-metric approach for research evaluation Informetric indicators, including those provided by altmetrics (influmetrics), should be developed further to help peer review.
Context identification of sentences in research articles: Towards developing intelligent tools for the research community We presented in this paper our research on identifying contexts associated with sentences in research articles and using this information for providing intelligent information services for the research community. Our future work focuses on conducting an inter-rater reliability study for validating the objectivity of our chosen labels for sentences and also an evaluation study for assessing the usefulness of the web application.
Alphabetization and the skewing of first authorship towards last names early in the alphabet This research finds for social science clear-cut answers to the research questions. The anticipated relationship between a high level of alphabetization and skewing of first authorship towards the beginning of the alphabet was confirmed by the very high Spearman correlation of 0.79 with two-author alphabetization. Hence, in order to be able to more effectively allocate research credit, it seems that, in cases where the journal does not specify the relative contribution of the co-authors or where this information is not made readily available in CVs and employed in any research metrics used, alphabetization should be actively discouraged.
The distribution of references across texts: Some implications for citation analysis We conducted a content-based citation analysis of research articles published in JASIST (2000–2011) in order to explore the extent to which bibliographic references (that is, the works they denote) contribute differentially to the articles that cite them. We also found that rankings of highly cited works were influenced by whether one counted single or multiple mentions of a bibliographic reference in the text. In other words, in assessing the contribution of a bibliographic reference we should, ideally, take account of the number of times the work in question is re-cited and the location of those re-citations throughout the citing article. A few avenues for further research suggest themselves.
Impact maturity times and citation time windows: The 2-year maximum journal impact factor Different scientific fields have different citation practices. An empirical application, with about six hundred journals from eight different fields, shows that our maximum citation time window reduces the between-group variance in relation to the within-group variance more than the rest of the indicators analyzed. Finally, we have not empirical evidences about the optimality in using a time window of two years instead of some other value. We think that perhaps this aspect could be an interesting issue for a future work.
Two time series, their meaning and some applications We introduced two types of time series and studied their behavior and meaning.
The influences of counting methods on university rankings based on paper count and citation count Based on the findings, this study concluded that straight counting and fractional counting were better choices for paper count and citation count in the institutional level research evaluation. Furthermore, in today's academic cultures in which ranking results often influence national policies and resource allocation, the more precise counting methods like straight counting and fractional counting seem a better fit for those institutions that care about the accuracy and justifiability of evaluation methodology. Future research may further explore various calculation methods for fractional counting and knowledge production relationships between the first, corresponding, and other supporting authors and may possibly develop proportional weighting techniques to better accredit each authoring institution.
Core-periphery structures in national higher education systems. A cross-country analysis using interlinking data Our results show that a common core/periphery model explains a large part of the observed network structure in the considered countries, with the partial exception of Norway. This means that (a) national networks are organized around a single center and that (b) the number of weblinks between two HEls can be predicted with high precision solely from their individual level of coreness.
Counting publications and citations: Is more always better? The more-is-better principle plays a central role in evaluative bibliometrics. In this paper, we have given examples of situations in which more need not always be better.
A longitudinal comparison of citation rates and growth among open access journals This study demonstrates that much the growth in OA publishing, particularly at the level of articles, is in reputable journals that follow good publishing practices and legitimate peer-review meeting the requirements of inclusion in the Scopus citation database. At the same time high quality OA publishing is growing at a rapid rate and in the case of OA publishing funded by APCs, there is evidence based on citation rates that these journals on par with subscription journals. We do not believe this represents a gap in quality but rather reflects the limitations of citation rate as a measure of quality and is in fact due to differences in language and the location of the journals.
A layered framework to study collaboration as a form of knowledge sharing and diffusion In this article we introduced the notions of collaboration paths (simple ones and generalized ones), and significant, essential and vital nodes and sub paths in a layered collaboration network.
Exploring scientists' working timetable: A global survey Different working time patterns in different countries are revealed in our study. Nevertheless, despite the different working habits in different countries, a quite common conclusion is that scientists all over the world today are working overtime. Although scientists may feel engaged and fulfilled about their hard working, working too much still warns us to reconsider the work-life balance.
A stochastic approach to the relation between the impact factor and the uncitedness factor It has been shown that the well-known GPP model gives a reasonable qualitative description of the empirical phenomena reported by van Leeuwen and Moed (2005) and Hsu and Huang (2012).
Research impact and scholars' geographical diversity This study provides insights into the relationship between scientific collaboration and research impact. The results reveal that research impact is positively associated with all levels of collaboration metrics. To investigate how scientific fields (due to their different collaboration characteristics) influence on the association of researchers' collaborations activities and their performance, it is necessary to conduct similar analysis for several research collaboration groups from different fields as a future work.
Are you in h? The RUinh approach gives fair credit to papers from disciplines with a few scientists, a few publications, and a few citations per paper. The above procedures can be applied to independent citations. Yet exclusion of self citations requires extra work.
Web traffic and organization performance measures: Relationships and data sources examined The study found significant correlations between Web traffic data and academic quality and business performance data.
Comparative rank assessment of journal articles The evaluative impact indicators (PRP, RER) introduced here may represent different aspects of the assessment of publications by relative impact.
Socializing the h-index We have proposed the Social h-index as a way to measure the impact of a researcher on the academic community, taking into account the quantity and quality of publications, as well as the researcher’s role in furthering the careers of other scientists through collaboration. We demonstrate that Social h-index is different from previously studied metrics, and can effectively distinguish between collaboration styles.
The problem of citation impact assessments for recent publication years in institutional evaluations With the three options (regression fit, concept of samples and populations, and counterfactual concept of causality) presented in this paper, it should be possible to carry out a bibliometric study without including the very recent publication years and to make statements about the very recent years with the aid of the more 'distant' publication years.
Measuring contextual partner importance in scientific collaboration networks The proposed model provides a valuable tool for context-based partner importance ranking. The model is flexible and can be parameterized by various metrics. The presented results demonstrate the applicability of the ranking model in a real science collaboration network consisting of numerous partners performing joint projects in the EU FP7 ICT context.
Mathematical properties of Q-measures In this contribution we studied group interaction and the brokerage role of nodes in undirected unweighted networks based on Q-measures. We introduced an external Q-measure to complement the previously defined local and global Q-measure and investigated the meaning of numerical values obtained by these measures. In particular we obtained the global Q-measure as a convex combination of the local and the external Q. We further investigated when a node can have a Q-value equal to one (the largest possible value).
Quantitative evaluation of alternative field normalization procedures While the use of citation numbers in research assessment exercises is becoming more and more relevant, there is still much room for the improvement of bibliometric indicators devoted to the quantification of research impact.
Decomposing social and semantic networks in emerging "big data" research The present study provides a snapshot of any structural changes in the academic community during the transition from theory-based knowledge discovery to research practices driven by big data.
Effects of publications in proceedings on the measure of the core size of coauthors It can be considered that the findings serve as a contrasting point of view on how to quantify an individual (publication) career as recently done by Petersen et al. (2010, 2012, 2011) [2-4], here emphasizing the collaboration size and evolution, rather than a citation count, moreover specifying the type of publication. Through the various ma's one can distinguish different behavior patterns of a scientific publication with CAs. Whence, much can still be done after the above, in particular, checking (i) the deviations from a regular hyperbolic law; (ii) the king and queen effects; (iii) the effect of NDCA long tail; (iv) the influence of NJP1CA; (v) the effect of the number of CAs per paper [28,29]; (vi) globalization of measures in considering the role of the main author, and in the ranking of his team mates.
Social tagging in the scholarly world Social tagging is a research field full of developing poten- tial that is increasing in popularity and will attract more participants to do cooperative research on this subject in future. First, the integration of social tagging with information retrieval and the human computer interface is an important research direction in this field. Second, experts do more research on tags in images than tags in texts. Third, social tagging is now being applied in practical research fields, especially in high-tech companies, as a fundamental tool and a way of information organization.
Aggregation of the web performance of internal university units as a method of quantitative analysis of a university system: The case of Spain The conclusion is that the aggregation of unit performance is of limited use due to the low levels of internal development of the websites, and so its use is not recommended for the design of rankings.
A novel approach for estimating the omitted-citation rate of bibliometric databases with an application to the field of bibliometrics This paper presents a novel procedure for estimating the omitted-citation rate of (portions of) bibliometric databases, based on the combined use of two or more databases.
Visualizing the history of evidence-based medicine: A bibliometric analysis EBM development worldwide and in China experienced four phases (incubation, initiation, development, and stable distribution).
Issues of work-life balance among JASIST authors and editors Our findings suggest that working during the weekend may be one of the ways that scientists cope with the highly demanding era of "publish or perish."
Geographic differences in academic promotion practices, fellowship training, and scholarly impact Geographic differences in academic promotion patterns and scholarly impact exist, most markedly among junior faculty.
The top-cited wetland articles in science citation index expanded: characteristics and hotspots According to the citation lives of top articles, it was concluded that wetland organisms and vegetation were the most recent research emphases. Moreover, wetland organisms and vegetation, and modeling methodology were traditional research hotspots and will continue to be emphasized in the foreseeable future.
An Informetric Profile of Water Resources Management Literatures All these efforts contributed to the indication in trends of water resource management research on a global scale.
Large-scale temporal analysis of computer and information science The findings described in the sections above show a rather consistent picture of the structural development of CIS in terms of its socio-cognitive structure. Essentially, the dynamic network fits the model of field evolution proposed by Bettencourt et al. [3], which is a mechanism supposed to be universal, and instantiates a distinguished type dynamics. As to the dynamics subtypes, the growing integration of actors (mirrored by the slope of the exponential-like P(k) degree distributions) paralleled with size growth assigns CIS to a category of fields with internal drives.
Collaboration range: Effects of geographical proximity on article impact In this article we have studied the impact of geography on article visibility, and presented a coauthorship network. The study has focused on the evolution of the qualitative characteristics of the network and on the geographical distribution of the coauthorships.
High-end performance or outlier? Evaluating the tail of scientometric distributions The analysis of the high-end of scientific distributions is one of the most difficult issues in evaluative scientometrics.
Gender bias and explanation models for the phenomenon of women's discriminations in research careers Gender inequalities are prevalent in science despite many initiatives to try to eradicate them.
Chinese elite brain drain to USA: an investigation of 100 United States national universities In this research, through the complete investigation of 100 American national universities, we collect a list of 3,776 Chinese-American faculties, and make analysis from five aspects, regional statistics, institution statistics, gender statistics, position statistics, and discipline statistics.
Efficient supervised and semi-supervised approaches for affiliations disambiguation The results we obtained with our approaches for affiliations disambiguation are very encouraging, both in the supervised learning context and in the semi-supervised one. Our experiments also allow us to show that our methods provide significant assistance for correcting the results of human labeled affiliations. However, it is clear that we must achieve more experiments to conclude on the overall relevance of the methodology. Those are related to the exploited clustering methods in the case of very unbalanced classes.
The influence of European Framework Programmes on scientific collaboration in nanotechnology "This study reveals, firstly, the importance of field delineation when the data source used is the WoS, where subject categories are assigned to journals but not to individual articles and controlled vocabulary is not applied."
Identifying research facilitators in an emerging Asian Research Area We find that Asia has emerged as an increasingly integrated research area through research facilitation, indirect, or mediated third-party introductions leading to triadic closures among co-authorship networks.
Effect of collaboration network structure on knowledge creation and technological performance: the case of biotechnology in Canada According to the results, the analyzed network showed significant small-world properties in any aspect i.e. the path length of the networks are very close to the ones of random networks; clustering coefficients of the networks are much larger than the corresponding values of clustering coefficients approximated for the random networks; and finally, the small-world ratios are great or even larger than the corresponding values of previously studied networks.
Is There a Relationship between National Institutes of Health Funding and Research Impact on Academic Urology? In the academic urological community h-index scor- ing highly correlates positively with NIH funding and academic rank.
Citation analysis: A social and dynamic approach to knowledge organization Like other KOSs, citation-based maps cannot be neutral but will always be based on researchers’ decisions, which tend to favor certain interests and views at the expense of others. Generally, therefore, maps based on citation analyses should be seen as supplements rather than replacements. There is, however, a further need to study the interaction of these two kinds of KOS.
A heuristic hierarchical scheme for academic search and retrieval The results of t-test, sign-test and signed-rank test, all indicate that PubSearch outperforms ACM Portal by a large and statistically significant margin in terms of all metrics considered, namely lexicographic ordering LEX, NDCG and ERR metrics.
Championing cardiovascular health innovation in Europe Stakeholders should urgently come together in a forum to openly discuss the issues raised in this article and allocate actions. These actions, together with aggressive promotion of prevention strategies including lifestyle factor changes, can address the threat of a cardio-metabolic epidemic in Europe. The CRT invites: EU institutions and national governments to commit to steps that establish a more favourable environment for cardiovascular R&D however it is funded.
Career-based influences on scientific recognition in the United States and Europe: Longitudinal evidence from curriculum vitae data This paper compares two groups of scientists to understand three dimensions in the institutional context that differentiates recognition of creative research in nanotechnology and human genetics: career pathway, funding and research collaboration.
Research upon return: The effect of international mobility on scientific ties, production and impact Through a study of public sector Argentinean life scientists, this paper has studied the links between temporary research mobility, international co-publication and research productivity and impact. This suggests that in most cases the notion of a lack of "publication autonomy" can safely be rejected.
Coercive journal self citations, impact factor, Journal Influence and Article Influence Although the Sciences and Social Sciences are dramatically different in terms of the strength of the underlying relationship of the journal performance metrics considered in this paper, the actual empirical relationships are broadly similar.
Equal Contributions and Credit: An Emerging Trend in the Characterization of Authorship in Major Anaesthesia Journals during a 10-Yr Period The practice of giving authors equal credit in original research papers is increasingly common in major anaesthesia journals.
Citation Classics in Nursing Journals: The Top 50 Most Frequently Cited Articles From 1956 to 2011 Findings of this bibliometric study identified landmark articles in nursing based on citation frequency.
Mapping the Organization A Bibliometric Analysis of Nurses' Contributions to the Literature It is hoped that this article will stimulate further exploration of the use of bibliometric studies to document the organizational impact of journal publications (see Document, Supplemental Digital Content 3, http://links.lww.com/JONA/A245), books, and book chapters (see Document, Supplemental Digital Content 4, http://links.lww.com/JONA/A246) on the practice of nursing.
Cooperation in Health: Mapping Collaborative Networks on the Web "It is advisable to strengthen integration policies on the web and to increase web networking through hyperlink exchange."
FACTORS AFFECTING BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS OF SCIENTIFIC QUALITY Since economic and socio-demographic factors only partly predicted the quality of science in a given country or territory, there is considerable space for historical and science policy factors that could affect the quality of science in a given country.
The effects of choice of database and data retrieval methods on research performance evaluations of Asian universities This study clearly suggests that university ranking results are strongly affected by the choice of database, indicator (ranked either by publications or by citations), and the data retrieval method used.
Assessing the evolution of publications by Brazilian spine surgeons in the last decade There have been an increasing number of publications by Brazilian spine surgeons in recent years and the quality of the articles published has improved. Also the number of publications by Brazilians in non-Brazilian journals has increased in recent years.
Web link-based relationships among top European universities On the other hand, the whole picture seems to agree with the results of other studies based on bibliographic co-authorship production. The link analysis has allowed us to endorse the existence of geographic-linguistic patterns when establishing links. Also shown is the dominant role of British and German universities, although the latter have greater cohesion among them-selves, as well as greater activity when relating to other European universities.
Modelling Continuous Percentile Rank Scores and Integrated Impact Indicators (I3) We calculated the value of I3 in a continuous framework for different distribution functions k(x) and for two scoring functions w(x) = ax and w(x) = a • x^α. In this way we introduced a method by which R and the I3 indicator can be used in a continuous modelling context. By proposing this continuous approach, we hope to stimulate further investigations within a continuous modelling approach to I3.
The Structure of Scholarly Communications Within Academic Libraries Librarians from a wide variety of schools were surveyed to discover their scholarly communication leadership, administrative structure, and services offered.
India's contribution on "Guillain-Barre syndrome": Mapping of 40 years research India is far behind in GBS research as compared to other countries like USA, as there might be a low case report of GBS in Indian population.
The New York Times as a Resource for Mode 2 In this study, we investigate the relationship between the scholarly literature and the NYT as expressed through references in journal articles. We find that NYT referencing is extensive and that growth in NYT referencing has accelerated in recent years, probably due to easier access to NYT articles over the Internet. The NYT and academia, though distinct, have become symbiotic enterprises within the ecology of public knowledge.
Ireland's contribution to orthopaedic literature: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, this bibliometric analysis provides a novel overview of current Irish orthopaedic related research, and how our standards translate to the worldwide orthopaedic community.
Trends in Computer Science Research "We also found strong evidence of money preceding research; that is, if a research topic bursts in terms of NSF grants first, it is likely to burst in publications within a few years."
The 100 Most-cited Articles in the Imaging Literature Preclinical articles, primarily in the field of neurologic MR imaging, were highly represented in the top 100 cited articles in the medical imaging literature.
The production of scholarly knowledge in the global market arena: University ranking systems, prestige and power "If the results of this study can be generalised to all areas of sociological practice – and there is no reason to suppose health sociology is unique in its high regard for theory or methodological pluralism – and to other countries, these findings raise concerns about the future of disciplinary knowledge and practice."
FOSTERING THE HUMAN INFRASTRUCTURE OF E-RESEARCH Such problems highlight the scale of the problems arising from the failure of the human infrastructure to develop and keep pace with the technical infrastructure. Our findings suggest, however, that it is on the human infrastructure that attention must be focussed if wider adoption is to be achieved. It is necessary to foster a human infrastructure that integrates across organizational boundaries and is better matched to the technical capabilities of e-Infrastructure.
A Historical Perspective of Pediatric Publications: A Bibliometric Analysis Citation analysis of pediatric publications reveals a sustained interest in articles that are based around criteria or guidelines rather than clinical trials. Older articles describing important syndromes or observations are still popular but there is a strong bias toward recent articles. This can be attributed in part to the ever rapidly expanding role of the Internet in evidence-based medicine, which provides a manuscript for directing patient care, exploring new ideas, and guiding the path for future research.
IS THE 'GLOBALIZATION' OF SCIENCE ALWAYS GOOD FOR SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTIVITY AND ECONOMIC GROWTH? In this paper we put forward a general equilibrium model of the production of scientific knowledge. The main aims of the paper were to determine the aggregate effects of changes in the degree of connectivity and social interactions in the scientific community and account for both the broad differences in the development of a scientific structure and those in per capita income that still persist in the world. Although we obtain several useful theoretical results, further work still remains to be done to clarify the economic consequences of the so-called globalization process of science which still constitutes a largely unexplored research topic.
Quantifying Long-Term Scientific Impact The observed patterns not only help us uncover basic mechanisms that govern scientific impact but also offer reliable measures of influence that may have potential policy implications. The proposed model offers a journal-free methodology to evaluate long term impact. In contrast with the IF and short-term citations that lack predictive power, we find that c∞ offers a journal-independent assessment of a paper’s long term impact, with a meaningful interpretation: It captures the total number of citations a paper will ever acquire or the discovery’s ultimate impact.
Evolution of regional scientific collaboration networks: China-Europe emerging collaborations on nano-science Policy implications for strengthening the bilateral scientific collaborations between China and EU include, for EU and its member nations, on one hand, they should maintain a stable geopolitical and diplomatic relationship with China and remove the obstacles hindering the implementation of bilateral collaborations mechanism.
A CERIF-based schema for recording research impact Although a single impact statement encoded in this model can only give a very crude indication of the impact claimed for it, the aggregations of potentially thousands of these statements in an evaluation should present a more accurate, evidence-based summation of impact than is currently possible from more free-text descriptions. A similar approach could also, of course, apply to all components of current research assessment: a strategy of this type would greatly reduce the workload of those compiling submissions to these exercises as well as allow research to be evaluated on a continuous basis rather than through periodic exercises as is usually the case at present.
Electronic theses and dissertations in Nigeria university libraries Status, challenges and strategies The results of this study are insightful in the adoption of ETD projects at Nigerian universities. If Nigeria as a country is serious about research and development and is willing to compete favourably in the current knowledge or digital economy, serious efforts should be made to ensure full implementation of electronic theses and dissertations (ETDs) in Nigerian university libraries. The recommendations provided in this study will be of immense assistance to policy makers and all stakeholders in research and development in Nigeria.
"Conferring Authorship": Biobank Stakeholders' Experiences with Publication Credit in Collaborative Research Authorship continues to be a benchmark by which researcher's careers are measured, yet the guidelines for its attribution are frequently disregarded, in some cases due to ignorance of their very existence. Our interviews with biobank stakeholders in Switzerland reveal that authorship is considered a motivating factor for collaborative research, but that there are numerous instances of inappropriate credit and dispute. A main factor in this may be the lack of a suitable alternative method of recognizing the essential contributions of those who provide well-annotated, high-quality bio-specimens, but may not contribute to the intellectual development of resulting articles.
Medical research charities and open access This research makes clear that many medical research charities consider OA to be an important current policy issue.
How the approval system affects Chinese scientific journals If nothing is done, we will lose innovation in promoting scientific journals. We need to change our concept (from hard-to-get-approved, then hard-to-cancel to an easy-to-enter but also easy-to-cancel or use – i.e. a JRS rather than a JAS). Meanwhile, the government should avoid directly interfering in the operation of academic journals: science, including scientific journals, should be independent of any parties, any legislatures, and any individuals.
An agent-based model for the bibliometric h-index Our approach goes beyond the state of the art be- cause (i) it gives sensible predictions for any number of pa- pers and publications; (ii) it explains the evolution of the h-index as a function of time; (iii) it proposes an “average” h-index that can be used to compare the scientific quality of institutions of different sizes. It shows that inter-dependencies exist across the h levels, suggesting that a scientific community can be seen as a pyramid where scientists with low h-indexes feed the higher levels with their citations.
HUMAN CAPITAL, SOCIAL CAPITAL AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH IN EUROPE: AN APPLICATION OF LINEAR HIERARCHICAL MODELS In this paper, we have shown how to derive a theoretical model of scientific production based on the human capital model. We empirically verified the life-cycle assumption which appears to be an important factor explaining scientific production.
A concept for inferring 'frontier research' in grant proposals The above concept aims at advancing the development of quantitative methods for determining and examining the relationship between peer-review and decisions about research grant allocation in terms of attributes of frontier research:
Is there a correlation between journal impact factor and researchers' performance? A study comprising the fields of clinical nephrology and neurosciences In summary, our findings show that the use of journal IF as the main indicator to measure scientific performance for evaluation and comparison purposes was not corroborated by strong evidence.
What do global university rankings really measure? The search for the X factor and the X entity This research supports the theory that suggests that the rankings have different con-ceptions of university quality in light of the analysis carried out on the common sample of universities.
A bibliometric investigation on China-UK collaboration in food and agriculture The fact that the average impact of China-UK collaborative publications is higher than the domestic publications of either country implies that collaboration benefits both sides as has been found in several other studies.
A surname-based patent-related indicator: the contribution of Jewish inventors to US patents The greater degree of disproportionality with biomedical research might be a consequence of traditional Jewish inclination toward occupations in medicine. The moderate degree of correlation (r = 0.407, p < 0.0001) between indices related to patents (P) and articles (A) indicates some commonality between the typs of activities reflected by these indices. This may indicate that some factors influencing this disproportionality are very general and therefore common to many types of activities, perhaps indicating general educational attainment, level of energy and motivation.
A co-word analysis of library and information science in China Major and developed research topics of LIS have formed in China, but the majority of topics are marginal or immature. That is to say, on the whole, the research development of LIS in China is imbalanced; and the research topics of LIS in China are relatively decentralized considering their low correlation among topics. In the future, we will seek to compare domestic and international LIS research, in hopes of finding gaps and disparities in research, thus strengthening LIS research in China and connecting it with international trends.
Assessing non-standard article impact using F1000 labels Overall, the assigned labels alongside the peer review rating show that some types of research can be identified by reviewers as being, on average, more valuable than others even if this will not be recognised by citations.
The research guarantors of scientific papers and the output counting: a promising new approach In this paper, the straight count approach is introduced where the corresponding author of a paper receives the full credit.
Prominent institutions in international collaboration network in astronomy and astrophysics The astronomical research community is enthusiastically involved in collaborative research across multiple countries. Among the 606 institutions investigated in the study, INAF, ESO, the Russian Academy of Sciences, the Observatoire de Paris-Meudon, and NOAO are the top five most central organizations. It is noted that centrality in the international collaboration network does not always reflect an institution's reputation in astronomical community, in spite of the sense that central nodes are usually the most important actors in a network.
Research performance of Turkish astronomers in the period of 1980-2010 Our study reveals that the output of astronomy and astrophysics research in Turkey has gradually increased over the years.
BOOSTING SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH: EVIDENCE FROM A PUBLIC PROGRAM The new design, with the complete removal of the endorsement, is an improvement over the original one.
Time to Tenure in Spanish Universities: An Event History Analysis Findings suggest the existence of a system based on granting early permanent jobs to those that combine social embeddedness and team integration with some good credentials regarding past and potential future performance, rather than high levels of mobility.
Health needs and public health functions addressed in scientific publications in Francophone sub-Saharan Africa The areas reported in published articles from sub-Saharan Africa reflect the health needs distribution in Africa; however, the number of publications is low, particularly for prevention. In light of the current focus on evidence-based public health, this study questions whether the international scientific community adequately considers the expertise and perspectives of African researchers and professionals.
Predicting Publication Success for Biologists We suggest that early publication success is vital for aspiring young scientists and that one of the easiest ways to identify rising stars is simply to find those who have published early and often.
International Doctoral Science and Engineering Students: Impact on Cohorts' Career Prospects The findings suggest international students tend to be underrepresented in least prestigious departments and overrepresented in least prestigious ones. International doctoral students prove to exert a negative impact on their cohorts' career prospects, leading them more toward less research-oriented positions. This study supplies rich information on international students' potential career options and urges them to be better prepared for their career trajectories.
In their own image? a comparison of doctoral students' and faculty members' referencing behavior This article compared several components of doctoral students’ and faculty members’ referencing behavior, based on the entire population of WoS-indexed research articles from Québec first-authored by either group between 2000 and 2007.
Determinants of research citation impact in nanoscience and nanotechnology For nanoscience and nanotechnology publications in all 3 years both separately and cumulatively, journal impact factor and impact of references are the most important factors associating with citations of publications.
Understanding the evolution of multiple scientific research domains using a content and network approach The experiment results showed that the W3 domain was expanding substantially and it was getting much closer (in terms of content and co-authorship network similarity) to both the DB and IR domains.
Citation analysis with medical subject Headings (MeSH) using the Web of Knowledge: A new routine The new tool (MH2WoS.exe) enables the user to perform citation analysis in WoS using MeSH terms after a step of preprocessing in WoK.
The accuracy of references in PhD theses: a case study The accuracy of referencing was not satisfactory in both groups, and students need to gain adequate instruction in appropriate referencing methods. The results of the present study with regard to the accuracy of references in theses from Tehran and Tabriz Universities of Medical Sciences indicate that there is scope for improvement in this regard.
Nanotechnology and the millennium development goals: water, energy, and agri-food Our results, then, only draw the outlines of a big picture.
Career track of Society of University Surgeons Resident Research Award recipients The SUS resident research awardees had a productive research experience.
Impact of Article Language in Multi-Language Medical Journals - a Bibliometric Analysis of Self-Citations and Impact Factor Our findings suggest that a larger share of English articles in multi-language medical journals is associated with greater international recognition.
The Distribution of the H-index Among Academic Emergency Physicians in the United States The h-index can be used to characterize the academic productivity of AEPs.
Atypical Combinations and Scientific Impact These findings have implications for theories about creativity and scientific progress.
The 'paradox of interdisciplinarity' in Australian research governance It is finally proposed that the occurrence and perpetuation of such a mismatch in the Australian context can only be understood properly if placed in the context of a more general paradox of research governance, where a politically charged rhetoric of innovation conflicts with the actual trend toward an increasingly diminishing scope for the self-organisation of knowledge. This would ultimately suggest that if the Australian government wants to foster more inter-disciplinarity in university-based research, and arguably more innovation, then one way to achieve this would be not so much to set aside funds to directly support such research, but rather to relax some of the static governance mechanisms that lead to a streamlining of the field of knowledge production. However, such relaxation seems unlikely in the current political environment, which suggests that the ‘paradox of interdisciplinarity’ in Australian research governance is going to persist for some time to come.
Sadhana - Academy Proceedings in Engineering Sciences: A scientometric analysis The present study clearly shows the trend towards collaborative research. International sources of information used predominantly for referencing. Sadhana Journal showcases progress of research in the field of engineering science.
Analyzing faculty citations for effective collection management decisions Overall, the citation analysis study provided a great amount of information about the faculty's use of the library and provided a clear picture of the types of materials used in their research and the preferred formats. This information is important to both the Collection Management Department and the Liaison Librarians because it will aid each party in understanding faculty preferences and will assist in future collection development decisions. Finally, the citation analysis helped provide a clear picture of the user behavior of the UNLV faculty in all disciplines and has been useful in identifying interdisciplinary research being conducted on campus.
Social change, institutional pressures and knowledge creation: A bibliometric analysis The main contributions of the paper are threefold. First, we highlight changes in knowledge creation in a transitional country by examining research output over a long time period. While research productivity is increasing significantly, we note dilemmas pertaining to the content and quality of knowledge created. The study provides useful pointers for future research. Continuing from limitations section, the next step would involve collection of primary data in order to appraise changes in cognitive institutions and their impact on research productivity and knowledge creation.
EVALUATING JOURNAL QUALITY: BEYOND "EXPERT" JOURNAL ASSESSMENTS IN THE IS DISCIPLINE To account for both the consumption and production of IS research, it is suggested that a combined use of impact and power measures be employed in exercises aimed at evaluating relative statures of journals devoted to IS research.
The Academic Impact of The Triological Society Theses-Mosher and Fowler Awards: Citations, Impact Factor, and H-Index Negligible difference in citations and author h-index were observed between AT, MA, and FA theses indicated that the level of excellence is uniform, and thesis submission remains influential and prestigious.
Scientometrics Study of Impact of Journal Indexing on the Growth of Scientific Productions of Iran The number of indexed journals with number of articles, citations, self-citations, and H-index of each country showed significant correlation (P-value<0.01). In recent years, by favoring quality over quantity of researches, the new rules have proven to be more effective for discriminating Iranian scientific productions.
The influence of open access on journal cancellations in university libraries in South Africa The findings revealed that OAIs had a very limited influence on journal cancellations in South African university libraries. Thus, university libraries in South Africa are dependent on paid-for journal subscriptions. To mitigate some of these difficulties, university librarians should make a concerted effort to facilitate access to local research by way of institutional repositories and free content available via OAIs.
On the measurement and benchmarking of research impact among active logistics scholars This study has two key scholarly takeaways. First, we have identified that the h-rate provides the most succinct basis of assessing the relative research contribution of logistics and SCM scholars of different academic ages.
On the Predictability of Future Impact in Science Our results place in doubt the suitability of such models, and indicate further investigation is required before they can be used in recruiting decisions.
The use of the Hirsch index in benchmarking hepatic surgery research This analysis provides a first benchmark to assess surgeon scientists' productivity in the field of liver surgery.
Co-authorship networks and research impact: A social capital perspective This study explains what and why social capital can be used for scholars in a co-authorship network to improve research impact. More specifically, it defines six indicators with specific characteris-tic in the network according to the three dimensions in social capital theory, and investigates how these indicators interact and affect citation count. Most importantly, it provides future researchers who want to enhance the impact of their publications with sev-eral strategies for leveraging social capital.
The impact of network embeddedness on research output Our study shows that the network dynamics behind the generation of quality output contrasts dramatically with that of quantity.
The UK and Italian research assessment exercises face to face The comparison of research assessment in Italy and the UK is an important resource for a careful and pre-emptive reflection on the behaviour resulting from national assessment exercises.
Facts and fads in academic research management: The effect of management practices on research productivity in Australia In sum, research management and research performance are associated, regardless of the choice of the performance measure.
The Retraction Penalty: Evidence from the Web of Science In sum, retractions can create substantial citations penalties well beyond the retracted paper itself.
Impact of GDP, spending on R&D, number of universities and scientific journals on research publications in pharmacological sciences in Middle East There is a positive association between spending on R&D, number of universities and indexed scientific journals on research outcome in pharmacological science in Middle East. It is suggested that, Middle East countries must increase funding on R&D, establish more universities and scientific journals, and get the journals indexed in ISI. Continuing efforts must be taken to promote research in pharmacological science.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Orthopedic Literature This bibliometric analysis showed that orthopedics research witnessed rapid development between 2000 and 2011.
Publications of Russian scientists in biology, environmental sciences, and ecology in 2002-2011 No doubt, foreign participation in publications affects significantly the intensity of their citation, entailing an increase in the share of publications with a citation level higher than the worldwide averages in the total array. In addition, we have identified that the major share of publications and references to them in the research areas belongs to authors from the RAS RIs. The Hirsch index of publication arrays whose authors were RAS scientists is closest to the general indicators for Russia.
Disciplinary Competitiveness Analysis in International Stomatology Education Within the limitations of the present study and according to our results, there are forty-four academic dental institutions in the final list as judged by vari-ous selection indicators.
Fostering diffusion of scientific contents of National Society Cardiovascular Journals:the new ESC search engine Hopefully, this will help to further expand the scientific impact of European cardiovascular research.
SOCIO-SEMANTIC FRAMEWORKS Socio-technical systems feature a co-evolutionary dynamics between social networks of interaction or collaboration, and so-called “semantic" networks of term, topic and issue associations. This type of understanding is not only necessary for the sake of engineering better socio-technical platforms: societal applications follow naturally and make this question a crucial one for civic debates and policy-making. To reach an integrated understanding of social cognition in socio-technical systems, the type of socio-semantic dynamics that we presented here needs certainly to be developed further into a multi-level framework; it also needs to be enriched on the side of information description — our way of appraising mental representations is at best sketchy (n-grams), at worst erroneous (for instance, by generally assuming some sort of perfect copying process in studies focused on contagion).
Journal Impact as a Diffusion Process: A Conceptualization and the Case of the Journal of Management Studies Grounded in the multidisciplinary research on diffusion of innovations, we advanced five core dimensions of journal diffusion and used these for substantiating the concept of journal impact as a diffusion process.
Adjusted Count, Complete Count, and Straight Count: Does it Matter when Appraising Research Performance? A Case Study of LIS Research in Post-Apartheid South Africa The study concludes that in informetric studies, the method of counting chosen for purposes of assessing the performance of researchers matters as each method produces different results.
Are mobile researchers more productive and cited than non-mobile researchers? A large-scale study of Norwegian scientists Thus, the publication and citation indicators have not provided strong arguments that mobility is bene- ficial for research performance.
Group size, h-index, and efficiency in publishing in top journals explain expert panel assessments of research group quality and productivity The nature of research group quality and productivity is not well understood. In this article, we have presented a secondary analysis of assessment scores and data regarding 52 science research groups at the UA. The results show that the assessments of quality and productivity are highly correlated and can be explained by similar cumula-tive logistic regression models.
Detecting structural change in university research systems: A case study of British research policy The British case is a provocative demonstration of this method, which could be further developed to provide evidence-based analysis for policy learning and a foundation for cross-case comparison.
Piloting an approach to rapid and automated assessment of a new research initiative: Application to the National Cancer Institute's Provocative Questions initiative Using the NCI’s PQ initiative, we demonstrated that administrative data associated with grant applications can be used to provide program and evaluation staff early indicators to address key questions that often arise in portfolio assessment and gap analysis.
Measuring the evolution and output of cross-disciplinary collaborations within the NCI Physical Sciences-Oncology Centers Network With these evaluation data, PS-OC Program officials have provided ongoing feedback to participating investigators to improve center productivity and thereby facilitate a more successful initiative.
Criteria for assessing research quality in the humanities: a Delphi study among scholars of English literature, German literature and art history With respect to research assessment, our results have three implications: (1) a broad spectrum of criteria has to be applied to assess research quality in the humanities ap-propriately;
Attributes of a surgical chairperson associated with extramural funding of a department of surgery The research productivity of a chairperson is the only personal attribute of those studied that is associated with the departmental NIH funding.
Peer Reviewers of Academic Journals: Who Is Responsible for Our Professional Literature While the peer reviewers within this survey were often new to peer reviewing, they brought to the process years of experience in the field as well as active publication records. This was overwhelmingly done as a service to the profession as well as a chance to keep up with current research. Due to this fact, it is important that we look at these individuals to maintain a record of who they are and why they offer their time, energy, and expertise to an often unacknowledged service for the field.
Web structure and influence of the Arab universities of the MENA zone (Middle East and North Africa) Visualization and analysis We attained our main objective of reflecting the structure and influence of the World Wide Web in the MENA zone, at the geographic level (country) and the academic level (universities).
Patterns of co-authorship and research collaboration in Malaysia The study highlights the skewed distribution of co-authorship patterns where there is limited evidence of cross sectors collaboration in journal publication. The findings call for policy makers as well as universities to look into the constraints as well as drivers that would enhance the linkage of different actors in the national research system. The study provides useful information for policy makers seeking to intensify scientific collaboration, particularly international collaboration and collaboration with industry partners.
Struggling scientists: please cite our papers! Citation success, whether we like it or not, is becoming increasingly important, to researchers, their journals and their institutions. However, through adoption of the strategy presented here, researchers can simultaneously enhance citation success and research quality. My recommended strategy can and does achieve enhanced citation success and research quality.
U.S. and them: The Geography of Academic Research The research-wealth relationship documented here presents country-specific applied economic research in a framework familiar to many.
Analysis of the influence of the International Journal of Electrical Engineering Education on electrical engineering and electrical engineering education It can be concluded that IJEEE is both bringing out new research in the field of electrical engineering and also improving the field of electrical engineering educa-tion (EEE) and engineering education in general.
The wealth of nations and the dissemination of cardiovascular research Investigators in less wealthy countries face challenges to disseminate their research, even after accounting for potential differences in the quality of their work and research infrastructure.
Mapping research collaborations in the business and management field in Malaysia, 1980-2010 Based on the results we suggested a co-authorship strategy.
Evaluating top faculty researchers and the incentives that motivate them The findings of our study can provide administrators with insights about what factors they can influence that affect the research output of their faculty. Specifically, for faculty members who hold teaching appointments greater than 25%, the number of publications they author that appear in the WoS is significantly lower. A comparable finding occurs for faculty members who hold extension appointments greater than 40 %.
The relationship between research performance and international collaboration in chemistry "Therefore, international research collaboration seems to exert some kind of “bonus" effect because of internationalization."
The suitability of h and g indexes for measuring the research performance of institutions "The analysis suggests that, compared to using the h-index, the g-index slightly reduces distortion: the ranking lists prepared with this indicator are on average more correlated with the benchmark relative to those based on h, and the shifts in position are generally less."
Cluster methods for assessing research performance: exploring Spanish computer science The resulting clusters could have potential implications on research policy, proposing collaborations and alliances among universities, supporting institutions in the processes of strategic planning, and verifying the effectiveness of research policies, among others. Our work proposes a cluster analysis methodology to evaluate the research activity (in terms of bibliometric indices) of institutions and their academic staff. In the future, our target will be to incorporate private universities and non-tenured academics. Also, we will use other aspects (number of patents, number of projects, number of spin-offs, etc.) as variables in the cluster analysis.
An empirical approach to compare the performance of heterogeneous academic fields We provide evidence that the distributions of the yearly average PUB, CIT and IF of Italian bibliometric academic disciplines only differ by a scaling factor, and after eliminating the percentage of silent scholars, it can be rescaled, that is, it can be collapsed to one common empirical law that follows a log-normal distribution. We showed that our approach is particularly useful for the comparison of research production across different Italian academic disciplines at the university level. All these extensions are potential topics for future research.
Analysis of bibliometric indicators for individual scholars in a large data set Our results represent a large-scale validation of formerly postulated conjectures.
Contributions of Turkish academicians supervising PhD dissertations and their universities to economics: an evaluation of the 1990-2011 period In this study, the number of doctoral dissertations in economics and the publications and citations of professors supervising them in the scientific indexes belonging to the period between 1990 and 2011 in Turkey are studied.
Network closure, brokerage, and structural influence of journals: a longitudinal study of journal citation network in Internet research (2000-2010) The first contribution of the study is that it comprehensively assess the structural influence of 1,210 social scientific journals from a network perspective in an emerging subject area (i.e., Internet research), which helps us understand the creation and diffusion of scholarly knowledge in Internet research.
The lengthening of papers' life expectancy: a diachronous analysis Finally, life expectancy for developed countries literature is on average shorter than that of emerging ones. Scientific literature produced by the latter has been likely to enjoy longer life and become obsolete less faster than the literature produced by the former.
Some citation-related characteristics of scientific journals published in individual countries The following conclusions can be drawn from this study: (1) Analysis of data of two-year impact factor (IF2) against five-year impact factor (IF5) of different journals published in different countries according to the 2011 JCR database with the widest coverage of journals in the JCR databases revealed that IF2 ≈ IF5 for the journals published in Poland, Czech Republic and Croatia, IF2 > IF5 for the journals published from Turkey and Brazil, whereas IF2 < IF5 for the journals published in Romania.
Co-word based thematic analysis of renewable energy (1990-2010) This co-word analysis of the keywords of the papers published in the journal Renewable Energy has shown them to be structured in the form of 5 major clusters (later broken down into 22 clusters at a finer level of resolution).
Comparison of a citation-based indicator and peer review for absolute and specific measures of research-group excellence This means that, although the citation-based scores could help to describe research-group strength, in particular for the so-called hard sciences, they should not be used as a proxy for ranking or comparison of research groups.
Measuring institutional research productivity for the life sciences: the importance of accounting for the order of authors in the byline Based on the results, we recommend against the use of bibliometric indicators that ignore co-authorship and real contribution of each author to research outputs.
How much do different ways of calculating percentiles influence the derived performance indicators? A case study In the present case study the performance of Europhysics Letters (EPL) has been analyzed for 25 years by comparison with the citation distribution of all physics papers in the Web of Science.
Are academics who publish more also more cited? Individual determinants of publication and citation records We study the individual determinants of EconLit publication scores and Google Scholar citation indexes of French academic economists.
Knowledge-transfer analysis based on co-citation clustering A knowledge-transfer analysis model is established based on patent citations by co-citation cluster analysis, with which the landscape of knowledge-transfer including route and strength between knowledge sources and technology fronts can be mapped out. The knowledge-transfer analysis model used in the field of transgenic rice is carried out. The networks of country, ownership category, organization, researcher in knowledge-transfer are the focus in the further research, which can help to explain the process of knowledge-transfer.
Computer models for identifying instrumental citations in the biomedical literature This work demonstrates that it is feasible to train computer models to automatically identify instrumental citations. This work was successful in demonstrating the feasibility of machine learning methods for automatically identifying instrumental citations. The results were encouraging, and further work is necessary to enhance the models and build practical tools to improve journal impact factor and citation count in real-world settings.
Networks of networks: a citation network analysis of the adoption, use, and adaptation of formal network techniques in archaeology The results indicate that a citation network analysis succeeds in quantitatively expressing the intuitive results drawn from the literature review. However, the use of citation network analysis for archaeology is significantly restricted by the limitations of the available citation databases, which are still less representative for the humanities and the social sciences than for the natural sciences. It is suggested that different disciplines in the humanities require distinct strategies for citation data collection and analysis.
Straight from the source: Accounting for scientific success In sum, by analyzing reflections by scientists in multiple time periods and disciplines, by relying on scientists' own analytic capacity, and by integrating research literatures (on scientific success, folklore, and accounts) and methods (content analysis and QCA), we have discovered new insights about the cultural context of scientific success.
Bibliometric analysis of Nobelists' awards and landmark papers in physiology or medicine during 1983-2012 Conclusion. These findings provide a new insight into the relationship among Nobel Laureates' awards, landmark papers and Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
Web of Science, Scopus and Google Scholar A content comprehensiveness comparison It became evident during the verification process that the citation resources retrieved varied results.
Use of social networks for academic purposes: a case study This case study analysed the demographic profile of the users of an academic social network, their reasons for using the service and their use of other social media. The results show that users are mainly lecturers and PhD students. Therefore, it is essential to define who is responsible for social media in the academic environment and leadership is required to use these tools strategically.
Innovation in social networks: knowledge spillover is not enough The current research demonstrated the enormous potential of distributed cross-sector networks. VHSN are able to accelerate knowledge spillovers. Cross-sector partnering within VHSN creates robust opportunities for novel innovation events.
A bibliometric study of literature on SLE research in PubMed (2002-2011) SLE has become a field of interest over the period 2002 to 2011. However, lupus research publications in developing countries have lagged behind. This study is believed to be a useful tool for scientists and public health policy makers in planning and organizing resources and improving their performance in the field of SLE and other research fields.
Give me a hi-5! An additional version of the h-index The hi-5 and hi-15 are potentially useful additions to the overall h-index score that enhance its relevance with regard to current research output and career trajectory.
Improvement analysis of article quality in World Journal of Gastroenterology during 2008-2012 The results suggest that WJG has stayed on the track of normal international publication and all the indices of this journal are stable and reasonable. WJG has embarked onto the track of normal internationalized publication, although it is still necessary to cultivate the core author group for the journal to establish its stable research characteristics.
EVA (ErwerbungsVorschlags-Assistant) assists in collection building! Using ILL data for patron-driven acquisition As seen by the numbers, EVA does not replace the expertise of subject librarians or other instruments of collection development. But nonetheless it can be a significant additional tool for patron driven acquisition by harnessing the existing data about our patrons’ needs that comes to light via their ILL requests.
THE (FORMAL) RETURN TO OPENNESS: A QUANTITATIVE CONTRIBUTION TO THE HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT This is a descriptive contribution.
Japanese Representation in Leading General Medicine and Basic Science Journals: A Comparison of Two Decades Overall, Japan contribution to the top general medicine journals has remained small and unchanged over the last two decades. However, top basic science journals had higher Japan representation during 2001-2010 compared to 1991-2000.
A SURVEY OF ASTRONOMICAL RESEARCH: A BASELINE FOR ASTRONOMICAL DEVELOPMENT We believe that the most successful country in developing astronomy will be one that already has a culture of publishing.
Orphan Papers and Ghostwriting: The Case against the ICMJE Criterion of Authorship The ICMJE criterion does not sufficiently match scientific practice, ironically leading to a situation in which ghostwriting is not an authorship problem. Instead, it creates a whole group of authorless papers—orphan papers. This is not the ideal way to promote research ethics. We do not need better and more restrictive guide-lines generally; instead, we need for there to be a rigorously enforced penalty for breaking guidelines.
Implications of a Single Highly Cited Article on a Journal and Its Citation Indexes: A Tale of Two Journals Citation indexes and the publication process are measures derived to help pro- vide an indication of the scientific significance of one's research work. Sadly, this has led to become a gaming tactic for individuals to gain funding and recognition.
Multidimensional Journal Evaluation of PLOS ONE In the context of this empirical study, 28,852 publications in PLOS ONE from 2007 to 2011 have been the subject of the analysis of the scientific periodical.
A proposal for a novel impact factor as an alternative to the JCR impact factor Therefore, it is suggested that IF' could be used to complement the JCR impact factor.
CONTENT ANALYSIS OF PUBLISHED ARTICLES IN THE SOUTH AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECONOMIC AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCES One of the main findings in the study was the decrease in co-authored articles between 2005 and 2008, with the flipside being an increase in single-authored articles. In conclusion, this content analysis has revealed current research practices, as published in the SAJEMS; and has attempted to shed some light on the nature of research in the economic and management fields.
Inventorship and authorship as attribution rights: An enquiry into the economics of scientific credit In this paper, we have investigated the determinants of attribution rights distribution within scientific teams whose research results are diffused jointly through patents and publications.
Seaport Research: An Analysis of Research Collaboration using Social Network Analysis It was observed that research collaboration has substantially increased over the past three decades and in particular publication via collaboration has become dominant over the last decade.
Scientific research in the natural sciences in South Africa: A scientometric study The growth trends in the production of scientific knowledge in the natural sciences in South Africa for the last three decades were similar to those in 'all subjects'. The steady increase in the average number of authors per publication in the natural sciences, juxtaposed with those for 'all subjects', conveys several points. A real growth in these can, however, be achieved if appropriate and sustained measures from multiple sources are initiated.
Subject and discipline-specific publication trends in South African medical research, 1996-2011 Data analysis of the discipline-specific publication trends will be of value in determining trends and weaknesses in scholarly output from various medical subjects and disciplines.
Assessing the scientific relevance of a single publication over time This new measure subsequently allows relevance rankings and annual updates of all (i.e. both recent and older) scientific papers of a department, or even a whole scientific field, on a more objective basis.
Highly cited publications in pediatric neurosurgery An original paper in pediatric neurosurgery having a total citation count of 50 or more, and an average citation count of 5 per year or more can be considered a high impact publication. These lists provide a practical guide to users wishing to familiarize themselves with some of the most important studies within pediatric neurosurgery. Such lists should be made available on web sites for ISPN, ASPN, or the Pediatric Section of the AANS/CNS and periodically updated as a means to evaluate the history, evolution, and future direction of research in pediatric neurosurgery.
Highly cited publications in pediatric neurosurgery: part 2 An original paper related to clinical pediatric neurosurgery in a non-pediatric neurosurgical journal having a total citation count of 100-150 or more and an average citation count of 10-15 per year or more can be considered a high-impact publication. The responsible use of citation analysis should involve comparing journals with similar intended audiences. Caution should be used when equating "quality" with citation volume.
The h-index: A case of the tail wagging the dog? Instead, all we have done is to demonstrate that a special case – a simple one-parameter geometric distribution determined by an author's number of publications and number of citations – gives a formula from which can be found a good estimate of the h-index, at least in our small set of examples.
Harmonic coauthor credit: A parsimonious quantification of the byline hierarchy In conclusion, the results indicate that the harmonic formula provides a parsimonious solution to the problem of quantifying the byline hierarchy.
Scientific impact assessment cannot be fair The implications of the results presented in this paper may seem unfavorable to automated scientific impact assessment.
Identifying excellent researchers: A new approach In this paper, I propose quantile kernel regression as a way of identifying excellent scholars by cohort.
Gender differences in research collaboration The application of our methodology to the scientific production of Italian academics demonstrates that female researchers, in contrast to what has been indicated in some of the previous literature, show greater propensity to collaborate at the general level, intramural level and domestic extramural level.
The Z-index: A geometric representation of productivity and impact which accounts for information in the entire rank-citation profile Because Z incorporates information from the entire publication profile while being more robust than h and g to local perturbations, we argue that Z is better suited for ranking comparisons in academic decision-making scenarios comprising a large number of scientists.
A systematic empirical comparison of different approaches for normalizing citation impact indicators Based on our empirical results and in line with our earlier work (Waltman & Van Eck, 2013), we advise against using source normalization approaches that follow the fractional citation counting idea of Leydesdorff and Opthof (2010).
Attitudes about publishing and normal science advancement We conclude that attitudinal differences between disciplines may lead to differences in the recognition of scientific findings and the therefore the establishment of normal science. In particular, embracing interdisciplinary publication leads to new innovations and recognition of disciplinary findings in other disciplines. Further, disciplines that foster multiple-authorship benefit from more rapid recognition of scientific findings and clearer establishment of normal science.
Which factors help authors produce the highest impact research? Collaboration, journal and document properties To answer the first research question, the journal and reference impact and the number of references are all significant determinants of increased citations to articles in the three fields.
Research literature clustering using diffusion maps Following the knowledge discovery process, we created a literature mapping framework based on article clustering.
Where are citations located in the body of scientific articles? A study of the distributions of citation locations In conclusion, studying the distributions of citation locations may considerably improve our understanding of the citation behavior at a granularity that traditional citation analysis was not able to reach, largely due to the lack of accessible full text resources. Based on this finding, citation location analysis may be a potentially reliable alternative method to predict the promising highly cited papers in advantage and a new way to evaluate scientific publication, i.e., by giving the foregoing citation more weight in citation analysis. More importantly, these perspectives open up new opportunities for the study of knowledge diffusion and how scientific articles gain their credibility over time and provide additional insights to the roles of citations in context.
Journal acceptance rates: A cross-disciplinary analysis of variability and relationships with journal measures The results of this analysis will inform scientometricians, policy makers, and scholars who employ these metrics to make decisions about where to publish and the relative quality of venues.
A simulation study to investigate the accuracy of approximating averages of ratios using ratios of averages A simulation study was conducted and by using resampling methods (i.e., bootstrap) confidence intervals were obtained showing that the difference between the average of ratios and the ratio of average is not statistically significant.
The publishing delay in scholarly peer-reviewed journals Our results are, nevertheless, not in conflict with the earlier studies, but instead, add to them. The methodology was very labor intensive and it would be very useful for future studies if publishers included the date of submission and acceptance as a standard part of their article information. Electronic publication offers a real potential for speeding up the scholarly journal publishing process, but in order to achieve this journals have to stop publishing a parallel paper version and need to convert to publishing articles in an issue-less mode as they become available.
Universality of scholarly impact metrics The index presented here is the first quantitative gauge of universality that can be readily applied to any existing metric. The present analysis points to hs as an impact metric that is intuitive, easy to compute, and universal. Further work is needed to verify that such a combination of universal metrics remains universal.
Which percentile-based approach should be preferred for calculating normalized citation impact values? An empirical comparison of five approaches including a newly developed citation-rank approach (P100) Since the results show a disadvantage in this predictive ability for P100 against the other approaches, there is still room for further improvements.
The comparison of normalization procedures based on different classification systems In this paper, we have extended the methodology for the evaluation of classification-based-normalization procedures.
Do more distant collaborations have more citation impact? Our results suggest that the recombination of dissemination opportunities, skills, and resources from research centers located farther away, increases a paper’s citation impact. Future research can extend our research design to cover all countries in the world, as to validate whether the finding for Europe is a general one. Hence, science policies could on the one hand promote collaborations over longer distance, while at the same time removing barriers to engage in such collaborations.
Ranking Spain's Medical Schools by their performance in the national residency examination There are marked differences in medical schools in Spain and these differences are very consistent over the years 2003-2011.
ANALYSIS OF SCIENTIFIC ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN TWO GENERAL ORTHOPAEDIC JOURNALS This study shows that a variety of different journals is neccessary to reflect the broad spectrum of orthopaedics in depth.
Research Productivity of Pakistan in Medical Sciences during the period 1996-2012 Pakistan improved the international research ranking in global science during the period 2002-2008.
Experienced journal reviewers' perceptions of and engagement with the task of reviewing: an Australian perspective The respondents maintained that peer review was essential to the academy, especially for its contribution of ensuring high quality in academic research and publication.
Correlation and Interaction Visualization of Altmetric Indicators Extracted From Scholarly Social Network Activities: Dimensions and Structure Altmetrics complement, and most correlate significantly with, traditional measures.
Going places: exploring the impact of intra-sectoral mobility on research productivity and communication behaviors in Japanese academia This result highlights the importance of academic job mobility but also alerts for cases of “over-loads of mobility," leading us to argue for some degree of stability in academic careers, supported by policies fostering temporary international mobility spells.
The origins of research and patterns of authorship in the International Journal of Production Research Based on these results, we can say that while the USA and the UK dominated the research published in IJPR in decades past, the research being published now is truly international in its origin.
Outlets for operations management research: a DEA assessment of journal quality and rankings In summary, we have identified an ordered set of the top 10 outlets for OM research as: MS, JOM, OR, IJPR, POM, IIE, DS, EJOR, TS and MSOM.
Democratising research evaluation: Achieving greater public engagement with bibliometrics-informed peer review Future research policies should take advantage of bibliometrics to foster greater democratisation of research to create more socially-reflexive evaluation systems.
Innovation system in transition: Opportunities for policy learning between China and Russia On the whole, it seems evident that Russia and China share a number of ‘common problems’ that come from their similar state planning legacies and would provide them with opportunities for mutual learning in the transition period.
Mapping the Scientific Research on Wine and Health (2001-2011) The number of papers about the medicinal use of wine has been dramatically increasing because of the increased awareness of wine's importance in modern society.
Citation Behavior of Aerospace Engineering Faculty These results have implications for collection management that will inform approval plans, selection/deselection, storage, and purchase of online journal backfiles. This study underscores the necessity of cooperation and collaboration among subject selectors, as well as the need for collection development policies that reflect the realities of the literature actually used rather than assuming department needs will align neatly into a narrowly defined LC classification.
What do Our Faculty Use? An Interdisciplinary Citation Analysis Study Overall, the comparisons of the KU study to other citation analysis articles demonstrate that KU is providing the equivalent or higher access to the resources that are cited in faculty publications. This type of benchmarking goes beyond simply counting the number of books held, which is the standard approach to judging the quality of a library's collections. Given the relatively high use of books by the social scientists, demand-driven acquisition will be reconsidered in this area.
Observations and Perceptions of Academic Administrator Influence on Open Access Initiatives This research was conducted in an attempt to increase our understanding about this key stakeholder group.
The Quantitative Evaluation of the Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) Program Based on Science Mapping and Scientometric Analysis In this study, the efficiency and performance of the CTSA program were analyzed and evaluated by using quantitative methods.
Foundations of logistics and supply chain research: a bibliometric analysis of four international journals Our paper benefits researchers, educators and practitioners in the field by providing an overview of the most influential publications in current research on supply chains and their interrelationships.
The Concerns of Authors: Textual Analysis of Online Journal Reviews This study reports the key findings of a textual analysis of Chinese authors' opinions as published on a journal review site.
Using the Diffusion of Innovation Concept to Explain the Factors That Contribute to the Adoption Rate of E-journal Publishing Our findings show that not all the innovation characteristics identified in previous literature emerge as an influence to the rate of adoption of e-journal publishing among Malaysian journal publishers.
The intellectual and scientific basis of science, technology and innovation research The present article analyzes the scientific basis of the STI research field through the study and characterization of the citations made inside articles published in Research Policy (RP), the "seed" journal in this field of research, and among the best and most renowned.
Global Nanotribology Research Output (1996-2010): A Scientometric Analysis The results of the present study on global nanotribology research output during 1996-2010 based on SCOPUS records explored key characteristics such as: growth rate of research, level of collaboration of publications, most publishing countries, most productive institutes, most preferred journals, citation impact, highly cited papers and research trend.
Search markets and search results: The case of Bing The top 10 results for the queries tested here showed substantial variations with the average overlap between any pair of search markets being less than 50%.
Impact of the consumption of electronic contents on research productivity in the universities of Castile and Leon Nevertheless, the work showed no absolute direct correlation between titles selected for academic publication and titles used from the platforms analyzed.
An impact-based filtering approach for literature searches Thus, a filter based on impact offers inherently advantageous efficiency in filtering search results compared to filters based on date ranges alone. It is hoped that this article provides a useful alternative to traditional literature search methods but also that it will elicit the interest among researchers to further explore this area of citation analysis in the context of automated search.
How implementation of bibliometric practice affects the role of academic libraries The results of this limited, but distinctive, study indicate an increased complexity for academic libraries and librari- anship.
Comparative study of scientific publications in orthopedics journals originating from USA, Japan and China (2000-2012) Although China has undergone significant increase in annual number and percentage of scientific publication in orthopedics journals, it still lags far behind USA and Japan in the field of orthopedics in terms of quantity and quality. The quantity and quality of orthopedics articles need to be improved and effective measures should be taken for China to promote scientific research in the orthopedics field.
Worldwide Topology of the Scientific Subject Profile: A Macro Approach in the Country Level As we have seen, insofar as scientific output and publication in journals of international visibility is concerned, the countries of the world may be classified into three main groups according to their thematic profile.
Papers published from 1995 to 2012 by six Traditional Chinese Medicine universities in China: a bibliometric analysis based on science citation index In recent years, in terms of SCI papers, the six Traditional Chinese Medicine universities studied here have made great advances in scientific research.
Evaluation and Ranking of Researchers - Bh Index Bh-Index provides a comprehensive measurement to evaluate the researcher. It gives a range of values for the citations for the h-core articles. Further, Bh-Index takes into consideration the citations of every qualified article and ranks accordingly. However, if associated with the h-Index it will prove the true characteristics of citations and real impact of the researchers.
Field-Normalized Impact Factors (IFs): A Comparison of Rescaling and Fractionally Counted IFs Our results confirm this conclusion [rescaling outperformed fractional counting].
Do Universities or Research Institutions With a Specific Subject Profile Have an Advantage or a Disadvantage in Institutional Rankings? A Latent Class Analysis With Data From the SCImago Ranking Even if indicators are used which imply a normalization of publications from the various institutions, we can assume that the different types of institutions influence the ranking outcomes.
Bibliometrics for Internet Media: Applying the h-Index to YouTube The proposed bibliometrics for YouTube have demonstrated utility; however, there are differences to consider when drawing a direct analogy between an h-index for academic publications and for Internet media. However, the h-index provides a stable metric for achievement and requires only minimal counting to calculate. We can expect the same from analogous YouTube metrics such as the h-index or g-index.
Scientific Impact Evaluation and the Effect of Self-Citations: Mitigating the Bias by Discounting the h-Index In this article, we presented the dh-index, a measure based on the h-index to assess the impact of academic research. This measure is devised to discount self-citations in the computation of the impact of a given author or journal. As for future work, our ongoing research is focused on the analysis of disparate networks of citations representing different scientific areas using the dh-index.
Do We Need the g-Index? In summary, I conclude that we may not need the g-index just as we do not really need the h-index as a one-dimensional measure of scientific impact. However, in my view the g-index should not be discarded to the benefit of √S, but it should rather be favored in comparison with √s as well as with h.
EAGLES AND TURKEYS: HUMAN CAPITAL EXTERNALITIES, DEPARTMENTAL CO-AUTHORSHIP AND RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY This study has investigated whether a positive human capital externality existed in Australian economics departments from 1996 to 2000, as measured by the number of quality-adjusted pages published per year in scholarly journals.
Authorship Conflicts: A Study of Awareness of Authorship Criteria among Academic Plastic Surgeons The authors found an increase in awareness of authorship criteria among academic plastic surgeons in 2011 compared with those in 2003.
Yellow fever disease: density equalizing mapping and gender analysis of international research output The present data shows an increase in research productivity over the entire study period, in particular an increase of female scientists. Brazil shows a majority of female authors, a fact that is confirmed by other studies.
Public accessibility of biomedical articles from PubMed Central reduces journal readership-retrospective cohort analysis While PubMed Central may be providing complementary access to readers traditionally underserved by scientific journals, the loss of article readership from the journal website may weaken the ability of the journal to build communities of interest around research papers, impede the communication of news and events to scientific society members and journal readers, and reduce the perceived value of the journal to institutional subscribers. There is strong evidence to suggest that mandated deposit of published articles in a public repository is responsible for drawing significant numbers of readers away from journal websites when those articles become freely available after a 12-mo embargo period. Furthermore, there is evidence to suggest that the effect of PMC is growing over time.
Influenza: a scientometric and density-equalizing analysis This study reveals an increasing and wide research interest in influenza.
Development of Carbon-based Nanomaterials Indicators Using the Analytical Tools and Data Provided by the Web of Science Database In this study, scientific publication on carbon-based nanomaterials was analyzed using the indicators developed from the Web of Science analytical tool. To sum up our findings, graphene and carbon nanotubes publications rose at higher rates than those for the nanotechnology field from 2001 to 2010. Thus, we recommend the use of the Web of Science analytical tool only as a starting point and for general performance examination.
A local social network approach for research management This study takes a local social network approach to transform traditional research management in several aspects.
Do journal authors plagiarize? Using plagiarism detection software to uncover matching text across disciplines In conclusion, the findings of the study can be seen as an opportunity to broaden the discussion on issues of text-matching and paraphrasing across fields, disciplines, authorship, and language context. The numerical data generated by Turnitin is only a starting point for those researchers, instructors, editors, and institutional policy makers involved in scholarly publication to rethink what constitutes text-matching and paraphrasing and why.
I Publish in I Edit? - Do Editorial Board Members of Urologic Journals Preferentially Publish Their Own Scientific Work? In the five journals as a whole, scientific work was not preferentially published in the journal in which the scientists served as editor.
Matching a scientific knowledge base with stakeholders' needs The T10Q project as a case study for forestry The bibliometric approach of the T10Q project provided a rapid as-sessment method for examining the existing knowledge base in rela-tion to ten specific questions of priority to forestry research.
How can formal research networks produce more socially robust forest science? This paper reports the results of our survey research and draws upon the authors' previous evaluative research on the SFMN to offer suggestions for the design and management of UGICS research networks that seek to foster more socially robust science. Our research suggests that such measures would facilitate the production of more socially robust science.
Out of Asia: Understanding the nexus between technology usage and research productivity in Japan, Singapore, and Taiwan The results of this study have several implications for researchers and practitioners alike.
Publishing in Educational Research Journals: Are Graduate Students Participating? It appears that students constitute a small proportion of published authors in education journals, making up less than 9 per cent of all authors. When students published, they most often worked in a one-to-one relationship with a professor. The minimal role of graduate students in published education research suggests reason for concern with the way graduate students are positioned as researchers and authors.
The Current State of Open Access in Journals Sponsored by the China Association for Science and Technology This implies that the availability of OA journals and archive storage in China is far behind those of other developed countries.
Auditing Social Science and Humanities Journals: The View of an Editor in a Malaysian Research University The overall quality of a journal is dependent on many factors. For each of these journals, the journey ahead has been made clearer because of this journal evaluation and the guidelines and suggestions that were provided.
Canada's Neglected Tropical Disease Research Network: Who's in the Core-Who's on the Periphery? The publication specialties, composition, and position of NTD researchers within Canada's NTD country network provide evidence that while Canadian researchers currently remain the overall gatekeepers of the NTD research they generate; there is opportunity to leverage existing research collaborations and help advance regions and NTD areas that are currently under-developed.
With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility: the Importance of Rejection, Power, and Editors in the Practice of Scientific Publishing Consequently, a parsimonious interpretation of these findings is that peer review either within or across journals does not necessarily improve the likelihood that others use it in subsequent publications.
Different traditions in the study of disciplinarity in science - science and technology studies, library and information science and scientometrics The study shows that socially the three approaches to studying disciplinarity in science are populated by distinct groups of contributors.
Comparative analysis of homepage Website visibility and academic rankings for UK universities Website visibility is a design feature often ignored in the design of university homepages in the UK, which could lead to missed opportunities. In conclusion it can be claimed that there is no correlation between academic and Website visibility rankings for UK universities. The author did not expect a strong correlation, since the factors used to determine them have no apparent link.
An Absolute Index (Ab-index) to Measure a Researcher's Useful Contributions and Productivity The Ab-index will provide a reasonable way of assigning credit to each contributing author though it is impractical to think that the authors will contribute exactly in a decreasing arithmetic progression.
Global Cardiovascular Research Output, Citations, and Collaborations: A Time-Trend, Bibliometric Analysis (1999-2008) Cardiovascular health research output has increased substantially in the past decade, with a greater share of citations being published from low- and middle-income countries.
Demographics and the fate of the young scientist Nonetheless, we have shown that the sorts of trends that we see in the age of grant recipients over the last three decades can be accounted for, to a large extent, by the changing demographics of the scientific community.
Credit, time, and personality: The human challenges to sharing scholarly work using Web 2.0 By situating larger discussions about the future of scholarly communication in the everyday lives of scholars, we argue that integration with disciplinary cultures will be key to the success of new media initiatives.
The role of academic publishers in shaping the development of Web 2.0 services for scholarly communication Our findings shed light on the attempts of two academic publishers to take on board new forms of scholarly communication and find ways to appropriate Web 2.0 technologies that not only satisfy their audiences, but fit the practicalities of running peer-reviewed journals and make commercial sense. We have seen how NPG and PLoS have tried to play the role of innovation interme-diaries: they are able to act as brokers by controlling some key assets, and having high visibility and presence. To this end, we suggest a number of areas where further research is needed.
Increased co-first authorships in biamedical and clinical publications: a call for recognition Because of the above-mentioned points and the analyses shown in Fig. 1 and Tables 1 and 2, we believe that academic journals that publish original research in the basic and clinical sciences should aim to display joint author declarations in a clear and consistent manner.
EVALUATING JOURNAL QUALITY AND THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS SENIOR SCHOLARS' JOURNAL BASKET VIA BIBLIOMETRIC MEASURES: DO EXPERT JOURNAL ASSESSMENTS ADD VALUE? The most important outcome of this study is that expert opinion on top IS journals equates with external bibliometrics and is statistically indistinguishable.
Career Benchmarks From the Burroughs Wellcome Fund's Early Faculty Career Development Awards Researchers who are highly competitive at the early faculty career stage have generally been both timely in their arrival at important benchmarks and productive in terms of their scientific output.
The Doris Duke Clinical Scientist Development Award: Implications for Early-Career Physician Scientists The factors associated with success in a CSDA competition included a combined clinical and doctoral research degree and affiliation with a well-funded institution. More alumni received NIH independent research funding than those who applied but did not receive the award. Thus, the CSDA is associated with physicians establishing independent and recognized research careers.
Analysis of research activity in the field "Engineering, Civil" through bibliometric methods This article applies bibliometric methods to study the "Engineering, Civil" category from the Web of Science Database, analyzing the situation and evolution of research in this field.
A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF AN INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH ETHICS TRAINEE PROGRAM The data indicate that trainees have been productive and contributed to the scholarly literature.
Czochralski Method of Crystal Growth in the Scientific Literature: An Informetric Study As found in previous papers [8, 9, 16, 18, 19], it is shown that the basic concepts of progressive nucleation mechanism originally proposed for crystal growth can satisfactorily be applied to explain the citation behavior of papers published on the Czochralski method of crystal growth. Application of mathematical equations based on progressive nucleation mechanism to explain the growth dynamics of papers related to the Czochralski method of crystal growth and citations to these papers published in the scientific literature revealed that: (1) cumulative papers N(t) and cumulative citations L(t) are mutually related, and (2) the citation behavior of papers published on the Czochralski method follows three distinct periods: 1954-1988, 1988-2001 and 2001-2012, which are related to the nature of the plots of ∆N(t) against publication time t.
Patterns and trends of medical student research There is an increasing number of medical student authored articles being published and the trend seems to be continuing. The numbers of medical student authors have remained static while the total number of authors has increased, raising valid concerns. Publishers and authors should strive to enhance the quality and quantity of data available in indexing services.
A list of highly influential biomedical researchers, 1996-2011 The list of highly influential researchers was developed so as to identify a reproducible set of researchers with high citation metrics.
The Extraction of Community Structures from Publication Networks to Support Ethnographic Observations of Field Differences in Scientific Communication We demonstrate here that publication networks can be "mined" as part of a mixed-method approach to reveal and map the complexities of a scientific community.
Characteristics of Retracted Open Access Biomedical Literature: A Bibliographic Analysis Overall, postretraction citation diminishes at approximately the same rate across the retracted biomedical literature regardless of accessibility or publishing model.
Statistical Common Author Networks We have described the development and execution of a novel method of visualizing scientific areas by looking at common authors, which is valuable in the study of emerging interdisciplinary areas.
A Bibliometric Mapping of the Structure of STEM Education using Co-Word Analysis Bibliometric mapping of scholarly outputs in a given domain is often used to chart the fields and knowledge areas and help establish the underlying structure (Chen, 2004). Following a similar approach, this study investigated the domain of STEM education to understand the core knowl-edge areas and what can be inferred from the emerging structure for important activities, including curriculum development, policy formation, professional development, and resource management. In view of the complexity of the domain of STEM education, the significance of this study lies in the core knowledge areas that it identified.
Interactive Overlays of Journals and the Measurement of Interdisciplinarity on the Basis of Aggregated Journal-Journal Citations The "citing" dimension of the aggregated journal-journal citation matrix was found to provide a more comprehensive description than the matrix based on the cited archive.
Publication Fees for Open Access Journals: Different Disciplines-Different Methods The main finding, contrary to expectation, was that only 28% of the OA journals covered in the DOAJ charged authors for publication, and 66% did not. This confirms the conclusions reported by the Kaufman-Wills Group LLC (2005), Hooker (2007), and Shieber (2009) that it is simply not true that most OA journals charge for publication.
Gender Gap or Gender Bias in Peace Research? Publication Patterns and Citation Rates for Journal of Peace Research, 1983-2008 Overall, our findings represent good news when it comes to gender equity. We identify a large but decreasing publication gap between men and women in JPR. However, we find no evidence of a gender bias against women in the process from submission to acceptance.
Evaluation of funding gastroenterology research in Canada illustrates the beneficial role of partnerships Continuity in support of a long-term health research funding partnership strengthened the career development of gastroenterology researchers in Canada, and enhanced the creation and dissemination of new knowledge in the discipline.
A bibliometric approach demonstrates the impact of a social care data set on research and policy Bibliometrics plus interviews provided a rounded picture of the data set's impact.
Accuracy of Citation and Quotation in Foot and Ankle Surgery Journals Citation and quotation errors were still relatively common in orthopaedic journals. While we did not identify any factors associated with citation and quotation errors, the use of technical editing may reduce the amount of citation errors. Readers and authors should be aware that many citations of studies are inaccurate and one should review the original source if it is to be used in another publication or to guide clinical treatment.
Academic Productivity and Its Relationship to Physician Salaries in the University of California Healthcare System Ophthalmologists, otolaryngologists, neurosurgeons, and neurologists in the UC healthcare system who are more academically productive receive greater remuneration.
The Assessment of Science: The Relative Merits of Post-Publication Review, the Impact Factor, and the Number of Citations We conclude that the three measures of scientific merit considered here are poor; in particular subjective assessments are an error-prone, biased, and expensive method by which to assess merit.
Book Citations Count First, the average book published by a university press receives about three times as many citations as the average article indexed in the SSCI. Second, publishing with a university press is more likely, on average, to have an effect on the scholarly conversation, as the average number of citations for a university-press book is about 2.5 times that of a book published by other presses. Finally, the correlation between scholars' subjective assessment of publisher quality does not closely match a simple citation count.
Classic Citations in Main Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Journals This analysis of the top citation classics allows for the recognition of major advances and supplies a historic perspective on the progress of plastic and reconstructive surgery research.
The 100 Top-Cited Articles Published in Psychiatric Journals In conclusion, the list of top cited articles in psychiatry may provide a historical view of the scientific progress and highlight key advances in the field of psychiatry.
Effectiveness of a Reference Accuracy Strategy for Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles The primary significant finding of this study is that fewer major content errors and style errors occurred in faculty-authored journal articles that were internally copyedited than in those articles that were not internally copyedited.
On the time spent preparing grant proposals: an observational study of Australian researchers Considerable time is spent preparing NHMRC Project Grant proposals.
Evolution of coauthorship networks: worldwide scientific production on leishmaniasis Research should be fostered in countries such as Bangladesh, Nepal, Sudan, and Ethiopia, where there is a high prevalence of different forms of the disease but limited research development with reference authors integrated into the collaboration networks.
Impact of GDP, spending on R&D, the number of universities and scientific journals on research publications in environmental sciences in the Middle East This is the first study which has analyzed the productivity and visibility of research papers in the field of environ-mental science in the Middle East. It shows that the Middle East countries which spend more on R&D and which have large number of universities and ISI indexed journals are likely to produce more significant volume of research papers in environmental science. It is suggested that the Middle East countries should take continuing ef-forts to promote research in environmental science.
TITLES IN HIGHLY RANKED MULTIDISCIPLINARY PSYCHOLOGY JOURNALS 1966-2011: MORE WORDS AND PUNCTUATION MARKS ALLOW FOR THE COMMUNICATION OF MORE INFORMATION As predicted, titles grew longer (by three words) and were more heavily punctuated (by half a punctuation mark) over the 45 years studied. These changes likely represent an accommodative response to the growing complexity of the field of psychology, and are an attempt to provide specific information to title-readers who are potential article-readers. The lengthening of article titles and their increasing employment of punctuation marks across time are robust effects.
Research productivity of Canadian ophthalmology departments in top 10 ophthalmology and vision science journals from 2001 to 2010 Larger Canadian departments tended to generate higher research volume and obtained more federal funding, but smaller departments also contributed significantly, and sometimes surpassed larger departments, in terms of research impact and cost-efficiency."
Research Progress and Prospects of Saudi Arabia in Global Medical Sciences Saudi Arabia's research performance in global medical sciences has markedly increased during the period 2006-2012. The research publications are continuously on mounting path; however, the number of citations has decreased. The country improved its regional as well as international research rank-ings and graded 45 in the world in year 2012.
Manuscript Processing Times Are Negatively Correlated with Journal Impact Factors The results confirm that manuscripts are processed faster both in journals with higher impact factors and in journal categories with higher median impact factors.
A SIMULATION OF DISAGREEMENT FOR CONTROL OF RATIONAL CHEATING IN PEER REVIEW This work highlights the importance of adopting more transparent and adaptive policies for conference programme committees.
Do collaborations enhance the high-quality output of scientific institutions? Evidence from the Italian Research Assessment Exercise The picture that emerges from the results of this econometric exercise on the determinants of high-quality scientific productiv-ity shows the importance of the flows of knowledge that arise from collaborations among researchers from different institutions and/or countries. These are among the most robust determinants of the production of excellent publications. It emphasises that knowledge exchange with researchers in the global scientific community is vital for those who aim to achieve the highest quality of research, and has limited or even negative effects on those who do not compete for international prestige in academic research.
Putting Boyd in His Place Boyd Rayward is an ecumenical spirit, something that is reflected in the fact that his work appears in a variety of outlets and is cited by scholars from several of the congregations that together make up the broad information studies church. Indeed, there is little bibliometric evidence of his clustering in any substantive or persistent way with his coeval peers. We can, therefore, say that Boyd is defined primarily by those whom he studies (Otlet and others) rather than by his contemporaries and their research interests.
Ranking of Polish physical education higher schools based on the articles published in 2009-2012 indexed by the Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education The ranking being the result of eval-uation process allowed to determine the position of the unit in relation to other rated units proving that the academies of physical education fulfil their statutory, social and economic mission.
A BIBLIOMETRIC/GEOGRAPHIC ASSESSMENT OF 40 YEARS OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING RESEARCH (1969-2009) Based on the analysis of 26,624 papers, six research questions were studied in this article. The bibliometric study revealed interesting insights into the contributions of different countries and regions (e.g. China, and the EU countries) to the field of software engineering from 1969–2009.
Detection of Information Requirements of Researchers Using Bibliometric Analyses to Identify Target Journals Citation analysis enabled rapid identification of the most frequently cited journals that are essential to academic researchers.
Nanotechnology Policies in Latin America: Risks to Health and Environment The knowledge-based economy par-adigm and the orientation of S&T toward increasing international competitiveness were the theoretical frameworks that justified the designation of NT as a priority area, even in small countries where the level of laboratory infrastructure and critical mass of scientists is diminished by large capital investments in scientific-technical areas such as NT. International institutions such as the World Bank and OAS were key in deliver-ing funding and strategic guidelines of scientific policy. Since workers and consumers are the ones exposed to NT risks, the offi-cial policy, while omitting the risk topic, distances itself from these two social sectors.
Developing a Core List of Journals in an Interdisciplinary Area Implications for Academic Faculty and Librarians Demonstrated in the Business Literature This research describes a method of identifying core journals in the interdisciplinary field of corporate governance.
The Impact of Article Length on the Number of Future Citations: A Bibliometric Analysis of General Medicine Journals In conclusion, for original research articles published in the major General Medicine journals, in addition to journal impact factor, the article length independently predicts the number of future citations.
INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION IN SCIENCE: THE GLOBAL MAP AND THE NETWORK The network of coauthorship relations offers a perspective on the ranks and positions of countries which provides an alternative to ranking shares of publications and citations. The leading group has tripled to more than 40 nations (Figure 3) in the last five years, suggesting a different dynamic operating at the global level. National science policies based in institutions created in the 20th century may be less effective in influencing such a complex and adaptive system developing at the global level.
Determinants of Success in University Careers: Findings from the German Academic Labor Market In this contribution, we have analyzed the determi-nants of success in careers in the German academic labor market in three selected disciplines (law, mathematic, and sociology).
Trend of Knowledge Production of Research Centers in the Field of Medical Sciences in Iran Proper policy implementation in the field of health research system during last decades led to improving capacity building and growth knowledge production of medical sciences in recent years in Iran.
The Analysis of Health Research System Evaluation in Medical Sciences Universities We developed an HRS-based comprehensive evaluation program to our national vision as well as our regional and international research competition.
The Evaluation of International Relationship Role in Promotion of Health System Research Developmental process in supporting of the international projects demonstrated acceptable outcomes which consisted educational programs in postgraduate students in PhD, and MS, publishing papers and performing scientific meetings.
Iranian Health Research Networks and Vision of Iran by 2025: A Case of Virtual Health Network in EMRI Promoting the current position needs a reliable and feasible new strategies.
Trends in Scientific Literature on Atypical Antipsychotics in South Korea: A Bibliometric Study The publications on SGAs in South Korea have undergone exponential growth over the studied period, without evidence of reaching a saturation point. Thus, research in this field will definitely continue to grow in the coming years. Besides, SGAs have, and will continue to have, an ever-ex-panding range of clinical indications, both within the psychi-atric ambit and outside it, to judge from the promising results obtained for the different pathologies with which they have been studied;29 in consequence, scientific production in rela-tion to these drugs will certainly continue to be abundant, as is happening in the prescription patterns of SGA in this re-gion.
Visualizing the Topical Structure of the Medical Sciences: A Self-Organizing Map Approach Among the envisaged future efforts are the creation of a highly interactive interface and the elaboration of the notion of this map of medicine acting as a base map, onto which other knowledge artifacts could be overlaid.
The Measurement of the Effect on Citation Inequality of Differences in Citation Practices across Scientific Fields Given a classification system, we have provided a simple method for the measurement of the effect of differences in citation practices across scientific fields.
Accuracy of references: comparison between two premier Pakistani medical journals Reference errors constitute an avoidable but substantial lapse of medical literature.
Research trends in library and information science based on Spanish scientific publication 2000 to 2010 This paper has identified that that Spanish LIS research concentrates on information and its processing, basically on electronic information and the processes connected with it. When the distribution of the subjects in Spanish LIS publications is observed, a significant number of papers on the LIS profession, education and curriculum were noted. It seems that the present Spanish research trends have proven McNicol and Nankivell's forecast to be correct.
Evaluating the growth pattern and relative performance in Nipah virus research from 1999 to 2010 The citation pattern in Nipah Virus is decreasing and plateauing and may be due to lower global interest as the cause of the disease has been ascertained and methods of controlling it is known. The relative citation impact in Nipah virus research by USA, Australia, Malaysia, France and England surpass the world average during the period studied. As such, to be active, relevant and sustainable, collaboration is of great importance.
Controversies arising from which similarity measures can be used in co-citation analysis What similarity measure should be used in ACA and similar techniques? The debate is not perhaps closed, and the answer surely not easy.
The ranking of Iranian universities based on an improved technique Using the ranking results from normalized data, using new sets of metrics, smaller and newer Iranian universities could attract larger resources, better quality faculties and students to strengthen stronger national and international collaborations. This study showed that "field normalized citation" is a good indicator that can also be used in ranking systems. All these findings put together, highlight the prime need for research policy makers to exert changes or adjustments based on the new metric indicators.
High-impact papers published in journals listed in the field of chemical engineering This provides additional evidence that high impact journals may not necessarily produce more top-cited papers, and the practice of using journal impact factor as an indicator of a research quality may mislead research policy.
On giant components in research collaboration networks: Case of engineering disciplines in Malaysia Our study found CHEM and EEE networks to already possess well-formed giant components, whereas MECH and CIVIL networks had not yet formed one.
The scientific map of medicine in Iran: Category co-citation analysis The authors recommend more attention be paid to the scientific mappings using various techniques applied in different years in Islamic countries. Based on the results obtained from this study, it is suggested that a committee be formed at the Iran Ministry of Health and Medical Education, which should be in charge of providing and constructing the medical scientific maps in different periods, so that, this can be utilized by medical experts, specialists, students, and policy makers.
The h′-Index, Effectively Improving the h-Index Based on the Citation Distribution The h'-index improves the h-index, as well as indices of total-citation number and citations per publication, by possessing the ability to discriminate shapes of citation distribution, thus making the h'-index a better single-number index for evaluating scientific output in a way that is fairer and more reasonable.
The correlations between certain features of the journal Neotropical Ichthyology and its impact factor: a comparative analysis at the thematic and national levels Analyzing the IF progression of Neotropical Ichthyology demonstrated a distinct increase in this journal's impact, considering that improving a ranking in the impact classification quartiles is not a common phenomenon. Further bibliometric studies should be performed on the IF of Neotropical Ichthyology in relation to other variables considered significant for understanding journal impact, including literature obsolescence rate, article density, and published article type.
Citation analysis to reconstruct the dynamics of Antarctic ozone hole research and formulation of the Montreal Protocol As a single indicator, WDC captured the influence of scientific articles in both cited and citing dimensions and was used to reconstruct the dynamics of Antarctic ozone hole research.
Is Social Simulation a Social Science Outstation? A Bibliometric Analysis of the Impact of JASSS Our results indicate that the impact of JASSS is cross-disciplinary but is consistently concentrated more among computer science, the natural sciences, physics and ecology.
Benefits to the Spanish research community of regional content expansion in Web of Science Spanish research productivity in Web of Science has increased sharply in the past 8 years and this is due mainly to the increased publication in international journals by researchers in Spain. The cited references indexed from these regional Spanish journals have made the Spanish regional citation network visible and illuminated the journals considered influential by the Spanish research community. Selection of journals for inclusion in Web of Science is in part based on their influence on the research community and the exposure of the Spanish regional citation network can now be used effectively to support future decisions on indexing of Spanish journals.
Effects of Print Publication Lag in Dual Format Journals on Scientometric Indicators Caution should be taken when evaluating dual-format journals supporting long publication lag.
STATISTICS SHOWS THAT ECONOMIC PROSPERITY NEEDS BOTH HIGH SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTIVITY AND COMPLEX TECHNOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE, BUT IN DIFFERENT WAYS Science is more closely re-lated to economic prosperity of nations than complex tech-nological expertise. Science is essential for eco-nomic growth among developed economies, whereas technical complexity may be more impor-tant for the economic develop-ment of poorer countries. There might be an upper lim-it to the intensity of scientific activity a contemporary soci-ety is able to sustain, suggest-ing that future growth in world science will come from developing countries.
Remarkable Growth of Open Access in the Biomedical Field: Analysis of PubMed Articles from 2006 to 2010 OA articles in the biomedical field have more than a 50% share. OA has been achieved through OAJs.
Profile and analysis of scientific production of Brazilian researchers in Clinical Neurosciences In this study, we found that researchers in the field of Neuroscience have relevant quantitative and qualitative scientific output.
Open access to nursing journals: an audit of the 2010 ERA journal list Approximately half (51%) of nursing journals surveyed have all or some articles that are open access. However, barriers at an institutional level may need to be addressed to ensure nurses can be informed in their care of patients.
The Low Academic Profile of Brazilian Economists The data point to a low intensity of academic life in Brazilian economics schools.
Bibliometric Evidence for a Hierarchy of the Sciences These results support a “gradualist” view of scientific knowledge, suggesting that the Hierarchy of the Sciences provides the best rational framework to understand disciplines’ diversity.
Bibliometric Analysis of Parasitological Research in Iran and Turkey: A Comparative Study Based on observed data and applied model, it is anticipated that the total number of Iranian and Turkish parasitologists' publications in Web of Science will exceed of 2512 and 240 articles per annum for Iranian and Turkish in 2020, respectively.
An axiomatization of the Hirsch-index without adopting monotonicity Based on expansion consistency, we present a characterization of the Hirsch-index without adopting monotonicity.
Why Has the Number of Scientific Retractions Increased? The increase in retracted articles appears to reflect changes in the behavior of both authors and institutions.
Mapping neuroscience research in India - a bibliometric approach Greater government spending and funding through public-private partnership can foster greater development. We suggest that scientists in India should embrace open access (OA) – publishing in OA journals and/or depositing their papers in OA archives. OA improves visibility and hence increases citability in proportion to the importance and quality of the work by removing subscription-based constraint to accessibility.
Big Science vs. Little Science: How Scientific Impact Scales with Funding We conclude that scientific impact (as reflected by publications) is only weakly limited by funding.
Measuring the impact factor of individual researchers in biomedical disciplines This algorithm could be useful for the evaluation of the investigational quality of the subjects, in personnel selection processes in which the candidate's research performance comparisons of the personal scientific influence of various subjects and different research centers.
THE ECONOMICS OF CITATION IMPACT METRICS The results of the current study converge with prior research on the strengths and weaknesses of the impact factors, metrics of journal performance³³ that involve an analysis of citation frequency, ³⁴ IFs as the primary criterion in assessing research quality,³⁵ and the misuse of the impact factor to evaluate a researcher's career. We presented several results of a research performed for Addleton Academic Publishers located in New York: we selected a number of significant journals and we identified a positive correlation between the frequency of the journals, the relevance of indexing services, the evolution of citation rates, the rhythm of acceptance rates, and the authors' h-index average value.
Findings and Implications from Data Mining the IMC Review Process From our findings, we hypothesize review process methods to improve fairness, efficiency, and transparency.
BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY (1922-2009) ON RUGBY ARTICLES IN RESEARCH JOURNALS In summary, it can be concluded that the articles published on Rugby are written by an average of 2.5 authors and that only 8.3% of them have written more than two articles in this field.
Publication Pressure and Burn Out among Dutch Medical Professors: A Nationwide Survey In conclusion, this thesis draws a somewhat dark picture of the academic enterprise.
Are Chinese nanoscience citation curves converging towards their American counterparts? We found that, although during the period under study China's citations were considerably smaller than the United States', their statistical citation distributions seem to converge.
Is there the gap in public health literature in Europe? According to the criteria accepted in this study, the Nordic countries – Finland, Sweden and Norway – were very productive in this respect.
Scientific productivity and collaboration in viticulture and enology in Latin American countries In conclusion, this study provides an indication of the state of research in Latin America in the field of viticulture and enology based on the analysis of articles published in journals included in the SCIE. The results highlight the significant growth in the number of research papers published from 2006 to 2010, although this growth is due in part to the increase in the number of journals included in the SCIE, some of which are published in local, non-English journals. Future work in this area could identify newly emerging groups and the evolution of already recognized groups over time.
THE NEED FOR END-USER CUSTOMIZATION OF THE JOURNAL-SETS OF THE SUBJECT CATEGORIES IN THE SCIMAGO JOURNAL RANKING DATABASE FOR MORE APPROPRIATE LEAGUE LISTS. A CASE STUDY FOR THE LIBRARY & INFORMATION SCIENCE FIELD SJR is the largest open access directory, covering nearly 20,000 journals and other serial publications.
EXCELLENCE WITH LEADERSHIP: THE CROWN INDICATOR OF SCIMAGO INSTITUTIONS RANKINGS IBER REPORT The analysis presented here stresses potential improvements in the SCImago Ranking methodology, with emphasis on the quality indicator of universities' scientific output. This finding clearly shows that the qualitative dimension of scientific output must not be neglected at any cost. Additionally, I-distance methodology could embrace the postulates of bootstrapping and we hope to encourage potential researchers in this area.
Advances in plastic and cosmetic surgery at home and abroad - A bibliometric analysis We investigate advances, hotspots, experts and their institutions in plastic and cosmetic surgery in recent five years at home and abroad, which would provide some research directions for professionals of plastic and cosmetic surgery.
Mexican Breast Cancer Research Output, 2003-2012 This article demonstrates the usefulness of bibliometrics to address key evaluation questions and to establish priorities, define future areas of research, and develop breast cancer control strategies in Mexico.
BALKAN COUNTRIES PRESENCE IN SCIENCE CITATION INDEX AND SCOPUS IN THE FIELDS OF PHYSICS AND CHEMISTRY The data provided above show increased overall activity in the fields of physics and chemistry of the Balkan region as a whole and significantly increased presence in the international publications. The existing cooperation should be strengthened for the sake of research, for the benefit of the economy, and not least for the general improvement of political climate in the region.
Core journals in library and information science: measuring the level of specialization over time The new method seems to offer a valid technique for measuring scientific specialization as a process. Yet, further studies are required to confirm the results.
Bibliometric analysis of South American research in sports science from 1970 to 2012 In summary, this study evidences an increase in the scientific production in sports science in the last 42 years. Also, it shows that Brazil has the most prevalent number of published articles in the continent. Finally, this paper reveals countries (Ecuador, Guyana and Paraguay) that have only one published article in the past 42 years.
Bibliometric Indicators of Russian Journals by JCR-Science Edition, 1995-2010 The growth of the total number of articles (1.8-fold increase) as com-pared to 1995 outpaces the growth rates of Russian publications (1.2-fold increase).
Why an Unbiased External R&amp;D Evaluation System is Important for the Progress of Social Sciences—the Case of a Small Social Science Community While the evaluation process is quite well organized and standardized with regard to the measurement of publication productivity, many difficulties (biases) are appearing concerning the measurement of scientific impact and third-party funding. Overall, as a general recommendation for improving the validity and reliability of R&D evaluation procedures in Slovenia I suggest making stronger combined use of bibliometrics and peer review in all phases of external R&D evaluation procedures at R&D funding agencies. The “cum grano salis" use of bibliometric measures, when combined with information provided by a qualitative assessment such as peer reviews, could significantly improve the quality of external R&D evaluation procedures in Slovenia.
Increase in numbers and proportions of review articles in Tropical Medicine, Infectious Diseases, and oncology This study confirmed that reviews are indeed cited more frequently (on average) than are normal articles. It also demonstrates that during the past 20 years, reviews have come to constitute an increasing proportion of articles in the fields of Tropical Medicine, Infectious Diseases, and Oncology. In conclusion, more thought needs to go into how best to ensure that medical journals achieve a good balance between review papers and original articles.
Analyzing web citations availability and half‐life in medical journals This study confirms that authors who published achievements as scientific articles in the journals of Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences are increasingly interested in using online citations. It should be noted that the main reason of this high unavailability percentage of cited URLs can be because of lack of using online archive by authors. Thus, in order to increase URL accessibility in the journals of Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, publishers and editors should force authors to utilize WebCite for all of citations referred in their articles.
Higher Education and Congressional Influence on Administrative Decisions: An Examination of NSF and NIH Research Grant Funding to Four‐Year Universities We find some evidence that congressional-bureaucratic relationships impact grant receipts, though the effects are moderate in magnitude.
Measuring the value of library content collections This research provides a foundation for assessing the value of databases within the context of search by measuring demand as the beginning of the development of a web analytics framework for academic libraries. Using search as the context, it is evident in 2012 that there existed more content available than was being accessed on a regular basis. Actions could include removal of databases based on cumulative traffic they generate (or don't generate), the amount of traffic they generate compared to other databases from that provider, or those databases that see no increased usage over the course of the semester.
Automated citation sentiment analysis: What can we learn from biomedical researchers These differences reflected the researchers' unique needs for citation sentiment analysis to obtain comprehensive and reliable opinions from prior literature, and provided insights to improve current automated analysis toward more user-centered design.
Quantity and impact through a single indicator Surveying the recent literature, however, I came to the conclusion that substantial theoretical work and several case studies are needed to arrive at a widely acceptable solution concerning the characterization of the eminence of publications of scientists and teams, both qualitatively and quantitatively, by a single indicator.
Does openness and open access policy relate to the success of universities? Open Access activities in these countries can be seen as one explaining factor. One explaining factor could be the Open Access policy of these countries and universities.
Deceiving the research community through manipulation of the impact factor IF manipulation is not a new topic; however, this ques- tionable practice has allowed this journal to be first in three different JCR categories: “Energy & Fuels,” “Engineering, Environmental,” and “Engineering, Chemical." The purpose of this letter is not to dwell on the flaws that the system might have, but to preserve its integrity.
A Three-Decade History of the Duration of Peer Review In total, the average duration of review time has been reduced from sixteen weeks to eleven weeks, or by about 30 per cent. Insofar as reduced review time facilitates promotions, raises, professional recognition and the like, electronic sub-mission seems to be a good thing. This suggests that the conception and implementation of other techniques for reducing review time might involve reduction in the time an editor specifies for receipt of a review.
The recent trends of information organization research in Japan and Korea This study has carried out frequency analysis and network text analysis for the titles of articles of Korea and Japan contained in the information organization subject in the last two years. The results of the frequency analysis and network analysis highlight several differences. Meanwhile, the analysis results of clusters formed on the basis of the network map have also shown that the clusters are "catalog" centered in Japan, while clusters in Korea are centered on "classification."
What Makes a Working Paper in Economics Publishable?: A Tale from the Scientific Periphery Besides enabling the discussion of the work carried out by researchers, working papers seem to constitute an important contributor to not only successful scientific research (i.e., articles published in international peer-reviewed journals) but also the scientific performance of academic institutions.
The hidden factors in impact factors: a perspective from Brazilian science This shows yet another nationwide example of misuse of journal based metrics to evaluate individual scientists and its catastrophic consequences when, contrary to recommended by the International Mathematical Union (IMU Report, 2011), it is imposed by governmental agencies. In a country that is desperately trying to move from a peripheral scientific and technological condition to be among the major players, the journal impact factor based "Qualis" might be bad news.
Big data and false discovery: analyses of bibliometric indicators from large data sets The lesson to be learnt seems to be that small and medium sized data sets respond in a dimensionally correct way and that brute force computation with big data may lead to false discoveries and spurious correlations which are not physically meaningful or dimensionally correct.
Evaluating Indian newspaper web sites using Alexa Internet The present study evaluated the Indian newspaper web sites in terms of their performance on the web using Alexa databank. The downloading speed of most of the newspapers is not satisfactory, which needs to be given due attention as it could increase the number of visitors for the respective newspapers and their consequent global reach. Besides administrators of Indian newspapers, the results of this study will be useful for web site managers in any field including those in charge of library web sites.
A Citation Analysis of Doctoral Dissertations in Atmospheric Science at the University at Albany The results of this study suggest that a broader evaluation may also prove valuable to highlight the needs of graduate students completing a mas-ter's thesis in the department of Atmospheric and Environmental Sciences.
Impacts of government website information on social sciences and humanities in China: A citation analysis The findings suggest that by understanding the current use of information from government websites, policy makers and the SS&H research community may learn more about the future trend, and thus doing a better job in the dissemination and utilization of such information.
Scientific knowledge dynamics and relatedness in biotech cities This paper investigated the impact of scientific relatedness on knowledge dynamics in biotech at the city level worldwide during the period 1989-2008.
Exploring scientific articles contributed by industries in Taiwan The results show that researchers employed in numerous industries, including low-tech industries, publish scientific articles; however, most articles were contributed by the researchers in high-tech industries.
The objectivity of national research foundation peer review in South Africa assessed against bibliometric indexes Our findings are mixed.
“I've Never Heard of It Before”: Awareness of Open Access at a Small Liberal Arts University Although many colleges and universities have established institutional repositories, content for these repositories remains elusive. Before librarians and open access advocates can expect these repositories to flourish, potential submitters must fully understand open access and related issues. Additional research is needed to better understand this issue.
The S-index and consistency We see a very good correlation between the S-index and the consistency indicator η (Pearson's correlation coefficient is 0.944 for the four cases taken up here).
Incorrect Citations Give Unfair Credit to Review Authors in Ecology Journals Our data suggest that journals' IFs and review authors' individual impact can be unfairly inflated by misinterpreted and lazy citations. With so many indications of poor citation practices, we think that care should be taken to reduce them and improve reliability in science. These practices should be stopped, mainly through more open discussion among mentors, researchers and students.
Dissemination of information and visibility of the European Higher Education Area through the websites of Spanish universities: a longitudinal metric analysis, 2007–2012 Conclusions highlight a number of best practices identified and provide some guidelines to improve the evaluated aspects and dimensions, thus strengthening the role played by the university websites as quality information sources for the scholar community and the society.
Tracking Changes in Political Science Dissertations at Penn State: 1953–2010 However, the evidence here clearly documents a shift over time in political science at Penn State, even if only in its most general sense.
Scientific evaluation of the scholarly publications Hence, we have proposed a new index to overcome the realized deficiencies. Our "Original Research Publication Index” (ORPI) scores over the rest, in best performance evaluation of a researcher with continuous research publications as a first author. We hope that ORPI suggested by us will be accepted with open minds.
Energetics of the h-bubble The Hirsch index based articles are now stabilizing to the normal impact values of the average informetric article in the three major journals.
Citation Impact of Open Access Medical Journals on Scholarly Communication: Web Citation Analysis The study shows that Google Scholar has good coverage of sources of citations to open access scholarly journals in Neurology than ISI citations.
Bridges or isolates? Investigating the social networks of academic inventors Overall, we did not find support for our hypotheses that inventive activities are associated with a broader network in the pre-invention phase or with a more central and brokering position of the inventors.
Brazil’s growing production of scientific articles—how are we doing with review articles and other qualitative indicators? Brazilian scientific production has grown remarkably over the last 20 years. This performance includes the production of original articles, reviews and proceedings.
Open access journal content found in commercial full‐text aggregation databases and journal citation reports This study points to large differences in the rate of indexing OA journals by different databases. The consistent patterns of low coverage rates for OA journals, found in variety of previously mentioned research, suggests that much of the OA journal literature is likely to be retrievable via discovery services other than traditional A&I in any near term scenario. If creating an environment where open access research literature is more findable by researchers than it is at present then tools other than traditional abstracting and indexing tools are necessary.
Scientific outputs of Middle Eastern countries in Web of Science Database (WOS) from 1990 to 2010 The findings of the current study indicate that the average growth rate of scientific outputs in the Middle East during the second decade of the given period was three times as high as that of the world.
Distribution of Citations in one Volume of a Journal This article emphasises importance to introduce reliable set of bibliometric indicators which are intrinsic to the journal in the sense that they take explicitly as few as possible indicators not belonging to a given journals, such as are quantities determined using data for other journals as well. For the group of obtained distributions of citations it was shown that prescribed form (3) makes possible their reliable representation in the two-parameter set spanned by power-law exponent a that was previously encountered in analyses of large-citation tail of distribution functions, and by the parameter b representing influence of the small-citation end of the distribution function. Currently, there is a large number of parameters to be check and modified if needed, thus the first step in prospective research is to apply the function (3) (or its modification given by equation (4) in [16]) onto sets of distributions of citations for larger number of scientific journals.
World Research Output in Conjunctivitis Research: A Quantitative Analysis during 2002-11 Conjunctivitis is generally considered as a multifaceted disease with variety of etiologies and clinical features and as a result requires varieties of treatments. For accurate diagnosis and effective therapeutic intervention, there is a need for professional care.
Open Access as a Factor of Enhancing of the Global Information Flow The idea of the Open Access contributes to both efficient use of resources spent on research and publication of their results, enabling a swift publication of discoveries, which is particularly important in physics, biology, and medicine; this also applies to the quantity of journals of this type based on the Open Access.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Scientific Output of EU Pharmacy Departments A bibliometric study of the two top scientists in EU pharmacy departments gave h-indices of 14 (mean)/9 (median) for the first and 12 (mean) / 8.5 (median) for the second, similar to values published from pharmacy departments in the USA. Results compared to those from other regions of the world showed that performance in the EU—as in the USA—is at a relatively high level. The results showed that qualitative performance of individuals or departments is not related to the size of the department.
Understanding the Differences among Academic Disciplines The theoretical model proposed here shows how publication-maximizing professors, depending on three parameters, decide on following either a solo research or a funded research program.
Graphs and prestige in agricultural journals Our research shows that there is a clear positive correlation between the number of graphs used in papers in agricultural journals and their 2-year IF published in 2010. Indeed, it shows that higher quality agricultural journals seem both to publish more papers with graphs and include more graphs in the papers. This, surely, must be the next step in this research.
Citation-based estimation of scholarly activity among domestic academic radiation oncologists: 5-year update The current results suggest an overall rise in scholarly citation metrics among domestic academic radiation oncologists, with a current mean h-index of 10.8 vs. 8.5 in 2008.
Inferring international dotcom Web communities by link and content analysis First, the relational structure between countries after decomposing the .com domain is generally consistent with previsous findings based on ccTLD in that individual nation-states were asymmetrically connected within one global system (Barnett et al. 2011). This suggests centralization, cultural convergence, and globalization due to the World Wide Web. Future research should define individual countries as nodes in the hyperlink network in a more precise manner.
Website Data Mining Based Hyperlink Analysis Method and its Application Research The impact of the private universities website in China are generally not high, and their construction of the website must be improved.
Suborganizations of Institutions in Library and Information Science Journals The main findings of our study confirm the sufficiency of WoS data and are as follows: • Almost 88% of publications had some address information associated with them, but prior to 1998 only few publications had other than reprint addresses included. • “Indiana Univ; Sch Lib & Informat Sci” is the best department in terms of citations and “Univ Minnesota; Carlson Sch Management” is ranked first by times cited. • Most cited of all departments is “Indiana Univ; Sch Lib & Informat Sci” by “Wolverhampton Univ; Sch Comp & Informat Technol” and the most intense departmental collaboration occurs between "Univ Illinois; Coordinated Sci Lab” and “Univ Illinois; Grad Sch Lib & Informat Sci". In our future work on the scientific performance and collaboration at the level of departments, we would like focus on other fields of science, other publication sources (e.g., conference proceedings), and other time periods.
The Performance of Iranian Psychology and Psychiatry Researchers: A Scientometric Study This research aimed to investigate the performance of Iranian psychology and psychia-try researchers in Web of Science. The results of such scientometric studies are useful to enable the policy makers and science administrators to take appropriate decisions.
Academic Content – A Valuable Resource to Establish your Presence on the Web Academic content provides an opportunity for wide exposure of a research topic to search engine crawlers [9].
Measuring the international usage of US institutional repositories This study suggests that many IR administrators either do not know, do not care, and/or cannot record international usage data for their respective IRs, which could hinder determining an international return-on-investment for the IR.
Improving a decomposition of the <i>h</i>‐index As a consequence, I propose to improve the Bartolucci's decomposition of the h-index by writing h = mr. The interpretation of the indexes m and r is similar to that given by Bartolucci for m and r, that is, respectively, a measure of the impact of the scientist on the scientific community—that also depends on the number of citations of his or her most cited paper—and a measure of concentration of the citations of the m most cited papers.
The spill-over theory reversed: The impact of regional economies on the commercialization of university science The embeddedness of university scientists within a regional economy can influence the ability of a university to effectively commercialize science.
Reviewers’ Ratings and Bibliometric Indicators: Hand in Hand When Assessing Over Research Proposals? Bibliometric indicators predict the concession of grant proposals at least as well as peer ratings.
Measuring the development of a common scientific lexicon in nanotechnology This paper has presented an assessment of the use of nano-prefixed terms over 21 years of publication data in the nanotechnology domain. It has proposed that nano-prefixed words have followed a pathway toward ever greater usage, and that increasing specialization has occurred in this terminology. Our findings offer evidence about the development and maturation of the nanotechnology research domain over an extended period of time.
Exploring the Black Box of Journal Manuscript Review: A Survey of Social Science Journal Editors Overall, this suggests that the black box of manuscript review and publication decisions is not a wholly unknowable entity.
Korean scholarly information analysis based on Korea Science Citation Database (KSCD) Thus this paper investigated the current status of developing national citation databases around Asia-Pacific regions and introduced KSCD. Citation analysis at the journal, article, reference and researcher affiliation level based on KSCD has been performed as to illustrate the overall picture of Korea science research activities and impact as well. We leave the development of an alternative metrics for integrated analysis for various cases by utilizing both citation and usage data as our future project.
Journal Article Retrieval in an Age of Open Access: How Journal Indexes Indicate Open Access Articles Google Scholar, PubMed, and subscription-based journal indexes (represented in this study by Scopus) are all capable of providing full-text availability indicators for Gold OA articles. If vendors of subscription-based journal indexes and OpenURL link resolvers cannot tackle the challenge of indicating the rapid growing number of Green OA articles on institutional repositories and elsewhere, their products may become less relevant in the age of OA.
Embracing complexity in academic performance appraisal Fraud is rare, but misguided practices are not.
A Citation Analysis of ETD and Non-ETD Producing Authors These results affirm the conclusions of Kushkowski’s (2005) study. Even after controlling for multiple variables by limiting an examination of doctoral students’ works to a single campus, there were no obvious differences in the referencing behaviors of those doctoral students who voluntarily participated in an ETD project and those who elected to submit their final product in paper. Library professionals working in reference, bibliographic instruction, and collections management need not be concerned about universities’ increased use of digital formats to acquire, store, and disseminate theses and dissertations.
Gender differences in publication productivity: narrowing the gap Although many past studies have shown that female academic staff has had low research output (Long et al., 1993; Stack, 2004; Ogbogu, 2009), this study has consistently illustrated that there is no significant difference in terms or research productivity of the academic staff when categorised by gender, this is evident by average production output in Table 2, correlation analysis in Table 3 and the one way ANOVA in Tables 4 and 5. These findings justify the need to develop national and institutional research policies to guide and manage research in Kenya. There is need to carry out further studies to establish possible challenges to female gender's increased participation in research productivity particularly at senior levels of academic engagement.
It takes two to tango: knowledge mobilization and ignorance mobilization in science research and innovation This paper outlines a notion of knowledge mobilization dynamically in tango with ignorance mobilization in science research. An underlying argument is that knowledge mobilization science policy agendas in such countries as Canada and the United Kingdom fail to capture a critical element of science and innovation – ignorance mobilization. The knowledge and ignorance mobilization concept allows social scientists (and other actors in science and innovation) to capture the complexity of knowledge and ignorance mobilization ecosystems. Finally, it would appear that the conceptualization developed here dynamically linking knowledge mobilization with ignorance mobilization is relevant not only for science research and innovation, but also for business research and innovation.
Hybrid OA – a way to go? Therefore it is absolutely essential to create a connection between the two systems, subscriptions and APCs, to form a sort of communication channel at the individual university and/or consortium level.
Half of All Papers Now Free in Some Form, Study Claims That means so- called open-access publishing has reached a "tipping point" and will now accelerate, suggests Éric Archambault, the lead author of the study and president of Science-Metrix Inc. in Montreal, Canada. “Things are likely to move much faster now.” The new "findings underline that open access is here to stay," said Máire Geoghegan- Quinn, European commissioner for research, innovation, and sci- ence, in a statement.
An Investigation of Editorial Favoritism in the AER Given our metric, sample, and procedures, we do not find any significant support for the hypothesis of editorial favoritism.
A New Method and Metric to Evaluate the Peer Review Process of Scholarly Journals Again, the proposed metric, “Peer Review Evaluation Score” (pre-SCORE), would be one more tool available to authors, publishers, readers, and libraries to aid in the discovery of quality published research.
Feasibility Study Into the Reporting of Research Information at a National Level Within the UK Higher Education Sector The UKRISS study performed a wide-ranging study on the reporting of research information from institutions to funders within the United Kingdom.
Academic self-publishing: a not-so-distant future We saw how Erin's publishing experience is an achievable reality and one where academics can easily copyright, disseminate, evaluate and version their own work. Sooner or later, when scholars are ready to embrace a new publishing culture, journals will have to adapt and respond to the needs and demands of modern science. There is still important room for them in the scholarly communication landscape and the research community is ready to support reasonable and ethical publishing business models that respect the free and open evolution of knowledge.
Evaluation of selected library associations' web sites The paper provides a three category classification for library associations web sites.
Comparison of Citation Indexes in Korea: An Exploratory Study The study findings suggest that Korean citation indexes must be enhanced if they are to yield bibliometric measures that are robust and reliable. Organizations like KISTI and NRF who manage these citation databases need to standardize the data inclusion criteria, which should be an easy fix, and work together on improving the data quality and coverage so that bibliometric analysis can produce effective measures of research assessment in Korea. Furthermore, the study illuminates a dire problem area in bibliometric analysis that is often overlooked; for those who engage in assessment of international scholarly work, neither the popular citation indexes nor local databases offer an optimal solution.
Science Evaluation in the Czech Republic: The Case of Universities The overall research output of the universities under study more than doubled from 2008 and 2011, with virtually all universities increasing their absolute research production each year.
The academic welfare state: making peer-review count This metric can therefore help provide more recognition and visibility to those who selflessly invest in the advancement of knowledge often to the detriment of their own careers.
Bibliometrics of the Top 100 Clinical Articles in Digestive Disease The top 100 articles reflect major advances in gastroenterology and hepatology.
University trustees as channels between academe and industry: Toward an understanding of the executive science network Given the results, we conclude by theorizing the rise of an executive science network that plays an instrumental role in relations among universities and industry.
From applicateness to potential applicability: An informetric approach based on researchers’ scientific productions The developed methodology seems able to provide an estimation of the potential applicability of a researcher's scientific work.
Scientometrics analysis of Genetics Literature Science indicators are used both for descriptive as well as analytical purposes. PCA analysis highlights “Molecular Biology" with the maximum growth of 98% which indicates the priority of the field throughout the world. All the major countries have a mixed profile.
The Status of Cognitive Psychology Journals: An Impact Factor Approach The study presented here can give the scientific community formed by those interested in cognitive psychology an insight into some aspects of the impact factor of journals specializing in this branch of psychology.
GV-Index: Scientific Contribution Rating Index that takes into Account the Growth Degree of Research Area and Variance Values of the Publication Year of Cited Paper For the purpose of dealing with these problems, this study, first, calculated the important evaluation value of scientists by the PageRank algorithm as the observation data of principal component analysis, taking account of the degree of growth of the research domain and the variance of the year of the articles quoted, and then, proposed a new scientific contributory index (GV-index) by having carried out principal component analysis on the basis of these data.
Biofuel research and data mining Co-citation analysis has been combined with multivariate analysis to study the intellectual activity, area and structure of research. The specific specialties have been displayed and visualized through maps, and network diagrams, respectively, to effectively interpret and summarize the data. This research is a preliminary investigation into the literature associated with the biofuel discipline. Areas of specialization within the biofuel field are identified and this provides a valuable building block for future research.
Good practice in an institutional repository service: case study of Strathprints Although in recent years the number of IRs has increased, there are constraints which still inhibit the growth of these services: fear of plagiarism, ignorance of how to make a deposit in a repository, and the others considered above.
Citation analysis of doctoral theses in botany submitted to Kuvempu University, India: a case study Citation analysis is a measurable method that transcends local needs and assures that core collections representing specific disciplines are in the journal collections of academic libraries. It is hoped that this study may enlighten the researchers in identifying the primary sources of information. Studies of this nature will be helpful for the document lists in circulating the contents for the use of potential readers and researcher; it can also serve as feedback to the librarians in the selection and acquisition of most useful journals within the budget constraints.
Impact and prestige of kinesiology-related journals<sup>1</sup> The data in the present study supported the journal impact and prestige factor structure hypothesized in kinesiology journals that has been reported in other disciplines (Bollen, et al., 2009; Leydesdorff, 2009; Franceschet 2010; Zhou, Lu, & Li, 2012).
Rate and Predictors of the Conversion of Abstracts Presented at the Canadian Cardiovascular Congress Scientific Meetings to Full Peer-Reviewed Publications In conclusion, this study found that approximately 1 in 4 abstracts presented at the CCC were converted into a full peer-reviewed article. We believe our work identifies potential areas for CCC organizers to concentrate efforts to improve final publication of abstracts and thus improve the dissemina-tion of research.
The Suitability of Web Analytics Key Performance Indicators in the Academic Library Environment Web analytics appear to be a potential treasure trove of valuable decision-making information for libraries.
Part II: Should the h-Index Be Modified? An Analysis of the m-Quotient, Contemporary h-Index, Authorship Value, and Impact Factor "Google Scholar tends to inflate the h-index."
An Assessment of Recent Authors and Authorship Patterns in Taiwan's Public Administration Research This study provides an overall answer to the question "who writes PA journal articles in Taiwan" from different angles, with the goal to shed light on the state of PA research in the country.
Philosophy of escapism in the open access world: studying author pay model "Author pay model” in the OA world sometimes referred to as “sole alternative to commercial publishing models" has not liberated the author community in any real sense. The issue of equity for such authors who cannot afford to pay author processing fees is yet unresolved and is waiting for justice especially for the authors who belong to the third world nation. Reduction, if not the elimination of APCs can be one of the relaxing solutions to the author community who support OA Movement.
Quantification is Neither Necessary Nor Sufficient for Measurement In our view, the claims that quantification is sufficient or necessary for measurement both trivialize the concept of measurement: the former position in effect denies that measurement is an epistemic activity, and the latter arbitrarily ties an empirical activity (measurement) to a specific mathematical concept (Euclidean magnitude). We have argued, instead, that locating the defining characteristics of measurement in the structure of the activity – rather than a specific feature of its subject matter or output – pays respect to the fact that measurement is an infrastructural, dynamic, designed-on-purpose epistemic activity.
Dependent Scholarship and the Economics of International Publishing in Nigeria The link between dependent scholarship and the economics of international publication has been explored in this article.
Scientific Productivity, Impact and Collaboration of the Top Asian Countries in Scopus During 1996-2010 This research aimes to investigate scientific productivity, impact and collaborations of the top Asian countries in Scopus database. Results of the study revealed that China was the most productive country in Asia with 1848727 publications. According to scientific capabilities of the top Asian countries, Iranian researchers should improve their international collaboration with these countries.
Turkey's contribution to medicine: Main institutions, fields and publications In summary, only 271 publications have been generated in Tur-key in the past half-century that had the potential to contribute to medicine. The annual production capacity of 25-30 papers appears to have declined to 20 papers in recent years. The opinion should be expressed, in conclusion, that an environment needs to be urgently constructed by authorities that focuses on pro-moting research of a level contributing to medicine.
Technology–industry networks in technology commercialization: evidence from Korean university patents Our study suggests an important aspect of technology commercialization from the perspective of the inherent characteristics of patents, which is at variance with the evolutionary approaches of previous studies.
The comparison of classification-system-based normalization procedures with source normalization alternatives in Waltman and Van Eck (2013) When there is only a single classification system available, and no information on the (active) references associated to articles in that dataset, there is ample evidence indicating that, among other alternatives, the procedure that uses field mean citations as normalization factors brings about large reductions in the term capturing the effect on citation inequality of differences in citation practices across fields.
Open Access and the Changing Landscape of Research Impact Indicators: New Roles for Repositories The monopoly of traditional research benchmarks has been challenged by new players and alternative metrics gaining from the rich variety of data that can be collected and measured in a digital environment. Open access is also contributing to changing the scenario and fresh initiatives are being explored by journals and repositories. Driving forces for change rest on an enhanced definition of impact, which takes into account returns on investment and social benefits, with attention placed on the very value of works per se.
The impact of small world on patent productivity in China The policy implication of the findings lies in that the Chinese government should let the market rather than the administration determine the collaboration of technological innovation, in order to encourage innovation and establish an effective small world network for speeding up flow of knowledge among different type of firms during the innovative process.
Structuralism and Quantitative Science Studies: Exploring First Links I argued that bibliometrics and philosophy of science indeed can inform each other, provided both parties are willing to adjust their concepts and claims.
Scientific Productivity in Transition Countries: Trends and Obstacles The main conclusion is that scientific productivity exhibits different patterns in Central European countries compared to Western Balkan countries and Russia. Future research should also be devoted to incentives of scientific productivity in transition countries, that should embrace not only increase in governmental investments in scientific research, but also to more sophisticated instruments that are present in leading institutions and countries.
Analyzing faculty citations for effective collection management decisions Overall, the citation analysis study provided a great amount of information about the faculty's use of the library and provided a clear picture of the types of materials used in their research and the preferred formats. When looking at formats of cited research, journals is the highest used format type in all colleges and the format preference is electronic format of journals. Finally, the citation analysis helped provide a clear picture of the user behavior of the UNLV faculty in all disciplines and has been useful in identifying interdisciplinary research being conducted on campus.
Authorship in multi-disciplinary, multi-national North-South research projects: issues of equity, capacity and accountability There is no simple solution to these dilemmas, but investigators – particularly those leading multi-disciplinary and multi-national teams and facing conflicting expectations in the UK's audit culture – must find ways to address them. And unless disciplinary bodies make explicit what they would like to see happen, they may find that an unholy cabal of journal editors and funding bodies make the decisions for them.
Types of Open Access Publishers in Scopus What emerges from this study is that open access publishing is being conducted by a whole variety of means. APC funded professional publishing is a significant and growing segment but only one of a wide variety of publishing models whose prominence varies substantially across disciplines and geography. This type of collaboration between governments, universities and/or societies may be an effective means of expanding open access publications.
Variability of citation behavior between scientific fields and the normalization problem: The “citing-side” normalization in context To summarize, “citing-side” approach is then a promising way for applications in evaluation or positioning as well as more theoretical analyses on knowledge flows.
Professional networks, science ability, and gender determinants of three types of leadership in academic science and engineering This study sought to understand how science ability, professional relationships, and gender are associated with science leadership. We find that all three are associated with leadership, but in different ways depending upon the type of leadership position. For the purposes of leadership research, conclusions point to the opportunity to more effectively integrate social network approaches to understanding how relationships matter for holding or attaining a leadership position. Additionally, given the feminist theory literature, a more expansive conception of leadership that is less male-centric could be fostered in the academic STEM culture in ways that broaden the boundaries within which leadership positions are decided.
Diferencas entre as medidas do indice-h geradas em distintas fontes bibliograficas e engenho de busca The emergence of Google Scholar brings a new level to discussions on the measure of the bibliometric impact of scientific publications. Areas with strong professional components, in which knowledge is produced and must also be published in the native language, vis-a-vis its dissemination to the international community, necessarily have a standard of scientific publica-tions and citations different from areas exclusively or predominantly academic and they are best captured by Google Scholar.
Profile and scientific production of Brazilian National Council of Technological and Scientific Development researchers in Pediatrics The Pediatrics researchers have a relevant sci-entific output from the quantity point of the view, but there is a need to improve quality.
Distinguishing Broad and Deep Productivity: Working Between and Within Knowledge Domains Our distinction between broad and deep productivity has implications for managers that extend beyond its potential to help inform the staffing, training, and development practices in organizations. By investigating the content of the scientific output (through MeSH term analysis of publications) and its cognitive and behavioral correlates, our study contributes in a variety of ways to our understanding of knowledge-worker productivity.
Difference in citation rates by subject areas of LIS in Korea This study, although limited to LIS research in Korea, presents the different citation rates of subject areas in a single discipline. Ultimately, the study could provide useful implications for understanding and using the citation counts in assessing research performance. In future studies, we will explore the causes of citation differentials among LIS subject areas by contextualizing it.
If You Present will you Publish? An Analysis of Abstracts at the Craniofacial Society of Great Britain and Ireland Conferences 2000–2009 The publication rate is low in comparison with the rate of 44.5% given for all specialties in a Cochrane review in 2007.
The Impact Factor Fetishism Summarizing the major findings of this study I would like to draw attention to the following shortcomings of the citation indexing business and its flagship, the IF.
Influence of the Academic Library on US University Reputation: A Webometric Approach The high compactness among web variables found for universities contrasts with the weak compactness found previously by Orduña-Malea and Regazzi for academic libraries.
Production and scientific collaboration in police training (1987-2011) Without doubt, this collaboration will enable the professionalization of the police, especially through training and education (Neyroud, 2011).
Academic Rankings with RePEc In this paper, we hope to have demonstrated that the ranking exercises performed in RePEc are based on a sound methodology and can be useful.
Citation functions in social sciences and humanities: Preliminary results from a citation context analysis of Taiwan's history research journals Our preliminary findings with the Chinese history sample papers show that Taiwan's history researchers used a large percentage of perfunctory citations (47.1%), and all the authors used perfunctory citations. This seriously challenged the assumption of all citations having equal contribution.
Ranking Leading Econometrics Journals Using Citations Data from ISI and RePEc Some suggestions regarding the use of the most informative RAMs are also given.
“Why Some and Not Others?” The Determinants of the Quality and Prestige of Public Graduate Research Universities We have provided the first systematic assessment of the major factors thought to cause variations in the quality of public research universities.
Publication of studies presented as free papers at a Brazilian national orthopedics meeting This study presents data that compromises the quality of scientific of the abstracts presented at orthopedic meeting: most have a lower level of evidence and nearly 80% are not published.
Tenure-Track Science Faculty and the ‘Open Access Citation Effect’ Journal reputation and audience, and the quality of the editorial and review process are the most important factors in deciding where to submit a manuscript for publication.
Note on a possible decomposition of the h‐<scp>I</scp>ndex These examples show that the h-index is not a good measure of diversity or concentration. This, in turn, has negative consequences for the validity of Equation 1 as a good measure of diversity (measuring the spread of citations over papers).
Understanding factors influencing the effect of scientific collaboration on productivity in a developing country: Kenya The results presented serve to enhance our understanding of factors determining scientist's productivity, and methods best suited to investigate collaboration and productivity in developing areas.
U.S. Institutional Research Productivity in Major Science Education Research Journals: Top 30 for 2000’s This study identifies the major programs in science education.
A higher impact for open access monographs: disseminating through OAPEN and DOAB at AUP The OAPEN Library and the Directory of Open Access Books have proven to be a successful platform for promoting OA monographs. Making a book available in the OAPEN Library does not only widen its readership, it is also a message about its academic quality. For AUP, the OAPEN and DOAB platforms are very useful tools for promoting our OA books.
Author Rights vs Self-Archiving in Spanish Scientific Journals A high percentage of the journals (39%) do not provide any information about copyright terms and re-use conditions. This lack of information shows that editors practices are not participant of the current open access framework in which policies in favor of open access require the deposit of published articles. When information about author's rights is available, the conditions of self-archiving of the Spanish journals are quite favorable to open access: 59% of journals allow some kind of deposit, within these, 69% permit the post-print version, mostly the version of record (87%).
The Impacts of Postdoctoral Training on Scientists’ Academic Employment This inquiry sheds much light on one important career event in the science enterprise-postdoc training—and demonstrates that such train-ing remains essential to advance young scholars' academic entrance.
The Relevance of the “h‐” and “g‐” Index to Economics in the Context of A Nation‐Wide Research Evaluation Scheme: The New Zealand Case Overall, our findings suggest that "h-" and "g-"indexes should not be incorporated into a PBRF-like framework.
Part I: The Application of the h-Index to Groups of Individuals and Departments in Academic Neurosurgery Application of the h-index as a bibliometric in neurosurgery can distinguish academic productivity on the basis of academic rank, years posttraining, and neurosurgical subspecialties.
Academic–industry collaborations and knowledge co-production in the social sciences The results support the role that trust plays in helping to generate and sustain synergies between academic researchers and policy-makers or practitioners (Bogenschneider and Corbett, 2010; Cherney et al., 2012a, 2012b; Contandriopoulos et al., 2010; Haynes, 2011a, 2011b).
Deconstructing the collaborative impact: Article and author characteristics that influence citation count As suggested by previous research, adding an author to an article positively impacts the number of citations the article receives; however, the influence of this attribute is greatly lessened after accounting for the other author and article attributes.
How does investment in research training affect the development of research networks and collaborations? Networks developed where FIC's programs focused on a particular institution, there was a critical mass of trainees with similar interests, and investments for network development were available from early implementation.
Analysis of Macedonian Medical Scientific Papers in the Scopus Database An important factor for increasing the quality of the Macedonian medical journals is validation of the published papers in the journals indexed in the Scopus database by the Scientific Board of the Medical Faculty, which is associated with submission and/or defence of PhD theses.
Reviewer index: A new proposal of rewarding the reviewer In conclusion, this idea of RI, RID and GRID has a wide scope as it can be applied to all journals, irrespective of their speciality.
Open source journals of library and information science: a bibliometric study The findings of the study indicates that a good number of papers have been published in these ten open access journals. Since most of the contributors belong to the developed countries, it indicates that open access journals are yet to be popular in developing and under developed countries. However, it is expected that the open access journals need to maintain their quality through proper editorial policies, and strive to solicit more quality papers, so that they will able to cater to the needs of library & information science professional, teachers researchers and students and will enrich the library & information science literature.
The Normalization of Citation Counts Based on Classification Systems Our approach is based on a high-quality classification system which is intellectually and systematically applied to all publications in a given database.
Gaps and Plugs: TNO, and the Problems of Getting Knowledge out of Laboratories This article suggests that a network model of innovation might provide a way out of the impasse.
The path- and place-dependent nature of scientific knowledge production in biotech 1986-2008 Our aim was to identify the extent to which scientific knowledge production in biotech is subject to a path- and place-dependent process.
Evaluating research – peer review team assessment and journal based bibliographic measures: New Zealand PBRF research output scores in 2006 It seems clear that bibliographic research assessments based on journal weighting schemes do not produce results that can be regarded as close to PBRF Research Output evaluations.
SUPPORTING SUCCESSFUL STANDARDIZATION PROCESSES IN COMPLEX EMERGING FIELDS THROUGH QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS — THE CASE OF NANOTECHNOLOGY The attempt of this paper is to provide standardization organizations as well as academics and practitioners in the field of standardization research with a methodological blueprint to conduct indicator-based approaches that can help to identify trends, topics and relevant actors in emerging technologies that are characterized by both rapid development and complex constellations of different research fields that interdependently construct this field as a whole.
Bibliometric analysis of <i>Library Review</i> from 2007 to 2011 The study presents an extensive coverage of LR that has accommodated scholarly contributions from different parts of the world suiting to its editorial objectives. The study yields some interesting findings of academic publishing in LR. It can help the readers of LR to understand the most striking contributions, highly cited journals, the most prolific authors, country productivity, and assorted parameters.
Bibliometrics of systematic reviews: analysis of citation rates and journal impact factors Although JIFs were found to predict over half of the citations of the systematic reviews, the distribution of citations to them was markedly skewed. Some of the most highly cited reviews were in journals with the lowest JIFs, and some reviews in high JIF journals were poorly cited. Hence the JIF is not an appropriate surrogate measure of the impact of individual systematic reviews.
Alignment of Citation Behaviors of Philosophy Graduate Students and Faculty The citation behavior of graduate students in philosophy largely, but not entirely, mirrors that of the faculty.
The correlations between article citation and references' impact measures: What can we learn? In this paper, we found that the outcome of scholars' information seeking and use is very likely a factor affecting the quality of scholars' research output. We found that article level metrics based on altmetrics data sources are the most effective of those being evaluated. Our study suggests a new research agenda of exploring scientometrics measures and advocates the use of altmetrics data in helping scholars' information seeking and use.
A citation-based ranking of German-speaking researchers in business administration with data of Google Scholar This study shows that the construction of a citation-based ranking of German-speaking academics in business administration is both an interesting and difficult task. In general terms, citation-based rankings have substantial advantages compared to journal-based alternatives. Despite of the mentioned limitations, the citation data collected in this project give room to a variety of follow-up questions.
The Idea of Collaboration in the Academy: Its Epistemic and Social Potentials and Risks for Knowledge Generation In this article, I have argued that critical review and analysis of the potentials for knowledge generation contributes novel insights into the study of collaborations.
Practical Applications of Do-It-Yourself Citation Analysis DIY citation analysis is a scalable process with applications that include: Quickly determining the top journal on a topic. Assess which journals a library should add to support a proposed new major, minor, or courses. DIY citation analysis is time consuming and tedious, but can produce information that is very useful to librarians and researchers, both locally and globally.
Forms and Modes of Apprehending Interdisciplinarity Due to the dynamics of the social forms of scientific activity, interdisciplinarity is car-ried out in different ways and sometimes with difficulty.
The wealth of nations and the dissemination of cardiovascular research Investigators in less wealthy countries face challenges to dissemi-nate their research, even after accounting for potential differences in the quality of their work and research infrastructure.
Pacififa : A New Measure for Evaluating Authors' Productivity and Activity Over Time In this paper, we introduced a new measure to evaluate the productivity and quality of a researcher over time.
Can evaluation contribute to the organizational development of academic institutions? An international comparison Against this backdrop, we conclude with recommendations of how institutional evaluations may be further developed and how processes of organizational transformation can be supported in the research landscape.
Initial comparative analysis of model and peer review process for ERC starting grant proposals The above concept aims at advancing the development of quantitative methods for determining and examining the relationship between peer review and decisions about research grant allocation in terms of attributes of frontier research.
Peer review-based selection decisions in individual research funding, applicants' publication strategies and performance: The case of the ERC Starting Grants One can record positively that the overall bibliometric performance of ERC applicants is well above average—in terms of both productivity and impact. Against the background of the results discussed in this article, these changes appear appropriate: If they are applied by the reviewers, they should diminish the relevance of the JIF in LS and will naturally lead instead to the 'bibliometric component' of reviewers' judgments being more impact-based. However, one can argue that high citation numbers of past publications are hardly an indication for 'cutting edge', 'novel', or 'groundbreaking' approaches but rather for well-established mainstream research.
Preregistration of Studies and Mock Reports But registration of studies seems like a useful step in any case.
Paper ‘fitness’ predicts future citation rate The number of citations received by a journal paper over its lifetime can be predicted using a simple model that uses data from the first five years of publication. James Evans, a sociologist specializing in science and technology at the University of Chicago says the study is a "high water mark in modelling citation dynamics". However, he cautions against using fitness as a surrogate for paper quality and urges care in the model's application given that its predictions of citations measure only one aspect of research impact.
Acceptance rates in &lt;I&gt;Physical Review Letters&lt;/I&gt;: no seasonal bias No statistically significant variations were found in the monthly acceptance rates. We conclude that the time of year that the authors of a paper submit their work to PRL has no effect on the fate of the paper through the review process.
Applying the Apriori Algorithm for Investigating the Associations Between Demographic Characteristics of Iranian Top 100 Enterprises and the Structure of Their Commercial Websites Taking the analyses of this research into account, it can be discussed that there are meaningful relationships between some demographic characteristics of the businesses and some of the facilities and structural characteristics of their websites.
Science Deserves Better: The Imperative to Share Complete Replication Files In return, political science will become more refut- able, open, cumulative, and accessible. Science deserves this commitment from us. The study of politics rightly aspires to be scientific: it aims to establish generalizable causal insights from the nonsubjec- tive, replicable, and transparent empirical evaluation of pre- cise and logical theories (Gerring 2011, 11).
Prizes, Publicity and Patents: Non‐Monetary Awards as a Mechanism to Encourage Innovation The historical analysis in this paper also suggests that publicity may be an effective mechanism to encourage innovation through a prize, in the absence of a cash award.
Knowledge Specialization in Ph.D. Student Groups Our study makes an important contribution to understanding the implications of within-group knowledge specialization on the productivity of knowledge-intensive groups, such as those composed of Ph.D. students.
WHAT DO EXPERTS KNOW ABOUT FORECASTING JOURNAL QUALITY? A COMPARISON WITH ISI RESEARCH IMPACT IN FINANCE The paper highlighted the similarities and differences in expert scores and alternative RAMs, and showed that several RAMs were highly correlated with existing RAMs, so that they had little informative incremental value in capturing the impact and performance of the highly-cited journals. Therefore, using expert score or 2YIF as a single RAM to capture the quality of a journal would lead to a distorted evaluation of a journal’s impact and influence. The harmonic mean of the ranks provide a more robust measure of citations and impact than relying solely on expert score or the 2-year impact factor of a journal.
Science Bubbles Science, like any other investment, is prone to bubble formations and overinvestment.
Impact of the consumption of electronic contents on research productivity in the universities of Castile and Leon The Big Deal model for access to electronic information has proved to have a positive impact in the institutions investigated, and has translated into a greater consumption of academic contents, encouraged by the much bigger range of titles on offer and the ease of access to them, which characterizes these journal platforms. In conclusion, it would appear that usage and value-for-money data are an essential tool for managing and decision making. Indubitably, electronic resources aid library users, especially researchers, to be more productive; they allow them access to more information in a quicker and more convenient way, saving time and effort, permitting them to integrate resources in their articles and to explore interdisciplinary research (Luther, 2008).
Citation Performance of Malaysian Scholarly Journals in the Web of Science, 2006–2010 The results show that, while only a small percentage of all articles contained citations to Malaysian journals, Malaysian journals are, in fact, being cited as a credible information source in articles in high-ranked journals indexed in WoS.
The Impacts of Postdoctoral Training on Scientists' Academic Employment This inquiry sheds much light on one important career event in the science enterprise—postdoc training—and demonstrates that such training remains essential to advance young scholars' academic entrance.
Altmetrics: Rethinking the Way We Measure "Many are beginning to view altmetrics as a bright new area in the field of metrics with the potential to revolutionize the analysis of the value and impact of scholarly work."
Predicting scientific success based on coauthorship networks By this we provide quantitative insight into the social dimension of scientific publishing - challenging the perception of citations as an objective, socially unbiased measure of scientific success.
Inequality and cumulative advantage in science careers: a case study of high-impact journals Here we have provided evidence that research careers exhibit the broad distributions of individual success characteristic of competitive systems in which cumulative advantage plays a key role.
Citation counts in transportation research Implications for researchers, editors and funders are suggested.
A long-term assessment of research productivity in accounting and finance departments in UK: 1991-2010 We conduct an assessment of the research productivity of accounting and finance community in UK HEIs during 1991-2010 using 44 high-quality accounting and finance journals. The University of Manchester, London School of Economics, and London Business School are the top-three HEIs using 44 accounting and finance journals for the full sample. As a way to extend the value of our research, it would be interesting to obtain broader institutional knowledge, such as the tenure requirements of HEIs in UK, and information on the institutions where faculty members obtained their doctoral degrees, so that we can better evaluate the research productivity among accounting and finance community in the UK.
Innovation in the public sphere: reimagining law and economics to solve the National Institutes of Health publishing controversy The United States has an exceptional opportunity to advance innovation and receive return on its investment while disseminating knowledge for the collective benefit of its citizens and of science practitioners around the world.
A Core-Item Reviewer Evaluation (CoRE) System for Manuscript Peer Review We demonstrate that there is considerable agreement across questions in a peer review checklist tool focused on concrete items. The proposed checklist asks reviewers to focus on specific, important, concrete items during the peer review process and supports the provision of meaningful feedback for authors. Further testing and refinement of the CoRE checklist may result in an important tool that has the potential to improve the peer review process for authors, reviewers, and editors alike.
Self-Plagiarism and Textual Recycling: Legitimate Forms of Research Misconduct First, given the genuine puzzlement and confusion that the issue of self-plagiarism generates, better instruction of up-and-coming researchers about textual recycling and plagiarism needs to be a central goal of research ethics education.
Analysis and Implications of Retraction Period and Coauthorship of Fraudulent Publications Based on the results obtained, the period between the fraudulent work being published and it being eventually retracted is 48.96 ± 32.16 months. This can imply that it is more likely for a researcher to involve different individuals for isolated fraudulent publications while only selecting very few to be their frequent coauthors of their mischievous acts. In view of this, one possible mean to dampen this unethical thinking is to have a freely available online ‘shame list' where the full name of the disgraced author and coauthor with their parent organization are included.
Formal research training during surgical residency: scaffolding for academic success Residents in our program who had participated in formal research programs during residency were more likely to have greater productivity and funding success than those who had not participated. Residents who are planning academic careers and wish to optimize their research training should be encouraged to do so in the context of a degree program.
Networks and productivity: Causal evidence from editor rotations This paper examines whether editors of academic journals admit more of their colleagues' papers to their own journals, and if so, whether these papers deserve to be accepted. Although members of an editor's network publish at higher frequencies at the editor's journal, the citation counts for such papers are at least 5% higher, and up to 25% higher. Indeed, the disproportionate success of papers lacking an arm's-length relationship with the journal (take the most cited finance paper of all time, Jensen and Meckling (1976), as an example) suggests that at least, on average, the informational benefits could outweigh editorial rent-seeking.
The shift from theory to innovation: the evolution of Brazilian research frontiers 2005-2011 Our results confirm that the strategic importance of domestic innovation capacities in Brazil is also visible in the focus of the best and most influential Brazilian research, informing us about the nature of the process of expansion of Brazilian innovation system. This shift from theory to innovation in Brazilian research frontiers, although moderate and gradual one, essentially confirms that the country's drive for domestic innovation capacity is reflected in deep-doing re-orientation of its knowledge system, including research frontiers. Thus, further research should investigate what is the role that research systems play for nurturing developing and emerging economy innovation systems.
AAO-HNSF CORE Grant Acquisition Is Associated with Greater Scholarly Impact Procurement of an AAO-HNSF CORE grant is associated with greater scholarly impact, as measured by the h-index.
A Bibliometric Analysis of European versus USA Research in the Field of Addiction. Research on Alcohol, Narcotics, Prescription Drug Abuse, Tobacco and Steroids 2001-2011 The current study does not find support for 85% of the world’s research within the field of alcohol and drug abuse and addiction being done through US funding, but still Europe is lagging behind in research within the field and the gap is increasing. The need for local research is documented [6]. We cannot afford to be left behind in a field of such great importance.
JMS at 50: Trends over Time Our review of previous studies that have ranked journals and of the trend in impact factors showed quite clearly that over the last five decades JMS has established its position as a premier tier journal and now ranks at the highest point in its history. Our word network analysis shows that JMS remained a broad based management journal compared to other international general management journals, throughout the period except for the early 2000s when it came to look closer to a more specialist HRM journal. This analysis provides evidence that attempts to develop a sustainable departure from the ‘norm' of management research or an imbalanced focus on a particular sub-area are not sustainable if a general management journal wants to remain front ranked, especially with a more (and increasingly) internationally diffuse research community.
Predicting highly cited papers: A Method for Early Detection of Candidate Breakthroughs We have developed methods that combine curve-fitting and thresholding strategies for early detection of candidate breakthrough papers. Even in this initial stage, our findings can be used to inform portfolio management practices. Application of an early detection indicator can be used to flag emerging research areas and stimulate attention through workshops, new funding, or collaborative research efforts.
Learning to play the game: Student publishing as an indicator of future scholarly success Using data from a nationally representative sample of US academic scientists in Research I universities, we have found evidence that graduate student publication rates, and rates of collaborations with one's advisor, have increased significantly over time.
Capturing waste recycling science A set of 30 queries complemented by two exclusion queries and an optional query has been built with the aim of capturing the scientific production in this field.
On Constructing Seminal Paper Genealogy We believe that our contributions would greatly help researchers who begin with their new topic: 1) to capture the overview of the topic quickly only with a small number of seminal papers, and 2) to understand the research history and trend only with the genealogy.
Assessing National Institutes of Health funding and scholarly impact in neurological surgery The authors' findings demonstrate a strong relationship between scholarly impact and securing NIH funding among faculty in academic neurosurgical departments.
TOWARD A FEMINIST ANALYSIS OF "IMPACT" SONDRA HALE'S SCHOLARSHIP AND ACTIVISM IN AND BEYOND THE UNIVERSITY Our narrative of impact, and its accompanying visual rendering of Hale's comings and goings, her networks of people and places over the last fifty years, describes a unique transnational field of knowledge and influence that goes beyond the academy. This space, co-created with so many but within which Hale has been so generously present, is constantly transforming due to her own humble willingness to subject her ideas, attitudes, and positions to scrutiny. GIS mapping helps us address limitations in the way that people and populations are represented by making visible many of the critical power relations in the production of knowledge (Chrisman 1987). The academy would do well to adopt new ways of reflecting information about career impact that incorporate a person's other significant contributions in order to present a more comprehensive picture of their influence than the current system of journal citations.
Does receiving an American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Foundation Centralized Otolaryngology Research Efforts grant influence career path and scholarly impact among fellowship-trained rhinologists? Encouraging the pursuit of AAO-HNSF CORE grants and related research among junior faculty as well as trainees interested in rhinology may be one strategy for developing highly effective research habits that pay dividends after the first few years of one's career. Additionally, a strong association was noted between successfully receiving CORE grants and NIH funding.
The Association between Scholarly Impact and National Institutes of Health Funding in Ophthalmology The h-index increases with increasing academic rank among NIH-funded and non-NIH-funded faculty in ophthalmology departments. This bibliometric is associated strongly with NIH funding because NIH-funded PIs had higher scholarly impact than their non-NIH-funded colleagues, and increasing impact was noted with higher funding. The h-index is an objective and easily calculable measure that may be valuable as an adjunct in assessing research productivity, a significant factor for academic promotion in academic ophthalmology.
Comparison of the h-index for different fields of research using bootstrap methodology The analysis showed that no direct comparisons between scientists of different fields can be valid, except maybe for the fields of mathematics and economics. A combined application of both normalizing indices with construction of associated CIs may lead to a more valid and fair comparison between the h-indices of scientists belonging to different fields of research, than just comparing point estimates based on the normalizing procedures alone. Further research associated with construction of confidence intervals of other related bibliometric indices may add to the results of the current study allowing us a more comprehensive insight into the issue of field variations in research performance.
Clean technologies in German economic literature: a bibliometric analysis In summary, we still conclude that high level research on certain technologies remains fragmented and scarce. Despite a strengthened public perception, we found only a few clusters dealing with sustainable technologies.
Digital publishing and China's core scientific journals: a position paper In this position paper we discuss the current status of the core scientific journals in China. Based on discussions of journals' relation to a small group of full-text database providers, open access publishing and copyright problems, we conclude that China's digital publishing industry is not yet in a healthy state and some key issues related to revenue, digital piracy and copyright must be solved. Hence, we conclude that the OA publishing model may be helpful in increasing citations. China's journal publishers urgently need a group of skillful workers that are familiar both with traditional publishing and with digital technology, and thus can reach the goal to achieve real profits in digital publishing (Cheng et al. 2011a, b).
Age-sensitive bibliographic coupling reflecting the history of science: The case of the Species Problem In sum, the method of asBC seemed to be a utility that is worth experimenting with.
International collaboration in LIS: global trends and networks at the country and institution level Our contribution is informative and valuable for the scholars in this field as well as policy makers and administrators to manage and finance LIS research in the future. These findings will be favorable to the continuous growth of the LIS research in the future. In the future work, we are interested in capturing the dynamics of the international collaboration over a long time span.
A bibliometric approach to interdisciplinarity in Japanese rice research and technology development Japanese rice research and technology development was associated with almost all the scientific fields including 24 journal disciplines.
The life sciences in German-Chinese cooperation: an institutional-level co-publication analysis China is playing an ever-increasing role in science, and the life sciences are no exception.
China's research in chemical engineering journals in Science Citation Index Expanded: a bibliometric analysis Significant points on worldwide research performance from 1992 to 2011 were revealed, based on the publications of the authors with their affiliations in China in the Web of Science category of chemical engineering.
Classic articles on social work field in Social Science Citation Index: a bibliometric analysis During the period from 1957 to 2008, 721 classic articles were published in 32 journals covered in social work field in SSCI from 17 countries.
Global research output on date palm (Pheonix dactylifera): a 12 years scientometric perspective The common objective of utilizing the scientific knowledge on date palm to design better strategies to improve global health in general and health status of less privileged in the developing and underdeveloped nations.
Time series citation data: the Nobel Prize in economics The time series analysis presented here played an important role in the development of this story. Accordingly, the two methodologies underlying this analysis—the use of the JSTOR database, and the more theoretical treatment of citation trajectories using diffusion models—are promising tools of bibliometric analysis, with applications beyond the realm of the history of economic thought.
Growth of the number of indexed journals of Latin America and the Caribbean: the effect on the impact of each country Our results show that the unprecedented growth in the number of LA–C journals indexed in SCI and SSCI in the period 2005–2011 is mainly related to a change in the editorial policy of these international indices rather than to a change in the LA–C scientific community and its production. The Brazilian production in its local indexed journals represents about 26 % of its whole WoS production but with little effect on the respective number of citations (7.5 %). Finally, we conclude that the LA–C indexed journal has increased its contribution to the world science production in an appreciable trend.
How should the societal impact of research be generated and measured? A proposal for a simple and practicable approach to allow interdisciplinary comparisons We have presented an approach in this study with which the societal impact of research outcomes can be initiated and measured.
Publication trends and knowledge maps of global translational medicine research This analysis confirms that papers in translational medical research have increased rapidly during the last 20 years.
Environmental sciences research in northern Australia, 2000-2011: a bibliometric analysis within the context of a national research assessment exercise This study aimed to establish a profile of environmental sciences research in northern Australia, specifically looking at how high quality assessment, at national and international levels, is reflected in research publications.
How to interpret the position of private sector institutions in bibliometric rankings of research institutions Our analysis of the position of firms in rankings of research institutions from all institutional sectors on publication counts showed that, in the subset of institutions in the top quartile, firms are underrepresented.
The selection of high-quality manuscripts Here we have shown that information theoretic quantities like entropy and mutual information arise as the answers to fundamental questions in the selection of high-quality manuscripts and allocation of journal's wealth. From the uncovered relationships between information theory and the selection of manuscripts of high quality, it follows some basic guidelines for improving the journal publishing performance. As future directions, we will continue exploring the relations between selection of high quality manuscripts and information theory.
US academic libraries: understanding their web presence and their relationship with economic indicators "Because correlation values obtained are not highly significant, we estimate such correlations will increase if users can avoid linkage problems (due to the complexity of URLs) and gain direct access to log files (for more accurate data about visits)."
Replication of the methods section in biosciences papers: is it plagiarism? Finally, based on the above analysis, we give our own recommendations for preparing the methods sections for biosciences papers.
Standardization problem of author affiliations in citation indexes In conclusion, this study presents some reasons of the inconsistencies for university rankings.
Impact of bibliometric studies on the publication behaviour of authors We can conclude that authors adapt their publication behaviour to aim for journals that are more internationally known and have a US publisher.
Research collaboration networks of two OIC nations: comparative study between Turkey and Malaysia in the field of 'Energy Fuels', 2009-2011 In the present study we took a network approach to comparatively understand the col-laborative patterns of authors of Turkey and Malaysia, two prominent OIC nations, in the field of energy fuels. We found both differences and similarities in the research perfor-mance of these two countries. The present study adds to the body of knowledge of SNA in four distinct ways.
Brazilian scientific production in areas of biological sciences: a comparative study on the modalities of full doctorate in Brazil or abroad The results showed in this study allow us to infer that, in terms of number, the FDB may be contributing significantly to the current growth in the quantity of scientific articles published by Brazilian community. However, the quality of articles published by FDB was lower than that published by FDA (quality here evaluated both by the IF of the journals and by the number of citation of the papers), perhaps, indicating that the production of scientific articles by FDB was more centered in quantity than in quality. Consequently, the policies of Brazilian government need to be devoted to enhance the relevance of Brazilian articles in terms of scientific quality and international insertion.
Qualitative and quantitative analyses of anatomists' research: evaluation of multidisciplinarity and trends in scientific production The contribution of anatomists to scientific knowledge is high quality and considerably greater than indicated by the SJR database. Our results show that the scientific production of anatomists has improved the quantity and quality of multi-disciplinary scientific activity in different knowledge areas. Anatomists have improved the quantity and quality of their scientific production over time and have endowed it with a multidisciplinary character.
Gender differences in science: the case of scientific productivity in Nano Science & Technology during 2005-2007 The results of this study show that scientific activity patterns of women and men in Nano S&T are nearly similar to other scientific disciplines, in that men are over-represented whether in the whole Nano community or in the prolific authors categories. Nevertheless, contrary to all expectations, they did not outperform women regarding their mean scientific production or impact. Though less frequent in number, the female Nano-scientists keep pace with men in their scientific productivity and recognition, signifying their capabilities and strengths in science competition.
How to evaluate individual researchers working in the natural and life sciences meaningfully? A proposal of methods based on percentiles of citations In this study, we have endeavoured to present a set of different bibliometric methods with which to evaluate a single researcher.
Global trends in sediment-related research in earth science during 1992-2011: a bibliometric analysis Based on a bibliometric analysis, a clear insight was obtained into the global trends in sediment-related research patterns in earth science during 1992–2011. National academic output was positively associated with its economic capability. A keywords analysis found several interesting terminology preferences, confirmed the central position of “evolution”, “water”, “soil/soils”, and “model” in sediment research, and demonstrated increased research interest in “organic-matter”, “Holocene”, “dynamics", "erosion”, “sediment transport”, “climate”, and “heavy-metal”.
Publication productivity and collaboration of researchers in South Africa: new empirical evidence This empirical study demonstrates prominent features of South African science. If collaboration has the probability of increasing productivity, as is evident from this study, efforts should be geared towards supporting collaborative alliances between institutions and partners from within the country and different parts of the world. One way forward is to reward full subsidy to a co-authored paper with partners from abroad.
International collaboration clusters in Africa This analysis presents a complex picture of diverse research collaboration links, internationally (Table 1; Fig. 2) and within Africa (Figs. 3, 4).
A longitudinal study of Google Scholar coverage between 2012 and 2013 Our results indicated that, between January 2012 and January 2013, Google Scholar reported continuous, but modest increases in the h-index, g-index and citations for our sample of 20 Nobelists. Hence, it is reasonable to conclude that after a period of significant expansion, Google Scholar coverage is now increasing at a fairly stable rate. The increased stability and coverage might make Google Scholar much more suitable for research evaluation and bibliometric research purposes than it has been in the past.
Academic inbreeding and research productivity and impact in Australian law schools The main finding in this study is that there is no significant difference in the research performance of inbred and non-inbred staff.
The many dimensions of laboratories' interdisciplinarity Thanks to a statistical analysis of these indicators on 600 CNRS laboratories, we suggest that, besides an average value of interdisciplinarity, different laboratories can be mainly distinguished by the “distance” between the disciplines in which they publish and by the scale at which interdisciplinary integration is achieved (article or laboratory).
Aggregative and stochastic model of main path identification: a case study on graphene The aim of this paper was to suggest a new method of main path identification based on aggregative and stochastic approaches.
The effect of performance-based research funding on output of R&D results in the Czech Republic During the past decade, the number of the CZ publications indexed in WoS and patent applications to EPO and USPTO increased faster than the result output in any of the other seven European countries. The introduction of the evaluation-based research funding system announced in 2008 and implemented in 2009 had no further effect on annual output of the results. We therefore conclude that evaluation is currently not based on optimal indicators and the future evaluation methodology should concentrate more on quality of the results.
International collaboration development in nanotechnology: a perspective of patent network analysis The collaborative technological information in patent documents provides useful tools to the studies of international collaboration development of nanotechnology.
Co-authorship pair distribution patterns by gender The study contributes to literature by exemplifying an integrated approach to better examine and interpret the contextualized regularities in scientific collaborations.
The individual author's publication-citation process: theory and practice Our argument is that he graphical analysis in “Some empirical examples” section shows that the actual publication–citation process for individual authors does conform, at least in general terms, with that predicted by the theoretical stochastic model. As a final remark, it should be stressed that the general form of the publication-citation distribution investigated here is very different from the (Type I) Pareto, or so-called (continuous) Lotka model, as in Egghe and Rousseau (2006), or the shifted version pre-sented by Egghe and Rousseau (2012 a, b) or even the Pareto (Type II) analysed in detail by Burrell (2008).
Making time for science In summary, our empirical analysis reveals clear evidence that faculty faced increasing demands on their time for a range of admin-istrative tasks, some associated with research and others not.
The influence of knowledge-based resources and business scholars' internationalization strategies on research performance The findings from our study demonstrate that the success of internationalization strategies used by business research scholars with a German affiliation is driven by their internationalization strategy and the availability of knowledge resources. The findings provide practical implications for researchers who attempt to maximize the number of times they are cited by applying a particular internationalization strategy. It appears that business research scholars with a German affiliation do strongly benefit from international collaboration on conceptual papers because of language skills as a particular knowledge-based resource: The success of conceptual papers depends more than many other types of papers on fluent English proficiency (e.g., analytical and empirical).
Scholarly journals at the periphery: the case of Croatia Croatia has a number of high-quality scholarly journals that are globally recognized.
Green and gold open access in India The trend towards OA journals in India is likely to continue to increase. OA scientific publications are expected to gain a higher visibility, and their usability or influence is characterized partially by their supposedly higher citation rates;27,54 at this point, however, this cannot be considered the case for OA journals being published from India. However, our data suggest that publication fees are not a major barrier to authorship within the fields of computer science, pharmacy, and medicine.
Ibero-American journals in Scopus and Web of Science Ibero-American countries, with the exception of Spain, do not have a long tradition as scientific journal publishers and their main trends are therefore quite different from those of the main countries of scientific publication.
International journal editors and East Asian authors: two surveys This study has yielded several practical recommendations that journals and publishers could consider to help make the publication process easier for East Asian authors and, by extension, for most NNES authors who may face similar challenges.
Analysis of Three Factors Possibly Influencing the Outcome of a Science Review Process We investigated the possible influence of various factors upon winner selection, as we noted above. Our analyses suggest that winning papers were not merely a subset, by journal title, of the overall scientific community of SSA papers because the frequency of appearance by journal title was different between finalists and winners, and winners published more frequently in lower ranked journals. To CDC scientists and the SSA scientific review process, we provide reassurance that the scientific review process for identifying the “best of the best” agency science was not influenced by three potentially strong sources of bias. This conclusion is even more valuable because the scientific reviewers are members of the CDC community and scientific culture and, therefore, end up executing their review task without the benefit of no prior knowledge about journal title or where CDC outlays are made.
Describing the development of molecular research in the context of nervous system diseases using year-based h-cores Our approach, however, provides an easy-to-use summary of mainstream research topics in system diseases, augmented with a dynamic overview.
Short and amusing: The relationship between title characteristics, downloads, and citations in psychology articles While these findings are limited to the psychology discipline only, our results suggest that the integrative structural approach is promising and that more research following this paradigm is needed before empirically grounded recommendations for good title writing can be given.
Assigning publications to multiple subject categories for bibliometric analysis An empirical case study based on percentiles Against the background of the results in this study we would like to recommend using the mean or median from the percentiles in evaluation studies. Both reflect the “actual” citation impact of a publication best, in that they take account of every citation impact achieved in a field and lead to similar results as the fractional counted inverted percentile or the analysis of the data using the multiplicative strategy.
Successful researchers publicizing research online An outlink analysis of European highly cited scientists' personal websites It seems that EHC scientists are using the web to point to online copies of their papers, since a high proportion of them with an institutional web presence (more than half in each all disciplines) created at least one outlink, and they had a high number of outlinks to different files types, although there are some disciplinary differences in how much they do this.
Matthew: Effect or Fable? This paper presents a novel research design that enables a focused test of the Mertonian hypothesis that a producer's status is a lens through which audi-ence members assess the quality of work. Our findings suggest that the standard approach to estimating the effect of status on performance is likely to overstate its true, causal influence. We do still find that appointment to HHMI causes an increase in citations to articles written before the award was granted.
Dealing with Scientific Integrity Issues: the Spanish Experience The experience of the Ethics Committee in the Research Council (CSIC) in Spain allows concluding that institutions in countries where scientific activity is in a process of development have to consider questions about scientific integrity very seriously to prevent problems that may eventually arise.
Policy implications of technology for detecting P2P and copyright violations This paper has shown that a wide range of technologies can be employed to detect P2P usage, identify the content being shared, and determine who is involved.
What makes articles highly cited? Our results have obvious value for those interested in this journal, but also value for social science scholars in many different disciplines. Our findings also highlighted some inconvenient facts particularly regarding deficient methodological practices. We believe that learning how to correctly estimate models and using robust designs is a small price to pay as compared to the price researchers pay by not having their work cited; of course, there are other costs too, direct and indirect to researchers’ institutions and society, which cannot be well informed by endogeneity-plagued research.
International journal of mental health systems: a bibliometric study The performance of IJMHS over the first six years is promising, and the Journal is on the way to achieving the aims set out in the inaugural Editorial. IJMHS will continue to enhance its current impact through a number of new initiatives, including the introduction of thematic series and a broader range of article categories.
A bibliometric analysis of toxicology research productivity in Middle Eastern Arab countries during a 10-year period (2003-2012) The present data show a promising rise and a good start for toxicology research activity in toxicology journals in the Arab world.
The New Zealand performance-based research fund and its impact on publication activity in economics In other words, our findings suggest that the PBRF has failed to achieve its stated goal of increasing average research quality, but it has resulted in substantial gains in productivity achieved via large increases in the quantity of refereed journal articles.
Top cited articles in adsorption research using Y-index Y-index that accredits the important collaborators with weighted and comprehensive credit might be a better choice for the evaluation.
Impact of mentoring medical students on scholarly productivity Collaboration with individuals who do not have doctoral-level degrees, presumably medical students, has a strong association with scholarly impact among researchers publishing in the Laryngoscope and IFAR.
Algerian medical teachers' research output and its determinants during the 2000-2009 decade Algerian medical teachers' research output was particularly low.
Variability of research performance across disciplines within universities in non-competitive higher education systems The current study demonstrates that this dispersion also occurs within the individual universities.
Substance without citation: evaluating the online impact of grey literature In conclusion, the WIRe is a new type of evaluation that scientometricians can conduct as a service to large organisations that publish reports and documents online and who seek evidence about the impact of these publications. Overall, the results were able to find new information in terms of the discovery of a range of contexts in which NESTA documents were mentioned. This information provides useful feedback to NESTA authors and managers. In particular, this research has not formally evaluated WIRes in any specific context with any qualitative or quantitative measure, however, and so their validity in any context is unknown.
Reception of integrative and complementary medicine (ICM) in scientific journals: a citation and co-word analysis So, returning to the initial question, both when analyzing the citing pattern and the content of cited and citing documents, it was clear that ICM research was acknowledged oustide a narrow ICM research context (for example, in sub-fields such as Pharmacology & Pharmacy and Plant Science). However, focusing on the content, there was no dramatic change in focus from cited to citing documents since they seemed to have very similar overall content. This could very well be a result of adjustments in writing style or of a focus of the research in order to get research accepted and/or published in biomedical forums (cf. Kim 2007), but it could also be a sign that ICM research was (or was on its way to being) an integrated part of biomedical and natural sciences research, and that there was no need or intention to frame it as ICM.
International and domestic co-publishing and their citation impact in different disciplines This study supports results from earlier research indicating that both international and domestic co-publishing has increased in the studied period 1990–2008 in all disciplinary groups. The higher average number of authors in international co-publications when compared to domestic co-publications explains most of the differences in citation rates between these two types of collaboration. The findings of this study indicate that citation impact of a publication may be related to other influencing factors not scrutinized in this article.
The power of book reviews: a simple and transparent enhancement approach for book citation indexes It has been established that the existence of book reviews can be considered a suitable selection criterion for BKCIs.
Career advancement and scientific performance in universities Given the facts of efficiency and issues of trust, our study has revealed several critical concerns that should now be further investigated relative to the mass of faculty inserted in the Italian academic system by the 2008 procedures.
Scientific group leaders' authorship preferences: an empirical investigation Most leader-corresponding papers are also leader-first or leader-last papers, and most leader-first papers are also leader-corresponding papers.
Semantic linkages in research information systems as a new data source for scientometric studies A semantic linkage technique implemented in RIS opens for scientists a new dimension for scientific creativity. Monitoring and processing of created semantic linkages within RIS content establish a data source for new scientometric studies, which gives the research community different benefits and new opportunities. Additionally to already existed scientometric indicators the proposed data source allows a deep inspection of impact/usage characteristics for a scientist and a research organization in both static and dynamic aspects. Obtained in this way, assessments of research productivity and performance will be substantially more informative than the currently used citation indexes and characteristics of publication activity.
Do lead articles signal higher quality in the digital age? Evidence from finance journals Lead articles are consistent indicators of higher quality as shown by higher citations from published articles in ISI-listed journals, the top four finance journals and from all sources included in GS.
A bibliometric analysis of publications by the School of Biological Sciences, Seoul National University, South Korea This study has shown more publications co-authored by the SBS faculty with mostly U.S. researchers (SBS at SNU/non-Korean co-authorship) in mainstream international journals than those by three other co-authorship types (SBS at SNU, SBS/SNU, and SBS/non-SNU).
The Hl -index: improvement of H-index based on quality of citing papers This paper proposes h₁-index as an improved index of h-index taking into consideration of the influence of papers that cite a focal paper. By doing so, h₁-index provides a more precise way to evaluate the academic impact of researchers. If we adopt h₁-index to evaluate the academic influence of the scholars, then this conclusion indicates that only a minority of scholars boast high h₁-index values while most scholars have low h₁-index values.
Impact of open access on citation of scholarly publications in the field of civil engineering We can conclude by the significance level 5 % or less that in the databases WOS and Scopus the articles from top ranked journals (first quartile) achieved more citations than Non OA articles.
Subfield effects on the core of coauthors Nevertheless, the smallness of the core and sub-cores may imply further considerations for the evaluation of team research purposes and activities. First of all, as already pointed out by Ausloos in (2013), the simple hyperbolic law holds best for large data sets, with homogeneous distributions of NoJP and TNOCA. A Bradford-Zipf–Mandelbrot-like law, Eq. (1), might have to be tested, - with the delicate need of thereafter interpreting the two additional parameters. This is suggested for further work.
Exploring temporal relationships between scientific and technical fronts: a case of biotechnology field A series of procedures is performed to compare the front trajectories of S&T, in order to understand the relationship between S&T and the temporal gap between them in the biotechnology field.
Bibliometric characteristics of champion works of China and India It is clear that both India and China believe in fostering international collaborations with advanced countries for their research activities as most of their hugely cited papers have been from collaborations. India's hugely cited papers are in physics whereas that of China is in biological/biomedical sciences. If the two countries are to aim for the highest peaks of scientific excellence such as the Nobel Prize, the scientists of the two countries have to take a lead in increasing their share of champion works.
The effect of additional citations in the stability of Journal Citation Report categories The results of our research suggest that an increase of only 1 citation leads to small changes in the JIF in most journals, and therefore the effect on journal rankings within JCR groups is, in general, not very large.
Evaluating altmetrics With the increasing uptake of altmetrics there is a need to evaluate them so that publishers can choose which to use within their online systems and evaluators should take notice of them when making funding, appointment or promotion decisions.
Collaboration in pharmaceutical research: exploration of country-level determinants In this paper we tested empirically the determinants of cross-country collaborations in pharmaceutical research. Our findings give further support to previous studies on the macro-level scientific collaboration between OECD countries (Choi 2012) as well as to contributions on the regional and organizational level (see e.g., Acosta et al. 2011; Balland 2012; Hoekman et al. 2010; Frenken et al. 2009). Notwithstanding the need for further research addressing the relation between cultural proximity and international research collaboration with more detailed data on cultural linkages among countries, our findings may provide some recommendations for policy makers.
Global trend in aquatic ecosystem research from 1992 to 2011 "The bibliometric analysis of aquatic ecosystem revealed the global research performance in the subject areas from 1992 to 2011."
Network structure, distribution and the growth of Chinese international research collaboration This paper presented the macroeconomic situation of Chinese IRC from perspective of amount, countries, fields, journals, and network of countries and fields. These results could give answers to questions that mentioned in this paper. Finally, we hope these results can be useful for highlighting the Chinese international collaborative behaviour.
Trends in three decades of rankings of Dutch economists The main conclusion from this paper is that a small subset of all Dutch economists dominates the charts for years. It has become difficult to enter the charts because newcomers need more output over the years to be included. In future research I intend to link the ranks in a certain year with citations in later years.
University institutional repositories: competitive environment and their role as communication media of scientific knowledge The establishment of open access as a model of scientific communication in the academic world and the large number of institutional repositories raise the need to evaluate this type of application.
A novel graphical representation of sentence complexity: the description and its application As illustrated in present study, the proposed graphical approach can have broad implications and practical applications not only in scientometric field, but also in statistical linguistics, stylistic text research, and informetric research.
An overview of forestry journals in the period 2006-2010 as basis for ascertaining research trends All results presented here contribute to a better understanding of the status and trends in forestry science and can assist researchers in the short-term and long-term planning of future research.
On the internal dynamics of the Shanghai ranking We have established that ARWU ranking is properly a score-driven ranking system, and we have identified the meaning and numerical values of the gains and power laws expected in such a scoring system.
Evaluating the research performance of the Greek medical schools using bibliometrics In general, bibliometrics demonstrate statistically significant difference in favour of Crete University medical school, while it was also found that self-citations have only marginal effect on the individual's research profile and the average indices.
Do networking centres perform better? An exploratory analysis in Psychiatry and Gastroenterology/Hepatology in Spain The results of this work provide additional data, which support the idea that networking research centres yield better outputs.
Growing trend of China's contribution to tissue engineering Chinese authors have contributed 2,269 papers in tissue engineering during 2008–2012, which is 13.67 % share of the global publications only next to USA.
Evolutionary analysis of international collaboration network of Chinese scholars in management research However, the collaboration network has not yet stepped into a mature and steady stage.
Perspective of Iranian women's scientific production in high priority fields of science and technology Surveying of contribution rate of Iranian women in science productions indexed in WoS database have been shown that just in two medicine subdivisions such as “stem cells” and "medicinal plants”, more than half of scientific outputs of Iran during 2000–2010 were with women contribution, however in technical fields such as renewable and new energies and aerospace their contribution is less.
A bibliometric analysis of research on proteomics in Science Citation Index Expanded This study on proteomics dealing with SCI-Expanded obtained some significant points on the research performance throughout the period from 1995 to 2010.
Assessment of research fields in Scopus and Web of Science in the view of national research evaluation in Slovenia Our study represents a systematic attempt to evaluate the differences in published docu- ments and citations across all major research fields in the scopus and Web of Science databases based on a standardized classification of fields.
Atapuerca: evolution of scientific collaboration in an emergent large-scale research infrastructure We conclude that our results correspond to the process of consolidation of a stable, multidisciplinary and Spanish-based research team (i.e. the Equipo de Investigación de Atapuerca, EIA), which was planned from the beginning and intentionally promoted by the three directors.
Trend and impact of international collaboration in clinical medicine papers published in Malaysia The analysis has shown that international collaboration was a common practice in clinical medicine research and that it has contributed to the publication of papers in high impact journals.
An investigation of collaborations between top Chinese universities: a new quantitative approach In this study, we introduced a new method to study the collaboration among different organizations quantitatively, with Chinese 985UNIs as an example.
The expansion of Google Scholar versus Web of Science: a longitudinal study It is concluded that, since its inception, GS has shown substantial expansion, and that the majority of recent works indexed in WoS are now also retrievable via GS.
Modelling the effects of subjective and objective decision making in scientific peer review By examining the impact of different models of reviewer decisions on the dynamic process of publication, and thereby on eventual aggregation of knowledge, we provide a new perspective on the ongoing discussion of how the peer-review process may be improved.
Academic outcomes among principal investigators, co-principal investigators, and non-PI researchers "Overall, we find that having grants is significantly related to increased research outcomes for academic faculty in STEM fields at research universities."
Coverage, field specialisation and the impact of scientific publishers indexed in the Book Citation Index In this paper we analyse BKCI coverage in terms of publishers indexed by country and discipline as well as their impact. But the strong presence of English-speaking countries in the BKCI shows a heavy bias towards these countries, demonstrating the same limitations that have already been criticised in the other citation indexes (Van Leeuwen et al., 2001). Further analyses are also needed in order to assess the content of the BKCI and the accuracy of its reflection of the publishing sector, similar to that performed by Chen (2012) regarding Google Books.
Ranking and mapping of universities and research-focused institutions worldwide based on highly-cited papers A visualisation of results from multi-level models The web application presented in this paper allows for an analysis which reveals centres of excellence in different fields worldwide using publication and citation data. With these features our approach can not only identify the top performers in (excellent) output but the “true jewels” in different disciplines. These are institutions that have published statistically significantly more class 10 per cent papers than an "average" institution in a subject area.
Are web mentions accurate substitutes for inlinks for Spanish universities? The web mentions (both title and URL) achieve higher correlations with Yahoo! inlinks in the Spanish academic system. However in order to predict inlinks, URL mentions are enough to predict (in 82 per cent of cases) the number of inlinks that a web site receives whereas the title mentions should be rejected. Therefore as a general conclusion, it can be stated that the web mention indicators correlate highly with inlinks, but their limitations make them prone to environmental influence to a great extent (language, web domain policy, etc.). This effect (and the time-consuming steps to avoid it) makes these indicators (as they currently exist) inadequate for use on a global basis (such as a World University Ranking).
Twelve Years of Scientific Production on Medline by Latin American Spine Surgeons This study showed a growth in the number of publications in last 12 years by LA spinal surgeons.
The nature of co-authorship: a note on recognition sharing and scientific argumentation Co-authorship, when it is optional, gets its rationality from what we might call ‘the magic of logic’.
International research networks in pharmaceuticals: Structure and dynamics From a policy perspective, our results suggest that supporting inter-national research collaborations and investments strengthening countries' scientific systems may help countries located at periph-eral positions in the network to get access to the relevant sources of knowledge and to overcome liabilities of unconnectedness.
Academic scientists' affiliation with university research centers: Selection dynamics The study concludes with a discussion of the scientific and technical human capital theory and policy implications in the science enterprise. The findings suggest that center affiliation is distributed on the basis of individual scientific merits. Meanwhile, university research centers repre-sent a level playing field for scientists with different demographic backgrounds.
Logics of integration and actors' strategies in European joint programs The analysis provides substantial support to the hypotheses concerning the relationship between ideal types and observed programs, actors' roles and distribution of resources.
A fuzzy multi-criteria group decision making method for individual research output evaluation with maximum consensus Compared with the results of arbitrary weights of evaluators, the results from this paper represent the maximum agreement result, therefore, it is more persuasive.
Polymer Science Research in India during 1999-2012: A Scientometric Study Based on Science Citation Index-Expanded The overall study can be summed up as the status of Indian research in polymer science has increased during the period 1999–2012.
Current Incidence of Duplicate Publication in Otolaryngology The incidence of duplicate publication has not significantly changed over 10 years.
Identifying Emerging Research Collaborations and Networks: Method Development Our method provides a novel way to analyze the evolution of research collaborations and networks. These data could be useful to organizational leaders and evaluators who wish to identify opportunities for programs to provide support and resources for such research collaborations. With future analyses, we will also be able to evaluate the breadth of research networks and describe their productivity and viability over time.
Bibliometric Analysis of Scientific Contributions in Minimally Invasive General Surgery Although the United States dominates in terms of absolute number of pub- lications, several smaller countries were more prolific, when the number of inhabitants was taken into account.
CITATIONS OF MOST OFTEN CITED ECONOMISTS: DO SCHOLARLY BOOKS MATTER MORE THAN QUALITY JOURNALS? This paper has investigated empirically the determinants of citations based on publications of the top 100 most often cited economists.
The mover's advantage: The superior performance of migrant scientists In summary, the models corroborate the predictions of the theory of knowledge recombination and specialty matching that migration enhances the performance of scientists, after controlling for the effect of selection into migration.
The CTSA Mentored Career Development Program: Supporting the Careers of Child Health Investigators The CTSA program contributes substantially to training the next generation of translational investigators. One-third of child health investigators obtained subsequent NIH awards in the short follow-up period demonstrating success of the CTSA CDA programs. Pediatric institutions can partner with the CTSA program to further support training child health investigators.
Knowledge flows and bases in emerging economy innovation systems: Brazilian research 2005-2009 Our central results suggest that when creating new knowledge, Brazil's researchers are increasingly relying on domestic sources of knowledge. Secondly, the ascendancy of Brazil's research informs us of the unfolding re-organization of global research, underlining nascent South-South knowledge flows, the prevailing relevance of EU research, and the relative decline of US research in relation to Brazilian knowledge production. Finally, an analysis of the in- and outflows of knowledge demonstrated that advanced economies have a primary role as sources of knowledge for Brazil, whereas Brazil and other emerging economy regions seem to prioritize the use of Brazilian knowledge.
The design and application value of the Chinese Social Science Citation Index At its birth, the citation index is used to build up the relationships between documents and trace the source and evolution of science. Later, it is gradually adopted to perform the function of evaluating scientific researches.
Interactive overlay maps for US patent (USPTO) data based on International Patent Classification (IPC) By providing basemaps for USPTO data in terms of the IPC and flexible tools for overlaying patent classifications on top of them both at the coarse-grained level of three digits and the fine-grained level of four digits, we have complemented our series of studies and tool development efforts to follow new development more systematically across databases.
What a difference a colon makes: how superficial factors influence subsequent citation Our analysis shows that some of the variance in the number of citations an article receives can be explained by seemingly superficial factors that have nothing to do with the content of the article. While the influence of these superficial factors varies between fields, it is clear that such factors are not trivial as they can influence the number of citations an article obtains. Form and style also influence how well individual scholars and their institutions fare in the global competition that scientific publication has become.
Sources of inspiration? Making sense of scientific references in patents Overall, these observations provide evidence that scientific references in patent documents signal relatedness with the implied inventions without necessarily implying a direct, inspirational, knowledge flow between both activity realms.
Extracting and quantifying eponyms in full-text articles In the present study a semi-automated text mining approach was introduced to extract and quantify eponyms from full-text articles.
Exploring the Author Affiliation Index In this paper, we make several improvements to the AAIGK.
Productivity and mobility in academic research: evidence from mathematicians The analysis presented here has some interesting implications for individual researchers, departments, or in terms of scientific policy.
Detecting research fronts in OLED field using bibliographic coupling with sliding window This study uses bibliographic coupling and sliding window to explore the evolution of OLED research fronts from 2000 to 2009.
Collaboration network and pattern analysis: case study of dye-sensitized solar cells Results show us that Chinese-X (Chinese-American) authors have pushed the collaboration between country and country and almost every kind of small world network has a “TOP author" in it to gather others together, the modified author activity rank list can reflect the real research level and the author collaboration pattern has been impacted by the kinds of their institutions to some degree. This result emphasis the importance and core power of "TOP authors” in every small world network, which highlights the necessity for countries and institutions to cultivate influencing researchers in the emerging technology field. In the future, we intend to combine our author network research with the author co-citation analysis (ACA), because co-citation analysis is also a powerful tool for the author contribution study.
Scientometric profile of Indian scientific output in life sciences with a focus on the contributions of women scientists Thus, the study supports the theme that women scientists are less productive than male scientists.
The relationship between scientists and science: knowledge-based innovation output Not all researchers' output can be regarded as scientific knowledge. Only innovative output could promote science to develop. Scientists' output consist higher percentage to innovative output than non-scientists' in average because scientists' innovative consciousness is always more than non-scientists'.
Mistakes encountered in manuscripts on education and their effects on journal rejections This study provides guidance for both novice scientific writers, and for the editors and referees of journals regarding standard criteria for the acceptance of manuscripts on educa-tion.
Growth in the number of references in engineering journal papers during the 1972-2013 period Along the same line as older studies in other disciplines, this paper has found a strong growth trend in the number of references made by engineering papers. Among all factors, the Internet, which leads to a greater access to information, stands as the most probable source of this effect. Moreover, it has been demonstrated that the aforementioned effects exist independently of the parallel growth in the number of pages per paper. Further research would be needed to ascertain this point.
Alzheimer's disease research in the future: bibliometric analysis of cholinesterase inhibitors from 1993 to 2012 In conclusion, oxidative stress, ẞ-amyloid, neuroprotection, memory and cognition are the main orientations in AD research in the future.
Diversity of fields in patent citations: synchronic and diachronic changes This study clarified the characteristics of changes in the strength of potential connections between individual patents and citing classifications for each field.
The transaction costs theory in international business research: a bibliometric study over three decades Our analyses provide insights on the influence of Hennart but more broadly of TCT on IB research over the past three decades.
Usage history of scientific literature: Nature metrics and metrics of Nature publications Our study finds regular patterns from the page views data of Nature metrics over time. Compared with non-OA paper, readers' attention on OA publications is more enduring. Even after a relatively long time of its publication, the OA papers still have a large number of downloads, but the downloads of non-OA papers decrease much faster and more dramatically. Given the usage data of a newly published paper in a short time, e.g., 7 days/15 days for Nature papers, it is possible to predict future expected total usage counts.
What do university rankings by fields rank? Exploring discrepancies between the organizational structure of universities and bibliometric classifications We conclude by highlighting that rankings by fields should clearly state the methodology for the con-struction of such fields. We indicate that the construction of research profiles may be a good solution for universities for finding out levels of discrepancy between organizational units and subject fields.
H-Classics: characterizing the concept of citation classics through H-index In this paper, we have presented a new concept to characterize the citation classics of a research area, the H-Classics, which is based on the popular and rigorous bibliometric criterion H-index. We have shown that H-Classics is sensitive to the own citation practices of any research discipline and also its evolution. It is an unbiased and fair criterion to systematize search procedure of citation classics for any research area. Finally, we should point out the good behaviour of the H-Classics, which provides a more complete mapping of the classical literature than other studies analyzed.
The effect of characteristics of title on citation rates of articles Our results suggested that some features in the paper such as type of the title and articles with keywords different from words included in the title can help to predict the number of citation counts. These findings can be used by authors and reviewers in order to maximize the impact of articles. The length of title is not associated with citation counts.
Bibliometric analysis of global publication output and collaboration structure study in microRNA research The compound annual growth rate of the number of publication, author, country, institution or organization, journal, research area and year wise total citation is increasing in an exponential manner.
Considerations for appointing an external examiner of a PhD in the biomedical sciences in Sweden: a questionnaire-based survey We conclude that using a foreign examiner was motivated by factors that are likely to prevail for the foreseeable future.
Inefficiency in selecting products for submission to national research assessment exercises Given our analysis, we conclude that it is highly probable that the national ranking lists produced by the exercise will be strongly distorted by the types of errors noted above, with negative consequences for the subsequent distribution of financing, and further effects completely contrary to the logic of incentivizing for which the VQR was conceived.
Influences of counting methods on country rankings: a perspective from patent analysis Country rankings are not significantly influenced by different counting methods.
Computer science research: more production, less productivity the real productivity of researchers has decreased throughout history.
Analyzing the citation characteristics of books: edited books, book series and publisher types in the book citation index Our findings suggest that there are differences according to these factors.
How knowledge diffuses across countries: a case study in the field of management The degree of knowledge diffusion is one of the important factors to describe the influence of academic output.
Does the multi-authorship trend influence the quality of an article? A subject like Oceanography demands collaborative research and the decreasing trend of single to four authored articles is nothing but the depiction of increase in collaborations. The correlation of authorship increase with percentage of articles in core journals as well as with mean IF of journals (where the articles were published) establishes that in the field of Oceanography the increase in collaborations would result in quality publications with or without the influence of increase in number of authors.
Research emphasis and collaboration in Africa Identification of the research outputs of the African countries and their related collaborative patterns shows that the continent suffers from subcritical research systems and collaboration dominance. The revealed structure raises a number of policy concerns. How do the high dependencies on non-African collaboration affect the continent's research evolution and priorities?
EU27 and USA leadership in fruit and vegetable research: a bibliometric study from 2000 to 2009 Our study provides a map of fruit and vegetable research based on the scientific publications indexed in the WoS® from 2000 to 2009. We observed similarities and specialities in the fields and species studied and highlighted the importance of scientific collaborations between the EU27 and USA. We identified some significant points in F&V research where the EU27 predominate in terms of F&V papers, followed by the USA. Existing scientific forces also are an important element in decision support tools in terms of a potential mobilization of organizations sufficiently large to induce shifts in research topics, resources used, and participation in major international programs.
Bibliometric analysis of articles published in ISI dental journals, 2007-2011 "It was concluded that increasing productivity in some countries, such as Brazil, China, India, and Turkey, was observed."
Variation in research collaboration patterns across academic ranks "The analysis demonstrates a clearly greater propensity on the part of assistant professors, while for international collaboration, full and associate professors both prevail, but in a less defined manner."
Titles in English-medium Astrophysics research articles This diachronic study has explored the length, syntactic complexity, type diversity and semantic content of titles in English-written RPs published in the most prestigious journals of Astrophysics, a scientific field till now left unaddressed from a linguistic standpoint. Our results revealed a trend towards relatively long titles with a high lexical density, a preference for nominal and simple titles over verbal and compound ones, a very low occurrence of the question structure, and a prevalence of the key research concepts of purpose and results over methods.
Google Scholar Metrics evolution: an analysis according to languages The data collected for this first longitudinal study of a representative sample of journals (1,000) in GSM, of very different origin (because they are published in ten languages), show a significant increase in the h-index (15 %) in a very short period of time (seven and a half months).
Physical Education Pedagogy Faculty Perceptions of Journal Quality The participants in this study rated journals as scholarly or not and provided a scholarly rating for each of the journals that were known to them.
Classification of individual articles from all of science by research level A new model has been presented that classifies individual articles into four research levels using their title and abstract words and cited references.
On the time evolution of received citations, in different scientific fields: An empirical study The above described results answer to the research questions showing that strong differences exist between the trends of mean received citations of journals from very different fields. The medians show also differences between the two fields, though results look more difficult to interpret. A further important effect of the highlighted facts is the influence on the values of the indexes commonly used for the evaluation of scientific production.
The competitive advantage of nations: An application to academia Different countries have very different research profiles, and international business theories can be used very effectively to analyze these differences.
Conceptualizing the interdisciplinary diffusion and evolution of emerging fields: The case of systems biology This paper suggests that when studying diffusion of emerging scientific fields through bibliometrics, identifying a struc-tural pattern of the field’s growth and then examining movement within that structure can enhance our conceptualization of and ability to describe interdisciplinary diffusion.
Understanding the assembly of interdisciplinary teams and its impact on performance Our study seeks to contribute to this body of research on interdisciplinary teams by investigating the factors that influence the genesis and the success of interdisciplinary research teams. From a practical perspective, researchers are more likely to be successful if they worked together before and therefore show successful collaboration records. As such our results offer empirical evidence that provides specific practical guidelines to enable the assembly of successful interdisciplinary teams.
Equal weights coauthorship sharing and the Shapley value are equivalent This paper fills a gap in the literature by showing the equivalence of two existing solutions.
Measuring journal performance for multidisciplinary research: An efficiency perspective This study proposed the DEA-IF as a new measure of journal performance.
Are the authors of highly cited articles also the most productive ones? The analysis of scientific production of Italian academics in the hard sciences, for the period 2004-2008, shows that 58.3% of highly cited articles are produced by the top-productive scientists (32.9% by TSs only), while 67.1% are produced by non-TSs (41.7% by non-TSs only). Thus there is a moderate correlation between the phenomenon of being a top-productive scientist and the probability of having produced HCAs. For the evaluator interested in incentivizing excellence in research, the results of this work thus seem to suggest that the choice of the most appropriate indicator or combination is critical and need to be aligned with the objectives to be achieved.
Research dynamics: Measuring the continuity and popularity of research topics Topic analysis can precisely provide a more refined assessment by clustering research papers based on certain probability distributions.
Forecasting research trends using population dynamics model with Burgers' type interaction The simulation results show that the model is able to forecast accurately publishing interest in the chosen fields of Filtration and Rectification on both total aggregate and detailed cluster level. The main advantage of this approach is that it does not only consider a single time series to perform the forecast, but allows a detailed analysis, too. Nevertheless, this work provides a solid basis for a new tool for portfolio planners in R&D departments to estimate future trends in research.
Classification method for detecting coercive self-citation in journals In summary, our results suggest that it is feasible to automatically recognize abnormal journals involved with coercive self-citation.
Regularity in the time-dependent distribution of the percentage of never-cited papers: An empirical pilot study based on the six journals Time-dependent distribution for the percentages of never-cited papers can, to some degree, reflect the situation of circulation and utilization of journal papers.
A comparative study of cross-domain research output and citations: Research impact cubes and binary citation frequencies At a minimum, all FOS are different, as demonstrated with our research impact cube (RIC). RIC also gives a single number to measure productivity and may be used as a model to measure, compare and evaluate FOS on the global, national and research community level to streamline research policies and evaluate progress over a definite time period. One possible future application of the proposed RIC is to use scientific journal, conference proceedings and book proceedings indices as the axes of the RIC.
Referenced Publication Years Spectroscopy applied to iMetrics: Scientometrics, Journal of Informetrics, and a relevant subset of JASIST In our opinion, one should distinguish carefully between a reconstruction based on the perception by current authors (as in this study) and an intellectual history based on reading source materials.
How to improve the prediction based on citation impact percentiles for years shortly after the publication date? Our results show that citation impact measurement can really be improved in this manner in the first years after publication.
Estimating the accuracies of journal impact factor through bootstrap In conclusion, the proposed point and interval estimates of the JIF statistic are obtained and more informative inferences on the impact of journals can be drawn. According to the results presented in the current study, the JIF have large standard errors. It suggests that less confidence should be placed on the comparison among journals' impact based on the JIF.
Content-based author co-citation analysis Nevertheless, our results indicate that citing sentences are considerably useful for traditional ACA because they help discover the essential structural components of the corresponding traditional co-citation network.
A refinement of Egghe's increment studies We considered some variations on the study of so-called increments by Egghe (2013a,b,c). In this way we provided slightly new results.
Visual topical analysis of Chinese and American Library and Information Science research institutions The visual topical analysis of research institutions can facilitate understanding the thematic characteristics of the research institutions in a specific discipline, reveal the topical similarities and differences between individual research institutions in different countries, help the institutions find their suitable benchmark counterparts, and potentially promote domestic and international collaboration.
Barycenter representation of book publishing internationalization in the Social Sciences and Humanities The barycenter method proves to be a valuable tool in the representation of research internationalization of book publications. This is especially the case when applied non-Anglophone countries.
Technological impact factor: An indicator to measure the impact of academic publications on practical innovation This study developed a technological impact factor (TIF), derived from the journal impact factor method, which divides the number of citations received from patent by the number of journal articles.
An alternative axiomatization of the Hirsch index Together with symmetry and axiom D, head-independence uniquely characterizes the h-index on a certain domain of indices.
Analysing knowledge capture mechanisms: Methods and a stylised bioventure case The resulting method allows one to address the more complex aspects of knowledge capture mechanisms as illustrated with a stylised start-up or spin-off case.
No citation advantage for monograph-based collaborations? The results suggest that collaboration is not important for the production of high quality scholarly monographs in any subject area, even though it associates with higher citation counts for research published in articles in most subject areas.
Silicosis: geographic changes in research: an analysis employing density-equalizing mapping The combination of scientometric procedures with density-equalizing mapping reveals a distinct global pattern of research productivity and citation activity.
Developing human capital and research capacity: Science policies promoting brain gain Overall, our analysis shows that understanding aspects of time and space and processes associated with advanced training of human resources and institutional building helps to promote the absorptive capacity that regions and countries need to acquire in order to learn how to use science for economic and social development.
Collaborative networks and technology clusters - The case of nanowire To summarise the important implications of this study, the following conclusions are listed. Asian organisations, especially in South Korea and the Chinese region appear to be having an important impact in the nanowire field. In terms of collaboration and innovation models, nanowire technology was found to be in its initial stage where various centralised clusters or networks exist.
An intellectual structure of activity-based costing: a co-citation analysis This study presents three contributions.
Developing a methodology to assess the impact of research grant funding: A mixed methods approach Evaluating complex and multidimensional issues such as the effects of research funding is a methodological, theoretical and practical challenge. Solid and comprehensive conclusions can not be reached with the singular, quantitative focus on research output even though such measures often have been used alone – but requires the application of a number of both quantitative and qualitative methods as well as deep multidisciplinary knowledge of the issues at stake. Reflections on the strengths and weaknesses of the methodol-ogy has however also been used to propose refinements of the approach for future work.
Monotone measures and universal integrals in a uniform framework for the scientific impact assessment problem We have introduced a model for the construction of zero-insensitive impact functions based on well-known tools from fuzzy/monotone measure theory, which is their another successful practical application. In our approach, in order to generate an aggregation operator, a decision maker has to select four objects (functions), each having a different, but clear and well-defined role. Future work should definitely concern models taking into account families of monotone measures and families of integrals, and establish as well as investigate interesting relationships between them.
A bibliometric analysis of research on the risk of engineering nanomaterials during 1999-2012 An overview of the research in the field of risk from ENMs was presented with the information related to annual publications, categories, journals, institutions, countries, funding agencies, research emphases and tendencies.
Conflict(s) of Interest in Peer Review: Its Origins and Possible Solutions As Lodge (1985) stated, science is a ‘small world’.
Publication Ethics in Biomedical Journals from Countries in Central and Eastern Europe The existence of significant differences among biomedical journals’ ethical policies calls for further research and active measures to harmonize policies across journals. Our study suggests that journals may not succeed in this effort alone, and that action of other stakeholders in publishing is needed, from publishers and policy makers to scholarly organizations and professional associations. A concerted action of all stakeholders is needed in the near future if the research and academic community in this European region wants to reach and/or maintain current international publication standards.
Ensuring PhD Development of Responsible Conduct of Research Behaviors: Who's Responsible? These results suggest faculty members who perceive themselves to be mentors are the most likely to build relationships with doctoral students that provide the diverse experiences needed to develop responsible researchers.
Using Peer Review to Improve Research and Promote Collaboration A rich collaborative environment promoted through a rigorous internal peer review system has many benefits for both the quality of scholarly work and the collegiality of the research environment. Overall, the institution of a rigorous internal peer review system for all research grants being submitted by faculty in the Department of Psychiatry has many benefits. This system leads to improvement of grants before they are submitted to funding agencies and thus increases the competitiveness of grants submitted from the department.
Delay in indexing articles published in major pharmacy practice journals An analysis of three major pharmacy practice journals showed that the median time to indexing articles published in 2010 and 2011 was 114 days.
Prospects for mathematical crystallography The prospects for mathematical crystallography would appear to be good.
An analysis of publication productivity for 1225 academic neurosurgeons and 99 departments in the United States This study represents the most detailed publication analysis of academic neurosurgeons and their programs to date.
Honorary Authorship: Frequency and Associated Factors in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Research Articles Our results suggest that honorary authorship does occur in a significant proportion of the physical medicine and rehabilitation literature. Additionally, we found several factors associated with perceived and ICMJE-defined honorary authorship and a discrepancy between the 2 rates. Further studies with larger response rates are recommended to further explore this topic. It is our hope that these findings increase the awareness of honorary authorship and the ICMJE authorship criteria within our specialty and lead to an improvement in author selection by physiatric researchers.
Metrics of the gynecologic oncology literature focused on cited utilization and costs Rankings for Gynecologic Oncology and the International Journal of Gynecologic Cancer have improved. Regardless of specialty size, the Impact Factor for Gynecologic Oncology is respectably strong. It should be possible to further improve these metrics by introducing reviews and statistics on gynecologic malignancies.
Journal impact factors and the influence of age and number of citations This analysis indicates that IFs across research categories are positively correlated with the amount of published studies (in terms of the number of journals or articles and the number of citations per article). Not surprisingly, the journal IFs were negatively correlated with the average age of citations. However, we argue that the current IF formula needs to be modified in at least three ways.
University Rankings and Social Science It is highly desirable that social scientists in higher education studies or other fields become more active and proactive in analysing, critiquing and proposing alternatives to present university ranking systems.
Rankings, Diversity and the Power of Renewal in Science. A Comparison between Germany, the UK and the US This comparison of Germany, the UK and the US teaches us that more than 25 years of competitive resource allocation and its translation into a clear-cut ranking of universities leading to a highly stratified system did not advance British science compared to Germany with its still much less stratified system, the competitive allocation of resources and rankings still in their infancy.
Nanocatalysis: A bibliometric analysis Thus, the bibliometric analysis of publications selected from the CAPlus and WoS databases by searching for the term “nanocatalysis" confirms the appearance of the domain "nanocatalysis," which refers both to NS/NT and to catalysis science, at the turn if the 21st century. This all indicates institu-tionalization of nanocatalysis not only as a scientific discipline, but also as an academic discipline. In these circumstances, it seems reasonable to issue a specialized journal under the title "Nanocatalysis."
Toward a Formal, Visual Framework of Emergent Cognitive Development of Scholars In this paper, we have presented a formal modeling framework as well as the design and prototype imple-mentation of an agent-based simulation model for TCLN. We have shown how the use of our proposed TCLN model reduces the order of complexity demonstrating the use of citations as well as the Hirsch index in the same citation network model.
The impact factor of a journal is a poor measure of the clinical relevance of its papers We conclude that high impact journals do not address clinical research in surgery and when they do, there is a delay before such papers are cited.
Prediction of highly cited papers In this paper, we have revisited predic- tions made in 2008 of scientific papers that, according to those predictions, should receive above average numbers of citations, even though they may not yet have had many citations at that time. Looking at those predictions five years on, we find that the papers in question have indeed received many more citations than average papers in the same fields. Indeed they have received substantially more even than comparable control groups of randomly selected papers that were equally well cited in 2008.
A multi-level network analysis of web-citations among the world's universities The results of this research indicate that the global university URL-citations network is clustered into ten groupings that may be differentiated by the language of instruction spoken at the universities, how central they are in the network, their prestige and the home countries international bandwidth connections. Thus, future research is required to more precisely determine what is signified by URL-citations. Future research is planned to examine how the network is changing over time (Park and Leydesdorff 2010; Kwon et al. 2012).
S&T knowledge production from 2000 to 2009 in two periphery countries: Brazil and South Korea Brazil and Korea's S&T knowledge production in the last decade was marked by con-tinuous efforts to increase technological capabilities (Kwon 2011) and contribute to world science as represented by the absolute number of articles published and citation counts. The evolution profiles of S&T knowledge production analyzed in this paper show that Brazil and Korea take different paths in terms of research focus. Brazil is reinforcing its specialization and remains in a paradigmatic pattern called the bioenvironmental model with strong emphasis in agriculture and plant & animal sciences.
Applying research collaboration as a new way of measuring research performance in Korean universities According to the results of this study, we conclude and suggest that various indicators for measuring research performance are needed since it reflects the dynamical mechanism of knowledge production in Korean universities more effectively.
Mapping ICT knowledge infrastructure in South Asia This study helps in providing a better understanding of current trends, strengths, and weaknesses of ICT in South Asia, which provides a better understanding to bridge the digital divide and achieve socioeconomic development through ICT. The ICT sector in South Asia is mostly led by Indian academia and supported by its government, with a limited private sector or industry involvement. The results have some important implications for the other developing countries in the region; for example, they can learn from the Indian experience and mandate a strong government role to promote the ICT sector.
GUEST AUTHORS IN AN IRANIAN JOURNAL It is essential to make Iranian researchers familiar with ICMJE authorship criteria and to encourage applying the criteria in scientific writing. However, we could still conclude that ICMJE criteria were not studied by all Iranian researchers, and mere familiarity with the criteria did not guarantee its applica-tion.
AN EVALUATION OF THE GREEK UNIVERSITIES' ECONOMICS DEPARTMENTS This study examined the performance of the Greek Universities' Economics Departments. In contrast with the existing literature, it looked directly at the citations of the faculty members as a measure of their academic performance. This variable was found to be significant; the conclusion is that economists with PhDs from the USA and the UK are characterized by higher productivity compared to those from other countries.
The framing of scientific domains: about UNISIST, domain analysis and art history The UNISIST models are applied to the domain of art history and the article discusses the instability of a scientific domain as well as, at the same time, the significance of framing a domain; an implication which is often neglected in scientific information seeking.
China's Growing Contribution to Global Intracranial Aneurysm Research (1991-2012): A Bibliometric Study Global intracranial aneurysm research has been developing swiftly since 1991, with the United States making the largest contribution. Research in China started later, in 2002. Since then, China has increased its rate of publication, and became the third largest contributor by 2012.
Use of the h-index to measure the quality of the output of health services researchers The h-index is a useful summary measure of output and quality of health services researchers. However, any accurate interpretation of bibliometric measures needs to take into account a person's research discipline.
Measuring scientific research in emerging nano-energy field Scientific output analysis shows that the nano-energy scientific research is an emerging research field and a promising multidisciplinary domain of nanotechnology. The findings imply that emerging economies can earn competitive advantages in some emerging fields by properly engaging a catch-up strategy. Although the scientific influence of China is still lower than the USA, it can rival with Germany, Japan, France, and England in the last few years.
Principles of scientific research team formation and evolution This paper fully explains the evolution of scientific teams as manifested in author collaboration data, and provides a solid theoretical foundation for future studies of other social aspects of science, such as productivity, impact, and collaboration.
Health research networks on the web: an analysis of the Brazilian presence Based on the analysis of egocentric networks from three of these five institutions, it was pos- sible to observe some equivalence on the web with many partnerships and forms of cooperation already established between the institutions.
A bibliographic analysis of recent solar energy literatures: The expansion and evolution of a research field Using bibliometric methods, we have examined the character-istics of the solar energy literature from 1992 to 2011 based on the SCI and SSCI databases.
Impact factor 2013 of the Netherlands Heart Journal surpasses 2.0 It goes without saying that it can be anticipated that a higher immediacy index in 2013 constitutes a solid base for the impact factors to follow in 2014 and 2015. This should stimulate more authors to consider NHJ for submission of their work.
Scientific research of Italian neurologists from 2008 to 2011 These data suggest that from 2008 to 2011 Italian neurologists have increased the number of publications, also improving the quality of works. In general, the Italian scientific production in Neurology is of high level, if compared to the size of the economic resources of the country that is the seventh for GNP but only 28th for Research and development expenditure (% of GDP, 2008) [7]. However, more organizational commitment, technological innovation and funds would be needed to maintain and improve the neurological scientific productivity.
Duplicate Publication Rate Decline in Korean Medical Journals In conclusion, the declined from 5.9% to 1.2% rate of duplicate publications in Korean medical journals reflects the impact of the publication ethics awareness campaign. The results of this study, monitored by KoreaMed and KoreaMed Synapse, point to the positive changes in national ethics.
Competitive Research Grants and Their Impact on Career Performance Both when examining the probability of attaining a full professorship or of academic career advancement in general, we find that the receipt of grants from the Danish Council for Independent Research leads to positive and statistically significant increases.
Does Citation Analysis Help or Hinder the Professional Development of Social Workers and Their Profession? A Reply to Slater, Scourfield and Sloan We conclude by noting that every method is characterised by a certain set of limitations and that citation analysis has the potential to assist both social workers and their profession if used appropriately.
Bibliometric analysis in the international context of the "Construction & Building Technology" category from the Web of Science database The main contribution of this study is to offer a global vision of research activity in the field of construction and building technology in the last few years.
Shedding light on a neglected area: a new approach to knowledge creation A methodology to integrate global and local knowledge and highlight locally or/and globally neglected problems was proposed, and a case study of sustainability issues with the aviation industry as the local example was conducted.
Calibrating Translational Cancer Research Collaboration without Consensus in Interdisciplinary Laboratory Meetings Our ethnographic analysis thus suggests the absence of consensus among members of collaborative interdisciplinary research groups allows the heterogeneity of disciplinary boundaries to persist.
The 50 Highest Cited Papers in Hip and Knee Arthroplasty Studies focusing on the clinical outcome of hip arthroplasty mainly dominate the literature on orthopedic arthroplasty in respect to absolute citations numbers.
Self-correction in biomedical publications and the scientific impact The study suggests that the intensified self-correction in biomedicine is due to the attention of readers and authors, who spot errors in their hub of ev-idence-based information.
Citations of Brazilian physical therapy journals in national publications On average, 22.47% of the works cited by the evaluated articles were national articles. No significant differences were detected among the three analyzed years.
International Scientific Collaboration in HIV and HPV: A Network Analysis Our findings suggest that in the field of HIV and HPV, there seems to be both room and incentives for researchers to engage in collaborations between countries of different income-level.
Publication activity and research cooperation between higher education institutions and the Russian Academy of Sciences However, despite this fact, the RAS remains the uncontested leader in the country's basic research. Moreover, the RAS sig- nificantly helps the higher education sector publish its results in prestigious scientific journals.
How to derive consensus among various marketing journal rankings? Journal rankings have become an important tool to assess the research quality of publications.
The 100 most cited articles in dentistry To our knowledge, this is the first report of the top-cited articles in Dentistry. There is a predominance of clinical studies, particularly case series and narrative reviews/expert opinions, despite their low-evidence level. The focus of the articles has mainly been on periodontology and implantology, and the majority has been published in the highest impact factor dental journals.
Distribution and trends of hematology and oncology research in Latin America: A decade of uncertainty Hematology and oncology research is increasing in Latin America, but this contribution remains limited to a few countries. There is also a low rate of full-text articles derived from annual scientific meetings. More extensive research is recommended.
FEATURES OF THE DISCIPLINE KNOWLEDGE NETWORK: EVIDENCE FROM CHINA This paper considers disciplines and the relationship between them as a network and studies connective characteristics. Even so, the discipline knowledge network has the ubiquitous network features of small world and heterogeneity. The small average shortest paths and large clustering coefficients imply that it is a small world network.
Mapping patient safety: a large-scale literature review using bibliometric visualisation techniques A bibliometric visualisation approach makes it possible to analyse large amounts of literature. This approach is very useful for improving one's understanding of a complex research topic such as PS and for suggesting new research directions or alternative research priorities. For PS research, the approach suggests that more research on implementing PS improvement initiatives might be needed.
Issues in the articulation of 'impact': the responses of UK academics to 'impact' as a new measure of research assessment Impact capture as an academic exercise and component of PRFS is frequently under-mined in academic circles by a lack of consensus or mismatch between what academics and research funders and regulators respectively recognise and 'count' as impact and the extent to which an impact agenda is perceived by the former to be incompatible with established modes of academic practice and convention.
Ranking academic impact of GIS research organizations in the United States: a bibliographic network analysis over 20 years In this research, I evaluated the academic impact of US organizations in the GIS research community during 1992–2011, from a perspective of their collaborations and citations.
Discovering Implicit Criteria Preferences Reflected in Tourism Journal Ranking Lists using the Choquet Integral The analysis of two journal ranking lists in the fields of tourism and service has also verified that different research communities have pre-ferences for ranking criteria.
Predicting scientific research output at the University of KwaZulu-Natal The excess number of zero values observed in our data set may be attributable in part to a large number of academics within this data set who have chosen never to publish in their academic careers.
The configuration of the Brazilian scientific field Finally, under all of the views considered here, the Applied Social Sciences, Humanities and Social Sciences, and Arts, Literature, and Linguistics show the lowest accumulation of capitals. Rather, these findings demonstrate that the resources at stake in the scientific field are appropriated by other communities to a greater extent, leaving the humanities researchers in a situation with less power to fight for financial resources, recognition, and prestige. Each scientific community with power acquired through accumulating different types of capital seeks to occupy social areas within the scientific field and the broader social arena, where there are different rules of the game and the effective distinction mechanisms within the field may not apply.
Article retracted, but the message lives on These results suggest that a retraction note of an empirical article in a scientific journal is not sufficient to ensure that readers of the original article no longer believe in the article's conclusions.
Assessing the crossdisciplinarity of technology-enhanced learning with science overlay maps and diversity measures We see the approach presented as an accessible method to operationalize the concept of interdisciplinarity and to allow quantitative measures.
An examination of "citation circles" for social sciences journals in Eastern European countries The growth of this indicator can be explained in the majority of cases by the large number of self-citations or the frequent intra-citations (within a group of journals) inside the country.
The effect of citations on the significance of decimal places in the computation of journal impact factors This study represents a wide-scale attempt to evaluate the meaning of different decimal places and their effect on JIFs and, more importantly, on journal rank within JCR groups.
On a statistical h index In this paper we have addressed the topic of evaluating the quality achievements of scientists taking statistical variability into proper account.
Binary scientific star coauthors core size In conclusion, some remark is made on partner cooperation in BSS teams.
Characteristics of research on bioinformatics in China assessed with Science Citation Index Expanded The modest impact of articles from China may be related to the lack of a national center for bioinformation and an official society for bioinformatics (Wei and Yu 2008). Such an organization can facilitate sharing of resources both within the country and with the rest of the world, and articles from China could be better represented. It could be answered by the improved research environment and funding in China, as well as the emergence of more training programs in local universities.
How the same organizational structures can arise across seemingly unrelated domains of human activities: the example of academic publishing and stock market In this paper we have shown how the same organizational structures can arise across seemingly unrelated domains of human activities.
Scientometric analysis of relative performance in a key university in Romania According to the present scientometric analysis, the Babeş-Bolyai University confirms its status as one of the top Romanian universities, both in terms of quality and in terms of quantity of the research output.
Green open access policies of scholarly journal publishers: a study of what, when, and where self-archiving is allowed The results of the study fall in line and extend upon the indications provided from earlier studies conducted on other bibliographic databases in combination with the SHERPA/ROMEO policy database.
Assigning evaluators to research grant applications: the case of Slovak Research and Development Agency The most important message of this note is to show that it is possible to construct highly balanced and professionally sound evaluators-grant applications assignments without the need for lengthy and complicated personal negotiations.
Profile of developments in biomass-based bioenergy research: a 20-year perspective This study combines multiple bibliometric indicators and data visualization to explore the patterns and dynamics of global biomass-based bioenergy research. Our analyses consistently shows the U.S. leading by volume of publications, research impacts, and collaborative links with other nations. This research has limitations.
A web application for aggregating conflicting reviewers' preferences Social choice theory can be used for combining reviewers' preferences to reach a collective decision.
Use of h index and g index for American academic psychiatry In conclusion, h index appears to be a superior tool for evaluating academic ranks in American Psychiatry.
A bibliometric study of the world's research activity in sustainable development and its sub-areas using scientific literature The information produced in this study can be useful for government research agencies in terms of understanding how to more effectively knit together the various niche strengths in the country; and for the institutes to find strategic partners that can coordinate in niche areas of Sustainable Development and complement their strengths. In conclusion, this study helps to understand research landscape in important, but heterogeneous, area of Sustainable Development. In future, we plan to use more sophisticated indicators including size of institutes. Also, we plan to include the remaining sub-area of Sustainable Development as well.
Design, validation, and reliability determination a citing conformity instrument at three levels: normative, informational, and identification The outcome of this research caused a citation conformity instrument.
Riding the Wave of Open Access: Providing Library Research Support for Scholarly Publishing Literacy To ride on the wave of changes in scholarly communication such open access publishing (and not get dumped), researchers need to develop sufficient skills to identify and select the most appropriate publishing outlet in their particular fields and research and make informed and strategic publishing decisions.
Growth or steady state? A bibliometric focus on international comparative higher education research First, our findings suggest a striking stability in the amount of research comparing higher education in different countries over—at least—the past 20 years. Second, corresponding to results of studies on the worldwide scientific development and according to our initial assumption, our analysis reveals that comparative higher education research extends the analysis to many places around the world. Both rationales refer to institutional and funding structures of higher education research, and thus we draw the following policy relevant implications from our analysis: in order to strengthen and promote—and eventually increase-international comparative research projects, longer project periods or projects with flexible modular options for extensions appear as first-choice means.
Scientific publications in respiratory journals from Chinese authors in various parts of North Asia: a 10-year survey of literature The total number of published articles from the three major regions of China has increased notably from 2000 to 2009. The annual number of publications by ML researchers exceeded those from TW and HK. However, the quality of articles from TW and HK is better than that from ML.
Seeking entry to the North American market: Chinese management academics publishing internationally The study reported in this paper found that for the participant management academics, who are mostly returnees with PhDs from Hong Kong or overseas, publishing in highly ranked English-medium journals is a major commitment. The institutional force of performativity constitutes a real source of pressure that drives the pursuit; while aspiration to establish reputation in the field and lack of familiarity with national journals' requirement also motivate them to publish in English. The findings have implications for policy makers and EAP professionals.
How research funders can finance APCs in full OA and hybrid journals Both the literature and the empirical data we collected during the study highlight that the APC-funded full open access and the hybrid OA market are significantly different.
Journal author rights and self-archiving: the case of Spanish journals We found that there is often still a lack of clarity, indeed complete absence in some cases, in stated policies on author rights and archiving.
Trust and Authority in Scholarly Communications in the Light of the Digital Transition: setting the scene for a major study While we have to regard these results as tentative and exploratory in that the work reported took place at the very beginning of a 15-month project, and was the product of just one methodology when four more would ulti- mately be used (interviews, questionnaires, log analysis, and literature reviewing), the attrac- tion of the data presented here and the inter- est in the findings stems from the fact that the focus groups allowed free, fresh and unscripted personal opinions to be aired, and consensus to be quickly determined. These findings have helped construct an interview schedule for an interview pro- gramme, covering more than 80 researchers, which focuses on their individual scholarly behaviour and, together with the results of the interviews, fed into the construction of an international questionnaire study. Overall, researchers believe there is lots more untrustworthy stuff around in the scholarly environment, but they also believe that there is also more good stuff around. So overall they are happy with affairs.
Trash journals in China Currently, trash journals provide a 'one-stop' service model for the authors, and have formed a complete industrial chain from submission to publication.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Intelligent Transportation Systems Research Based on Science Mapping In this paper, we have analyzed the conceptual structure of the ITS research area by means of science mapping analysis and co-word networks.
Supporting Public Access to Research Results We conclude that librarians working in collaboration with other key constituencies can have a positive impact on improving access to the results of scientific research. We have found that these issues are easily addressed by providing researchers with a centralized mechanism for facilitating manuscript submission to PubMed Central and by providing one-on-one support for any problems related to the NIH Public Access Policy. Librarians and other information specialists at academic institutions are well positioned to play a major role in influencing policies that result in open scholarly communication and in ensuring that those policies are implemented in a timely and effective manner.32
Publication and Language Trends of References in Spanish and Latin American Literature The results of this study confirm and challenge a number of assumptions about resources used by Spanish and Latin American literature scholars in their research, while also shedding additional light on the language-of-resource discus- sions that are of importance to librarians and scholars working in the humanities fields.
Core Journals in Library and Information Science: Developing a Methodology for Ranking LIS Journals There was strong agreement between the titles on the tier one list and the top journals identified in the literature review. This gives credibility to the criteria used to compile the current list of the most influential journals in the field. Librarian-authors at tenure-track institutions can apply these methods annually and create a ranked list of LIS journals.
Mapping the Literature of GIS The results can assist librarians and collection managers to support research in their institutions where GIS is both used and studied.
Honorary authorship in biomedical journals: how common is it and why does it exist? In summary, honorary authorship is relatively common in biomedical research.
How international are the leading orthopedic journals: a look at the composition of the editorial board members of the top orthopedic journals The percentage of editorial board members in leading orthopedic journals is dominated by high-income countries with serious underrepresentation from low-income countries.
Understanding societal impact through productive interactions: ICT research as a case This study shows that using process indicators does help anticipating societal impacts that may not yet have occurred at the moment of evaluating.
Scientometric portrait of biochemist Santiago Grisolia: publication productivity, collaboration patterns, and citation analysis A high scientific productivity, with 569 papers published throughout his research life, with an average of 9.33 papers annually. A wide spectrum of collaborators totalling 276 over the period analysed. Notable citation levels in SCI-Expanded because a great many of the papers he published (78%) have been cited in later papers, as many were published in high scientific impact journals. Some phenomena common to the professional trajectory of other relevant scientific figures have been observed, such as the early start to scientific publication; intervention in different areas of knowledge; frequent publication in multidisciplinary journals with high scientific impact rates, as well as in journals specialized in his area of knowledge; higher indices of collaboration and productivity occurring in the central or second half of his research life; the presence, in a majority of cases, in the first or last position in the order of authorships; as well as the high levels of collaboration and citation of a great many of his papers.
How are excellent (highly cited) papers defined in bibliometrics? A quantitative analysis of the literature In around one-third of the papers analyzed in this study, a quantitative definition has been provided with which to identify excellent papers. With definitions that relate to an absolute number, either a certain number of top cited papers or papers with a minimum number of citations are selected. With the thresholds presented in this study, in future, it will be possible to identify excellent papers based on an 'average' or 'most frequent' practice among bibliometricians.
The impact of extreme observations in citation distributions Citation inequality is strongly affected by the presence of extreme observations, particularly when it is measured by citation inequality indices, such as I2, that are very sensitive to citation differences in the upper tail of citation distributions.
A new bibliometric approach to assess the scientific specialization of regions Analyses of this type are useful to the national and local public decision maker, for formulation of research and industrial policies, but also to managers of high-tech companies, for informing the choice of locations for R&D activities.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific publications on waterpipe (narghile, shisha, hookah) tobacco smoking during the period 2003-2012 The present data reveal a promising rise and a good start for research activity in the field of waterpipe tobacco smok-ing.
Career on the Move: Geography, Stratification, and Scientific Impact In summary, we extracted affiliation information from the publications of each scientist, allowing us to reconstruct their career moves between different institutions as well as the body of work published at each location. We find career movements are common yet infrequent. When cross-group movement occurs, we find that while going from elite to lower-rank institutions on average results in a modest decrease in scientific impact, transitioning into elite institutions, does not result in gain in impact.
A note on the interpolated or real-valued h-index with a generalization for fractional counting A logical extension of the h-index in the context of a rational or even real framework is presented. This approach is especially useful when magnitude values smaller than one can easily occur.
The moderating roles of academic age and institutional sector on the relationship between co-authorship network centrality and academic research performance The findings can be heartening and motivating for junior faculty and private institute faculty in Pakistan in suggesting opportunities to surpass barriers of domination and poor resource access through co-authorship ties and structural social capital.
Influence of language and file type on the web visibility of top European universities The general conclusions of this research are the following: The correlation between content (rich files) and infrastructure (web files) is positive and meaningful (r = 0.60, avoiding five URL outliers), although web files represent an important percentage in the overall page count of the universities.
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Practice Bulletins: Ascertaining Their Citation, Influence, and Utilization No one PB had the most citations, highest citation rate, and highest impact factor.
The "impact factor style of thinking": A new theoretical framework Based on all the above-mentioned points, it is justified to talk about the "impact factor style of thinking".
The meaning of the h-index In short, this paper provides a clear exposition of the hoped-for role of the h-index in the evaluation of scientists: that it serves as a useful complement to other indicators that are more subjective, and that it contributes to the progress of science by aiding decision-making on allocation of research resources in a more effective way, and on rewarding researchers who contribute to scientific progress in a more fair way.
Scholarly influence We have introduced a new class of scholarly influence measures, which we term the step-based indices. Step-based indices are characterized by two axioms, consistency with better scientists and consistency with worse scientists. All influence measures are subject to the problem of strategic behavior, in the sense that scientists may try to meet the index. A natural problem would be to ask which measures lead to less distortion of incentives.
Recent advances in bibliometric indexes and the PaperRank problem In this paper, we provide a mathematically correct definition of the PaperRank problem to assess scientific papers, which is able to properly compare also papers in disjoint groups, thus improving on a recent model proposed in [8].
Honorary Authorship in Radiologic Research Articles: Do Geographic Factors Influence the Frequency? Perceived honorary authorship was substantially higher among respondents from Asia and Europe than from North America.
Why do economists publish less? We do not provide a magic formula that the deans, grant officers or ranking agencies can use to compare research-ers from different fields. On the contrary, we say that it is hard to do inter-field comparisons because the capacities of the field journals are very different in supplying both quantity and quality of publication performance. Therefore, the comparison of the researchers in different fields in terms of publication records without proper ‘pri-cing mechanism’ would be misleading.
Exploring the publications in three major orthodontic journals A comparative analysis of two 5-year periods The publications from 1998–2002 and 2008–2012 were significantly different both in terms of numbers and characteristics.
Vascular surgery research in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries "The quality and quantity of vascular surgery research in the GCC countries should be improved to answer important local questions related to vascular diseases."
Measuring social capital through network analysis and its influence on individual performance The findings show that the PDI is a useful surrogate of the importance of a scholar in his or her coauthorship network by considering the diversity of contacts and also their value and power (performance).
NIH research funding and early career physician scientists: continuing challenges in the 21st century Building on earlier analyses (4, 8, 11), we found that in 2011 physicians were less likely to be involved in biomedical research than they were in the past. A declining number of physicians report research as their major professional activity. This pattern is likely to continue, as the training pipeline for future physician scientists is also shrinking. Without major change or intervention, these factors suggest that the prospects for relief from the trends in declining research involvement of early career physicians are extremely remote.
Nestle Nutrition Young Investigator Research Development Award: NASPGHAN Foundation Report on a 13-Year Partnership After 13 years of investment in the investigative careers of junior NASPGHAN members, a robust track record has emerged that strongly endorses the extraordinary accomplishments of NASPGHAN Foundation/Nestle Nutrition Award recipients. These results support and validate the value of early research grant funding to junior research faculty under the aegis of the NASPGHAN Foundation and in partnership with industry leaders such as Nestle Nutrition. This model may be increasingly important because research funding is increasingly restricted at the federal level.
Impact of Journals and Academic Reputations of Authors: A Structured Bibliometric Survey of the IEEE Publication Galaxy Suggestions were made to explain different combinations of high and low impact and reputation for journals. The use of maps complements IF and provides a simple tool to monitor journal reputation at the time of most recent publication. For publishing professionals, this study provides a new methodological tool for monitoring a large number of scientific journals in a relatively homogeneous research field.
Examination of Publications from Academic Anesthesiology Faculty in the United States The overall publication rate of anesthesiologists associated with medical schools was low in this time period. These data establish the pre-"call to action" baseline of scholarly activity by U.S. academic anesthesiologists for future comparisons.
Academic Productivity of Directors of ACGMEAccredited Residency Programs in Surgery and Anesthesiology Program directors of anesthesiology residency programs have considerably less scholarly activity in terms of peer-reviewed publications and federal research funding than directors of surgical residency programs.
Driving forces of researchers mobility In summary, we analysed the researcher mobility paths from a data driven point of view using the dataset of all the papers published in the American Physics Society journals from 1955 to 2009. The analysis of individual trajectories shows a preference for short paths (between 2 and 4 steps) and that the 90% of the researchers, in their careers visit at most 4 universities and 3 countries. The first point of the path has a particular importance, and the trajectory has an high probability to pass through this point several times.
Information management and improvement of citation indices It has been clearly stated that the bibliographical databases lack perfection and standardization. Results obtained by this program have proven to enhance the efficiency in these tasks compared to other software tools. The authors have created a new software tool, called STICCI.eu (Software Tool for Improving and Converting Citation Indices – enhancing uniformity), which is freely available online, to solve these problems in an effective and simple manner.
A Scopus-based examination of tobacco use publications in Middle Eastern Arab countries during the period 2003-2012 The present data reveal a promising rise and a good start for research productivity in the tobacco field in the Arab world. Research output is low in some countries, which can be improved by investing in more international and national collaborative research projects in the field of tobacco.
Interdisciplinarity at the Journal and Specialty Level: The Changing Knowledge Bases of the Journal Cognitive Science The analyses reveal a number of interesting trends with respect to cognitive science in particular and the study of interdisciplinarity more generally.
Education Journals: Two Decades of Change and Implications for the Field Findings carry implications for publishing, journal management, faculty work, and performance evaluation.
Distributions Instead of Single Numbers: Percentiles and Beam Plots for the Assessment of Single Researchers Percentiles are very suitable for visualizing the perfor-mance of a single scientist.
A Correlation Between National Institutes of Health Funding and Bibliometrics in Neurosurgery Bibliometric indices are higher for those with NIH funding compared to those without, but only the contemporary h-index was shown to be predictive of NIH funding.
Anatomy of Green Open Access The presented dissection of the anatomy of green OA shows a complex structure shaped by publisher restrictions, university and funder policies, an evolving repository infra-structure, and the individual behavior of academic authors.
Citation Analysis and the Development of Science: A Case Study Using Articles by Some Nobel Prize Winners If new ideas (the ideas put forward in these Nobel Prize-winning articles) and old ideas (the status quo before the publication of these articles) are in conflict with each other, and, on one hand, lead to increased interest, then the citation curve will be concave at first.
Patterns of Connections and Movements in Dual-Map Overlays: A New Method of Publication Portfolio Analysis We have introduced a new method for portfolio analysis based on a dual-map design.
Productivity and Influence in Bioinformatics: A Bibliometric Analysis Using PubMed Central The results of productivity and influence analyses indicate that the field of bioinformatics has undergone a significant shift and is now co-evolving with other biomedical disciplines and that the topical focus has shifted over time.
A Bibliometric Study of Highly Cited Reviews in the Science Citation Index Expanded™ "This study identified 1,857 HCRs in the SCI Ex from 1906 to 2010 that had at least 1,000 citations since publication to 2011."
The Zynergy-Index and the Formula for the h-Index In all four cases, the h-index lies between the p-index and the newly introduced z-index.
The Google Scholar Experiment: How to Index False Papers and Manipulate Bibliometric Indicators The results of our experiment show how easy it is to modify the citation profiles offered by GS Citations, which also would indirectly affect GS Metrics.
Definition of a Model Based on Bibliometric Indicators for Assessing Applicants to Academic Positions We conclude that these models have a surprisingly good predictive power and may help peers in their selection process. We suggest the use of these models to complement peer review evaluations but not as a substitute method.
Parallel Worlds of Citable Documents and Others: Inflated Commissioned Opinion Articles Enhance Scientometric Indicators The parallel world of supposedly uncitable documents flourishes and severely distorts the commonly used scientometric indicators.
F1000 Recommendations as a Potential New Data Source for Research Evaluation: A Comparison With Citations Our large-scale analysis of F1000 recommendations indicates that about 2% of the publications in the biological and medical sciences receive one or more recommendations from F1000 faculty members. More research is needed to identify the main reasons for differences between recommendations and citations in assessing the impact of publications. These topics may be worth investigating.
Are Elite Journals Declining? Since the late 1980s and early 1990s, several new and some long-established journals have been becoming more important, whereas traditional elite journals, including Science and Nature, are publishing a decreasing proportion of the top-cited papers. These changes bring new chal-lenges and opportunities for all parties. Finally, evaluators and administrators need to know that although there will always be a certain prestige associ-ated with publishing in “elite” journals, journal hierar-chies are in constant flux.
Tweeting Biomedicine: An Analysis of Tweets and Citations in the Biomedical Literature Correlations between tweets and citations are low, implying that impact metrics based on tweets are differ-ent from those based on citations. Therefore, they should not be considered as alternatives to citation-based indicators, but rather as complementary. Our exploratory analysis of highly tweeted documents shows that while some papers seem to receive attention on Twitter because of actual health implications or topicality, others seem to be distributed on Twitter due to humorous or curious contents, which suggests that tweets do not neces-sarily reflect intellectual impact.
Creation of a Highly Detailed, Dynamic, Global Model and Map of Science "This article reports on a 16-year model of science containing nearly 20 million documents that was created using a combined cocitation and bibliographic-coupling process."
Web Search Volume as a Predictor of Academic Fame: An Exploration of Google Trends The study found a significant correlation between a university's academic fame and the search volume for the university name.
Academia.edu: Social Network or Academic Network? In conclusion, Academia.edu seems to be a hybrid scholarly social network in the sense that it mirrors scholarly norms to some extent (a faculty advantage over students) and general social networking norms to some extent (the female advantage in three out of four disciplines investigated) and so the use of it and similar sites should be seriously considered by the academic community.
What Proportion of Excellent Papers Makes an Institution One of the Best Worldwide? Specifying Thresholds for the Interpretation of the Results of the SCImago Institutions Ranking and the Leiden Ranking It is the objective of our paper to present thresholds (for the excellence rate indicator) in order to interpret the results of the SIR and the LR properly. Using our thresholds it is possible to assess whether an institution belongs to the top 1%, top 5%, top 10%, top 25%, or top 50% of institutions in the world. We would like to encourage with this study that university rankings present as a general rule thresholds based on percentile rank classes for a better interpretation of their results on institutional performance.
Informetric Explanation of Some Leiden Ranking Graphs Based on the shifted Lotka function for the distribution of the citations over publications in a field and in a university we were able to prove a functional relation between MCS (the average number of citations of the publications of a university) and PP(θ) (the proportion of the publications of a university in this field that belong to the top 100θ% most frequently cited papers in this field). This regularity explains a similar graph in Waltman et al. (2012): increasing S-shaped graph, first convex then concave. The good match between the observed regularities (25) and (30) and the experimental results in Waltman et al. (2012) shows that the shifted Lotka function has powerful explanatory value in informetrics.
The "Academic Trace" of the Performance Matrix: A Mathematical Synthesis of the h-Index and the Integrated Impact Indicator (I3) The performance matrix V = (X, Y, Z) constructs a unique two-dimensional measure for academic achievements and the academic trace of this matrix tr(V) provides a unique indicator for total academic achievements.
Detecting the Historical Roots of Research Fields by Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy (RPYS) The RPYS method presented here enables the detection of the historical papers most frequently cited within the field-specific literature and the quantification of their citation impact on more current research.
Group-Based Trajectory Modeling (GBTM) of Citations in Scholarly Literature: Dynamic Qualities of "Transient" and "Sticky Knowledge Claims" This study advanced our knowledge about citation curves in several respects. Most important, the analysis revealed two different citation pathways, which we named sticky and transient knowledge claims.
Solo Versus Collaborative Writing: Discrepancies in the Use of Tables and Graphs in Academic Articles The two main findings from this study are the following: Authors in groups use significantly more tables than single authors (H1). Authors in groups use significantly more figures than single authors (H3).
Current Index: A Proposal for a Dynamic Rating System for Researchers To overcome this problem, we introduced the CI, which is an h-index based on a 3-year publication/citation window combined with a citation count for that time period. We have shown that if the rating is updated regularly (possibly on a yearly basis), it may present a dynamic rating framework in which researchers' ratings (and ranks) can grow as well as decline over time according to their most recent performance, as in many sports rating systems.
Coauthorship of Journal Articles and Book Chapters in the Social Sciences and Humanities (2000-2010) Coauthorship of articles and book chapters published by social sciences and humanities researchers affiliated with Flemish universities is on the rise.
Abstracting the Core Subnet of Weighted Networks Based on Link Strengths In summary, the h-strength and its related extensions, the h-subnet and Ih-index, provide a promising method for abstracting and characterizing subnets from the networks.
The Knowledge Base and Research Front of Information Science 2006-2010: An Author Cocitation and Bibliographic Coupling Analysis This study tests and confirms a forecast made previously by comparing knowledge-base and research-front findings for IS 2001-2005, which expected both the information retrieval (IR) systems and webometrics specialties to shrink in 2006 to 2010.
Patent Citation Analysis: Calculating Science Linkage Based on Citing Motivation According to the results, based on the evaluation of domain experts, we conclude that the non-self-citation by inventor/ applicant citations are quite noisy and cannot indicate science linkage objectively; that self-citation by inventor/ applicant citations can measure science linkage precisely but incompletely; and that examiner citations can indicate science linkage more accurately than inventor/applicant non-self-citations and more comprehensively than inventor/ applicant self-citation. When calculating the general relationship between science and technology where a complete view of linkage is required, all types of non-patent citations should then be used for measuring science linkage. When calculating science-technology integration precisely where crucial knowledge linkage between science research and technol-ogy innovation is required, only self-cited by inventor/ applicant citations should be used for measuring science linkage.
Do Blog Citations Correlate With a Higher Number of Future Citations? Research Blogs as a Potential Source for Alternative Metrics We suggest, based on these results, that blog citations can be used as an alternative metric source. In conclusion, the bloggers showed themselves capable of choosing articles that, as a group, will be cited more often than other articles in the same journal. Further research into the citing bloggers’ motivations will allow a better understanding of their citations’ functions and impact.
Measures for Impact, Consistency, and the h- and g-Indices The main thrust of the present discussion is that any bibliometric performance indicator can be finally decomposed into three dimensions.
Ranking Top Economics and Finance Journals Using Microsoft Academic Search Versus Google Scholar: How Does the New Publish or Perish Option Compare? We report results with the new MAS database search option recently incorporated into PoP. The results are generally encouraging, not differing significantly in rank correlation.
Microsoft Academic Search and Google Scholar Citations: Comparative Analysis of Author Profiles It is concluded that both services could be used for evaluation proposes only if they are applied along with other citation indices as a way to supplement that information. Especially with regard to the suitability of these services for bibliometric research, we conclude that MAS is better for disciplinary studies than for analyses at institutional and individual levels. On the other hand, GSC is a good tool for individual assessment because it draws on a wider variety of documents and citations.
arXiv E-Prints and the Journal of Record: An Analysis of Roles and Relationships This article shows that arXiv has changed the scholarly communication patterns of physicists and mathematicians. So far, all the evidence suggests that the growth of e-preprints in mathematics and physics does not herald the demise of peer-reviewed journal articles. What can be said with some assurance, however, is that arXiv performs an increasingly important role as both an alerting service and an archive of first resort, though it is equally clear that publication in a journal of record remains an important goal for most scientists.
The Effect on Citation Inequality of Differences in Citation Practices at the Web of Science Subject Category Level As expected, the relative importance of the citation inequality attributable to differences in citation practices is greater at lower aggregation levels.
The Wisdom of Citing Scientists Using a comparison with like data, we have tried to determine that cited reference analysis allows for a more meaningful analysis of bibliometric data than times-cited analysis.
Mapping the Asymmetrical Citation Relationships Between Journals by h-Plots This article shows the possibilities of the h-plot as a useful and straightforward technique for mapping and ana- lyzing asymmetric relations between journals, with regard to their citing and being cited roles, in a unique representation.
Percentile Ranking and Citation Impact of a Large Cohort of National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute-Funded Cardiovascular R01 Grants In a large cohort of NHLBI-funded cardiovascular R01 grants, we were unable to find a monotonic association between better percentile ranking and higher scientific impact as assessed by citation metrics.
Predicting and recommending collaborations: An author-, institution-, and country-level analysis This study has explored collaboration dynamics through the link prediction method.
Counting and comparing publication output with and without equalizing and inflationary bias Biased equal credit scores, whether fractional or inflated, produced rankings that were fundamentally different from the ranking based on harmonic estimates of actual coauthor contribution.
Citation impact analysis of top ranked computer science journals and their rankings First of all, our analytical results indicate that the correlations between these citation based approaches in the five computer science subjects are low.
Unpacking the Matthew effect in citations This paper found no evidence of networking effect and only weak evidence of prestige effect (very small and not always significant) after controlling for the quality and appropriateness of the paper, suggesting that current networking activities do not retroactively affect current citations to previously published paper, while current author prestige might have some small effects.
The use of the Percentage Rank Position index for comparative evaluation of journals Applying the SDII concept in the present paper, a dimensionless, non-parametric index, the Percentage Rank Position (PRP) indicator is suggested for characterizing the eminence of scientific journals comparatively across fields.
Relationship between educational indicators and research outcomes in a panel of top twenty nations: Windows of opportunity The study concludes that there is a window of opportunity to equip the youth with necessary skills to ensure a sustainable future for the nations. Higher education empowers and enables students to compete in a highly competitive and interconnected world through research and innovations, which are the drivers of new ideas, businesses and economic growth.
Empirical modeling of the impact factor distribution This paper shows that two distributions widely-used in economics, namely the Singh-Maddala and Dagum models, possess several advantages over the two-exponent model.
Optimizing SCImago Journal & Country Rank classification by community detection In comparison with the original SJR journal classification, we detected an especially marked improvement regarding the distribution of journals over categories and the final number of categories available in the new solutions based on VOS and Louvain methods. We do not wish to proclaim any one of these classification proposals as definitive or exclusively appropriate. Rather, we believe it necessary to keep working in an effort to combine several techniques and process units of analysis that will lead us closer to a consensus among the scientific community, the ultimate aim being to develop an optimal SJR classification.
Impact coverage of the success-index We showed that the success-index, due to its variable parameter, is comprising many impact measures such as the h-index, g-index, R-index, ha-indices, wa-indices and the average in the case that Lotka's law is valid.
How good is a model based on bibliometric indicators in predicting the final decisions made by peers? The forecasts provided by the models are considered satisfactory, considering all the factors that affect the peer-review process. The results given by the models improve when only the scientific performance is assessed by peers. Our final suggestion is to use bibliometric indicators as an auxiliary instrument, offering objective information which can then be complemented with other relevant information that directly or indirectly impacts the scientific performance of researchers.
Journal topic citation potential and between-field comparisons: The topic normalized impact factor In this paper, we provide a source normalization approach based on the journal topic and we compare it with some popular impact indicators.
Do Article Influence scores overestimate the citation impact of social science journals in subfields that are related to higher-impact natural science disciplines? Within the seven subject areas evaluated here, Article Influence scores do not systematically overestimate the citation impact (5IF) of social science journals in subfields that are related to higher-impact natural science disciplines. In fact, AI scores tend to underestimate 5IF for journals that are related to the natural sciences. The equations presented in Table 6—and, more generally, an awareness of the issues involved—may be useful to authors deciding where to submit their papers, to faculty serving on tenure and promotion committees, and to librarians making journal selection and deselection decisions. Further research may help determine whether any of these explanations are valid.
Mapping altruism Two maps of altruism have been created a preliminary map based solely on the text from NPO websites, and a refined map based on the multiple mission spaces of NPOs. One central finding is that, while the NTEE classification can adequately represent missions associated with Culture, Sports, Education and Religion, they do not represent how mission space is organized is other areas. A map of altruism provides the context in which the need for different evaluation criteria can be seen.
Black-Scholes-Schrodinger-Zipf-Mandelbrot model framework for improving a study of the coauthor core score A Black-Scholes-Schrödinger model framework is proposed to describe the findings.
Author Impact Factor: tracking the dynamics of individual scientific impact We introduced Author Impact Factor (AIF), a dynamic index to quantify the impact of recent work of scientists, enabling one to track the evolution of the performance of scholars along their careers, especially trends.
Bibliometrics Study on Authorship Trends in Periodontal Literature From 1995 to 2010 Periodontal research significantly changed during the last 15 years. Within the limitations of this study, it can be concluded that the average number of authors, per publication, significantly increased from 1995 to 2010. An increasing amount of literature focuses on dental implant-related topics, which are assuming an ever-greater role in periodontal research.
A small field for fertile science: the low visibility of reproductive science in high impact journals There are likely several explanations for why reproductive science and medicine has low visibility, including the field’s small relative size, its lack of a specific disease and associated strong advocacy, and its surrounding social, ethical, and political unease. Nevertheless, there are concrete actions we can take to minimize the role of impact factor in our evaluation while simultaneously increasing influence through global awareness of the importance and need for reproductive research. Finally, our future success will most likely depend on thinking outside our reproductive science and medicine niche and instead taking part in the burgeoning field of team science [48, 49].
Production, consumption and research on solar energy: The Spanish and German case The main conclusion is the divergence in Germany and Spain between solar energy demand/output growth, being exponential, and the growth of research papers on the subject, which is linear.
An analysis of the most-cited research papers on oncology: which journals have they been published in? In conclusion, most of the MCPs were published in Oncology specialized journals. As more publications on oncology take place in non-oncology journals with high-impact factors, the awareness of oncology will probably extend to all researchers in addition to the specialists to cancer.
Regional Scientific Production and Specialization in Europe: The Role of HERD This paper has attempted to identify the spatial distribution of academic scientific production across European regions, and it was mainly aimed at evaluating the role of HERD expenditures in encouraging academic scientific production. Overall, our results confirm that there is no sense in one-size-fits-all science and innovation policy, while it is strongly needed to introduce a tailor-made component in the regional science policy. Finally, it is important to be aware of the limitations of the paper associated with the poor quality of the HERD data, with missing values for many of the regions and with little variance year by year, which causes some modelling problems.
Cost-sensitive selective naive Bayes classifiers for predicting the increase of the h-index for scientific journals Results show that our approaches, specially the CS-SNB-Accuracy, achieved higher accuracy values than the analyzed cost-sensitive classifiers and Bayesian classifiers.
Best-in-class and strategic benchmarking of scientific subject categories of Web of Science in 2010 In conclusion, both theoretical and empirical results imply that it can be used to benchmark subject categories using an information theoretic approach.
Incidence and extent of co-authorship in environmental and resource economics: evidence from the Journal of Environmental Economics and Management In this paper we investigated JEEM, the leading journal in the field of environmental and resource economics, with respect to the development of intellectual collaboration between the authors of published articles. We found support for the division of labor hypothesis, the opportunity cost of time hypothesis, and the external funding hypothesis. We could reject the quality hypothesis. However, there are some limitations that offer possible fields for future research.
Mechanism change in a simulation of peer review: from junk support to elitism Our conclusion is then twofold. First, peer review and rational cheating show in our model a complex interaction: depending on the mechanisms employed, it can cause a quality collapse, a graceful decay, or even a slight quality increase (elitist effect).
Basic research is overshadowed by applied research in China: a policy perspective It has been demonstrated that basic research is overshadowed by applied research in China, from a policy perspective. As a result, S&T system reform oriented towards S&T commercialization hindered the development of basic research and advocated applied research and industrialization instead. Nevertheless, we observed that S&T policies are undoubtedly tilting towards basic research, though only slightly.
Funded collaboration research in mathematics in China From the perspective of journal publications, China's collaborated research in mathematics had increased steadily.
Gender, web presence and scientific productivity in nanoscience and nanotechnology The scientific productivity of the web-absent and present Nanoscientists being similar in general is not found to be associated with the web presence.
Nitrogen research at watershed scale: a bibliometric analysis during 1959-2011 The rapid increase in this area compared to others indicates that the watershed is an increas-ingly attractive scale for nitrogen research.
A multidimensional approach to academic productivity This analysis proves our hypotheses.
An empirical analysis of the relationship between individual characteristics and research productivity As a result of analyzing the relationship between experience as a practical physician and research performance, experience as a practical physician had a significantly positive relationship with number of papers but not with number of citations. The findings suggest that a variety of employment experiences are advantageous for producing an impact of papers. However, a significant relationship between work experience in a foreign country and research performance was not observed.
hIa: an individual annual h-index to accommodate disciplinary and career length differences However, we conclude that the hIa-index provides a more reliable comparison between academics in different disciplines and at different career stages than the h-index.
Institution name disambiguation for research assessment Although the experimental result shows that most names of well-known institutions have been mapped into their institutions and generally the recall ratio is good. Therefore it can be concluded that the IND algorithm proposed in this study works well. Yet, for some cases, such as for general institution names and Institutions with low document frequencies our approach should be improved.
Tracing the origin of a scientific legend by reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS): the legend of the Darwin finches We have shown that the book by David Lack (1947) is by far the most-highly-cited pre-1960 reference cited since 1974 within the relevant literature.
Cooperation patterns in science within Europe: the standpoint of small countries By employing the methodology used in Frenken (2002) and Frenken and Leydesdorff (2004), we found that small states are relatively less homogenously collaborating with countries in the European research system.
The impact of publications from mainland China on the trends in alphabetical authorship Our findings demonstrate that the authors of mainland China do not prefer to use alphabetical authorship in the subject categories where intentionally alphabetical authorship is prevalent.
Comprehensive exploration of urban health by bibliometric analysis: 35 years and 11,299 articles By providing the quantitative analysis of bibliographic information and MeSH terms, bibliometric analysis presents an overview of the massive studies in urban health. Our study concludes the main themes of the urban environment and health effects, as the reference for further researchers.
Indicators for the dynamics of research organizations: a biomedical case study In this paper we applied a theory based life cycle model with indicators on the long-term history of a leading research institute.
Intellectual contribution of Indian periodontists to world literature: a bibliometric evaluation of Pubmed database till 1st March, 2012 The contribution of Indian Periodontists to world literature through Pubmed database is not voluminous but, the publications are multiplying every passing year almost in an exponential way.
Forums for electronic government scholars: Insights from a 2012/2013 study This paper set out to substantially narrow and even close the impor-tant gap of knowledge with regard to the widely accepted, appropriate, valuable, and most highly reputed forums for publication of electronic government research (EGR).
Evaluating the Relationship between Pay and Research Productivity: Panel Data Evidence from Ontario Universities The results of our study suggest that, on average, salaries of individuals on the sunshine list are to some extent explained by research performance.
The Research Use of Astronomical Monographs I am unable to predict whether a monograph will be successful or not.
Making a Mark: a computational and visual analysis of one researcher's intellectual domain This article describes a workflow for scientometric analysis, in terms of its design, underlying reasoning, specific methodological solutions, and interpretation.
Liposomes versus metallic nanostructures: differences in the process of knowledge translation in cancer Liposomes are a disruptive technology that is in the process of becoming a dominant design, exhibiting a process of knowledge translation and branches that correspond to different therapeutic strategies.
A Bibliometric Analysis on Top-Cited Articles in Pain Research An indicator like the MCI can provide a proxy for the contributions made by an individual or institution. It reflects the independent research ability and leadership.
Factors Influencing Scholary Impact: Does Urology Fellowship Training Affect Research Output? No difference in h-index existed between fellowship-trained and nonfellowship-trained urologists, although practitioners in the subspecialty cohorts with the highest research productivity (nonfellowship-trained and urologic oncologists) comprised 70% of department chairpersons. This relationship suggests that a strong research profile is highly valued during selection for academic promotion. Fellowship training may represent another potential opportunity to introduce structured research experiences for trainees.
Analyzing the research in Integrative & Complementary Medicine by means of science mapping The results shown in this work allow decisions to be made. The scientific community can identify thematic areas on which attention is focused and others that are growing in terms of interest they attract.
Open access publishing: a study of current practices in orthopaedic research OA journals are present in orthopaedic research, though in small numbers.
Social Work Scholarship: Authorship Over Time Overall, there was an increase in the number of authors, and five of the eight journals had statistically significant increases in the mean number of authors credited. Results reveal a shift from sole authorship to larger collaborations. Ultimately, social workers have an ethical responsibility to add to the knowledge base of the profession, so examining the scholarship we are producing, how we do so, and with whom seems a worthy endeavor to continue.
BraX-Ray: An X-Ray of the Brazilian Computer Science Graduate Programs The results indicate that programs better located in the network topology are more productive.
Gender and the evaluation of research In this paper, we have provided a framework to evaluate possible gender effects in the evaluation of research when either assessment panels or journal ratings are utilised. While we did not find evidence of gender effects where the assessment of business and management was concerned, we did not find evidence that women may be disadvantaged by their sub-discipline specialisations when their research is evaluated using journal ratings lists. Furthermore, our findings demonstrate that a lack of networks and individual circumstances are important explanatory variables in differential quality outcomes for men and women in Business and Management.
The distribution of partnership returns: Evidence from co-authorships in economics journals Taken together, the evidence described above suggests that our model validates the parallels drawn between business alliances and academic co-authorship.
The Strategic Environment Assessment bibliographic network: A quantitative literature review analysis Bibliographic analysis tools adopted in this study have proven to be fast and efficient in the investigation of SEA scientific production.
The Number of Scholarly Documents on the Public Web In summary, the lower bound estimate of the number of scholarly documents, published in English, available on the web is roughly 114 million, of which Google Scholar covers nearly 87%, approximately 100 million documents.
The Universal Values of Science and China's Nobel Prize Pursuit With a more pragmatic approach, China values science, but does not necessarily accept the values of science, which could be detrimental for its ambitions, including being awarded the Nobel Prize in science and becoming a real scientific power. Underlining the prize and indeed modern science is not merely methodology and materialism but culture, which, in Merton's systematic perspective of science, discussed at the outset, is higher on the value proposition of science. Therefore, to make its universities “world-class,” the Chinese state should allow them have a “soul,” which is not only unique but also universal, by valuing free inquiry and academic freedom and treasuring and upholding universal values of science.
Two Worlds of Academic Publishing: Chemistry and German Sociology in Comparison It remains to be seen what will happen in both fields. We hope that, based on our case studies, we have provided some information, both empirical facts and theoretical interpretations, which helps to reach such an understanding. That the different kinds of "market failure” in both worlds of academic publishing may produce substantial negative externalities for scientists' collective pursuit of truth and scientific progress is no longer an abstract possibility; developments leading in this direction have already started.
Authorship Matrix: A Rational Approach to Quantify Individual Contributions and Responsibilities in Multi-Author Scientific Articles In this paper we address a fundamental question relevant to every researcher who will ever consider publishing an article: what is the meaning of the term author in a scientific publication?
Detecting and (Not) Dealing with Plagiarism in an Engineering Paper: Beyond CrossCheck-A Case Study Consequently, authors, journal editors, and reviewers, as well as research institutions all are duty-bound not only to recognize the differences between ethical and unethical behavior in order to protect a healthy research environment, and also to maintain consistent ethical publishing standards. Editors should apply a lower threshold when using detectors, such as CrossCheck to identify potential plagiarism, especially papers are heavy in non-textual content, such as engineering papers. In a short, authors, journal editors, reviewers, as well as research institutions all have responsibilities not only to train themselves, but also to set criteria so that the next generation can recognize the differences between ethical and unethical behavior (Carraway 2009).
Brazilian Bibliometric Coauthorship Networks In this article, we addressed the problem of identifying coauthorship networks through publication lists gathered from the Brazilian Lattes Platform by using the topological properties of graphs (all information available from the Lattes CVs are considered validated by the Lattes Plat- form).
Evolution of Library and Information Science, 1965-2005: Content Analysis of Journal Articles Overall, we observe major changes in LIS from 1965 to 2005, featuring (a) a change of focus from L&I organiza- tions to end users and system development for the latter and (b) increased application of empirical research strategies, with (c) increased attention to evaluation and experiments. Our data do not give an account of the most recent changes in LIS. It would be valuable to collect fresh data, which would reflect the current situation in the field.
The Kiss of Death? The Effect of Being Cited in a Review on Subsequent Citations In conclusion, we could find no clear indication that review articles have a harmful effect on the citation counts of the papers they review, regardless of the paper's citation activity, field, or specialty. There is no positive effect, either: A citation coming from a review does not seem to act as a trigger signaling the existence of a paper to the research community.
A Three-Class, Three-Dimensional Bibliometric Performance Indicator With this Brief Communication we have shown that it is possible to collapse all three dimensions of bibliometric performance evaluation, namely, quantity, quality, and consistency, into a single number that has the same dimensions as the number of papers P even when only summary bibliometric information is available.
On the origins and the historical roots of the Higgs boson research from a bibliometric perspective Even if the Nobel Prize award highlights the outstanding importance of the work of Peter Higgs and Francois Englert, bibliometrics offer the additional possibility of getting hints to other publications in this research field (especially to historical publications), which are of vital importance from the expert point of view.
Effect of English Proficiency and Research Funding on Acceptance of Submitted Articles to Stroke Journal What our study shows is that research conducted in the richest countries (based on GDP or research funding) and those with high English proficiency are more likely to be published independently of the scientific quality, thus driving the research agenda.
Water research paradigm shifts in South Africa Scientometric results show that the publication record for water-related research in South Africa contained 6007 publications from 1977 to 2011.
Scientometric sorting by importance for literatures on life cycle assessments and some related methodological discussions Citation and co-citation analysis are useful for environmental scientists and engineers to get a better under-standing of the inner structure of LCA research.
Co-Authorship and Bibliographic Coupling Network Effects on Citations In summary, data support the idea that authors benefit from their accumulated co-authorship relations, and that being embedded (better when in the core rather than in the periphery) in a large network boosts the citation count of the paper.
Phases of growth in a green tech research network: a bibliometric evaluation of fuel cell technology from 1991 to 2010 The study showed that fuel cell research co-operation has had an distinct evolution from 1991 to 2010. Research has increased in both volume and co-operation. What is significant is that research into fuel cells is more unconcentrated than research overall and that non-TRIAD countries have a stronger role in this research than in research overall. Research co-operation has evolved into two modes of co-operation (clusters): one around Asia and North America and the second around European co-operation with US and Asia.
The dynamics of interdisciplinary research fields: the case of river research The paper suggests that this two level approach is a useful method to study interdisciplinary research and, more generally, disciplinary dynamics.
Nanoscience and nanotechnology research publications: a comparison between Australia and the rest of the world Results indicate that among the four investigated search methodologies for retrieving nano-publications from WoS, combination of lexical query and search in the nano-journals is the most comprehensive methodology.
The scientific impact and partner selection in collaborative research at Korean universities This study examined the characteristics of knowledge production investigating scientific journal articles published by Korean universities from 1981 to 2010.
Time-varying causality between research output and economic growth in US This main purpose of this paper is to investigate the causal relationship between knowledge (research output) and economic growth in US over 1981–2011.
Astrophysics publications on arXiv, Scopus and Mendeley: a case study We found that even though submitting to arXiv is believed to be the norm in astrophysics, Scopus indexes more items than arXiv: there were 82 authors out of the 100 for whom more records were found in Scopus than in arXiv.
Extending citer analysis to journal impact evaluation Our findings show that the two commonly used journal impact indices exhibit high correlations with the citer-based measures for journals, though the lowest correlations are with the number of journals per publication.
Research productivity in soil science in the Philippines The present study highlights the need for a paradigm shift in soil science research from mostly rice related research to environmental research.
The sex and ethnicity or national origins of researchers in astronomy and oncology in four countries, 2006-2007 and 2011-2012 This paper has demonstrated, by means of four countries and two subject areas, that it is possible to analyse the relative scientific contributions made by women and men, and by researchers who have come from another country.
Open Access in 2013: Reaching the 50% Milestone From June to August of 2013, journal articles published in 2012 and indexed by Scopus had a 37.8% OA share. This study would like to project with caution that human beings are reaching a milestone: Either the percentage of OA articles published in the previous year is very close to 50%, or it has passed that mark.
A Comparison of Faculty and Bibliometric Valuation of Serials Subscriptions at an Academic Research Library Our experiment revealed that there is, overall, only a moderate degree of association between faculty valuations of serials and bibliometric valuations of the same titles. However, as bibliometric scores increase, so does the rate of match between faculty and bibliometric valuation. The challenge to libraries, then, is to identify in which ways faculty selectors make decisions about low-scoring titles or, perhaps, to consider them suitable for more subjective review.
Who's getting the biggest research bang for the buck First, while RE per publication is a measure that requires further exploration, it has the potential to be a useful performance indicator for many applications, especially financial and economic representations at the institutional or departmental level. Third, based on the results of the analyses presented, there was a sudden and, as yet, unexplained decline in the research productivity of universities in the United States. Further research is required to understand the reasons underlying these phenomena.
Incentives for Journal Editors Our regression analysis provides evidence to suggest that economists tend to receive more citations when they serve as journal editors.
Are Current Research Evaluation Metrics Causing a Tragedy of the Scientific Commons and the Extinction of University-Based Fisheries Programs? Without purposeful intervention in the four areas just mentioned, I contend that individually rational behavior that does not pay attention to wider societal effects is bound to produce many irrelevant papers that are published for the sake of publishing but do not advance the knowledge base, while at the same time producing important costs to the scientific system and society at large that are no longer trivial.
Sources of Federal Funding in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Research A search of plastic surgeons indicates a limited but increasing number of individuals receive federal funding.
Publish or perish: The myth and reality of academic publishing Given this, publications should be evaluated qualitatively for their own sake rather than judged against quantitative measures such as impact factors.
Twenty-two years of psychological science in Psychological Science In summary, this analysis suggests that PS has become more international in the last decade and increasingly oriented towards neuroscience, psychosocial and emotional issues as well as natural situations in our daily lives, that is, emphasizing the importance of the ecological validity.
International scientific collaboration between Australia and China: A mixed-methodology for investigating the social processes and its implications for national innovation systems The findings suggest that augmenting the information base with qualitative data helps toward a more comprehensive understanding of science, technology and innovation (ST&I) dynamics. This has potential implications for the formulation of future policies with respect to STHC.
10 years of innovation studies in Asia through the Asian Journal of Technology Innovation In summary, over the last 10 years we discovered certain distinctive characteristics in the evol-ution of AJTI articles in terms of composition of authors, research goals and methodologies, sample sizes and time horizons, industry and technology focus areas, country comparison and research fields featured by keywords of 192 AJTI articles.
Dutch Economists Top 40 We have argued that the latest ESB ranking of economists emphasizes research quantity over quality.
Research output of health research institutions and its use in 42 sub-Saharan African countries: results of a questionnaire-based survey The research output of health research insti-tutions in the Region is significant, but more effort is needed to strengthen research capacity, including human and financial resources.
Axiomatic measures of intellectual influence The paper concludes with open theoretical and empirical questions for future research. We conclude by mentioning several issues that are worth investigating. An open theoretical question is to find the axioms that may characterize not just the I(S) index but the complete family of measure-based indices. An open empirical question is to study how well these different indices may align with labor market outcomes in the different academic markets...
How healthy are software engineering conferences? The goal of this article was to assess how the health of software engineering conferences evolves over time, in terms of a variety of criteria: stability and representativeness of the PC with respect to the authors' community, openness to new authors, introversion, availability of PC candidates and scientific prestige.
Publication patterns and citation analysis of APJTM during 2008 and June 2014 Detailed analysis shows APJTM has made great progress over the past six and half years, but authors' originating countries are still disproportionate.
Pathological publishing: A new psychological disorder with legal consequences? Finally, we discuss the need to change the system used to evaluate science and researchers, which undoubtedly promotes these dishonest behaviors or this psychological dysfunction. It is a fact that the falsification of data in research or CVs is an important problem, since it affects both science and scientists in general. This is clearly due to the way in which scientific production is evaluated.
Measuring HINARI use in Nigeria through a citation analysis of Nigerian Journal of Clinical Practice Findings from citation analysis of Nigerian Journal of Clinical Practice show that researchers are repeatedly citing journal titles available in HINARI at a higher rate than non-HINARI journals titles.
Evaluating big deal journal bundles We find that even with the institution-specific discounts resulting from bundled purchases, the prices per citation charged to large PhD-granting universities by major commercial publishers are much higher than those charged by major nonprofit publishers. This suggests that expenditure on print journals in the pre-electronic journal era is no longer an accurate enough signal of willingness to pay to allow publishers to practice successful first-degree price discrimination. The contracts that we have seen show remarkable institution-specific price variations that cannot be explained by university characteristics such as enrollment and PhD production.
China's rise as a major contributor to science and technology In the past three decades, China has become a major contributor to science and technology.
Investigating returns to scope of research fields in universities The results of the analysis seem to show that having researchers belonging to SDSs characterized by high intensity of interdisciplinary collaboration does not produce benefits in terms of overall productivity for the university concerned. The same conclusion is also valid at the level of the single SDS, with the exception of only five cases, where returns of scope seem to have an influence. Such a question could in fact be the object of a future investigation.
Higher education research in Asia: an archipelago, two continents or merely atomization? The field of higher education research is moving toward achieving greater levels of legitimacy in the worldwide scientific community (Altbach et al. 2007).
Characteristics and trends of research on positron emission tomography: a bibliometric analysis, 2002-2012 The number of publication concerning PET has increased rapidly over the last decade. This bibliometric analysis revealed characteristics and trends of current PET research that provides useful information to researchers. We suggest that this study presents the characteristics and trends of PET research and provides a useful guide for PET researchers in planning and organizing their research.
Scientometric trends and knowledge maps of global health systems research "HSR is an interdisciplinary area. Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development countries showed they are the leading nations in HSR."
The ethics of scholarly publishing: exploring differences in plagiarism and duplicate publication across nations No country is unique in having to address issues of plagiarism and duplicate publication, although such unethical behaviors may be a more pressing concern for some countries than others.
Developing an evidence-based list of journals for nursing The project team believes that the project was worthwhile and should be continued in the future because this list contains some unique features and information that is not available elsewhere.
Detecting research fronts using different types of weighted citation networks This paper presents a comparative study to investigate the performance of methods for detecting emerging research fronts among weighted citation networks, which include the frequency of citations, the difference of publication years, similarities of the references and keywords. By using the weight based on the frequency of citations, young and dense clusters are detected. For applying the weighted networks to detect the research fronts for managerial purpose, selecting which weights to use by adjusting the purpose of analysis is important.
Characterizing the emergence of two nanotechnology topics using a contemporaneous global micro-model of science Although we have only showed two patterns of emergence in this study, it is very possible that there are many additional patterns.
Finding linkage between technology and social issue: A Literature Based Discovery approach Our methodology can be utilized as a decision support tool for managers and policy makers to extract and design promising research targets.
Tipping points in science: A catastrophe model of scientific change The presented findings on the omnipresence of fold dynamics across the sciences have ramifications for each of these fields.
Upgrading instructions for authors of scholarly journals Journal instructions are important and need to be properly structured, linked to the available guidelines from editorial associations, and regularly revised and enforced to avoid unethical and erroneous publications.
Global Research on Smoking and Pregnancy-A Scientometric and Gender Analysis The findings of the study indicate an increase in gender equality as well as in quantity and quality of international scientific research about smoking and pregnancy in the future.
Quality of author guidelines of journals in the biomedical and physical sciences While author guidelines of many international English-language journals in the biomedical and physical sciences adequately address some essential aspects of manuscript preparation and submission, they often do not provide all the information needed as clearly as possible. Ensuring that author guidelines are complete and clear will allow authors to submit a more journal-compliant manuscript, reduce pre-submission enquiries, and expedite manuscript processing.
Congestion of Academic Journals Under Papers' Imperfect Selection The main contribution of this paper is to put forward the threat for top-tier journals that could pose a massive increase in the number of submissions. In our model, as long as researchers stay confident about the efficiency of the editors screening process, self-selection prevents authors of low-quality papers to submit their work to top journals. As publication of low-quality papers becomes more conceivable, the incentive to submit such papers increases and congestion becomes self-sustaining. This creates an opportunity for authors to submit poor quality papers, a behaviour which contributes to the congestion of the editorial process.
Subject dispersion of US research in Pakistan This unique comprehensive subject analysis of all the LIS literature produced in Pakistan between 1947 and 2008, has demonstrated that LIS research in Pakistan has been limited to a few areas of research and has neglected many others. This identification of research gaps might serve as a call to action for research in more current (and perhaps more practitioner- and user-oriented) fields, and also as a guide for curricular development in LIS programs.
Quantity and quality of obesity-related research in Arab countries: assessment and comparative analysis The present data reveals a good late momentum for obesity research from the Arab world, particularly from Arab gulf countries. More efforts are needed by other Arab countries to bridge the gap in this topic and to improve the quality of obesity-related research originating from Arab countries.
Bibliometric analysis of regional Latin America's scientific output in Public Health through SCImago Journal & Country Rank Collaboration is a key factor behind the development of scientific activity in Latin America.
Accelerating commercialization: a new model of strategic foundation funding Hands-on venture philanthropy has changed the drug development pipeline by affecting the funding process and employing more applied, goal-oriented, team-based approaches, along with new intellectual property requirements. Overall, venture philanthropy appears to offer disease-focused foundations, especially those addressing orphan diseases, a path to faster commercialization. The importance of philanthropy to academic research in general and the specific ways in which scientists respond to the venture philanthropy model certainly warrant further study.
Dynamics of collaborative research medicine: the case of glaucoma The various network configurations observed in this analysis speak to the variety of strategies adopted in defining, testing, deconstructing and widening the search space in search of effective answers to the glaucoma problem.
Influences of return migration on international collaborative research networks: cases of Japanese scientists returning from the US In this paper, I examined whether the ties of networks formed by Japanese scientists overseas change upon return migration by focusing on these scientists' collaborative research networks.
Some problems associated with affiliation of the authors in the web of science The examples presented in this paper give evidence of substantial inaccuracy of determining the number of publications of Russian authors in the Web of Science and inaccuracy of determining the affiliation of the authors (not only Russian).
Beyond breakthrough research: Epistemic properties of research and their consequences for research funding However, while the ERC funding and other new funding schemes for exceptional research attempt to cover these requirements, they are unlikely to suffice.
Citation-Based Plagiarism Detection: Practicability on a Large-Scale Scientific Corpus In summary, citation-based and character-based approaches to automated plagiarism detection have complementary strengths and weaknesses. We conclude that a hybrid detection approach as explored in our prototype would represent a significant improvement upon current detection approaches. Applying the citation-based approach to large-scale heterogeneous collections even when they contain different languages and alphabets is another promising use.
Disseminating Research with Web CV Hyperlinks Nevertheless, although a small majority of researchers seem to have web CVs, most do not use them to direct visitors to full-text research, and most seem not to direct visitors to any other major type of scholarly resource.
Mendeley Readership Altmetrics for the Social Sciences and Humanities: Research Evaluation and Knowledge Flows Thus, the evidence from this study suggests that Mendeley readership data could be used to help capture knowledge transfer across scien- tific disciplines, especially for people that read but do not author articles, as well as giving impact evidence at an earlier stage than is possible with citation counts.
Social network analysis of Iranian researchers on emergency medicine: a sociogram analysis because of Iranian low productivity in the emergency medicine field, social network analysis seems to be a proper option for bibliometrics to identify central authors and detect knowledge structure in this field. So, findings of the study may help policy makers to rethink on prioritising research, specifying research gaps through topic analysis, establishing new research centres, specialising EM specialty to sub-specialties such as traumatology, and forming research groups with similar interests.
Systematic analysis of coverage and usage of conference proceedings in web of science This study aimed at giving an overview of the coverage of conference proceedings and implications for appropriate usage of this kind of documents in bibliometric analyses.
Landmark papers written by the Nobelists in physics from 1901 to 2012: a bibliometric analysis of their citations and journals These data indicate some regularity and tendency of landmark papers written by Nobelists in physics.
OR/MS journals evaluation based on a refined PageRank method: an updated and more comprehensive review This study not only presents an updated review of 31 selected OR/MS journals indexed by SCI, it presents an emerging journals evaluation approach based on a refined Page-Rank method which differentiates the impacts of journals by citation types. Additionally, four longitudinal reviews are also provided to establish the trends or shifts in the rankings from 2006 to 2010. Summarily, we contend that this proposed model with further refinements paves the way for further research exploration and development in this relatively new research domain.
Benefit distribution mechanism in the team members' scientific research collaboration network Through the above analysis, it is concluded that a team member's contributions to the team's scientific research not only lie in his/her scientific research efforts, but also rest with his/her contributions to others' scientific research outputs achievements.
Robust rankings Review of multivariate assessments illustrated by the Shanghai rankings As a result, the possibilities and restrictions of this type of weighting become recognisable.
Topic-based Pagerank: toward a topic-level scientific evaluation This study has proposed a topic-based PageRank evaluation approach to assess the scientific impact of papers, authors, journals, and institutions.
Study of the collaboration in the field of the Chinese humanities and social sciences This paper analyzes the status of cooperation in Chinese humanities and social science with a holistic view, and has discovered the particularity of humanities, the growth property of social developmental science, and cross-disciplinary social science and the maturity of applied social science.
Are significant inventions more diversified? Three out of four results verify the proposed hypotheses, while the other one is contrary to the hypothesis.
On the data and analysis of the research output of India and China: India has significantly fallen behind China An analysis is presented comparing the research outputs from India and China since 1975.
Size of web domains and interlinking behavior of higher education institutions in Europe "We conclude that aggregated counts of weblinks between pairs of HEIs are not significantly affected by the web policies of HEIs and thus can be considered as reasonably robust measures."
Relative age of references as a tool to identify emerging research fields with an application to the field of ecology and environmental sciences We observed a consistent pattern that the emerging research topics had a lower median age of references and a higher ratio of references published in the preceding 2 years than their respective general research fields. The main advantage of indices based on the age of references is that they are not influenced by a time lag, and as such they are able to provide insight into current scientific trends. On the contrary, we believe their best potential is to use them combined with other indices, as each one can reveal different aspects and properties of the assessed data, and provide validation of the obtained results.
The Albuquerque model and efficiency indicators in national scientific productivity with respect to manpower and funding in science We deduce that there has been a shift from publishing towards patenting in certain countries and link it to high contribution from the business sector to R&D expenditure.
Citation curves of "all-elements-sleeping-beauties": "flash in the pan" first and then "delayed recognition" We also found happy endings of sleeping beauties and princes, and hence suggest the citation curve of an “all-elements-sleeping-beauty” include an awaking period, a sleeping period, an awakening period and a happy ending.
The European Research Council and the European research funding landscape This paper has outlined a framework that is applicable for a study of the changes that are occurring in the European research funding landscape as result of the emergence of the ERC.
Which extramural scientists were funded by the US National Institutes of Health from its ARRA funds? As highlighted in this paper, most of the NIH ARRA research funds found their way to PIs who already had NIH research grants.
Argumentative practices in science, technology and innovation policy: The case of clinician-scientists and translational research Here, I have examined the argumentative practices of a coalition of policy-makers and clinicians concerned with increasing institutional support for the latter profession, and how these activities have been co-extensive with the establishment of capacities for TR as a major STI policy target.
Totally radical: From transformative research to transformative innovation "Making transformations real requires something else-something totally radical."
The development of emergency medicine in South Korea: academic productivity in highly cited journals Emergency medicine in South Korea started about 20 years ago, but academic productivity, indicated by at least ten articles annually in highly cited journals, was only achieved in the last five years.
Scientific Inquiry Into Rhinosinusitis: Who is Receiving Funding From the National Institutes of Health? PIs in medicine and pediatric departments had greater funding for rhinosinusitis projects than individuals in otolaryngology departments, partly because of greater utilization of PhD faculty.
A Century of Citation Classics in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Journals Revisited The dramatic rise in quantity and nature of citation classics in the past decade may be due to unprecedented advancements in information technology and communication, allowing studies and experiments to be performed, written, reviewed, published, and cited at rapid rates.
Mapping publication status and exploring hotspots in a research field: chronic disease self-management Self-management in chronic disease publication has been most evident in developed countries. The bibliographic mapping and identification of publication hotspots provides scholars and practitioners with key target journals, as well as a rigorous overview of the field for use in further research, evidence-based practice and health policy development.
Open Access Goals Revisited: How Green and Gold Open Access Are Meeting (or Not) Their Original Goals Clearly OA has so far achieved only mixed success. We argue that gold OA journals are doing (or are poised to do) the things that advocates said OA should do. The means to those goals, on the other hand, need more critical evaluation and revision.
Open Access in China: A Study of Social Science Journals Our investigation shows that none of the CSSCI journals have eliminated paper publication and most journals are processed in a traditional publishing and management mode. The results show that Chinese social science journals do not have a high level of OA. The disciplines of archaeology, statistics, foreign litera-ture, art, and philosophy have no OA journals at all.
Highly Cited Works in Radiology: The Top 100 Cited Articles in Radiologic Journals The top cited articles in radiologic journals span a wide range of imaging modalities, subspecialties, and organ systems. Its use may aid radiologists, academic organization, and editorial staff in determining areas of imaging interest or perceived educational gap. It also highlights the importance of including classic articles in current imaging education.
To what extent do articles published in other than "top journals" have impact on marketing? These findings strongly support the need to evaluate each article on its own merits, rather than abdicating this responsibility by using journal ranking as a proxy for an article's value or contribution.
Authorship: attitudes and practice among Norwegian researchers Almost all the responding researchers had knowledge of formal authorship requirements.
THE EVOLUTION OF THE SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTIVITY OF HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE ECONOMISTS This paper has studied the evolution of the research productivity of a sample of 1,136 economists who, counting from 2007, have spent at least 16 years since their PhD in (some of) the best 81 economics departments in the world. Productivity mobility is equalizing (disequalizing) if the actual productivity inequality at the end of the life cycle is smaller (greater) than the productivity inequality that obtains in the initial situation, in which case the mobility index takes positive (negative) values. More importantly, since the evidence already quoted indicates that the age/productivity profile varies in different disciplines, it would be interesting to extend this paper to other scientific fields.
SPENDING WISELY? HOW RESOURCES AFFECT KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION IN UNIVERSITIES In this article, we have quantified the effect of research spending on knowledge production in universities in the United States.
Voting with Their Feet: In Which Journals Do the Most Prolific Finance Researchers Publish? In this spirit, one way to discern what prolific authors really think about various journals is to see where they publish.
The fifty most cited Latin-American articles in the orthopaedic literature This top 50 list displays articles that have become important references for the orthopaedic scientific community.
Interdisciplinarity and research on local issues: evidence from a developing country This article has explored the relationship between IDR and the production of knowledge related to local issues.
Awards before and after the Nobel Prize: A Matthew effect and/or a ticket to one's own funeral? "Overall, our results suggest that a constant increase in awards—which could indicate a Matthew effect in the sense of 'success breeding success'—only holds up to the point of receiving the Nobel Prize and seems to depend on the cohort analysed."
The long-term influence of collaboration on citation patterns It seems possible that collaboration tends to increase the quality and impact of an article because of the additional knowledge available and it may also increase the impact of an article because of the additional social support for spreading information about it.
Evaluating Scholarly Book Publishers-A Case Study in the Field of Journalism Using a variety of approaches, it becomes difficult to pinpoint one or two publishers as the "most scholarly" for the discipline.
The 100 top-cited classic papers in hand surgery This list of classic papers in hand surgery provides us with valuable information as to the authors and topics that have had a profound influence on the discipline. The "classic papers" we have observed in this study are the ones that have created the greatest impact on the hand surgery community and are more than likely the ones that will be remembered most. Furthermore, it provides useful information to authors as to what it entails to write a "classic paper".
A ranking of supply chain management journals based on departmental lists Using cluster analysis, we are able to identify four journals that are clearly elite and an additional five journals that are indistinguishable from the first four in terms of quality, but less recognised across the academy. We call these nine journals the first-tier journals, since they appear distinct from the members in the third and fourth clusters. Reconsidering the relative quality of journals across the previous distinct literature presents a real opportunity to increase diversity in research topics and improve our understanding of the integrated supply chain.
Intellectual structure of the institutional repository field: A co-word analysis The institutional repository is an important tool to realize open access and at the same time is a scholarly communica- tion innovation strategy, which can preserve the intellectual assets of the institution for a long time and rapidly distribute research results. Thus this study, which quantitatively defines the research domains in this field through the co-work anal- ysis, is anticipated not only to be utilized as basic materials for developing various supporting policies for vitalization of the institutional repository in the future but also to be helpful in setting research direction and subjects by researchers in this field.
Hyperlinks as inter-university collaboration indicators The goal of this paper was to identify the extent to which hyperlink data can be improved to best indicate the extent of collaboration between universities.
Social Media Research: An Assessment of the Domain's Productivity and Intellectual Evolution Combining the bibliographic findings from the productivity rankings and the assessment of research design and data practices, two important conclusions and associated challenges are derived which warrant further exploration and intellectual discussion to track the evolution and advancement of the social media domain as well as to delineate areas requiring more attention and future research. In conclusion, two challenges confronting the social media domain have been observed, namely the lack of methodological diversity and the lack of maturity characterizing the social media domain.
A Preliminary Study of the Relationship between the h-Index and Excess Citations In this article on the structure of publication citation curves we observed the following.
Perceptions of authors' contributions are influenced by both byline order and designation of corresponding author Academic department chairs' perception of authors' contributions was influenced by corresponding author designation.
Country of Authorship and Collaboration Affect Citations of Articles by South and East Asian Authors in Agronomy Journals: A Case Study of China, Japan, and India For China and India, collaboration, mostly with developed countries, increases citations for papers published in a par- ticular journal.
Determinants of Research Production at Top US Universities My results allow for a better understanding of the role and magnitude of different inputs entering the research production process. I show that research production increases with institution size, in particular with the number of academics and with revenue, but this last relationship is characterized by decreasing returns. The quality of professors (measured by their average salary) appears to have a convex effect on the production of research, with a significant share of institutions (more than 30%) on the decreasing part of the curve.
Impact of assessment criteria on publication behaviour: the case of communication research in Spain The increase coincides with the creation in 2002 of National Quality and Accreditation Evaluation Agency (ANECA) whose assessment criteria give priority to publication in journals indexed by the Social Sciences Citation Index
The spin-off of elite universities in non-competitive, undifferentiated higher education systems: an empirical simulation in Italy Our simulation for the city of Rome has shown the higher quality level of such a spin-off university, budded from three existing ones, compared to all other Italian higher education institutions.
Increasing life expectancy of water resources literature Not only could we confirm that references in water resources articles are becoming older, and that, for the median age of references, the results are very close to the entire field of natural sciences and engineering.
Do AAO-HNSF CORE Grants Predict Future NIH Funding Success? A higher proportion of academic otolaryngologists with prior AAO-HNSF CORE funding have received NIH funding relative to their non-CORE-funded peers, suggesting that the CORE program may be successful in its stated goals of preparing individuals for the NIH peer review process, although further prospective study is needed to evaluate a "cause and effect" relationship.
Acknowledgments in scientific publications: Presence in Spanish science and text patterns across disciplines Our study analyzes acknowledgments in the English-language scientific publications of Spain-based researchers in WoS in 2010 and confirms the existence of differences in FA presence by subject area, by genre, by journal pres-tige, and in a specific area, by the basic versus applied nature of research. Moreover, interfield differences in the nature of acknowledgments that go beyond financial support and include subauthorship information were detected in the four subject categories under analysis.
The greater scattering phenomenon beyond Bradford's law in patent citation This research explored the scattering patterns of patents and their citation distributions for three distinct technologi-cal areas: LC, drugs, and semiconductors. The study also attempted to verify whether the three patterns followed Bradford's law.
Are all literature citations equally important? Automatic citation strength estimation and its applications We argue that the citations in a paper are not equally important and use a strength value to assess the importance of each citation.
From P100 to P100': A new citation-rank approach Advantages and disadvantages of citation-rank indicators are noted. Based on the scale values, it is possible to categorize the papers in question into a set of rank classes. Further methodological research is necessary to include reliability and standard error issues in the citation-rank approach.
Network Analysis of Publications on Topological Indices from the Web of Science "We give a comprehensive scientometric insight into the field of topological indices."
Pain research in Africa: a ten-year bibliometric survey Pain research publications from Africa should be encouraged. Given the underexplored frontiers of pain research, there is a need to engage in rigorous research in this field to enhance the contribution of the African continent ("the African Voice") to worldwide advances in this respect.
Monuments to Academic Carelessness: The Self-fulfilling Prophecy of Katherine Frost Bruner It is as simple as that, if we want to distinguish academic publications from a playground for the free flow of rumors and urban legends (Rekdal 2014a, 2014b).
The work motivation of research scientists and its effect on research performance From a practical perspective, findings highlight a possible danger in promoting financial/instrumental incentives in research performance, but also suggest the importance of providing a suitable level of financial compensation so as not to cause distraction from instrumental sources of motivation.
The use of citation speed to understand the effects of a multi-institutional science center This work examined the relationship between authors associated with a multi-institutional, multidisciplinary science center and the likelihood that their publications will be quickly cited.
Literature-related discovery: common factors for Parkinson's Disease and Crohn's Disease The main objective of this paper is to demonstrate proof-of-principle that shared references between two disjoint literatures provide a strong prioritization mechanism for selecting shared phrases for potential CSD.
Nanomaterials patenting in Brazil: some considerations for the national regulatory framework Understanding that nanotechnology is pervasive, that is, able to operate in different sectors of the economy, it is clear that to regulate the use and commercialization of nanotechnology in Brazil, it is necessary that the legislative framework be adequate and modernized or specific to the issues, as other pioneer countries are doing. For this reason, there is a current need for prudent measures based on the precautionary principle, in order not to interrupt or stop technological development, but to ensure and preserve basic rights, such as respect for life and the right to an ecologically balanced environment.
Distance and velocity measures: using citations to determine breadth and speed of research impact Results generally support the finding that HSD research diffuses more widely than does a matched set of similarly highly cited Comparison group papers, as per Research Question 1. In closing, we advance “Distance” and citation “Velocity” as two informative measures of research knowledge diffusion. Overall, we see more interesting differences in “Distance” for the target samples (HSD vs. matched Comparison group), subject categories, and journals (based on JIF), than we see for citation "Velocity."
Patent activity analysis of vibration-reduction control technology in high-speed railway vehicle systems in China Analytical results showed that Chinese applicants are the most prominent in patent production, possessing ~92.6% of applications in the VRC technology field between 1985 and 2009. R&D institutions should therefore change their R&D strategy from short-term strategic planning which is not beneficial to achieving valuable innovations to a more strategic and forward-looking approach which makes the most of their potential advantages. Chinese R&D institutions could gradually lose the technology advantages they presently hold without international protection for their innovations.
A topic model approach to measuring interdisciplinarity at the National Science Foundation Taken together, these methods and metrics help to provide a clearer measure of IDR at the NSF.
Breakthrough paper indicator 2.0: can geographical diversity and interdisciplinarity improve the accuracy of outstanding papers prediction? In this paper, we report the combination of our earlier methods of citation curve-fitting with thresholding strategies to allow for more accurate early detection of candidate breakthrough papers.
The assessment of publication pressure in medical science; validity and reliability of a Publication Pressure Questionnaire (PPQ) The PPQ seems a valid and reliable instrument to measure publication pressure among medical scientists.
Assessing the impact of the funding environment on researchers' risk aversion: the use of citation statistics We intended, with this paper, to introduce a quantitative tool that is convenient and easy to apply.
Working in separate silos? What citation patterns reveal about higher education research internationally The analysis presented in this article shows clearly that—at least for the sample of journals examined and for the year in question—the American journals are not only dominated by American-based authors, but that those authors also cite overwhelmingly articles, books, chapters and other publications published in the United States. By contrast, the three non-American journals examined appear to accommodate a much broader spread internationally of both authors and citations.
Identifying emerging topics in science and technology The evidence presented sug- gests that the methodology nominates a viable list of emerging topics suitable for inspection by decision makers.
Heterogeneity in European Research Integrity Guidance: Relying on Values or Norms? We risk talking past each other, if we do not consider the different perspectives on trust and if we do not take the dis-tinction between the value- and norm-based approaches into account. Research is becoming ever more interdisciplinary and international (Alberts, 2012), which enables a more value-based approach because of its more universal nature.
Collective credit allocation in science In this paper, we proposed a method to quantify the credit share of coauthors by reproducing the collective credit allocation process informally used by the scientific community.
Sources of error in the retracted scientific literature An understanding of the errors leading to retraction can guide practices to improve laboratory research and the integrity of the scientific literature.
Scientific collaboration in the sphere of carbon nanostructures in the mirror of bibliometric analysis As we see, observable are increased collabora-tion and more active international connections, which favor an increase in scientific productivity. For exam-ple, it has been established that purely Russian coau-thorship does not provide advantages with regard to citation and, hence, may not provide special stimula-tion.
Development of a Set of Indicators to Evaluate Injury Control Research Centers Our results support an approach that combines standardized definitions and quantifiable indicators with qualitative reporting, which allows consideration of center distinctions and priorities.
Transparency of research policy and the role of librarians As the data presented here reveal, a significant increase in the publishing activities of Slovenian researchers (publica-tions in important scientific journals) can be identified after the introduction of relevant services offered by libraries and librarians.
Astrophysicists' Conversational Connections on Twitter The results of this work indicate that the astrophysicists in this study are in conversational connections with a wide variety of other Twitter users, although some difference in the usage can be identified.
OPEN ACCESS JOURNALS AND ACADEMICS' BEHAVIOR "Our findings show that, for economists, qual- ity assessments of scholarly journals and publi- cation choices are driven by a number of factors, some of which are strictly linked to the social norms of the context in which they work."
WILLFUL BLINDNESS: THE INEFFICIENT REWARD STRUCTURE IN ACADEMIC RESEARCH Most economics departments fail to fully prorate coauthored articles. As a result of this lack of proration, we should expect an excessive amount of coauthorship, or at least an excessive amount of nominal coauthorship. The serious diseconomies that seem a likely result from excessive coauthorship may be avoided if apparent increases in coauthorship are not real—in other words, if false authorship arises to take advantage of the skewed reward system.
IDENTIFYING THE EFFECT OF OPEN ACCESS ON CITATIONS USING A PANEL OF SCIENCE JOURNALS Our analysis suggests that the huge estimates found previously are largely spurious, due to these earlier studies’ use of cross-sectional data which prevented them from controlling for unobservable quality.
RANKING LAW JOURNALS AND THE LIMITS OF JOURNAL CITATION REPORTS Our analysis suggests that JCR's methods, divorced from the context of the fields it ranks, produce results that should be regarded with extreme caution.
COST EFFECTIVENESS OF OPEN ACCESS PUBLICATIONS In this article, we develop a tool to help authors comparison shop among alternative open access venues.
WHICH JOURNAL RANKINGS BEST EXPLAIN ACADEMIC SALARIES? EVIDENCE FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA The clear picture that emerges from the empirical results is that the labor market does not reward publication in ways consistent with the weights implied by the most aggressive journal assessment measures.
Substance use disorders in Arab countries: research activity and bibliometric analysis The results obtained suggest that research in this field was largely neglected in the past. However, recent research interest was observed. Governmental funding for academics and mental health graduate programs to do research in the field of substance use disorders is highly recommended.
Rising complexity and falling explanatory power in ecology A combination of the proposed hypotheses is possibly driving the observed trends in R² values being reported in the ecological literature.
Financial costs and personal consequences of research misconduct resulting in retracted publications "This study provides an analysis of two important effects associated with research misconduct resulting in the retraction of scientific publications: financial costs to funding agencies and damage to the research careers of those who commit misconduct."
An axiomatic approach to bibliometric rankings and indices The paper is organized as follows. We introduce our setting and notation in Section 2. We then study the ranking and index based on the number of highly cited papers (Section 3), the number of papers (Section 4), the number of citations of highly cited papers (Section 5), the number of citations exceeding a threshold (Section 6), the number of citations (Section 7), the maximum number of citations (Section 8), the h-index (Section 9), and the g-index (Section 10). Our analysis offers no clue on how to deal with these “bibliometric nightmares”. Nevertheless, we believe that an axiomatic approach could shed some light on these difficulties.
Empirical study of L-Sequence: The basic h-index sequence for cumulative publications with consideration of the yearly citation performance "L-Sequence is a flexible evaluation tool and provides more details for researcher's academic performance varying with time."
A study of the "heartbeat spectra" for "sleeping beauties" Under the framework of “heartbeat spectrum", we can speculate the awakening probability of an article. We firstly observed that the publications which have "late heartbeats" have higher probability to be awakened than those having "early heartbeats". The investigation could stimulate interesting studies for "sleeping beauties".
On standardization of the Activity Index The differences in maximum values of AI and RSI between scientific fields are so big, that any conclusions based on analyzes of these indices seem questionable.
Sub-field normalization of the IEEE scientific journals based on their connection with Technical Societies The main outcome of this study is highlighting the significant difference among the IEEE journals in terms of propensity to cite.
Analysis of the distribution of cited journals according to their positions in the h-core of citing journal listed in Journal Citation Reports I identified the cited journals that appear most often in the h-core of citing journals in the rank order of citation frequency. The distribution of all cited journals according to the number of times they appear in the h-core of citing journals showed a double logarithmic trend. A possible extension of this work would be to study the distribution of journals in JCR groups.
Contents and time sensitive document ranking of scientific literature In this paper we described RALEX, a random-walk based document ranking framework for scientific literature to help researchers identify publications with a high potential for scientific utility in their domains of interest, which is all the more challenging that those domains are at the frontier of science and technology.
How far does scientific community look back? We find that papers published in the recent four years have got many more downloads than older ones. Social media may reboot the attention of old scientific literature in a short time, even for those not so highly cited papers. The limitations in this research are that the investigation time period is only two and half months, and only one journal is studied.
Including cited non-source items in a large-scale map of science: What difference does it make? Inclusion of non-source items not only adds them to the map, but also significantly increases the coverage of source items as well by virtue of the fact that they cite non-source items.
What is the effect of country-specific characteristics on the research performance of scientific institutions? Using multi-level statistical models to rank and map universities and research-focused institutions worldwide For example, those institutions can be identified worldwide showing a very good performance despite a bad financial situation in the corresponding country.
The European Union, China, and the United States in the top-1% and top-10% layers of most-frequently cited publications: Competition and collaborations In summary, the elite structure of top-cited publications is primarily American, but also some European nations can increasingly participate in it. The other nations participate in this top-layer with a higher probability through international collaborations, but to a lesser extent so when publishing without foreign co-authorship.
Reversing the byline hierarchy: The effect of equalizing bias on the accreditation of primary, secondary and senior authors When credit is divided equally among coauthors who have not contributed equally, the relationship between credit and contribution deteriorates as the number of coauthors increases, and the confounding influence of equalizing bias (EqB) rapidly intensifies to a level where it dominates the credit of most coauthors, i.e. to a level where more than half of the credit of more than half of the coauthors is either composed of positive EqB or lost to negative EqB. Equalizing bias must therefore be corrected at the source by ensuring accurate accreditation of all coauthors prior to the calculation of individual publication scores or aggregate publication metrics (Hagen, 2008, 2013).
Visualization of ranking data: Geographical signatures in international collaboration, leadership and research impact We believe that the results depicted in the present work deliver important hints for policy makers in research and development based on higher education institutions: international collaboration show limitations as a strategy for enhancing impact and policies to increase output could enhance solely leadership instead of collaboration, having a negative effect on research impact. Finally, the examples of data visualization we present here suggest that linking the data contained in rankings like SIR is an effective way to bootstrapping the bare indicators.
Investigations on the step-based research indices of Chambers and Miller We perform a detailed analysis of these two axioms, thereby providing clean combinatorial characterizations of the research indices that satisfy these axioms and of the so-called step-based indices.
A regression analysis of researchers' social network metrics on their citation performance in a college of engineering Since this study aims at evaluating the extent to which social network metrics obtained from the researchers' multiple collaborative output networks as well as their communication networks predict the performance of researchers, the information obtained from this study can be used to formulate policies that improve both the collaborative and communication relationships that impact the performance of researchers.
PageRank variants in the evaluation of citation networks The ranking can be used as a criterion for the financial support of research teams, for identifying leaders of such teams, etc.
A quantitative measure to compare the disciplinary profiles of research systems and their evolution over time Generally, we found that there is a globalization of science in Europe because the European system is converging toward a unique disciplinary structure, even if there is still evidence of consistent differences among the nonleading and most developed European countries. The trend of scientific production over time shows that while catching up countries are converging toward the European model, leading countries, such as the UK and the Netherlands, are progressively departing from it. The analysis conducted in this paper paves the way for additional numerous future developments.
Influence of co-authorship networks in the research impact: Ego network analyses from Microsoft Academic Search From the obtained results, four main conclusions can be derived.
Examples for counterintuitive behavior of the new citation-rank indicator P100 for bibliometric evaluations The presented examples show that care must be taken when using the new P100 indicator for performance evaluations.
Scientific journal publishers and omitted citations in bibliometric databases: Any relationship? Summarizing, two are the major findings of this paper: (i) for each of the two databases in use (Scopus and WoS), some publishers are more "critical" than others in terms of p values, and (ii) there is a general lack of correlation between databases; for example, the most critical publisher for Scopus is Wiley-Blackwell (p = 19.8%), while for WoS is the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (p = 11.3%).
Assessing national strengths and weaknesses in research fields In order to formulate strategic goals, research policies should be based on sound analysis of the nation's research infra-structure.
Time gap analysis by the topic model-based temporal technique The contributions of this study are summarized as follows: firstly, we propose a new temporal analysis method to understand the content characteristics and trends of heterogeneous multiple resources in an integrated manner.
A network-based and multi-parameter model for finding influential authors Our model addresses the extent to which the whole network changes when one targeted node is removed from it.
Errata in Medical Publications The reporting of errata across journals lacks uniformity. Despite published criteria for authorship that mandate final approval of the manuscript by all authors, errors are frequent, including those that may materially change the interpretation of data. Increased vigilance by authors to prevent errata and consensus by journal editors on the format of reporting are warranted.
The globalization of social sciences? Evidence from a quantitative analysis of 30 years of production, collaboration and citations in the social sciences (1980-2009) The results presented in this article, notwithstanding the technical limitations we have mentioned, confirm the center-periphery model and indicate that the centrality of the two major regions that are North America and Europe is largely unchallenged, despite the growing development of Asian social sciences. Our quantitative approach shows that the growing production in the social sciences but also the rise of international collaborations between regions that we have been able to measure have not led to a more homogeneous circulation of the knowledge produced by different regions, or to a substantial increase in the visibility of the contributions produced by peripheral countries or regions. In other words, the dynamic of internationalization of social science research may also lead to a phagocytosis of the periphery into the two major centers, which brings with it the danger of losing interest in the local objects specific to those peripheral countries.
Excellence or quality? Impact of the current competition regime on science and scientific publishing in Latin America and its implications for development If Latin American science wants to internationalize on a sound basis, it must cease to misconstrue North Atlantic science as if it were the whole of world science.
Peripheral scholarship and the context of foreign paid publishing in Nigeria Lacking international scholarly credibility, predatory journals will not advance Nigerian scholarship into the global scholarly mainstream which the 'international rule' ultimately seeks. Thus the local scholarship remains peripheral still, as the popular ‘international’ media of ideas (in this case, the sub-standard paid-for foreign journals) lack the credibility to advance local scholarship into the global scholarly mainstream.
Local and global communications in Chilean social science: Inequality and relative autonomy These results in the Chilean case contradict some of the statements made under the idea of cognitive dependence, allowing us to criticize the generalizations made about it and could further discussion of this notion.
The marginalization of the Arab language in social science: Structural constraints and dependency by choice Our limited data unfortunately confirm a limited use of Arabic references in the academic work that is written by young Arab scholars. We found also that the use of references is affected by the language of instruction in the university, and by access issues. If the idea of language-based marginalization has already been brought up in different settings, the most important findings we highlighted here are that universities that use both local and foreign languages for instruction train researchers better to use references in different languages and in a balanced way.
Publishing from the periphery: Structural heterogeneity and segmented circuits. The evaluation of scientific publications for tenure in Argentina's CONICET By analyzing tenure evaluations, I have highlighted the fact that indexation has replaced the focus on originality in scientific articles. The Argentine case shows the unequal nature of ‘international' publishing and its impact on the differentiation among internationalized and nationally grounded researchers. Open access is, in return, a fruitful way to undo the structure of ‘international' scientific power as long as this alternative pathway does not become commercialized by mainstream circuits.
Collaboration Pattern and Topic Analysis on Intelligence and Security Informatics Research We investigated the researcher collaboration patterns and research topics using social network analysis methods from different levels and perspectives. By analyzing topological characteristics, we obtained that the degree distribution of ISI co-authorship networks are scale-free and exhibit small-world effects. We believe that these results can provide significant insights for researchers to better understand the development of ISI and quickly grasp emerging directions in this field.
The 50 most influential original articles in vascular surgery during the last 25 years This report is a representation of the most-cited original publications in the field of clinical vascular surgery during the last 25 years.
Astrophysicists on Twitter An in-depth analysis of tweeting and scientific publication behavior This paper has analyzed the tweeting behavior of 37 selected astrophysicists on Twitter and compared it to their publication behavior and impact based on citations from scholarly documents. On the whole, these results show that astrophysicists who are highly active on social media are less active within the scientific community (as indicated by their number of papers and citation rates), and that the overlap between the topics they discuss on Twitter and those found in scientific abstracts is quite low. Future research should apply the suggested methods to a larger set of researchers and cover other scientific disciplines to obtain more representative results that will help to distinguish the meaning of tweet counts currently used as a potential indicator of research impact.
A multidimensional analysis of Aslib proceedings - using everything but the impact factor Based on an analysis of AP, this study has exemplarily shown that journal impact is a multifaceted notion that a single citation indicator such as the IF is not able to capture. Only a multidimensional approach is able to reflect strengths and weaknesses of scholarly journals adequately. This suggests that citation and usage statistics indicate a different kind of impact and, often, on a different community.
An overview of knowledge management research viewed through the web of science (1993-2012) Based on these findings, many implications emerged that improve one's understanding of the identity of KM as a distinct multi-discipline scientific field. Need to increase cooperation of KM field research in future.
Design and implementation of a weighted features model for the evaluation of archival websites The case of Spain Instead, the authors conclude that the population of archival websites presents its own particular behaviour. However, in the case of Spain, it was not possible to confirm any proportional influence of certain intrinsic elements of the region the archives belong to (in particular, its per capita GDP and archival legislation) on the quality of their website design, and therefore on the position they occupy in that quality ranking. A knowledge of its position in the ranking will allow archival institutions to take appropriate measures, leading to website improvement and increased accessibility to society.
Cities and the geographical deconcentration of scientific activity: A multilevel analysis of publications (1987-2007) In summary, our results demonstrate that standard scientific activities are more widespread geographically over time as well as more visible than ever, and that there is no real trend towards concentrating activities in so-called 'world cities'.
Mapping knowledge translation and innovation processes in Cancer Drug Development: the case of liposomal doxorubicin This exploratory research allows to simultaneously map the convergence of KT, TI and paradigm emergence in the first FDA approved nanodrug.
Natural products against cancer: A comprehensive bibliometric study of the research projects, publications, patents and drugs There still exits translational gap between basic research and drug discovery. Translational research should be undertaken to strengthen the applicability of NPs.
Social Media and Online Attention as an Early Measure of the Impact of Research in Solid Organ Transplantation In conclusion, social media mentions and social bookmarks of research articles in transplantation act as early predictors of future citation and article impact.
Pressures, opportunities and costs facing research library acquisitions budgets: an Australian perspective From the overall discussion, it can be seen that research library acquisitions budgets in Australia are under considerable pressure from continuous publisher price rises, variations in currency, and budgets which are declining, remaining stagnant, or only increasing for inflation.
Analysis on research activity and impact of authors in Chinese information science based on citation relationship Hence we can conclude that the general research direction of core authors in Chinese IS is concentrated and their impact scale is broad. The prevailing research pattern in the area is to keep following two subjects and deeply tap into one of them. There is also a clear tendency to move from basic study to application study or derived subjects.
Electronic theses and dissertations Differences in behavior for local and non-local users Users in different locations did interact differently with the collection.
Citation Parameters of Contact Lens-Related Articles Published in the Ophthalmic Literature "These findings, which disclosed contact lenses to be a fertile area of research, may be of interest to researchers and institutions."
Institutional repository as an important part of scholarly communication The repository is to a large extent used by the professional public and that the use is not limited only to the home institution – UL.
Decrease in free computer science papers found through Google Scholar Using Google Scholar we were able to find free full-text versions of about half the computer science research papers that we sought.
A Borda count approach to combine subjective and objective based MIS journal rankings The new MIS journal rankings and previous studies can be complementary to allow researchers to determine the top-ranked journals for their publication outlets.
Discovering business information from search engine query data The study found statistically significant correlations between search engine query data and business performance and position data. Generally speaking there were more Google searches for companies that were in better business positions or performed better. Thus search engine query data can be used to discover business information and we can use search volume data to estimate business data.
Methods for recommending and predicting Nobel Prize candidates A case study of HIV/AIDS subject area The authors develop one useful new way to identify milestone papers and authors. Young students can choose, read and learn from these milestone papers. The pioneer authors identified by this research could be the recommended candidate list for some academic awards.
Exploring research data in Indian institutional repositories To make the repositories successful and vibrant, the research institutions in India should therefore take necessary steps to motivate authors to submit their pre/post prints and other research material in these institutional repositories.
Relationship between authors' structural position in the collaboration network and research productivity Case of Indian earth scientists Our study attempted to answer three main research questions about the JGSI co-authorship network. The results are significant as they provide us with an opportunity to delve into the invisible connections of JGSI authors, thereby revealing the documented record of their social and formal relationships. Future research could include understanding the temporal evolution of the JGSI network, investigating the strength of ties, institutional and international collaborations, communities that the authors form, and the evolution of knowledge within the network of JGSI.
Prior Publication Productivity, Grant Percentile Ranking, and Topic-Normalized Citation Impact of NHLBI Cardiovascular R01 Grants Even after normalizing citation counts, we confirmed a lack of association between peer-review grant percentile ranking and grant citation impact.
Topic evolution based on LDA and HMM and its application in stem cell research A dynamic evolution of the stem cell research literatures topic model was achieved from this research. Topic evolution is an important research direction, and can be applied widely to explore systems in social networking services, recommendation systems in online stores, etc. The experiment only analyses combinations of different topics, and does not consider a situation in which topics are divided into further topics the following year.
Contributing Institutions and Authors in International Business Research: A Quality-Based Assessment Our study contributes to the literature in several ways. By using citations in each article, we show that elite journals may publish less-cited papers or vice versa. Our findings compliment the literature by providing a quality perspective to IB research assessment for institutions and authors. The results from regression analysis imply that besides available resources, it is imperative to work with others in foreign countries so as to garner synergy in IB research.
R&D dynamics and scientific breakthroughs in HIV/AIDS drugs development: the case of Integrase Inhibitors The main results indicate that a combination of key papers, bridging researchers and multidisciplinary impact might help track potential ‘Charge type' breakthrough developments.
Can the technological impact of academic journals be evaluated? The practice of non-patent reference (NPR) analysis First, in contrast to the many papers that have used numbers of citations, IF, or the h-index as the basis for comparing journals, this study used the NPR concept to develop a new type of ranking system by considering the number of citations in patents (and patent applications) as the basis for measuring the technological value of papers. Second, this study attempted to respond to the need for journal assessment by all stakeholders (e.g. governments, universities, the academic community, and researchers) (Moed et al. 2012; Haddow and Genoni 2010). Third, the time and cost required to analyze the data regarding citations and the USPTO may be reduced.
A bibliometric analysis on rural studies in human geography and related disciplines In total, 4,665 peer-reviewed journal articles were published during the period from 1900 to 2011, 90.40 % of them were in English. The article number has been increasing since the 1960s, and went through three development phases, suggesting that rural geography is still one important research field in the constantly urbanized world that was largely by China, India and South Africa. Rural geography research was dominated by UK and USA. The most-prolific and highly cited authors and institutions are mostly from these two countries. The rapidly urbanizing countries such as China, India and Africa have become increasingly important contributors to this field.
A methodology for unveiling global innovation networks: patent citations as clues to cross border knowledge flows This paper presents an exploratory methodology to provide evidence of global knowledge flows between firms and universities.
Academic research resources and academic quality: a cross-country analysis Results obtained from the ordered Probit model and panel data model show that both flow and stock measures of R&D expenditure for higher education have a significant and positive impact on not only the number of citations, but also academic quality.
URAP-TR: a national ranking for Turkish universities based on academic performance The URAP-TR ranking system, being the first national ranking system in Turkey, aims at helping Turkish universities to find out their strengths and identify areas that require further improvement based on specific academic performance indicators.
The academic social network In this paper, we present the design and experimental study of an academic social network website (http://pubstat.org) that we have built.
Internationalization of academic journals: Is there still a gap between social and natural sciences? Accepting these limitations, we can state that the results we obtained show that SSH fields, taken together or separately, are less internationalized than NSE fields.
Authorship trends in software engineering This manuscript shows that the number of authors of scientific articles in the software engineering domain is increasing.
Research trends in gender differences in higher education and science: a co-word analysis Overall, the study helps to identify the major research topics in this domain, as well as highlighting issues to be addressed or strengthened in further work.
Investigating the integrated landscape of the intellectual topology of bioinformatics First, the complete landscape of bioinformatics from the integrated data sources illus-trates a dichotomous pattern dominated by PubMed Central and WoS.
Do highly cited researchers successfully use the social web? The findings suggest that whilst EHC researchers tend to have a traditional web presence and an automatically generated MAS profile, they tend not to have generated any social web presences themselves, with the partial exception of LinkedIn profiles. The results also suggest that the influential scientists may lag behind other researchers in this respect. In terms of future work, the current study highlights the need for investigations into the value of the various social web indicators (e.g., followers, viewers) and to check in con-crete terms, if possible, the impact that the social web is having on scholarly communication.
A scientometric analysis of social media research (2004-2011) Based on the results—indicating that the social media domain displays limited diversity and is still heavily influenced by practitioners—the paper raises two fundamental challenges facing the social media domain and its future advancement, namely the lack of academic maturity and the Matthew Effect. In conclusion, two challenges confronting the social media research domain have been observed, namely its lack of maturity and the Matthew effect. The first challenge, the lack of maturity of the social media domain, highlights the need for more theoretically grounded and more scientifically rigorous work.
A bibliometric analysis of plagiarism and self-plagiarism through Deja vu Our results show that plagiarism cases are published in journals with lower visibility and receive a lower number of citations.
Analyzing topic evolution in bioinformatics: investigation of dynamics of the field with conference data in DBLP Bioinformatics has been a dynamic, high-volatile interdisciplinary field that incorporates computational techniques and tools to analyze the large amount of biomedical data. From period 1 to 3, new topics emerged and are growing. However, from period 3 to 4, unlike previous periods, topics converge and interact with each other in a rigorous manner. This trend is confirmed by a fast increase in the collaborator rate of an author having the number of collaborators from period 1 to 4.
Measuring recent research performance for Chinese universities using bibliometric methods Therefore, a careful selection of publication venues may help the Chinese universities to compete with world class universities and increase their research internationalization.
Bibliometric evaluation of the research performance of the Greek civil engineering departments in National and European context These findings indicate that the quality of academics that host an institution does not depend strongly on the age and the size of it.
No free lunches in nature? An analysis of the regional distribution of the affiliations of Nature publications By analysing the regional distribution of Nature publications, we found a high correlation between the expenditures and the number of local affiliations in Nature when counted on a national basis. Surprisingly, the amount of the endowment better determines the number of Nature publications for universities than the total research expenditure. We believe that the so-called cumulative advantage or the Matthew Effect created this situation.
Sixty-four years of informetrics research: productivity, impact and collaboration Subject to the limitations above, the results suggest that the most productive researchers in the history of informetrics so far have been often affiliated with a few core informetric groups (although most were not), mostly affiliated with a single institution, and mostly the primary authors of their informetrics papers. In terms of the implications for current and future informetrics researchers, it seems that it is important to be a research practitioner rather than a research manager but to collaborate extensively when conducting informetrics research. A perhaps controversial implication is that researchers may not need to focus on ensuring that all of their work has the highest possible impact because informetricians have been successful in terms of both productivity and overall citation impact (and de Solla Price Award winning) without achieving this.
A network-based approach to coauthorship credit allocation We have proposed and validated a novel model for determining authorship credit scores for multi-authored papers.
Independent publications from Serbia in the Science Citation Index Expanded: a bibliometric analysis By focusing on Serbian independent articles, this research measured the productivity and influence of Serbian researchers on the global science community without considering the external roles of international collaboration for the period 2006–2012.
Visualizing the structure and bridges of the intellectual property management and strategy literature: a document co-citation analysis We thus provided statistical evidence that the five Clusters are significantly different; the diversity of their knowledge base is a remarkable sign of clusters heterogeneity.
The reviewer in the mirror: examining gendered and ethnicized notions of reciprocity in peer review This study has put forth a novel method for studying an important but overlooked facet of academic peer review—i.e., reciprocity as it exhibits via gender and ethnicity. Via this method, patterns of greater negativity in reviews of female and non-Western authored papers are mirrored in reviews conducted by these same groups (although non-Westerners are more likely to suggest major revision than outright rejection).
Relatives in the same university faculty: nepotism or merit? The study's findings do not rule out the existence of nepotism, which has been actually recorded in a low percentage of cases, but do not prove either the most serious presumed consequences of nepotism, namely that relatives who are poor performers are getting ahead of non-relatives who are better performers. In light of these results, many attitudes and norms concerning parental ties in academia should be reconsidered.
Current performance and future trends in health care sciences and services research This study showed some remarkable viewpoints on the world-wide HCSSR trends and performance from 1900 to 2012, and outstanding research in HCSSR has also been highlighted.
A descriptive study of inaccuracy in article titles on bibliometrics published in biomedical journals A descriptive title accurately reflecting the content of an article would give readers a better idea of its content, help them to decide more rapidly whether they want to read it and facilitate retrieval from bibliographic databases. The purpose of the present work was not to say that possible imprecisions made papers inferior, but to point out that writing titles more carefully is likely to serve the cause of science and its readers better. It would be useful in future research to ask authors about their practices in choosing titles when writing papers singly or with others.
Do the best scholars attract the highest speaking fees? An exploration of internal and external influence The results of our study indicate that scholars can capitalize on their external prominence in the speakers' market.
Bibliometric analysis of diabetes mellitus research output from Middle Eastern Arab countries during the period (1996-2012) The present data show promising and relatively good diabetes research productivity in MEA countries especially after 2008.
Technical report: the trend of author compound names and its implications for authorship identity identification I believe that successful writing as a scientist, either in English and/or Spanish, or another language, does not only concern in the text and content of the article, but should be reflected since the same author's name and how it is placed, and how we want to be quoted and/or interpreted in the realm of scientific publication. In summary, we should consider how will the names in scientific literature be presented, the most important thing would be to find quality, and self-asking whether we can rely on the content of an article that from its beginning has no authorship identity. The breach of naming authors without authorship identity on a scientific paper can take different shapes and forms, and can be committed knowingly or unknowingly, but could be considered to be a form of misconduct that undermines confidence in the reporting of the work itself (Elsevier 2012).
International research collaborations of ASEAN Nations in economics, 1979-2010 Increased academic mobility and more joint scientific works are suggestions to consider to boost educational co-operation among the ASEAN nations.
Evolutionary games between subject categories The conclusion is that journal sharing between subject categories is an evolutionary advantage. Starting from the scientific subject categories of WoS in 2010, we have found that after a small number of generations connections between categories (that share common jour- nals) can enable journal sharing to persist indefinitely on stationary configurations. This result demonstrates that journal sharing between these categories can be an evolutionary advantage.
A three-dimensional bibliometric evaluation of research in polymer solar cells In this paper, we have used a three-dimensional bibliometric analysis to identify the leading countries, organizations and authors and also the most influential journals in the newly advancing area of polymer solar cells.
Science and technology metrics for research policy evaluation: some insights from a Moroccan experience The article presents a successful example of S&T metrics relevance and usefulness in research policy evaluation. It is found that the adoption of these metrics results in a positive increase of research productivity, its impact and foreign scientific cooperation. However, and since the benefits of research activities and investments are deferred in the future and that this evaluation was on a 1 year-basis, it might be straightforward to explore in the future through an ex-post evaluation the extent of the policy impact revealed in this evaluation.
An application of Bradford's law: identification of the core journals of pediatric neurosurgery and a regional comparison of citation density Bradford's law can be applied to identify the core journals of neurosurgical subspecialties.
Research Productivity and Performance of Journals in the Creativity Sciences: A Bibliometric Analysis "This study found evidence of a significant increase in research productivity and in the impact of the field of creativity during the past five decades."
Mapping the Computer Science Research in SAARC Countries The research collaboration level in CS domain in the SAARC countries is very minimal and there is a definite scope to increase collaboration to create a knowledge hub for computing and information technology in the region.
Dynamic Topic Detection and Tracking: A Comparison of HDP, C-Word, and Cocitation Methods In conclusion, our result shows that HDP is a promising approach to topic detection and tracking when compared with traditional methods such as cocitation and co-word studies. Further research is needed to explore a broader range of data sources and disciplines.
International Coauthorship Relations in the Social Sciences Citation Index: Is Internationalization Leading the Network? The international networks have grown during the last decades in addition to the national ones but not by replacing them.
Measuring Direct and Indirect Authorial Influence in Historical Corpora We have shown on two historical corpora that it is possible to automatically identify citations in free text and to use these citations to measure both direct and indirect influence of one author on another.
Scientific Journals in Brazil and Spain: Alternative Publishing Models Although neither Brazil nor Spain has used the "author pays" system, they have both achieved a high proportion of OA scientific journals.
A Good Normalized Impact and Concentration Measure In this brief communication, we show that the proposed concentration measure (Equation 4) of Bartolucci (2012) is not a good concentration measure. Instead, we show that the measure in Equation 5 is a good impact concentration measure that is normalized. In addition to the examples given in the note (on the R-index and j-index), we suggest further study of normalized concentration measures among the vast number of impact measures that already have been introduced in the literature.
Network-based statistical comparison of citation topology of bibliographic databases This work can serve either as a reference for scholars in bibliometrics and scientometrics or a scientific evaluation guideline for governments and research agencies.
The Geography, Structure, and Evolution of the GIS Research Community in the US: A Network Analysis from 1992 to 2011 These results shed light on the overall picture of the GIS research community, and offer a reference system that stimulates further exploration. The organization-level analysis not only offers finer resolution than regional or national-scale studies, but also enables a geographic visualization of the GIS research community. For GIS, these metrics can be compared with those of other research fields to indicate the development level of the community and directions to improve in the future.
A taxonomy of motives to cite We have presented a taxonomy of motives to cite, our purpose being to illustrate the breadth and complexity of the social psychology of citing.
Academic urban legends Hamblin committed a blunder more than 30 years ago, but he was doing his best until he died in February 2012 to stop the urban legend he was instrumental in creating. Academic publications should have different standards and requirements regarding truth and accuracy from other mediums, and should not be a playground for rumors and urban legends. Some academic urban legends may perish in the new digital academic environment, but others will thrive and have ideal conditions for explosive growth.
Ten-year publication trends in dermatology in mainland China These results suggest that the number of publications in the dermatology field has increased markedly in mainland China over the last 10 years. This dramatic increase in publications could be attributed, at least partially, to the significant improvement in economic conditions in mainland China. In summary, the present study shows that in mainland China, the publications in dermatology had been steadily increased from 2002 to 2011.
How scientists may 'benefit from the mess': A resource dependence perspective on individual organizing in contemporary science Defining a basic framework for a broad future research program, the article adds to the knowledge about the recent changes to the academic research system and calls for renewed interest in organizing in science and an analysis of the complex social system of science from the perspective of its smallest performing units: individuals.
Hepatitis B: global scientific development from a critical point of view The majority of scientific output originates from the USA, followed by Germany, China, the United Kingdom, Japan, France and Italy with remarkable distance.
Bibliometric factors associated with h-index of Peruvian researchers with publications indexed on Web of Science and Scopus databases Regression model identified bibliometric factors with higher influence on the h-index of Peruvian researchers, however further large scale studies are needed to improve external validity. A first issue is that the Matthew effect appeared both for the individual and institution: only a few scholars have high impact publications while the majority reaches medium- or low impact publications. Finally, even when both citation databases did not show the same list of Peruvian high-impact institutions, the approach used by the author was effective to compare the similarities between them and confirm that they can be used as complementary tools to monitor and evaluate scientific production.
Proximity effects on the dynamics and outcomes of scientific collaborations The work we present here takes important steps to measure and test how functional, naturalistic conceptions of proximity shape the formation and outcomes of relationships.
Scientific mobility and knowledge networks in high emigration countries: Evidence from the Pacific Taken together our results do show migration to be an important channel for both knowledge acquisition and knowledge transfer for researchers from small countries.
Neurointerventional Research between 2003 and 2012: Slow Growth, High Interdisciplinary Collaboration, and a Low Level of Funding The fields of neurosurgery, radiology, and neurology have contributed substantially to neurointervention research.
Experts' Judgments of Management Journal Quality: An Identity Concerns Model In line with the main predictions of this model, we found that when asked to judge the quality of MOS journals, scholars who work in the field do so in ways that reflect positively on their personal and social selves. The findings are thus consistent with the view that identity concerns come to the fore in journal ratings when there is either a need to protect against personal identity threat or a meaningful opportunity to promote social identity. Together, these findings reinforce the utility of incorporating personal and social identity concerns within a single framework, as doing so enables us to develop a deeper understanding regarding the different conditions under which personal and social identity concerns come to the fore.
The Role of Institutions and Capital in Intersectoral Collaboration: Infection and Immunity Research and Development Collaboration in Vancouver Successful collaboration involved a balancing act between different capital and institutional similarities. Potential collaborators needed to have access to complementary capital while supporting collaborators' dominant institutions that drew from normative and cultural-cognitive pillars. My work offers a sobering conclusion for policy makers interested in promoting clusters in high-technology areas such as biotechnology. Despite their own perceptions, participants appeared less likely to collaborate across sectors.
Support for International Collaboration in Research: The Role of the Overseas Offices of Basic Science Funders Our study presents a new exploration of the theoretical roles and practical implementations of international offices of basic science funding agencies for the purpose of building transnational research collaboration.
'Keeping in the race': physics, publication speed and national publishing strategies in Nature, 1895-1939 The increasing number of international correspondents in Nature's ‘Letters to the editor' is not merely an interesting footnote in the history of an influential publication; the phenomenon also has several important implications for our understanding of early twentieth-century science.
Diffusing through Disciplines: Insiders, Outsiders, and Socially Influenced Citation Behavior This study directly enriches our knowledge of diffusion processes by developing an argument for why internal and external positioning could affect sensitivity to social influence.
Who comes back and when? Return migration decisions of academic scientists The location decisions of the scientists implicitly reveal their preferences.
Research governance and scientific knowledge production in The Gambia This study contributes to empirical discussions on research governance, showing that scientific committee structures with significant research steering autonomy contribute not only directly to scientific output but also indirectly through moderating effects on research practices and behaviour. Overall, as original research, particularly creative research, and innovations require autonomy, individuality and freedom on the part of researchers, research teams and governors of research institutions must set up suitable governance models which provide for significant decision-taking autonomy at key hierarchical levels of governance.
Open access in South Africa: A case study and reflections There is no question that open access is now firmly part of the global knowledge creation and dissemination landscape. Engaging with open access is an important way of taking control of the fruits of academic labour - essential for individual scholars and the universities whose mandates of knowledge creation and dissemination they serve as well as the broader community which needs access to the latest research to grow, benefit from and participate in a global body of knowledge.
Comparing 'papers cited rates' with other measures for science journal evaluation The 2-year and 3-year cited rates of papers were reasonable for evaluating science journals, and the 2-year cited rate was better than the 3-year cited rate. The 5-year (and more than 5 years) cited rates were not significant in evaluating science journals. Overall we suggest using several bibliometric indicators (including the papers cited rate) together for a more comprehensive evaluation of science journals.
The peer-review process in English-language advertising journals: a survey of US academics The findings provide useful lessons for those interested in the future of advertising journals. It appears that academics believe advertising journals are, for the most part, performing well in three critical areas: ensuring that the process is truly double-blind, preventing the selfish actions of reviewers or editors form corrupting the process, and improving the research of submitters. However, there are other areas about which academics expressed concern. In particular, decision-makers at advertising journals should pay particular attention to two areas that academics expressed discontent about: improving timeliness and providing guidelines.
Ranking scientific publications: the effect of nonlinearity Extensive simulation results indicated that the proposed NonlinearRank method is able to outperform the well-known PageRank method in identifying the influential papers with respect to real awards, spreading ability and prediction.
Research performance evaluation: some critical thoughts on standard bibliometric indicators Based on the above findings, it is concluded that the attempt to describe and analyse ranking indicators and results should be made with cautiousness as there are factors that can influence indicators at various degrees.
Academic Citation Practice: A Sinking Sheep? If students and authors are forced to provide accurate references and locators, they will most likely hesitate to take shortcuts and push limits when handling their sources.
Unwrapping the Bundle: An Examination of Research Libraries and the "Big Deal" The adoption of large publisher e-journal bundles is now mostly complete within the ARL population. However, the structure of the product is still clearly immature, particularly in the arena of defining content and developing sustainable pricing models. Future surveys may take a closer look at these and other emerging issues as research libraries continue to license the large corpus of journals provided by commercial publishers.
What's the Big Deal? Collection Evaluation at the National Level The key question answered by the study is that there is indeed a benefit to evaluating collections collaboratively, despite major differences amongst institutions.
The application of citation-based performance classes to the disciplinary and multidisciplinary assessment in national comparison and institutional research assessment Self-adjusting classes, such as those based on CSS, allow the definition of proper performance classes without any pre-set thresholds. The method of "implicit" subject fractionation can also be used in the context of other publication and citation indicators, whenever the issue of multiple subject assignment needs to be resolved. The CSS-based method therefore has the potential to further inform and enrich the policy use of scientometric data, without aiming at or claiming absolute value judgements on the mere basis of the profiles obtained.
Social dynamics of research collaboration: norms, practices, and ethical issues in determining co-authorship rights "We find that the likelihood of co-authorship problems are reduced through explicit discussion about co-authorship credit, with factors such as the number, location, and past experience of co-authors also playing a role."
The citer-success-index: a citer-based indicator to select a subset of elite papers The first part of this study revealed that the comparison term (cCT₁) of the cs-index can be constructed using the distribution of the p; values related to the papers of a sample.
Applying author co-citation analysis to user interaction analysis: a case study on instant messaging groups In this study, the idea and method of ACA in bibliometric and scientometric research are applied to web user research and the results are consistent to the company reality, which proves that the UII model is relatively reasonable and applicable to the web user research. Also, SNA method, combined with additional in-depth interviews with team leaders or key managers in the organizations, can quantitatively, visually and comprehensively diagnose the user information interaction status. The managers can put the combined method into practice to detect the status of their enterprise information interaction, finding their problems and promoting information interaction and enterprise development.
Identifying SCI covered publications within non-patent references in US utility patents On the basis of these results, the proposed approach is considered of value in studies on relations and/or interactions between science publications and patents.
Automatic classification of academic web page types The main goal of this paper was to determine how accurately link source and target pages can be automatically classified. In terms of the accuracy of determining the web page type using machine learning techinques, SVMs achieved up to 78 % accuracy using the top 500 features with highest information gain, derived from the web page URL and the web page title. Using inter-page relationships is a practical solution as opposed to studying individual links which is becoming infeasible because of the size of the growing academic web.
Relationship between downloads and citations at journal and paper levels, and the influence of language All this means that the potential usefulness of download data as a predictor of citation is limited, especially so given that it is in the early years when the significance is the lowest. In sum, there seems to be a part of the citation impact of non-English language journals that is invisible to Scopus, which makes the number of downloads proportionately greater than the citations. This also has its effect on the lack of correlation between downloads and citations in these non-English journals, which means that if what one wants to predict is the citation rate then it will be difficult to be able to use the download data appropriately.
On the horns of a dilemma: does more funding for research lead to more research or a waste of resources that calls for optimization of researcher portfolios? An analysis using funding acknowledgement data The analysis does not provide hard evidence of a net benefit of “simultaneous funding", but it suggests there may be some incremental effect. It may also suggest that attempts to limit the receipt of grants might have the unintentional effect of reducing the output of more highly cited papers. It is in our view premature to assume that funding bodies should control the process of resource allocation as researchers are generally far more likely to know how best to match resources to the work which is in progress and which is planned.
Usage versus citation behaviours in four subject areas The download differences reported in this study suggest that citations can only measure the impact in the 'publish or perish' community, in which the characteristics of documents and their size differ from discipline to discipline. Citations are insufficient to assess the impact of the research output in many disciplines. Taking downloads into consideration as a complementary aspect will broaden our bibliometric citation-restricted horizon and help to better understand the complex processes in scientific communication.
Patents in nanotechnology: an analysis using macro-indicators and forecasting curves The annual growth rate and the logistic growth curves calculated for nanotechnology and its technological domain suggest that its development has achieved the beginning of a maturation period.
Comparison of downloads, citations and readership data for two information systems journals Our analyses of the two information systems journals revealed both commonalities and differences between citations, downloads and readership data.
How do you define and measure research productivity? In this work we operationalize the economic concept of productivity for the specific context of research activity and show the limits of the commonly accepted definition.
Coverage and adoption of altmetrics sources in the bibliometric community This study has followed a two-sided approach to explore the representativeness and validity of social media platforms to be used as data sources for altmetrics indicators evaluating impact of scholarly documents.
Study on themes and authors' influence of open access in China In this study, we conduct co-word analysis and author-keywords coupling analysis in order to obtain a clear understanding on the research situation as well as the core authors' influence on research themes of OA in China.
Measuring the scientific impact of e-research infrastructures: a citation based approach? "This paper illustrated that by considering the rate of underestimation of different knowledge claims, a more complete justification for both citation normalisation and/or the use of alternative metrics in assessing the impact of knowledge claims may be reached."
Which role do non-source items play in the social sciences? A case study in political science in Germany In short, the results of this study show that non-source items should be included in bibliometric evaluations, regardless of their impact or the citations from them.
Citation impact prediction for scientific papers using stepwise regression analysis Overall, our results suggest that the characteristics of a scientific paper are very important factors in predicting its influence.
Analyzing evolution of research topics with NEViewer: a new method based on dynamic co-word networks In this paper, we propose a new research approach based on dynamic co-word networks.
Influence of proceedings papers on citation impact in seven sub-fields of sustainable energy research 2005-2011 Based on the findings it is recommendable not simply to rely on journal article analyses in comparative research assessment studies. All the research and innovation-producing types of documents should be taken into account in research evaluation. Such analyses should include proceedings papers—because this document type does have significant (negative or positive) influence on the overall citation impact of a research field, in particular in proceedings-dominant fields. This recommendation may probably extend even to all engineering-like fields, but should be further investigated.
Literature retrieval based on citation context "We designed a literature retrieval system based on citation contexts extracted from full text publications in biomedicine."
An insight into the importance of national university rankings in an international context: the case of the I-UGR rankings of Spanish universities Our conclusion is clear as to the importance and complement that represent the national rankings to address a comprehensive analysis of the university system of a country. The joint analysis of both types of rankings will provide a complete snapshot of the universities and their scientific strengths. Despite this, it is possible to use both (national and international rankings) and combine the information provided in a research policy context.
Influence of a performance indicator on Danish research production and citation impact 2000-12 The publication performance model is regarded as the significant accelerator of these processes in recent years. The publication behaviour regarding research articles seems positively affected by the introduction of the performance indicator from 2008. Finally, it is evident that the introduction of the performance indicator thus far has not introduced a ‘salami-tactics’ in the production behaviour in the Danish science system and a consequential decline in citation impact, as witnessed in Australia in connection with other but more simplistic point-based assessment systems (Butler 2003, 2004).
Comparative study on structure and correlation among author co-occurrence networks in bibliometrics In summary, this study is useful for more appropriate combination of different author co-occurrence networks to understand scholarly communication and intellectual structure analysis.
International comparative study on nanofiltration membrane technology based on relevant publications and patents NFM is fundamentally a practical technology. In China, the research capacity should be strengthened and the technology transformation process should be accelerated in research institutions to maximize the current advantage and obtain international leadership in the field. A more effective system could ensure that incubators play leading roles in promoting the development of the nanofiltration membrane industry.
The effect of booming countries on changes in the relative specialization index (RSI) on country level We conclude that the indicator is robust with regard to booming countries, and that it may suffice to observe the general changes in the research profile of the database if the RSI for a country is studied over time.
'Seed plus expand': a general methodology for detecting publication oeuvres of individual researchers Of the 8,378 professors in our target list we identified at least one publication for 6,753 (80%) professors, which gave us a seed into their oeuvre (as far as covered by the WoS). After the expansion of the individual publication seeds with the Scopus author id approach and the micro-disciplines approach we find the same recall on the gold standard dataset, and a comparable precision, as shown in Table 5. This can be attributed to the restrictions on the disciplines classification on period (2001–2011) and disciplines, e.g., the Arts and Humanities WoS publications are not included (Waltman and van Eck 2012).
Using altmetrics for assessing research impact in the humanities Overall, it seems as though altmetric approaches work better in fields where journals are the preferred publication channel and are less effective in research fields where scholars publish in a variety of channels. Thus, the scholarly practices of many fields in the humanities may limit the availability of altmetric data, and it would seem that current altmetric methods—with the possible exception of Twitter—share many of the limitations of traditional metrics when it come to print- and book-oriented fields. However, the continuing development and diversification of methods suggests that altmetrics could evolve into a valuable tool for assessing research in the humanities.
Internationalization of peer reviewed and non-peer reviewed book publications in the Social Sciences and Humanities The results of our analysis imply that the gap between peer reviewed and non-peer reviewed SSH book literature is widening in terms of places of publication. This goes hand in hand with the growing use of English by Flemish affiliated SSH researchers for their academic book publications. Moreover our results suggest that the use of peer review as a criterion for distinguishing academic from enlightenment book literature, is more valid for the Social Sciences and less so for the Humanities, where the boundaries between different literatures, academic versus enlight-enment and international versus domestic, remain less clear cut.
Assessing obliteration by incorporation in a full-text database: JSTOR, Economics, and the concept of "bounded rationality" From the point of view of assessing the degree of OBI experienced by Simon's notion of "bounded rationality,” it appears that more than half of the JSTOR articles examined in the two subsets either cite one of several key works by Simon or a book or article that points to Simon's work.
Influence of researchers' international mobilities on publication: a comparison of highly cited and uncited papers Our study was limited to a relatively small sample in a specific field, so our results might not apply to all fields. However, for at least highly cited papers, especially those written by university researchers, this method based on published researchers' CVs or Short Bios proved to be effective. Our study also revealed the fact that industrial researchers do not tend to reveal their career information.
How well developed are altmetrics? A cross-disciplinary analysis of the presence of 'alternative metrics' in scientific publications In general, our study shows that Mendeley is the major and more useful source for altmetrics data. This finding suggests that Mendeley readership counts could have some added value in supporting the evaluation and analysis of these fields, which have been traditionally worse represented by citation indicators (cf. Nederhof 2006). Finally, although citations and altmetrics (particularly Mendeley readerships) exhibit a moderate positive relationship, it is not yet clear what the quality of the altmetrics data is and neither what kind of dimension of impact they could represent.
Detection method of emerging leading papers using time transition In this paper, we analyzed the time transitions of centrality measures to detect the leading paper.
Open data and open code for big science of science studies This paper introduced, exemplified, and examined the scalability of a database-tool infrastructure for big Sci2 studies.
How are collaboration and productivity correlated at various career stages of scientists? The main purpose of this study is to examine the changing of correlation between collaboration and productivity over scientist's career.
Referee Recommendations The evidence in my paper quantified to what extent referee recommen- dations are influenced by referee-specific idiosyncratic components and by common reliable characteristics of the submissions (including author-related information). The evidence further suggests that the referee-specific component is partly due to the fact that some referees are intrinsically more generous than others, and partly due to the fact that referees cannot agree with one another about how good papers are relative to one another. My paper suggests a number of changes where the primary cost amounts to little more than a change in the editorial web system.
Publish Yet Perish: On the Pitfalls of Philosophy of Education in an Age of Impact Factors In this paper an alternative for comparing research output is offered by invoking comparisons with colleagues at the international level.
Reputation and impact in academic careers In all, our results should motivate future research to inspire institutional and funding body evaluation schemes to appropriately account for the roles that reputation and social context play in science.
Charting the Impact of Federal Spending for Education Research: A Bibliometric Approach In brief, three objective, replicable, and independent bibliometric indicators converge on the finding that a REESE award is associated with both high and higher scientific productivity and impact.
Mapping the state of the field of social psychology in Africa and patterns of collaboration between African and international social psychologists This analysis demonstrates, firstly, that the number of scholars working in the field of social psychology in Africa is very low—there are more publishing social psychologists in Norway alone than in the entire continent of Africa. Secondly, the connectivity between African social psychologists is poor. The small size, and extremely sparse connection of the African co-authorship network, is likely to be an obstacle both in the development of social psychology as a universally relevant discipline and in the penetration of social psychological knowledge in Africa.
Scientists and engineers in convergence technologies in Korea: where are they going and how do they collaborate? From the survey and social network analysis of Korean researchers in convergence technologies, the following five characteristics were found. Therefore, it is recommended for the government to make an effort to provide policy measures to promote research collaboration in convergence technologies. In this respect, this study is expected to shed some light on researchers and policy makers involved in convergence technologies.
Guanxi networks and the gatekeeping practices of communication journals in China We examined the dominant and enduring role of guanxi networks in affecting the gatekeeping processes of key communication journals in China.
Exploring the Relationship between the Engineering and Physical Sciences and the Health and Life Sciences by Advanced Bibliometric Methods The dependence of HLS research on EPS research is visible in all 21 HLS fields that have been analyzed in detail using our textual approach.
Chinese medical doctors negotiating the pressure of the publication requirement The foregoing section has demonstrated how a group of orthopedic surgeons at a major hospital in China respond to the publication pressure, given the installment of a publication policy in their department which requires both Chinese and English (SCI) publication but privileges the latter.
A Machine-Learning Approach to Coding Book Reviews as Quality Indicators: Toward a Theory of Megacitation Here we illustrate a new approach to the automated assessment of book reviews based on sentiment or opinion-related content.
Measuring Excellence in Russia: Highly Cited Papers, Leading Institutions, Patterns of National and International Collaboration Our analysis extends these conclusions, showing that the lag is particularly noticeable in the upper part of the pyramid of science, where, in the words of Bonitz (2002, p. 442), "the Olympic games in science” are held.
Finding Knowledge Paths Among Scientific Disciplines This article constructs a knowledge-flow network to study how knowledge is disseminated among various disciplines.
In-Text Author Citation Analysis: Feasibility, Benefits, and Limitations This article has explored the feasibility, benefits, and limitations of in-text author citation analysis and tested how well it works compared with traditional author citation analy-sis using citation databases.
In Search of a Network Theory of Innovations: Relations, Positions, and Perspectives This article contributes by addressing some of the puzzles at the level of sociological theorizing so that we are able to proceed to operationalization.
Different views on scholarly talent: What are the talents we are looking for in science? Analyzing talent in terms of symbolic capital, this study contributes to previous research on talent assessment or evaluation practices in several ways. To start with the second issue, the general description of academic talent reflects the various activities scholars are involved in, and it entails a broad variety of skills and traits, combining professional, social, and predominantly individual capital. Further research is needed to determine the actual value of these grants for early career researchers.
Analysing robustness and uncertainty levels of bibliometric performance statistics supporting science policy. A case study evaluating Danish postdoctoral funding Our conclusion is different from the official conclusion given in the evaluation rapport, where the Research Council emphasizes the success of their funding programmes and neglects to mention the good performance of the basically tenure-tracked control group. The general conclusion should therefore be that all groups perform well above the 'database average' and that the postdoc groups appear to perform slightly above the control group, but these differences are based on differ-ent underlying distributions and most likely unimportant. In that respect, tenure-track pos-itions are also doing well.
Measuring the opening of national R&D programs: what indicators for what purposes? Our results underline that policies and rationales that drive opening decisions are often highly diversified accord-ing to national research and funding system characteristics as well as to major national policy and funding actors’ needs, the role they play within national research systems, and the goals and objectives they pursue when opening national research funding programs.
Impacts of an interdisciplinary research center on participant publication and collaboration patterns: A case study of the National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis This case study may be useful in providing a framework for early evaluation of the effects of interdisciplinary research centers on affiliated participants.
From outcomes to process: evidence for a new approach to research impact assessment The findings presented here show considerable variation in the intended impacts and beneficiaries of knowledge exchange activity between respondents in different disciplines and, to a lesser extent, in different types of institution.
Bibliometric Evaluation of Researchers in the InternetAge We believe the research community should become fully aware of the actual meaning of bibliometric mea- sures as well as of their implications when applied to the evaluation of individual researchers. We hope the issues we have raised in this perspective article will be useful in this respect.
SOUTH AMERICAN COLLABORATION IN SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS ON LEISHMANIASIS: BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS IN SCOPUS (2000-2011) Conclusions: South American scientific production on Leishmaniasis published in journals indexed in SCOPUS is focused on Brazilian research activity. It is necessary to strengthen the collaboration networks. The first step is to identify the institutions with higher production, in order to perform collaborative research according to the priorities of each country. All this considering that leishmaniasis is more than a neglected disease, it is a disease of forgotten or excluded populations, and finding solutions for its treatment (new and more effective drugs), prevention and control will only be possible by the attention paid and initiative shown by affected countries, providing the necessary funding and favoring collaborative work on a common problem.
Cyberspace Knowledge Gaps and Boundaries in Sustainability Science: Topics, Regions, Editorial Teams and Journals The Google data on sustainability, the volume of hyperlinks about sustainability as maps and photos, sustainability journals and countries represented by journal editors and editorial boards illustrate that there are side discrepancies or gaps in our knowledge base about sustainability. There is clearly much more additional work that can be conducted by scholars in all fields and disciplines to “cross boundaries” and “narrow the gaps” in what we know about sustainability at local and global levels. As the field of international sustainability science continues to evolve, it bears observing whether the cyberspace knowledge or boundary gaps will narrow in what is recognized by most science and policy scientists as one of the most important transdisciplinary fields of study in the Global South and North.
Bacterial Meningitis: A Density-Equalizing Mapping Analysis of the Global Research Architecture This study illustrates the architecture of global research on bacterial meningitis and points to the need for customized research programs with a focus on local public health issues in countries with a low development index, but high incidences, to target this global public health problem.
Page Limits on Economics Articles: Evidence from Two Journals "How do authors respond to page limits on new submissions? Our analysis shows that the answer depends on the competitive position of the journal that imposes the limit."
What Policies Increase Prosocial Behavior? An Experiment with Referees at the Journal of Public Economics We conclude that small changes in journals' policies could substantially improve the peer review process at little cost. Shorter deadlines appear to be an essentially costless means of expediting reviews. Cash and social incentives are also effective, but have monetary and psychic costs that must be weighed against their benefits.
The Research Productivity of New PhDs in Economics: The Surprisingly High Non-Success of the Successful If the objective of graduate training in top-ranked departments is to produce successful research economists, then these graduate programs are largely failing.
Research productivity and research system attitudes The lack of a strong association between academics’ attitudes to performance-based research systems and their research outputs, taking other important factors into account, is at odds with what might be expected.
Using Cost Per Use to Assess Big Deals While analyzing serial usage statistics is challenging and imperfect, CPU provides the best indicator of a pack-age’s overall value, and it is a metric worth evaluating. The results of the study led Bucknall to believe that while CPU is a strong factor in each school’s decision to renew or cancel a deal, it is not the only factor. Schools must also consider factors beyond cost and usage in making collection development decisions.
A bibliometric investigation of research trends on sulfate removal It can be concluded that the main field of sulfate removal was water. Biological method will continue to be the leading research method. Through anal- ysis, sulfate removal research trends are shown to researchers, which is helpful to establish future research directions.
Scientific misbehavior in economics To the author's knowledge, this is the first study provid-ing evidence for the justifiability and prevalence of a variety of research practices in economics.
Self-Citation Rate and Impact Factor in Ophthalmology Unlike other fields of medicine, the IF of an ophthalmology journal does not correlate with its SCR. Self-citation is found more often in journals with a low corrected IF and is inversely correlated with IF in the bottom half.
Performance analysis of Civil Engineering Journals based on the Web of Science® database The paper discussed performance measures of research journals.
PROMOTING RESEARCH INTEGRITY IN AFRICA: AN AFRICAN VOICE OF CONCERN ON RESEARCH MISCONDUCT AND THE WAY FORWARD Generally, the need to establish appropriate mechanisms to address scientific misconduct in Africa cannot be over- emphasized.
Bibliometric Indices and Academic Promotion within Plastic Surgery Bibliometric indices predict promotion in academic surgery and provide a useful metric for surgeons embarking on a career in academia.
Research productivity and its policy implications in higher education institutions Findings of this study suggest a number of policy implications for institutions of higher learning including the need to have a strong faculty development program, enhanced research collaboration, improved research productivity, and good incentive system in order to promote and enhance the research culture in higher education institutions.
Exploring the Veterinary Literature: A Bibliometric Methodology for Identifying Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Publications Data visualization proved to be an effective communication tool that librarians can use to engage with their library colleagues and the administrators and researchers at their CVMs.
Who Publishes in Top-Tier Library Science Journals? An Analysis by Faculty Status and Tenure Overall, our results suggest that academic librarians with faculty status and tenure-track positions are publishing the most regularly in high-impact peer-reviewed journals than other academic librarians.
Do Open Access Electronic Theses and Dissertations Diminish Publishing Opportunities in the Sciences? The results from this current study are congruent with previous findings; that is, publisher attitudes and policies are, on the whole, accepting of manuscripts containing work derived from ETDs. This should continue to offer graduate students a measure of confidence and comfort in the decision to deposit their ETDs in OA repositories.
Nursing Journal Editor Survey Results to Help Nurses Publish Nurse authors can use the study results to select a target journal that offers the best chance of successful publication.
Publication Pressure and Scientific Misconduct in Medical Scientists The results support the notion that excessive pressure to publish scientific articles contributes to scientific misconduct, at least among European medical scientists. Replication of this finding, preferably in collaborative efforts, is imperative, and can significantly impact scientific practice and policy making in other countries.
SCIENTIFIC RETRACTION: A SYNONYM FOR PSEUDOSCIENCE? Although scientific retractions may be a matter of humiliation for the authors and the journal, they help maintain the purity and integrity of the individual scientific journals, the scientific literature and science on the whole.
Achieving Open Access to Conservation Science We urge authors of conservation science to pay for open access on a per-article basis or to choose publication in open access journals, taking care to ensure the license allows reuse for any purpose providing attribution is given.
Modeling Change and Variation in US News & World Report College Rankings: What would it really take to be in the Top 20? These results can serve as a basis for frank discussions within a university about the likelihood of significant changes in rank and provide valuable insight when formulating strategic goals.
Open access LIS periodicals and digital archives An evaluation with reference to Asian countries The findings of this sample study suggests that many counties are promoting OA journals. While the USA ranks first in the world in publication of OA journals, Taiwan publishes the most in the Asian world. The study further reveals that ALIS from India and JLIS from Taiwan published the largest number of articles. To get an accurate picture of the growth of OA journals in the Asian region, more exhaustive and extensive studies are required.
Leadership in OM research: a social network analysis of European researchers Findings from this study show European OM research to have focused most on the area of supply chain management. The body of European OM research has also focused more on manufacturing than service, with the automotive industry in particular drawing the most attention. Our study adds value for the OM community by providing greater insight on leadership in OM research in Europe.
Characterizing the Evolution of Social Computing Research Overlapping content indicated that subfields of social computing often share the same topics, even though they have many different terms.
An overview of climate change vulnerability: a bibliometric analysis based on Web of Science database This field has experienced a fast development since 2006 and followed an exponential growth curve with time. This reveals climate change vulnerability research is a younger discipline.
Family medicine publications in Taiwan: An analysis of the Web of Science database from 1993 to 2012 Publications from departments/institutes of family medicine in Taiwan increased rapidly from 1993 to 2012.
Social network technologies for semantic linking of information objects in scientific digital library "An approach to semantic structuring of the content of a scientific digital library by using a dedicated ontol-ogy of semantic linkages is proposed."
Zipf-Mandelbrot-Pareto model for co-authorship popularity In conclusion, such a law and model can suggest practical applications on measures of research teams. Most prolific scientists have joint publications on different subjects. Thus, co-authors might be specific to some research sub-field of a PI. On the other hand, the introduction of the extra parameter, and the observation of its range of values, has suggested a model based on a co-author cost scheme, similar to the models of language usage and city population size distributions.
Cohesive subgroups in the international collaboration network in astronomy and astrophysics The results show that among the various pairs of collaborating institutions, the strongest ties do not always exist between institutions in the neighboring countries but indicate intercontinental links in research collaboration.
Social capital in academia First, the results suggest that with this strong set of controls, what matters in social capital is having many ties, being in a central position, having partners from different areas of knowledge, and being part of a non dense network.
A framework for systematic analysis of open access journals and its application in software engineering and information systems This study empirically demonstrated that high publication charges are not sufficiently justified by the publishers in these fields, which often lack transparency and may prevent authors from adopting open access. This paper aims to highlight such concerns with the hope that in the near future, open access can be studied as a real alternative to traditional publishing systems for the SE and IS fields.
Evolutionary analysis of collaboration networks in the field of information systems The number of authors and the number of articles published in the eight journals on information systems increases in a linear form. American scholars have participated in publishing the most articles, amounting to 58.00 % of the total. The country collaboration network shows the largest number of collaborating countries are from Asia and Europe, and the highest number of collaborative work in terms of articles published comes from the United States.
Comparison of the effect of mean-based method and z-score for field normalization of citations at the level of Web of Science subject categories The essential cause that m-score has an edge over z-score as a whole has a direct relationship with the characteristics of skewed citation distributions in which case m-score is more applicable than z-score. So, all things considered, mean-based method rather than nonlinear or other linear methods may be our first choice in the general field normalization of citation impact. It can be expected that any parametric normalization method isn't able to realize the ideal universality of citation distributions in the case of a substantial number of fields.
Post-interdisciplinary frames of reference: exploring permeability and perceptions of disciplinarity in the social sciences The results of our survey question the utility of traditional disciplinary labels in a time of heightened specialization and interdisciplinary.
Rankings, research styles, and publication cultures: a study of American sociology departments It thus seems that the greater preference of qualitative departments for books over articles as publication outlets puts them at a disadvantage as far as quality assessments are concerned, although their lagging behind their quantitative counterparts cannot fully be explained by this factor alone.
Comparing scientific performance among equals We have proposed a way of referring scientific performance to the scientific performance of any control group and a methodology to compare among different control groups.
Determinants of success for biomedical researchers: a perception-based study in a health science research environment In summary, scientific productivity in the researchers we surveyed is associated with a combination of different factors. Investing in human resources for research, and favouring actions that allow researchers to have closer contact with clinical research and provide them with the required level of autonomy and leadership, are measures with potential to improve research competitiveness and productivity in health system environments. Our results suggest that it may therefore be advisable to implement measures aimed at encouraging the incorporation of women as research group leaders, as a way to fight gender inequity in the access to positions of greater scientific responsibility.
Single parameter indices and bibliometric outliers We have shown in this paper, that the z-index is able to account for both the high-end of research performance which is found as significant outliers in the tail of a citation distri-bution as well as compensate for the very skewness that follows invariably.
Biotechnology profile analysis in Colombia The results suggest two elements: first, policy has not had the expected outcome in the short term, and second, a lack of internal collaboration could therefore reflect low endogenous capacities. This straightforward analysis based on bibliometric methods is presented to facilitate the tracing of the policy, research capacity, and research profile of Colombia in biotechnology.
The structure and evolution of scientific collaboration in Serbian mathematical journals Evolutionary analysis of the eLib co-authorship network revealed that there are six different periods in the evolution of the network that are characterized by different intensity and type of collaborative behaviour among eLib authors.
Linked title mentions: a new automated link search candidate The primary results suggest that for site inlinks to US LIS schools, linked title mention searches are at least as good as the available alternatives and may be better because of their higher correlation with the master's program rankings.
How to evaluate the degree of interdisciplinarity of an institution? The two dimensions of the global index provide a more acute information on the interdisciplinary practices of an institution researchers in a given research domain and is, therefore, likely to contribute to strategic and management issues. In this paper we define a framework that allows analysing the degree of interdisciplinarity of a research institution. Computing these indexes and comparing them to a benchmark in a systematic way provides meaningful insights on research activity.
Are there global shifts in the world science base? Analysing the catching up and falling behind of world regions First, we show that there has been a global shift in science but largely in quantity (papers) and much less or not yet—in impact (citations). Finally, our results indicate the need to further explore the relationship between the science base in its absorptive and knowledge frontier function and its relationship to technological and industrial knowledge.
A bibliometric analysis of research on Antarctica during 1993-2012 Our observations suggest that Antarctic studies were marked by stable growth and dynamic collaboration, with an increasing number of articles and citation counts.
Forecasting the trend of international scientific collaboration This study posits a novel method of forecasting using scaling relationship. It shows that this approach can overcome the limitation of improper and non-reliable prediction of values of variables with shorter data sets by exploiting the longevity of another variable's data set, if both the variables exhibit scaling relationship. Therefore, any method of forecasting internationally collaborated scientific publications will be made robust, if the method takes into account the involvement of internal scientific publications.
Scientists' referencing (mis)behavior revealed by the dissemination network of referencing errors The first two routes reflect scientists' referencing misbehavior while the third calls attention to self-copying of references.
A bibliometric approach to tracking international scientific migration It is concluded that the bibliometric approach is promising provided that its outcomes are interpreted with care, based on insight into the limits and potentialities of the approach, and combined with complementary data, obtained, for instance, from researchers' Curricula Vitae o, survey or questionnaire- based data.
An overview of iris recognition: a bibliometric analysis of the period 2000-2012 In this paper, we presented a comprehensive overview of the field of iris recognition using a bibliometric approach.
Crossing the hurdle: the determinants of individual scientific performance This article contributes to the stream of literature investigating the individual determinants of researcher performance. A first result, widely known in literature, is that the different publication and citation practices adopted in different research fields have a strong impact on productivity of active researcher and on the odds to be non-active. We believe that further research is needed in order to create improved measures of the effort devoted to institutional duties and university governance and to better understand if and how these activities could affect scientific production.
How variable are the journal impact measures? This paper revealed that the variability of the journal citation indicators decreased with improvement in the prestige of the journals. It is not recommended to use IF as a sole measure for journal quality. CHL and Escore were suggested as more reliable measures indicating a few changes in the study period and across different impact levels.
Citation impact analysis of research papers that appear in oral and poster sessions A case study of three computer science conferences This paper examined the differences in research impact factor between conference papers presented in oral and poster sessions. Based on the data collected from three leading international conferences in the computer vision field, namely CVPR (2011 and 2012), ICCV (2011) and ECCV (2012), we found that the acceptance rates for oral sessions are much lower than for poster sessions. Several issues remain to be considered in future.
The Scientific Impact of Nations: Journal Placement and Citation Performance For most countries E[pc]≈pc and, in general, there is more variation in journal placement than citation performance for a given field.
National Institutes of Health Support for Individual Mentored Career Development Grants in Emergency Medicine Although success rates are reasonable, EM investigators submit very few individual mentored career development applications. They should take greater advantage of this mechanism to further their research training.
Species Distribution Models and Impact Factor Growth in Environmental Journals: Methodological Fashion or the Attraction of Global Change Science Finally, our results on SDM application in global change science support the view that scientific interest rather than methodological fashion appears to be the major driver of research attraction in the scientific literature. The results support the hypothesis that global change science has been critical in the development of SDM and that climate change research in particular appears as an important factor behind increases of IF in ecological and environmental sciences devoting larger attention to this topic. SDMs may continue to play a significant role in the future panorama of ecology and environmental sciences as long as they remain as key methodological approaches in global change science.
A Quantitative Perspective on Ethics in Large Team Science We have used quantitative analysis to document trends in scientific operations that bear ethical ramifications and call for introspection and open discussion. Over time these trends will affect an increasing fraction of scientists, whose careers will depend on team activity. To fill the gap, there is need for policies that aim to cultivate morality.
What Roles for Scientific Associations in Contemporary Science? Scientific associations play multifarious roles in contemporary science. Nevertheless, as Schofer (2003a), Rilling (1986) and Schimank (1988) have concluded, the external roles of associations (establishing connections between science and society) have become more important than the internal ones. This research would have certainly benefited from international comparisons, so more research is needed to ascertain how general our findings are, or, contrariwise, how country-specific they are.
Effect of the experience of surgical chairpersons on departmental National Institutes of Health funding Despite a dwindling financial climate, surgical chairpersons can steer their departments toward trends of positive NIH funding, which is augmented by increasing experience.
Patent Overlay Mapping: Visualizing Technological Distance This paper presents preliminary results of a new patent visualization tool with potential to support competitive intelligence and policy decision making, following a method successfully used in science overlay mapping (Rafols et al., 2010).
The Social Circles Behind Scientific References: Relationships Between Citing and Cited Authors in Chemistry Publications Publication is a device that contributes to a relatively stable distribution among the various social circles that structure scientific sociability. Publications and the social circles they contain appear as a composite world that reveals the intellectual and relational dispositions in which the researchers find themselves as they carry out their publication activity.
Citations With Different Levels of Relevancy: Tracing the Main Paths of Legal Opinions We have explored in this paper the idea of taking citation relevancy into consideration in conducting citation-based main path analysis and proposed three treatments to the relevancy level.
Can the Impact of Non-Western Academic Books be Measured? An Investigation of Google Books and Google Scholar for Malaysia "The combination of Google Books and Google Scholar is therefore recommended, with some provisos, for non-Western countries seeking to differentiate between books with some impact and books with no impact, to identify the highly-cited works or to develop an indicator of academic publisher prestige."
WL-Index: Leveraging Citation Mention Number to Quantify an Individual's Scientific Impact In this article, we discussed the importance of citation mention and proposed the WL-index for evaluating the sci-entific impact of a scientist.
A Multidimensional Approach to Evaluating Management Journals: Refining PageRank via the Differentiation of Citation Types and Identifying the Roles That Management Journals Play In this study, we introduced two citation-based approaches to enable a multidimensional evaluation of 39 selected management journals.
Bibliometric evaluation of pediatric neurosurgery in North America This study represents the most exhaustive evaluation of academic productivity for pediatric neurosurgeons in North America to date. These results should serve as benchmarks for future studies. Bibliometric indices may also be of interest to individual resident and fellowship applicants in choosing a program to best suit their academic goals.
Scholarly Communication, Scholarly Publishing and University Libraries. Plus ca Change? The scholarly communication and research evaluation landscape is locked into historical paradigms which inadequately reflect the opportunities of the digital era. Open access initiatives are assessed in relation to future scholarly communication change in which university libraries play an increasing role in campus scholarly ecosystems. Ultimately, libraries, universities and governments have to decide whether to maintain, and indeed to protect established interests, or to increase access to global scholarship, to better serve the goals of local researchers, as well as the public good.
Paying for Publication: Issues and Challenges for Research Support Services Payment for publication is becoming a established fixture in the scholarly publishing landscape and is likely to increase in proportion as time progresses. For this reason it is important for librarians to understand the issues involved in the decisions by researchers to make work available through payment, and the challenges associated with managing that process. New relationships need to be forged within institutions and between publishers, funders and institutions so the challenges of this moving landscape can be met in an intelligent and sustainable manner into the future.
Open Access in UCL: A New Paradigm for London's Global University in Research Support Throughout, UCL sees OA as an opportunity, not a threat. True to its history of radical innovation, UCL has embraced OA and is using it to support researchers and to maximise the visibility of the institution on a global stage.
RIMS Revisited: The Evolution of the Research Impact Measurement Service at UNSW Library Based on feedback, it has continued to be a valued service to our research community.
CitNetExplorer: A new software tool for analyzing and visualizing citation networks We have introduced CitNetExplorer, a new software tool for analyzing and visualizing citation networks.
Distributions for cited articles from individual subjects and years The results suggest that fitting a power law to citation data on the scale here (up to 5000 papers) is not appropriate and has no use.
A comparison of journal similarity across six disciplines using citing discipline analysis Citing discipline analysis provides, with some modest programming, a relatively easily implemented method for assessing the similarity of journals within disciplines or across allied disciplines that is computationally less expensive than using citing journal-based data. The analyses reveal distinct groupings of journals based on their disciplinary assignments. This also provides evidence that these journals may be misclassified, so citing discipline analysis, in addition to providing a complementary view of disciplinary structure to more traditional journal co-citation analysis, could serve as a tool to fine tune the existing assignment of journals to WoS Research Areas.
International Collaboration Activity Index: Case study of dye-sensitized solar cells Using the DSSCs field as an example, this study collected 7826 valid papers from 1981 to 2012 through the Web of Science. In order to analyze the collaboration network at the country level more accurately, we combined the international cooperation network with geographic information, which we have called the International Collaboration Map. It increases the precise extent to measure the active degree of international cooperation. It ensures comprehensive coverage of the major factors that constitute the measurement of the active degree of international cooperation as well as accuracy of measurement.
On the citation lifecycle of papers with delayed recognition On the whole, our results show that papers whose recognition, measured by the first citation(s) received, come only after the passage of ten full years since publication behave differently with regard to subsequent citation accumulation.
How to improve the outcome of performance evaluations in terms of percentiles for citation frequencies of my papers In conclusion, if the five papers from Table 1 had been published in the Journal of Informetrics, the evaluation would lead to much lower percentage values and thus to lower (inverted) percentiles, which means that a better result would come out in a performance evaluation based on such percentiles.
The Matthew effect in economics reconsidered We show that the approach by Tol (2009, 2013a) to test for the Matthew effect, at least in economics, might lead to a too large number of authors with a Matthew effect.
How robust are journal rankings based on the impact factor? Evidence from the economic sciences This paper investigates the robustness of journal rankings incorporating the well-documented skewness in citation distribution of articles. Using the best 100 economics journals from 2012 we show that the relative ranking remains relatively stable after excluding the best, the top 5 and top 10 papers. Therefore, the skewness of citations has no major impact on journal rankings based on the impact factor. Future research should investigate whether our results also hold in other scientific areas.
Chinese-language articles are not biased in citations: Evidences from Chinese-English bilingual journals in Scopus and Web of Science On the basis of these empirical grounds, we concluded that Chinese-language articles are not biased in citations compared with English-language ones. The conclusions suggest implications for evaluation of journals publishing Chinese-language articles. The findings related to Chinese-language articles cannot be generalized to other non-English languages without further verification.
The skewness of scientific productivity The main result of the paper is that the skewness and productivity inequality of field productivity distributions is very similar across fields for all samples.
Validity of altmetrics data for measuring societal impact: A study using data from Altmetric and F1000Prime In relation to the measurement of societal impact, the results of this study are promising: Altmetric data (Twitter counts) seem able to indicate papers which produce societal impact.
Bibliometric profile of top-cited single-author articles in the Science Citation Index Expanded In total, 1760 top-cited single-author articles were published in 539 journals listed in 130 Web of Science categories from 1901 to 2010, among which 98% were published in English. Harvard University led all other institutions in publishing top-cited single-author articles. Method(s), protein(s), structure(s), molecular, and quantum were the leading title words that consistently remained in the top 20 in different time periods.
Regression for citation data: An evaluation of different methods The above strategies should be used for regressions of the mean (i.e., rather than logistic regression) for citation data that follows a discrete lognormal distribution.
Distributions of citations of papers of individual authors publishing in different scientific disciplines: Application of Langmuir-type function The distribution of cumulative citations L and contributed citations Lf to individual multiauthored papers published by authors working in different scientific disciplines is analyzed using Langmuir-type function (3) which is based on the concept of information production processes involving similar activity of sources producing items (e.g. citations received by papers acting as sources).
The correlation between citation-based and expert-based assessments of publication channels: SNIP and SJR vs. Norwegian quality assessments Our work shows that at the level of all scientific fields taken together there is a clear correlation between citation-based and expert-based assessment approaches.
Is the new citation-rank approach P100′ in bibliometrics really new? In conclusion, the P100' values are always within the boundaries of the discussed uncertainty interval. This means that P100' is just another way of interpolating between the boundaries. This corroborates my conclusion of Section 3, namely that P100' is nothing but one more way of selecting a position within the uncertainty interval.
Fragmented Romanian Sociology: Growth and Structure of the Collaboration Network Summarizing, we conclude that co-authorship in Romanian sociology is more of an exception rather than common practice.
Inheritance Patterns in Citation Networks Reveal Scientific Memes We find that scientific memes are indeed governed by a surprisingly simple relationship of these two factors.
Success in publication by graduate students in psychiatry in Brazil: an empirical evaluation of the relative influence of English proficiency and advisor expertise The present study demonstrated that knowledge of English is not the key factor for the publication success of graduate students.
The h-index in medical education: an analysis of medical education journal editorial boards The results provide some guidance as to the expected h- indices of a select group of medical educators, with assist- ant and associate professors having an h-index in the 6–7 range and full professors having an h-index in the 14 range.
"Little Science" and "Big Science": The institution of "Open Science" as a cause of scientific and economic inequalities among countries In this paper we put forward a model of basic research and long-run economic growth in which the system of incentives to scientific work heavily relies on social rewards and may produce positive feedbacks and traits of increasing returns in scientific production.
Joint and multi-authored publication patterns in the Digital Humanities In this article we have demonstrated that in two core Digital Humanities journals, CHum and LLC, single-authored papers predominate. The connectivity analysis showed that co-publishing within the dis-cipline appears to be more strongly observed in LLC than in CHum. The author connectivity scores show that in CHum, LLC, and AAAG there is a relatively small cohort of authors who co-publish with a wide set of other authors, and a longer tail of authors for whom co-publishing is less common.
Citations, contexts, and humanistic discourse: Toward automatic extraction and classification Extraction was highly successful in the case of three of four journals using consistent citation styles (footnote, endnote, inline).
Analysis of worldwide research in the field of cybernetics during 1997-2011 This research paper provides a global overview of the research activity carried out in the field of cybernetics for the last 15 years (1997–2011). The multiple results obtained may be useful to identify new trends and methodologies of greater interest in this field; to help worldwide research institutions to take decisions related to old or new research collaborations and to establish the effectiveness of the diffusion; to help internationalization of research publications; to help the strategic decisions in research and development (R&D) investments; to establish reference levels for evaluation of the merits of the researchers and research centres. The scientific production in this field is closely linked to the degree of industrialization and the research resources.
A bibliometric analysis of research productivity of Malaysian publications in leading toxicology journals during a 10-year period (2003-2012) In conclusion, the results of this study show a promising rise and a good start for toxicology research activity in Malaysia in toxicology journals. The sharing of relevant research questions by developed and developing countries can lead to research opportunities in the field of toxicology.
Research assessment as governance technology in the United Kingdom: findings from a survey of RAE 2008 impacts The survey findings presented in this paper suggest that the RAE has affected differently different levels of the system; for example, one respondent commented that RAE 2008 processes had more implications at individual than departmental level, while the opposite was true in the case of RAE outcomes.
Setting the stage for the assessment of research quality in the humanities. Consolidating the results of four empirical studies While an assessment by means of indicators exhibits some limitations, an assessment by means of quality criteria derived from humanities scholars' notions of quality presents opportunities to make humanities research quality visible.
Network analysis to evaluate cross-disciplinary research collaborations: The Human Sensing Research Center, Korea The results shows that the research collab-oration networks are implemented by the group research support program as intended. They lead to relational dynamics which promote dissemination of knowledge across a broad range of research fields and combine research activities related to the different science and engineering capabilities and expertise.
On the drivers of international collaboration: The impact of informal communication, motivation, and research resources In sum, our empirical results suggest that substantial financial and attentional resources, academic excellence, individual motivation, and active informal communication play significant roles in encouraging international collaboration.
American Social Work and Psychology Faculty Members' Scholarly Productivity: A Controlled Comparison of Citation Impact Using the h-Index The overall levels of scholarly impact as assessed by the h-index found that social work and psychology faculty did not significantly differ among scholars located at the universities containing the most highly ranked USNWR reputational survey of social work programmes.
SOCIAL NETWORKS AND RESEARCH OUTPUT "We find that information about someone's coauthor net-works leads to a modest improvement in the forecast accuracy of their future output over and above what can be predicted from their past output."
Do online communities support research collaboration? Going back to our main question considering whether online communities support research collaboration, we can say that scholars use them more for information seeking than for networking and forming collaborations. The research re-affirmed how researchers channel their networking and communication activities around the release and promotion of reputation building research through the time-honoured dissemination and credentializing channels of journal articles. While online-communities would seem to currently have a supporting role to play within the scholarly research environment, disruptive innovation frequently comes from the periphery (Day and Schoemaker, 2006; Schoemaker et al., 2013), and the publisher and researcher communities should stay vigilant for signs of change as to how researchers collaborate and use research within their research and teaching workflows.
Scientometric analysis of Iraqi-Kurdistan universities' scientific productivity This investigation gives a scientometric description of the research performance of Iraqi-Kurdistan universities. This research suggests that Iraqi-Kurdistan universities should pay special attention to policy-relevant aspects of their research. To increase citations and visibility of publications from Iraqi-Kurdistan universities and to improve their research impact, we suggest establishing repositories at the regional or institutional level.
Will open-access journals substitute big-deal subscriptions in engineering college libraries in India? Presently, OA journals belonging to engineering sciences have only a small impact, but their quality is expected to improve in the coming years. In the present situation, commercial publishers’ journals make big-deal subscriptions necessary because they have a better reputation and higher prestige within the scholarly community than OA journals in engineering and technology. As the commercial publications become costlier every year, chances are higher for the OA journals with peer-reviewed quality control to emerge as a substitute for commercial publications.
Mine, Thine, and Ours: Collaboration and Co-Authorship in the Material Culture of the Mid-Twentieth Century Chemical Laboratory I conclude that collaboration and co-authorship need to be more fully acknowledged in our often too-heroic histories of chemistry, so that 'he' or 'she' is more frequently de-centred to the collaborative and collective 'they.’
The Canadian contribution to the otolaryngology literature: a five year bibliometric analysis Canadian authored papers in a sample of Otolaryngology journals decreased from 2008 to 2012. The increase in multiauthorship, whilst indicating increasing collaboration, suggests reduced per capita publication productivity. These findings warrant further study.
The Technological Roots of Computer Graphics Based on patent classification and prior art backward citations, the new methodology used here has helped identify the technologies at the origin of CG.
Highly Cited Articles in Health Care Sciences and Services Field in Science Citation Index Expanded A Bibliometric Analysis for 1958-2012 The application of quantitative techniques in the analysis of highly cited articles can improve the researchers’ understanding of the directions in health care sciences and services field. Y-index is useful for the evaluation of contributing authors. The evaluation by Y-index shows that J.E. Ware at New England Medical Center Hospital of USA made the greatest contribution to the highly cited articles in health care sciences and services field.
Citation Analysis in Health Care Sciences Innovative Investigation or Seductive Pseudo-science? Conclusions: Citation indices in health care science have a value, but this is limited to giving a broad overview. Other measures of effectiveness, including impact on education, on health care development, and on stimulation of applied developments, are needed rather than spuriously scientific advanced analyses of citation counts. First, to identify a number of different value measures which address different dimensions; then to apply these only occasionally as the more valuable ones may be more difficult and expensive, and at a long enough interval to make gaming not worthwhile; and finally to apply these with insight rather than by formula.
The Hundred Most-Cited Publications in Orthopaedic Knee Research This bibliometric study is likely to include a list of intellectual milestones in orthopaedic knee research. It is apparent that a high level of evidence is not mandatory for an article to gain a large number of citations. Bibliometric reports provide a reflection of the quality of cited research published in a specific field and should therefore provoke thinking within the scientific community.
Scientometric approach of productivity in scholarly economics and business In dealing with the topic of scientific output in economics and business, the present study confirms several results published in previous articles concerning relevant explanatory variables such as financing of education and the English language.
The relationship between a reviewer's recommendation and editorial decision of manuscripts submitted for publication in obstetrics The degree of influence on the final disposition of the manuscript depends on the type of recommendation.
The Scientific Competitiveness of Nations Our analysis thus points diversification out as the key element for nations to achieve a successful and competitive research system, suggesting that excellence comes out as a natural side effect of a complex, very heterogeneous, diversified, and therefore healthy, system.
A scientometric examination of the performance of water research in South Africa The bibliometric analysis identifies that South Africa's water field is performing above expectation in comparison with the country's research size (activity index). International comparisons, however, show that a number of countries with smaller populations, and smaller GDPs per capita, produce more water-related knowledge than South Africa. The patent analysis also identifies that South Africa is producing a greater proportion of water-related inventions, relative to its total patent output, than the comparator countries.
Institutional Interpretations of the Relationship between Sport-Related Disciplines and Their Reference Disciplines: The Case of Sociology of Sport That being said, there are good reasons to claim that the legitimization thesis applies to both sport sociology and sport management, as in both cases, dominant trends involve research pertaining to basic academic disciplines that is strongly connected to sport. This study is meant to raise awareness in researchers in applied academic disciplines by pointing out a phenomenon that has a major impact of the evolution of these fields. Whether these concerns are justified or not, it seems that at least this discussion needs to take place.
Is your EPL attractive? Classification of publications through download statistics Using download data from EPL, for publications over a 6.5-year period, we developed a statistical picture for the attractiveness of the journal and its contents. The resulting insights are complementary to those from other measures such as sci-entometrics, altmetrics and influmetrics and it is hoped that the work will inspire similar download analyses for other journals.
THE IMPORTANCE OF BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF RESEARCH PERFORMANCE IN GEORGIA We conclude that, in order to improve the situation with the low productivity of research in Georgia, the governmental programs of science support should be based on the new system of evaluation of the quality of presented projects; namely, peer-review approach should be combined with the bibliometric methodology.
A tale of two cities' university rankings: comparing Hong Kong and Singapore In sum, if Hong Kong and Singapore are having a friendly competition not only in other domains but also in higher education, the two cities are rather close to each other in overall academic ranking at the university levels and are equally good places to go for tertiary education.
Academic honors and performance Generalizing these results, the study suggests a performance and status enhancing effect of awards.
Research Productivity of Residents and Surgeons With Formal Research Training The volume and impact of research publication of PhD-trained surgeon-scientists are significantly higher than those having clinical-only and Masters training.
A bibliographic study of public relations in Spanish media and communication journals, 2000-2012 This analysis helps conclude, first, that public relations are a secondary topic for such journals, with a very low presence in terms of percentages, even if theme diversity in such publications can explain this outcome.
How scholars implement trust in their reading, citing and publishing activities: Geographical differences The findings showed that there is a consistency across the board in respect to the importance of the traditional practices, pillars, and markers of trust (quality content, personal inspection, peer review, journal).
The Transformative Nature of Transparency in Research Funding The article then explores the option of opening to the public key components of the process, makes the case for pilot projects in this area, and sketches out the potential that such measures might have to transform the research landscape in those areas in which they are implemented.
SIGAPS: A software package for the evaluation of medical publications Analyses produced by SIGAPS enable financial assessment to be made by hospitals.
RMS: a platform for managing cross-disciplinary and multi-institutional research project collaboration Our experience with RMS indicates that the platform reduces barriers for cross-institutional collaboration of biomedical research projects.
Rating high-throughput screening results via h-index We applied the h-index to medicinal chemistry using MCS clustering and demonstrated its utility in rating HTS results in order of appeal to medicinal chemists.
Social network analysis of biomedical research collaboration networks in a CTSA institution Through this study, we have developed a set of techniques and tools for analyzing research collaboration networks and conducted a comprehensive case study focusing on a CTSA institution.
Associating co-authorship patterns with publications in high-impact journals Enrichment of co-authorship patterns with author scientific profiles helps uncover associations between author team characteristics and appearance in high-impact journals. These results may offer implications for mentoring junior biomedical researchers to publish on high-impact journals, as well as for evaluating academic progress across disciplines in modern academic medical centers.
The effect of grant-assisted financing on the efficiency of scientific studies in higher education The results of our study testify to the growing role of competitive funding in the research activity of Rus-sian higher education institutions, which is obvious from the increase in the number of publications and in the effect of other scientometric indicators according to the WoS statistics.
Turkish Journal of Hematology: From "Istanbul Contribution to Clinical Science" to "Pubmed Central" In the medical sciences, open access is a revolutionary approach to sharing and distributing research, development, and innovation, provided that strict rules for quality control are maintained all throughout the process.
Durham versus Durban: Quantifying productivity in astrophysics research I conclude that the quantity of research produced, as measured using the PUs system, does not necessarily reflect the quality of research, and it is the latter that leads to international recognition such as that enjoyed by the Durham group. I suggest that alternative methods of recognising and rewarding research output at South African institutions should be explored.
Internet publicity of data problems in the bioscience literature correlates with enhanced corrective action In summary, the current study shows that publicity surrounding issues of problematic data is correlated with greater levels of subsequent actions to correct the scientific record. Nevertheless, anecdotal evidence suggests there is substantial room for improvement in the standards for dealing with such issues at the institutional and publisher levels.
Returns to articles versus pages in academic publishing: Do salary-setters show 'article illusion'? The academic labor market rewards idea splitting, where researchers publish several short articles rather than one long one. Table 1 results are consistent with a return to splitting ideas, due to 'article illusion' by salary-setting research evaluators. But at the margin, the reward to splitting ideas suggests some article illusion by salary-setting research evaluators.
A bibliometric study of scholarly articles published by library and information science authors about open access Although these results show a higher open access rate than previous studies, and a linear growth of open access publications over the years, there is still a large gap between theory and practice which needs to be addressed.
Formulating research policy on expert advice Our results contest this notion. They suggest that expert assessments are, at least to a significant extent, determined by the composite of self-interest and familiarity bias.
The Future of Serials: A Publisher's Perspective In almost every possible way, the existing serials market was developed, sustained, and managed by the current educational system—especially the requirements for faculty to publish original research findings to earn tenure and promotions.
Google Scholar versions: do more versions of an article mean greater impact? While it was possible to define the GS version types found by the authors, and the correlations between the impact of the articles and both GS indexed IR versions and GS versions did not exist, the results of this study suggest there is possibly a benefit to archiving articles in the IR over and above the benefits of having an article indexed in other versions captured by GS. When researchers find that they have no access to an article listed in GS, looking past the main link for an article to seek out the alternate versions listed may be useful. This study does not examine cause and effect, but instead notes the correlations between different relationships.
Global data repository status and analysis: based on Korea, China and Japan The results of this study can be used to identify the repository status in Korea compared to global and to CJK, and can be utilized as a basis to determine the direction of the repository promotion and policy in Korea and also to administer the national R&D budget. Therefore in this paper, in order to efficiently link the repository registration service, we suggest: a unique identification method of repository; a metadata standardization using attributes; and standardization of code values. The next research subjects will include: analyzing the global repositories' status after including the re3data.org and Databib as information sources; making a recommendation for standardization about the metadata describing repository; making a protocol for interoperation among the repository software such as DSpace, Eprints, CKAN etc.
Geographic trends of scientific output and citation practices in psychiatry We found large differences between and within countries in terms of their research productivity in psychiatry and clinical neuroscience.
The silent fading of an academic search engine: the case of Microsoft Academic Search MAS has not been updated since 2013, although this phenomenon began to be glimpsed in 2011, when its coverage plummeted.
Three Journal Similarity Metrics and Their Application to Biomedical Journals The metrics can be applied not only to estimate similarity of journal pairs, but to provide profiles of individual journals as well.
New orientation of human resources policies in Science and Technology (S&T): from brain drain to brain circulation and talent Globalisation has increased the flows of highly skilled personnel by facilitating an increase in mobility programmes and migration frameworks.
High-Ranked Social Science Journal Articles Can Be Identified from Early Citation Information Based on these results, I argue that it is practical to use citation data in evaluation exercises for social sciences such as economics and political science.
Social and Natural Sciences Differ in Their Research Strategies, Adapted to Work for Different Knowledge Landscapes The work shows that quantitative measures estimating differences between academic disciplines improve our understanding of different research strategies, eventually helping interdisciplinary research and may be also help improve science policies worldwide.
100 Citation Classics in the Melanoma Literature: A Bibliometric Analysis This study has identified the most significant contributions to melanoma research over the past 63 years and identifies many important scientific breakthroughs and landmarks that have occurred during this time. The top 100 list generated from our analysis not only identifies the landmark articles that have had the most influence on melanoma research but also acknowledges the most prolific authors and institutions that have contributed articles to the list. Every article in the top 100 most cited articles has had a significant impact on melanoma research, and these are the articles that will most likely be remembered the most.
Mapping Rwanda public health research(1975-2014) Public health research on Rwanda appeared 14 years after the genocide. A main field was emerging: the spread of HIV with mother-child transmission, and the policies to take this subject into account in rural zones. The network of institutions developing these studies was USA-Rwanda.
Alternatives to the impact factor Whilst the necessity of bibliometric markers cannot be called into question, the most widely employed of these, the journal impact factor has come under increased scrutiny of late.
Publication rates of editorial board members in oral health journals Journals with a higher impact factor and larger editorial boards had a higher chance of editorial board members publishing in their board journals.
Contextual information retrieval in research articles: Semantic publishing tools for the research community This paper presented our research to identity con-texts associated with sentences in research articles and employ this information to develop intelligent information services.
Determinants of the citation rate of medical research publications from a developing country The journal rank, number of authors, conducting the study abroad, being a research study or systematic review/meta-analysis and having regional and/or international collaboration all significantly increased the number of citations.
Duplicate publication of articles used in meta-analysis in Korea Our study found only 6 instances of duplicate publication after analyzing 1,194 articles used in meta-analyses written by Korean authors. However, 6.9% of the meta-analyses included duplicate publications. Our findings suggest that meta-analyses should be interpreted cautiously, taking into account the possibility of duplicated studies.
Osteoporosis is a neglected health priority in Arab World: a comparative bibliometric analysis The present data showed low research productivity in osteoporosis field in Arab countries.
Bibliometric analysis of nutrition and dietetics research activity in Arab countries using ISI Web of Science database Our study showed that interest in nutrition and dietetics research is relatively recent in Arab countries. Focus of nutrition research in Arab countries is mainly toward food technology and chemistry with lesser activity toward nutrition-related health research. International cooperation in nutrition research will definitely help Arab researchers in implementing nutrition research that will lead to better national policies regarding nutrition.
Dissertation Citation Analysis as Preparation for Supporting a New Doctoral Program in Nursing The study indicates that the AGL has a good foundation in place to support the proposed DNP program.
Using Citation Analysis to Explore the Collection Needs of Atmospheric Scientists/Researchers Affiliated with the Atlantic Oceanographic Meteorological Laboratory NOAA Miami Regional Library provides electronic or print access to 74% of the 2,516 cited references. The results of this study can be beneficial to librarians within special libraries who are required to make decisions regarding their collection subscriptions and space required for backfiles and storage. Analyzing citation patterns over a wider range of years would better reveal the evolving nature of scholarly publishing in the field of atmospheric research.
Fate of Articles That Warranted Retraction Due to Ethical Concerns: A Descriptive Cross-Sectional Study Guidelines for retracting articles are incompletely followed. The role of publishers in the retraction process needs to be clarified and standards are needed on marking retracted articles. It remains unclear who should check that retractions are done properly. Legal safeguards are required to allow retraction of articles against the wishes of authors.
Citation Analysis and Authorship Patterns of Two Linguistics Journals This study would be useful for linguistics research and for collection development of libraries, particularly academic libraries that need to support researchers in linguistics.
A basic indicator for relative contributions and a remarkable difference between a ratio of averages and an average of ratios In this short note we collected some observations related to the simple indicator constructed by comparing a value associated with a unit with its average over a set of comparable units. Depending on the RoA or the AoR approach, we found – at least in a Lotkaian framework – a remarkable difference when determining the fraction of units (countries) that have a value larger than one.
Measuring journal diffusion using periodic citation counts "The paper concludes that a journal can be said to demonstrate high quality impact and influence if it achieves a high DiF, RPDIF and 5IF."
Features of scientific papers and the relationships with their citation impact First, the quality of scientific papers that could be approximated by the features of citations is the most significant factor affecting the citation impact. Third, the features of authors and published journal are able to affect the citation impact to some extent, but the features of a paper itself have more influence than the authors and journal features. And finally, compared with the features of authors, the features of published journal make more significant contributions to improve the citation impact.
Mapping research trends in the field of knowledge management This study could be useful for researchers and subject specialists as well as policy makers as they may view and study the history of a discipline by drawing the structure of its scientific productions, in order to do strategically plan and determine the research priorities in the discipline.
Visualizing and mapping the research on patents in information science and management science Our study shows that patent-research is a rapidly emerging field.
Scientometric facts on international collaborative Indian publications An upward trend in the number of internation- ally collaborative Indian publications is evident from the fact that India had only 4.56% internationally collabora- tive publications in 1991 and it has risen to 22.77% in 2010. Collaborative publications are found to be more qualitative in terms of the number of citations per publi- cation than publications without collaboration. The collabora- tive research trends across macro-fields and micro-fields may be useful to those who allocate funds for interna- tionally collaborative research projects.
Impact of R&D expenditures on research publications, patents and high-tech exports among european countries It is concluded that, the most important contributing factors towards a knowledge based economy are spending on R&D, number of universities, scientific indexed journals and research publications, which in turn give a boast to patents, high technology exports and ultimately GDP.
The fourth mission of hospitals and the role of researchers as innovation drivers in the public healthcare sector Our findings indicate that the role of researches as R&D-based innovation drivers was limited, as evidenced by participant's assessments and the hosts' views. Consequently, FIS researchers obtain fewer patents, at least compared to other researchers such as those employed by CSIC. Ultimately, the study of FIS researchers' career paths will provide an opportunity to obtain empirical evidence to corroborate Friedman's (2002) claim that "basic research is the key to future innovation".
The Use and Significance of a Research Networking System Returning visitors in an ever-increasing pool of visitors to an RNS are among those that display behavior consistent with using the tool to identify new collaborators or research topics.
Collaboration Networks from a Large CV Database: Dynamics, Topology and Bonus Impact In summary, we have used the Lattes Platform, which contains detailed and unambiguous data of approximately 2.7 million curricula of researchers, as a database for analysing research collaboration in Brazil. The calculated values of the assortativity coefficient and the average nearest-neighbor degree indicate that the networks display assortative mixing, where researchers having high k collaborate with others alike. Lotka’s Law is shown to be valid for different fields: indeed, P(n) and P(k) follow an universal behavior.
Imbalance in Individual Researcher's Peer Review Activities Quantified for Four British Ecological Society Journals, 2003-2010 These finding suggest overall that peer review of the four analysed journals is not in crisis, but only due to the favourable balance of over- and under-contributing researchers. Broader analyses of individual researcher's peer review activities would contribute to greater quality, efficiency, and fairness in the peer review system.
A reply to Pall-Gergely's suggestions to improve the taxonomy index (T-Index) introduced by Valdecasas (2011) Those monographs are the best reference material for systematic, ecological and evolutionary studies, and their value is so recognized in the T-Index. As a consequence, full treatment of a clade should be the goal of present-day taxonomy.
Scientific Activity Is a Better Predictor of Nobel Award Chances than Dietary Habits and Economic Factors Dedicating a large proportion of the GDP to research and to the publication of a high number of scientific papers would thus create fertile ground for obtaining Nobel awards.
Semantic Analysis Applications in Computational Bibliometrics "Following the initial theoretical research, the authors have proved that a technological solution can be implemented and ran, providing fine-grained information for scientific relevance evaluation. The results of using this metric system can ensure the informational base for evaluating the quality of scientific production, with immediate effect on: 1) evaluating the performance of the personnel involved in the research activity; 2) evaluating the performance of the research departments in universities or research institutions; 3) the cost-performance analysis, done by the research financing bodies; 4) the strategic analysis of research for local or national purposes."
Attention to Local Health Burden and the Global Disparity of Health Research Many of the health needs in less developed countries do not attract attention among developed country researchers who produce the vast majority of global health knowledge—including clinical trials in response to their own local needs.
A bibliometric profile of Current Science To the best of my knowledge, a bibliometric profiling of Current Science based on quantitative indicators has not been performed before.
Botanical Survey of India (1971-2010): a scientometric analysis BSI publications and citations were good during 1978 to 1986, followed by a long recession between 1987 to 2005; it again increased from 2006 onwards.
Approaches to Preparing Young Scholars for Careers in Interdisciplinary Team Science In sum, these qualitative data reveal the tensions, ambiguities and diversity of perceptions, attitudes and applications of the term "team science" in clinical translational sciences education and career development. These data suggest that there is a need for guidance in curriculum development, instructional strategies and pedagogical methods to support interdisciplinary team science training and education. We view the results of these analyses as a “call to arms" for CTSA institutions nationwide.
Facilitation of Resident Scholarly Activity Strategy and Outcome Analyses Using Historical Resident Cohorts and a Rank-to-Match Population Research education initiatives increased residents' research involvement.
Evaluation of Asian university rankings: position and perspective of leading Indian higher education institutions First, the approach enabled us to present ranks in SIR list taking into account all eight indicators (not just one as proposed in the SIR official rankings). In addition, a new perspective on problems with subjectively chosen weighting factors in THE and QS rankings has been elaborated and possible improvements have been suggested out. Further potential approaches could be directed towards integrating indicators of other methodologies such as Leiden ranking³², which showed some similarities with SIR (in terms of bibliometric data, ranking focus on the research performance of institutions).
Report of China's innovation increase and research growth in radiation oncology The number of articles published in radiation oncology journals from ML, TW, and HK increased significantly during the last decade gradually, and the contribution by Chinese authors in radiation oncology has grown. However, the quality of articles from HK and TW is better than that from ML, though the number of articles published from the ML have exceeded those from TW and HK.
Defining and Measuring Research Impact in the Humanities, Social Sciences and Creative Arts in the Digital Age My conclusion, on balance, is that it is better to develop such measures, and that researchers in HSSCA fields themselves should take the lead in constructing and collectively endorsing the measures that will be used to characterize research impact.
Global Resources in Engineering Education: A Content Analysis of Worldwide Engineering Education Journals This study examined worldwide engineering education journals by using a Google database. We used the Google database to compensate for the potential limitations existing in the WoS and Scopus databases.
GRAPHICAL INTERFACE OF THE SCIMAGO JOURNAL AND COUNTRY RANK: AN INTERACTIVE APPROACH TO ACCESSING BIBLIOMETRIC INFORMATION We have described a combination of force-directed, clustering, and overlay techniques to generate interactive maps capable of being used as efficient interfaces to access bibliometric information. Our principal objective with the present development was to provide users with a tool that would allow them to interact visually with all the information accessible through the SCImago Journal & Country Rank portal.
Estimates of the Continuously Publishing Core in the Scientific Workforce The proportion of the scientific workforce that maintains a continuous uninterrupted stream of publications each and every year over many years is very limited, but it accounts for the lion's share of researchers with high citation impact.
Measuring research output and collaboration in South Asian countries The article presents an interesting and useful insight into the research output, growth, citations, impact and col-laboration patterns of the South Asian region.
NEW DATA, NEW POSSIBILITIES: EXPLORING THE INSIDES OF ALTMETRIC.COM We conclude that Altmetric.com is a transparent, rich and accurate tool for altmetric data. Nevertheless, there are still potential limitations on its exhaustiveness as well as on the selection of social media sources that need further research. Our results indicate that more research is needed for understanding the methodologies for retrieving valid and reliable altmetric data.
Field-normalized bibliometric evaluation of leading research institutions in chemistry in China and India The laboratories in the CSIR family cluster show a dis- cernible decline in the quality of publications. Particu- larly of concern is the fact that NCL, which was once the jewel in the crown of CSIR, is now in decline both on quantitative and qualitative terms when benchmarked against the world norm. The laboratories from China have shown an impressive improvement in the recent past on both quantitative and qualitative terms.
The impact factors of open access and subscription journals across fields Our study shows that while many journals from developing countries, especially Latin America and India, have improved their visibility and impact by adopting OA in every field¹⁸,²⁷⁻²⁹, the IFs of subscription journals in general are greater than those of OA journals.
The performance of research-intensive higher educational institutions in India In this article we see that all institutions have a rea-sonable to high growth rate in terms of quantity of output.
The Network Pattern of Journal Knowledge Transfer in Library and Information Science in China From the aspect of the structure of the journal cross- citation knowledge transfer network in library and infor- mation science in China, we can see that journals' knowl- edge transfer activity is frequent. The knowledge strength, the force of discipline integration and the knowledge gap between journals all affect the interactive model of knowledge transfer. We hope that follow-up research can show more comprehensive, intuitional and dynamic journal knowl- edge transfer activity by collecting more intact journals' citation information in library and information science and applying multiple analysis methods, so as to provide more sufficient and valuable information for the aca- demic circle (periodicals circles, scholars, institutions, etc.) of library and information science.
A probe into the citation patterns of high-quality and high-impact publications The five types of citation patterns construct a total framework for indicating the quality and impact of publications. Our studies suggest that the quality and the impact of publications are not inevitably associated.
The Validation of Peer Review through Research Impact Measures and the Implications for Funding Strategies The relationship observed between peer review scores and bibliometric output lays the groundwork for establishing a model system for future prospective testing of the validity of peer review formats and procedures. This is in line with our observations (and those of others) that budget and bibliometric impact are not well linked, and could have important implications for how research dollars should be allocated [18,19]. There is a great need for prospective validation studies of application peer review processes in order to provide a much more robust test to determine what conditions result in the most efficient and accurate peer review [9].
Compliance of retraction notices for retracted articles on mental disorders with COPE guidelines on retraction Apparently, publication of COPE guidelines has made little impact in this regard. It is advisable for journals to adhere to COPE guidelines on retraction. Also possible impact of open access on retraction notice dissemination needs to be studied systematically.
The Internationalization of the Polish Academic Profession Our study clearly shows that the Polish academic community is relatively well interna- tionalized today: there are no substantial differences between Poland and the ten Euro- pean countries included in the comparison. The impact of international collaboration on average productivity rates across all academic fields is much higher in Poland than in the other European countries studied. In the context of Polish reforms highlighting the role of international publications, the results of the present study imply a powerful policy
Uncitedness of Indian scientific output The present study on uncitedness of Indian scientific output has implications for Indian science policy makers in general and for agricultural scientists in particular, because a large proportion of uncited papers are in the discipline of agriculture and veterinary sciences. Journal editors have to enhance the quality of the papers they publish. Further investigation is needed to identify the type (theoretical or methodological) of the uncited papers as well the subjects discussed in these pa- pers.
Study of co-authorship network of papers in the Journal of Research in Medical Sciences using social network analysis Co-authorship network of JRMS has the characteristics of a small world network.
Sciatic nerve injury repair: a visualized analysis of research fronts and development trends Through word frequency trend analysis, studies on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells, adipose-derived stem cells, and skeletal muscle-derived multipotent stem cells combined with tissue-engineered scaffold material will become the forefronts in the field of sciatic nerve injury repair and protection in the near future. These findings suggest that the field of sciatic nerve injury and protection was in a stage of development during 2000–2013. The scientific research in China is encouraging.
Knowledge Production Status of Iranian Researchers in the Gastric Cancer Area: Based on the Medline Database According to results of this study, improving cooperation of researchers in conducting research and scientometric studies about other fields may have an important role in increasing both quality and quantity of published studies.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Diets and Breast Cancer Research Diets and breast cancer-associated research output continues to increase annually worldwide including publications from Asian countries. Although the United States produced the most publications, European nations per capita were higher in publication output.
Consortium for e-resources in agriculture: qualitative and quantitative perspectives The journal collection of CeRA in animal husbandry, livestock management and poultry sciences; animal nutrition, feed, feed additives and manufacture; dairy technology; fisheries and aquaculture; and veterinary science is expected to be a strategic source of information for meeting needs of stakeholders in veterinary universities and concerned institutions.
Globally national - locally international: Bibliometric analysis of a SEE psychology journal Relatively small numbers of multinational papers and genuine international citations indicate that Psihologija still lags behind in building a solid communication network of citing authors and related journals.
The IBM Research Accelerated Discovery Lab In this paper we sketched the design and activities of the IBM Research Accelerated Discovery Lab.
Studying Research Collaboration Patterns via Co-authorship Analysis in the Field of TeL: The Case of Educational Technology & Society Journal Co-authorship networks analysis can provide interesting insights about how research communities are collaborating and gradually evolve. The network includes different subgroups of authors that collaborate independently. In future work we are planning to augment the findings drawn from this study by considering the data from the latest issues of ETS journal (namely, issues published in 2013 and 2014) as well as data from other journals in the field of TeL.
On Scaling of Scientific Knowledge Production in US Metropolitan Areas In this paper, we showed that scaling laws do not fully apply to the production of scientific knowledge.
Articles published in Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica between 2003-2012: content, characteristics and publication trends This study revealed the current status and trends of orthopedic publications in Turkey in the leading Turkish orthopedic journal AOTT over a 10-year period. The impact factor of AOTT shows a slow but stable increasing trend indicating a growing attention towards the journal. The authors sincerely hope that the information presented here will encourage research and publication and provide useful information to enable policy-making.
Curare - A Curative Poison: A Scientometric Analysis This work exemplifies also how scientometric methods can be used to illuminate historic circumstances immediately stimulating scientific research.
THE GENERATION OF LARGE NETWORKS FROM WEB OF SCIENCE DATA Using this pathway, one can visualize both smaller and very large networks, for example, of authors in large consortia (such as at CERN; Milojevic, 2010).
Finding Collaborators: Toward Interactive Discovery Tools for Research Network Systems Interactive, timeline-based displays that support comparison of researcher productivity in funding and publication have the potential to effectively support searching for collaborators.
The crossroads of academic electronic availability: how well does Google Scholar measure up against a university-based metadata system in 2014? The use of web-based academic search tools is now vital.
Mapping Interdisciplinary Fields: Efficiencies, Gaps and Redundancies in HIV/AIDS Research Broadly, what we found in the dynamics of the field as a whole is one that progressed from more interdisciplinary clustering early in the period-highly consolidated, with researchers bridging across disciplinary boundaries to interact around topical themes—to more multidisciplinary clustering later in the period—where researchers from a variety of disciplines are contributing to the field, but are doing so in a way that engages literatures with others from their (cognate) disciplines, regardless of the topic. In sum, the general pattern within HIV/AIDS research is one increasingly marked by disciplinary segmentation rather than integration, while particular topics vary considerably in how closely they adhere to that overall pattern. The models employed here provide a means for examining the multidimensional and dynamic processes that enable evaluation of progress within interdisciplinary frameworks.
The Citation Wake of Publications Detects Nobel Laureates' Papers In summary, our approach of decomposing the papers' in-components into neighbourhood layers succeeds in finding groundbreaking publications that are rather moderately cited as well as in yielding a more diverse ranking than the direct citation count (which is dominated by the density-functional theory), without any explicit consideration of the lengths of the papers' reference lists and without an a priori assignment of the papers to specific subfields (as it is the case with relative indicators [26]).
A New Bibliometric Index Based on the Shape of the Citation Distribution We have proposed a general method for improving the h-index that is based on the form of the citation distribution.
The first ranking of the scientific units of Polish physical education higher schools based on the monographs published in 2009-2012 indexed by the Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education Monographs - regardless of other products of scientific activity – constitute a complementary bibliometric criterion measuring the productivity of authors, research groups, institutions and countries.
Geographic Origin of Publications in Major Spine Journals Finally, small European countries are more pro- ductive in relation to their population size despite the fact that the contribution of USA is the greatest in the field of the major peer-reviewed indexed spine surgery journals. The positive role of profi- ciency in English language and the expenditures in R&D should be further investigated with experi- mental studies in national and international level. Bibliometric analysis is a useful tool for quantifica- tion of research contributions and opens further perspectives for research fund allocation and dissemination of spine surgery.
A survey of authors publishing in four megajournals "Megajournals are drawing an international group of authors who tend to be experienced academics."
Modes of access: the influence of dissemination channels on the use of open access monographs The results show that most readers are using the "direct download" channel, which occur if the readers use systems other than the OAPEN Library Website. This implies that making the metadata available in the user's systems, the infrastructure used on a daily basis, ensures the best results. These challenges are not only faced by the OAPEN Foundation, but are shared by all organizations that disseminate open access publications or data.
A Technical Approach for Suggesting Research Directions in Telecommunications Policy We proposed the necessity of new research domains since the analysis results implies that the decrease of political approaches for technical problems is an issue in past researches. This paper has contributions in regard to the first bibliometric analysis with abstract and citation data in telecommunications as well as the development of software which has functions of web services and text mining techniques. Thus, further research will be conducted by more text mining techniques such as topic modeling and co-citation analysis.
Status of research publications in various science subjects among Muslim countries (1996-2010) The total number of publications, citable documents, citations per document and H-index is significantly lower in the MMC compared to RWC.
Analysis of co-authorship patterns at the individual level Bibliometric indicators and network analysis provide valuable information on the performance of individual scientists. However, this information should be considered supplementary. Co-authorship analysis can be used to determine the position of an author in the collaboration network and might provide important information on the scientists' own contribution to the research output reported in their Curriculum Vitae.
The Development of Social Capital in the Collaboration Network of Information Systems Scholars Overall, the IS community has made significant progress in accumulating structural social capital in the past three decades (see Table 3).
A comparison of citation coverage of traditional and web citation databases in medical science This study demonstrated that Google Scholar provided considerable materials for citations in the fields of General and Internal Medicine. Therefore, researchers may consult Google Scholar in addition to WoS and Scopus for research evaluation. In conclusion, a large amount of unique citations from Google Scholar for the studied journals may be due to the indexation of a wider form of Web materials, which are not indexed by traditional bibliographic and citation databases such as WoS or Scopus.
A general theory of minimal increments for Hirsch-type indices and applications to the mathematical characterization of Kosmulski-indices We have characterized general Hirsch-type indices by means of their first and second increments.
The obstacles facing scientific and medical publishing in Saudi Arabia The Annals of Saudi Medicine is a regional or continental journal and not a national journal like its name implies. The lack of motivated reviewers delay its peer-review process. The huge number of non-citable manuscripts published affected its impact factor negatively.
Following the tracks of an emerging area: bibliometric analysis of Latin American Political Psychology in the 2000-2010 period Results obtained show that the countries with the highest level of publication - Spain, Colombia, Mexico, Argentina and Brazil - coincide with the place of origin of the most productive institutions. Therefore, we could assert that there is a tendency towards individual work, without the support of work teams or networks in this disciplinary field. In the future, it would be interesting to carry out a subject analysis of the works produced, which would offer a deeper approach to the topics studied by Latin American Political Psychology.
Faculty members’ perceptions towards institutional repository at a medium-sized university Results suggested that faculty whose scholarly productivity was high in terms of published or unpublished output were more likely to have a positive perception of IRs and therefore were more likely to participate in the IRs than those who did not. Prior knowledge of and experience with IRs did not impact the faculty's perception of IRs. Therefore, junior faculty, especially those who are from education, professions and applied sciences and social sciences disciplines, may be intentionally targeted to achieve this purpose at institutions with a teaching focus.
Use of online resources at Jawaharlal Nehru University: a quantitative study The study confirms effective utilization of databases, which are made available through the UGC-INFONET consortia, in terms of volume of download.
Incentives for the <scp>I</scp>ranian Chemical Boom: A Strategic Motivation or Applied Needs? During the last decade, the world has witnessed a remarkable increase in the number of published scientific articles originating from Iran. Still, at least in the field of organic chemistry, this increase in quantity in pub- lished scientific articles is not always accompanied with the quality necessary to make an impact on the most prominent journals. To take an approach that tackles the challenge of trying to find a balance with necessary influences from several areas such as the Western and Far East science communities, historical scientific roots, and Islamic ideology is crucial for Iran's becoming a worthy player in the interna- tional scientific arena.
EPISCIENCES – An overlay publication platform We think that putting together such a platform for overlay journals, and making it widely available to research communities, will offer a whole wealth of features for scholars by providing fast and efficient dissemination of scholarly results. The experiment carried out with our two initial journals has allowed us to secure most of the features on the platform and validate that a quick, and cheap, deployment of an overlay journal is possible. We can now identify our roadmap for the future in two complementary directions: bring in more journals in the informatics and applied mathematics domain, where we have already felt a strong demand, and attract a wide range of interested institutions to join efforts in securing the long-term sustainability of the endeavour.
Research on tables and graphs in academic articles: Pitfalls and promises The number and variety of issues raised in this paper on research with tables and graphs in academic articles show that methodological studies are needed.
Current Biomedical Scientific Impact (2013) of Institutions, Academic Journals and Researchers in the Republic of Macedonia The current biomedical scientific impact (2013) of institutions, academic journals and researchers in R. Macedonia is very low.
Annotating for the world: Attitudes toward sharing scholarly annotations This exploratory study provides insight into scholars' attitudes and potential behavior as they annotate for others and read others' annotations. If shared annotation is to have a positive and significant impact on scholarly communication, scholars must find others' annotations useful and be willing to make their own quality contributions.
Trust in reading, citing and publishing This multiple-methods international study of the role of trust in reading, citing, and publishing shows that some things are changing and there are some doubts about traditional metrics, but many attitudes toward trust are not changing quickly because the picture is very complex.
Publication productivity and scholarly impact of academic librarians in Tanzania This study has provided insights of the research productivity and scholarly impact of Tanzanian academic librarians for a period of 30 years from 1984 to 2013. Based on the study findings, a number of recommendations can be made. First, several indicators should be considered in combination when evaluating research performance of individual scholars.
Uncertainty of author citation rankings: Lessons from in‐text citation weighing schemes Our findings are devastating.
The ‘Finch Report’ and the transition to Open Access: Long term monitoring of progress in the United Kingdom Implementation of the Finch Group recommendations has progressed, but there is a need to establish systematic arrangements for gathering and analysing data on key aspects of the transition to open access.
Comparing digital apples to digital apples: Background on NISO's effort to build an infrastructure for new forms of scholarly assessment NISO's community-led effort will aid in determining which aspects of new metrics are most ready for consensus-based standards or best practices.
Data mining from web search queries: A comparison of google trends and baidu index Thus, it can be concluded that data from Google Trends and Baidu Index contain information on the quality of universities and companies and that the search volume data can be used to estimate the quality of universities and companies in both China and the U.S. The importance of the quantity of web queries is clear. The implication extends beyond the Chinese context.
Gender-Correlated Systematics in HST Proposal Selection The results show that male PIs have a higher success rate than female PIs.
Open access publishing and author rights: A local and comparative study of selected ARLs The percentage of Gold OA publishing at TAMU is lower than predicted by Laakso et al. (2011) and Lewis (2012), as well as most of the studies shown in Table 1, but the 8.98% OA is not insignificant. So there continues to be an opportunity for author rights advocacy and author rights education for TAMU authors. Given the percentages of Gold OA publications and PLOS ONE’s rank among the 16 ARLs, it appears that Gold OA journals have gained some level of acceptance among authors at ARL institutions compared to previous aggregated global OA bibliometric studies.
The Data Mining Based on the Co-Author Network In this paper, we describe the relationship between authors with the network topology. In order to analysis the influence between the partners, applying the grey relational analysis method into measuring after extracting some properties of the network. Thus, dig out the important information between the authors. It not only avoids the unity of indicators and also minimizes interference with the human factors evaluation process. Similarly, we can apply this method into other fields.
How to address the role of a Journal as a Knowledge Transfer Vector between disciplines? A Case Study Relying on Citation Analysis The method we have developed enables the construction of an indicator qualifying the role played by a scientific journal as a transfer vector for knowledge. This indicator as experimented on journals could also have other applications such as the characterisation of the scientific production of an institution or region as a transfer vector for knowledge.
Do submissions entitled to an auto-waiver take more time to be accepted by open access journals? From this current investigation it is quite evident that both categories of submissions, coming from auto- and non-waiver countries, are equally treated by the for-profit open access journals and thus it can be concluded that no sense of priority works in case of submissions those come from non-waiver countries.
Computer Science Citations: An Analysis of Doctoral Candidates' Research Although the study has limitations, it certifies there is correlation between the quality of a dissertation with its citation rate and the citation rate of related articles published by the same author.
Knowledge dissemination patterns in the information retrieval industry: A case study for automatic classification techniques The g-index seems to provide a more accurate characterization of the ranking of companies involved in the studied area of knowledge: document clustering and classification, as it is more sensitive to the patents with a higher number of citations that may be excluded when calculating the h-index. As shown in this study, citation analysis may be used to identify relevant conclusions regarding the transfer of technical knowledge between the agents involved in innovation activities: a) to which extent the actors provide knowledge that is consumed or reused by other actors, b) the flows of knowledge between organizations, based on the impact that their respective patent portfolios have on each other, and c) how the knowledge disseminated through academic journals is used in the creation of new inventions. The method followed in this study could be applied to analyze any other area of knowledge or disciplines, and the combined analysis of patent citations and citations to other bibliographic materials can help give answers to questions related to the actual value of academic research and the transformation of basic research into practical innovations.
Multi-Platform Institutional Repository Our objective is to investigate the strategy for implementing a centralized IR that could harvest data from existing muti-platform repositories, allow for manually data entry, possess administrative tool for IR database manipulation, and provide user interface for searching and displaying the desired result.
Beyond the humanities: a comparison of two bibliometric crises in the domain of Soviet biological periodicals (1917–1950) Even though the crises of 1930s and 1940s were of similar scale (in both cases, a dramatic decrease of the serials diversity by 15.2–24.5% has occurred within a couple of years), they were of different natures.
On the meaningful and non-meaningful use of reference sets in bibliometrics Bibliometric data used to evaluate research on the level of individual scientists is highly critical data and should therefore be compiled very carefully (Bornmann & Marx, 2013b; Marx & Bornmann, 2014). However, we need high-quality data when we put reference sets together and use them for the evaluation of research.
Personal strategic alliances: enhancing the scientific and technological contributions of university faculty in Malaysia In keeping with the S&T Human Capital model (Bozeman, Dietz, and Gaughan 2001), publication productivity is related to PhD attainment and the attendant professional net- works developed during one’s academic research career, as well as an enhanced research infrastructure embodied in the RU program. For policy-makers, our findings suggest that future S&T efforts should not only be conceptualized in terms of resources (such as number of PhDs and R&D inputs), but also in terms of networks and institutional design, taking into account the unique cultural, political, and economic context of Malaysia. These policy and programmatic changes may result in less homophily, more opportunities for technology commercialization, and thus a higher return on R&D.
Publication Patterns of Science, Technology, and Medical Librarians: Review of the 2008–2012 Published Research In conclusion, based on the findings of this study, monitoring science librarianship research should be a continuous process. A possible future study could analyze the cited bibliographies of these selected articles in depth to gain a better understanding of the high impact journals have on science librarianship research. University and other research libraries should form mentoring projects for young science librarians, which would assist them in pursuing high-quality research in their very first probationary years.
A Model Based on Cocitation for Web Information Retrieval In this work, we emphasize the role of cocitation in defining authorities.
The Kardashian index: a measure of discrepant social media profile for scientists In an age dominated by the cult of celebrity we, as scientists, need to protect ourselves from mindlessly lauding shallow popularity and take an informed and critical view of the value we place on the opinion of our peers. I propose that all scientists calculate their own K-index on an annual basis and include it in their Twitter profile. Not only does this help others decide how much weight they should give to someone's 140 character wisdom, it can also be an incentive - if your K-index gets above 5, then it's time to get off Twitter and write those papers.
Weak Relations among the Impact Factors, Number of Citations, References and Authors It is clear from the multiple regression analysis that the fitted model Tc = 5.62518 + 5.96696*X1 + 0.297449*X2 – 2.88214*X3 indicates a statistically significant relationship between the variables at the 95.0% confidence level.
Co-authorship Network Structure Analysis of Iranian Researchers’ scientific outputs from 1991 to 2013 based on the Social Science Citation Index (SSCI) Iranian researchers published 6009 documents that are indexed in SSCI during the period from 1991 to March 2013 and these authors formed a co-author network with a coefficient of 0.75. In comparison with the networks presented in the studies conducted by Gossart and Ozman [10], Osareh & Baji [12] and, Mansouri [13] co-author network of Iranian researchers in SSCI is denser. As in other scientometric studies about Iran, this study showed that University of Tehran ranked top and the growth of Iranian researcher's outputs in ISI databases and in particular Social Science Citation Index in the present research is increasing.
A Tale of Two Australian Economics Journals In contrast to the ER, the AEP, after an initial burst of success in its early years, has fared poorly in attracting high quality contributions in terms of citations and thus impact. On its 50th anniversary, the AEP appears to be struggling to survive and perhaps to remain commercially viable.
The Visual Analysis of the Research Front in Robot Field Based on Keywords Co-Occurrence The study finds that research hotspots in international robotics field focus mainly in the research of robotics in the field of medical field and manufacturing industry in the aspects of “mechanical systems", "impact”, “friction”, “movements”, “force”, “nonlinear-systems”, “laparoscopy” and other aspects the centrality degree and frequency of which are both comparatively higher. In summary, this paper shows the development context, research front and cutting-edge trends of the robot research field by analyzing knowledge literature. Scientists in this field can get information support, and this paper also provides a basis for decision making for the introduction of high-level scientific and technological talent.
The illusion of no control: management control systems facilitating autonomous motivation in university research Autonomous motivation is central to understanding why this particular combination of MCS was effective in enabling research performance in the university setting studied.
Bibliometrics Analysis of Nanosafety Research In the present study, bibliometric methods were applied to analyze overall scientific research of nanosafety topics. Linear trends of the nanosafety research publications shows attentions that scientists focus on and reveals that nanosafety become into hot topic in nanotechnology domain. The future work of this study should focus on these issues below: 1. More detail bibliometric research in study theories and methods of scientific research among nanosafety related topic.
Problems with the SNIP indicator There were problems with the old version of SNIP, and we have shown that there are also problems with the new version, particularly the effects of using the harmonic mean. The problem is that these metrics, particularly when they are implemented in a major database such as Scopus, can quickly come to prominence without a proper understanding of their limitations. Overall, we feel that there needs to be considerable empirical work undertaken looking into these effects before metrics like this can be used with confidence.
A Webometric Analysis of Travel Blogs and Review Hosting: The Case of Catalonia Travel blogs and reviews are a good, vast, and free access information source for researchers, DMOs, and marketing firms in general, as they enable temporal and geographical classification of entries, and their quantitative and qualitative content analysis, both visual and textual. Given the quantity and dynamism of online information, this research provides an effective method for choosing the most suitable Web sites hosting travel blogs and reviews for analyzing a specific case of study, and supports the idea that for future studies, tourism and marketing practitioners and researchers should use relevant online criteria or metrics in order to choose the optimal Web sites for analysis, thus increasing efficiency when assessing the relevance and implications of their results.
The Irony of Public Funding Apache is but one effect of public funding of the Internet.
Publication bias in the social sciences: Unlocking the file drawer These findings show that a vital part of developing institutional solutions to improve scientific transparency would be to understand better the motivations of researchers who choose to pursue projects as a function of results. Creating high-status publication outlets for these studies could provide such incentives. Further, the pre-analysis plans and registries themselves will increase researcher access to null results.
A comparison of downloads, readership and citations data for the Journal of Medical Hypotheses and Ideas However, according to the findings of this brief analysis, the journal articles appear to have a high rate of downloads around the world. However, the journal’s citation overview reflected rather a low impact of the published articles in the journal. Therefore, the journal’s editors are strongly encouraged to develop and implement strategies to improve the journal’s citations.
Crystal ball or moneyball: does publishing success during graduate school predict career publication productivity? First, one’s level of publication productivity while in graduate school does, in fact, predict whether they will be successful in getting their work published over the course of their career. Nevertheless, our second conclusion is that the predictive relationships we observed were far from perfect. Thus, prediction is still a tough business and there will always be a certain amount of error, good or bad fortune, and dumb luck involved.
Earth and planetary sciences research in the Middle East The present assessment indicates that the Middle East region is lagging behind other regions of the world in scientific output in earth and planetary sciences.
What is a kinesiology journal?<sup>1</sup> In reality, reasoned and critical application of the Knudson (2013a) results and future research are needed to decrease the obsession with the impact factor and its negative consequences on science.
Institutional Conflict of Interest: The Role of Interlocking Directorates in the Scientific Relationships Between Universities and the Corporate Sector The strengthening of ties to within profile organizations is all the more notable given the general decline in ties to corporations during the period.
The interest of the scientific community in expert opinions from journal peer review procedures Our results on the Mendeley counts which we investigated for the post-publication reviews of the Faculty members raise doubts as to whether the expert opinions from a journal peer review procedure should be available in a transparent form (such as being provided with a DOI and the name of the reviewer). The interest of the scientific community in these expert opinions appears to be slight. As the F1000Prime data set covers only the biomedical literature, we consider it desirable to investigate the reception of expert opinions in other disciplines as well.
Iran's Scientific Interactions and Communications with the G8 Countries The investigation of Iran and the G8 countries researchers scientific documents at Scopus database shows that their joint scientific cooperation in the last 14 years has witnessed a positive growth. The country's scientific policy makers and planners should pay special attention to this issue, and pave the way for all-inclusive communications with these countries (as well as other countries of the world) by eliminating problems and obstacles facing scientific cooperation.
Survey of Publications and the H-index in Academic Emergency Medicine Professors The h-index is only a partial measure of academic productivity.
ETD: total cost of ownership – collecting, archiving and providing access ETD collections are considered to be important collections of unique materials from an institution. The author presents the TOCs for an ETD title. It also provide a way to estimate costs for institutions planning to start ETD collections.
The Intellectual Link Between Management Research and Popularization Media: A Bibliometric Analysis of the<i>Harvard Business Review</i> Our findings suggest that this magazine's role differs significantly from the traditional view of popularization. According to our results, the HBR is not only a widely quoted scientific source, but it also has a significant impact on the scientific discourse in management research.
A webometric analysis of online health information: sponsorship, platform type and link structures The demonstrated method can be used by organisations to discern the characteristics of the online information landscape in which they operate and to inform their business strategies.
Lotka's Law and Authorship Distribution in the Journal of ‘Columbia Law Review’ In all the three tests, it is found that Lotka's Law holds good.
Geography of Hyperlinks—Spatial Dimensions of Local Government Websites In general, it can be said that the scope of actual influence (the actual area of activity) defined by a county's administrative borders coincided with its area in cyberspace deter-mined by the connections between Internet hyperlinks.
A method to assess individual research outputs What we have attempted to do in this paper is to introduce a simple metric, which is based on the use of readily available data, to categorise individual papers. The procedure is formulated as an IF/citation combination.
Limiter une requête Medline/PubMed aux articles publiés dans les revues les plus citées de chaque discipline The feasibility study to apply a new filter based on the relative impact factor on any Medline/PubMed query was positive.
Visualization and quantitative study in bibliographic databases: A case in the field of university–industry cooperation "Virtualization study in bibliographic databases can provide us the performance and trends in certain fields. Maps contain much more information than words or data."
Measures for bibliometric size, impact, and concentration The h-index, the g-index, and other h-type indices are actually heuristic constructions that try to condense P, i, and η into a single number that has the same dimensions as the number of papers P (Prathap, 2012).
Accuracy of impact factors in tourism journals Drawing on the findings of this study, Thomson Reuters could, and probably should, publish their categorization approach to make their IFs more credible. Thus, administrators and researchers in tourism should not rely solely on IFs to judge the quality of journals. The findings of this study show that IFs should be used with caution.
The Application of the CERIF Data Format to Snowball Metrics The CERIFication of Snowball Metrics is expected to facilitate the endorsement of these recipes as global standards.
Rejecting Editorial Rejections Revisited: Are Editors of Ecological Journals Good Oracles? In sum, our evidence strongly opposes the belief that editors are able to make an accurate decision about the overall quality of manuscripts without considering the critical analysis of external reviewers.
Publishing Patterns of Top Molecular and Cellular Biologists in Subscription Model versus Open Access Journals, 2011–2013 Authors in this study tended to go back again and again to where their best papers have been most cited or to their closest “branded" journals relatives. This was clearest in Cell, Science, and Nature. OA is here to stay, and given funding agency mandates, must inevitably increase its share of author output.
Analysis of scientific research structure in Singapore using bibliometrics and network analysis for understanding their characteristics of R&amp;amp;D: A case study of biomedicai field The purpose of this research is to participate in inventing a new methodology to satisfy the increasing demand for accurate measurement of the effectiveness of policies. Firstly, the publication record of Singapore suggests that the impact of Singapore in the biomedical field is smaller than that of South Korea and Taiwan in terms of the number of publications. Secondly, looking at betweenness centrality and closeness centrality, it is implied that Singapore has significance in the biomedical field, judging from the fact of their relatively high betweenness and closeness centrality.
Citation Analysis as a Tool for Collection Development and Instruction The study was moderately helpful with its original goal of showing how the library could improve its collection.
A scientometrics and social network analysis of Malaysian research in physics The empirical analysis in this present work shed some light on Malaysian research in physics, and other sub-disciplines of physics, over the last three decades. It has also been shown that there has been a substantial growth and change in both publication output and co-authorship network over time. There is still much to learn about Malaysian research as a whole.
La evaluación del factor de impacto individual de investigadores y centros de investigación utilizando el algoritmo RC This could be useful for channelling budgets and grants for research.
“Undemocracy”: inequalities in science In the long run, resources and rewards must be allocated so that in-equality, although incentivizing scientists to make important scientific discoveries, is properly managed and controlled.
Consistent Annual Citations based Researcher Index Discussions show the importance of the proposed idea for researcher indexing.
Motivation Behind Researchers’ Participation in Formal Networking Research Projects Funded by the European Union This paper is one of the first empirical attempts to understand the very motives behind researchers' decision to participate in a specific kind of funded collaborative research—formal networking research projects.
A ten year analysis of dissertation bibliographies from the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Rutgers University What this study has shown conclusively is that the monograph is still king when it comes to doctoral research in Spanish and Portuguese at Rutgers University, whether the research is in the social sciences or in the humanities. This has important implications for budget allocations, acquisitions patterns, services to graduate students, liaison relationships, as well as predicting the citation patterns of the teaching faculty. In an environment of falling budgets, filling in gaps within the monograph collection would appear to be a more user-responsive decision than acquiring backfile journal packages.
Modelling science as a contribution good The 'contribution good' specification suggests several areas for further research in the new economics of science and provides a modified analytical framework for approaching public policy.
Open Access Journals in Communication Studies: Indexing in Five Commercial Databases A significant portion (32 percent) of the OA journals identified in this study was found to be indexed within the five databases targeted.
Barriers to research from the perspective of faculty members of knowledge and information science: a case study of Public Universities in Tehran According to these findings it can be concluded that faculty members of knowledge and information science of public universities in Tehran are interested in research and they have sufficient motivation and ability to do research and if external-organization barriers were removed we can expect more scientific products from them. Therefore, foreign scientific institutions and organizations should support scientific-research activities and pave the way for development of the society. In this regard, it is recommended that universities expand their external relations and communicate to other information centers, share resources with other universities, support research projects and help implementation at the nation level, building coalitions and professional associations to support researchers in the country that can be effective in this regard.
Positive new data for scientific impact of the Revue de Micropaléontologie Comparison of the two metrics shows a contradictory trend for years 2010 and 2011, yet both indicate a good scientific impact, influence, or prestige of the journal in the academic community for 2012. While there is certainly a debate over ranking methods, the increasing readership of the Revue is undoubtedly good news for the journal's editorial team and above all its contributors.
The role of handbooks in knowledge creation and diffusion: A case of science and technology studies This study has confirmed, using quantitative methods, the differentiation in science and technology studies along method-ological lines into qualitative and quantitative STS.
A generalized view of self-citation: Direct, co-author, collaborative, and coercive induced self-citation We need more empirical studies to dissect the impact of different types of inappropriate self-citation and to examine the effectiveness of interventions to limit them.
Nanotechnology knowledge diffusion: measuring the impact of the research networking and a strategy for improvement This experimental study showed that the network structural holes (SH) and higher degree centrality (DC) measures best correlated with knowledge diffu-sion in these five large institutions.
Food policy in cyberspace: A webometric analysis of national food clusters in South Korea This study analyzes innovation and its process by considering online interactions surrounding Foodpolis.kr.
Identifying the evolutionary process of emerging technologies: A chronological network analysis of World Wide Web conference sessions The chronological networks of conference sessions, obtained from WWW conferences from 2002 to 2011, visualized S&T streams composed of session sequences, which can be applied to scientific publication analysis for the roadmapping process.
Structuring papers for success: Making your paper more like a high impact publication than a desk reject This editorial illustrates differences in paper structure between high-impact and desk-rejected papers. While a good structure does not make a good paper, the papers with a high impact tend to have a different structure. The emphasis of the high impact papers is on the literature review – setting the context that the problem sits within and the discussion exploring the theoretical and practical implications of the research and how it makes a novel contribution to the existing knowledge base.
Assessing the impact of JIBS as an interdisciplinary journal: A network approach Our results suggest that JIBS is increasingly acting as an intermediary for other journals in the related social and behavioral sciences, and that there has been an improvement in its position as a communication facilitator. This finding suggests that IB scholars are combining knowledge from dissimilar disciplines in novel ways to contribute to IB theory. An alternative approach to employ in future research would be to use the community detection algorithms for networks to find clusters of journals based on their citation network and to reveal the different roles that journals take in the emerging structure.
Theses and dissertations in institutional repositories: an Asian perspective ETD system is growing fast in some Asian countries like India, Japan, China and Taiwan, but other countries are lagging behind. However, the number of universities having e-theses repositories is meager considering the large number of quality academic and research institutions across Asian countries. Most e-theses repositories cover science and technology; very few are devoted to social sciences, arts and humanities.
Bibliometric analysis of <i>African Journal Of Library</i>, <i>Archives and Information Science</i> from 2000-2012 The results have also shown that AJLAIS has been able to successfully represent the literature of library, archives and information as a whole to a very comprehensive level where it has been understood with ease. It is recommended that further studies should focus on analysing journals that are published in the field of librarianship in Africa, as it will create more awareness of the field of study within other professionals or researchers who are yet to know about it. This study recommends that those who intend to carry out further research in the field of bibliometrics should do so, with a lot of dedication of both time and funds.
Iranian scientific associations’ websites in the field of Humanities: A Webometric study The results of this research demonstrate the situation of IRANIAN SCIENTIFIC ASSO-CIATIONS' websites in Humanities. Research results showed that the websites of Iranian Social Psychology Association, having received 918 incoming link, possesses the most links from other websites. Finally as a suggestion the extent of these websites colinks can be compared with the websites of associations in Engineering and Science Area in order to determina-tion of the extent of interaction between these two set of websites through the mutual links.
Total availability of journal articles to Internet users What this study reveals is that for the casual Internet user or non-affiliated researcher, around 35 per cent of the peer-reviewed literature is freely available, with this figure falling to <30 per cent for recently published work.
Research Output of University College of Medical Science, University of Delhi: A Bibliometric Study This study will assist in under-standing the research pattern of UCMS in the field of medical science. The researchers are preferred Indian journals as core medium to publish their research output in medical sciences. Overall degree of collaboration and average collaborative coefficient are found 0.92 and 0.64 respectively which indicate high trend of collaborative research among researchers.
Automatic Websites Classification and Retrieval using Websites Communication Signatures In this paper we propose a new approach for fully automatizing websites classification using features mainly extracted from websites navigation menus in combination with a recent neural clustering method based on feature maximization instead of usual distance.
Journal benchmarking for strategic publication management and for improving journal positioning in the world ranking systems The paper deals with journal benchmarking for strategic publication management and for the improvement of journal positioning in the world ranking systems. This method includes building up the journal scoreboard and equations of regression, and there are no restrictions for subject areas. Seven strategies for improving the IF of national journals were suggested and six levels of journal benchmarking were identified.
Measuring the quantity and quality of scholarly productivity in criminology and criminal justice: a test of three integrated models Use of these models to assess scholarly productivity in criminology, criminal justice, and other fields may be warranted.
Assessing the Impact of the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Research Collaborations Studying research collaborations by analyzing paper coauthorships is a useful way to demonstrate the impact of an institution and the breadth of its work.
Playing the Citations Game: From Publish or Perish to be Cited or Sidelined The aim of this paper is to review the nature of citations from the perspective of a marketer. However, if we assume that citation counts and metrics will continue to be used by our peers, what can an academic do to make the most of, or at least limit the damage done by these bibliometric indices? Until universities, research evaluation groups and funding bodies declare which benchmarks they deem appropriate (Butler, 2008) individuals have ample scope to craft their own comparators. Hence, they should be able to craft a story around their citation metrics that presents their research in its best light.
Ranking of Journals in Science and Technology Domain: A Novel and Computationally Lightweight Approach The results show that error is minimal.
Business Faculty's Attitudes: Open Access, Disciplinary Repositories, and Institutional Repositories Although many universities are creating IRs and DRs and passing policies to require their faculty to submit their published work to their IR, business faculty remain largely unaware that IRs exist and very few submit their work to an IR or DR.
Performance and visibility of Indian Research Institutions on the web The present webometric study examines the performance of Indian research Institutions' websites investigating their visibility, traffic ranks, links and time on site and page ranks.
Supporting 'future research leaders' in Sweden: Institutional isomorphism and inadvertent funding agglomeration Underpinning the argument in this article is the recurrently conveyed observation that the Swedish science funding system is pluralist and diverse, with a lack of coordination between different bodies and agencies.
Change in classification level and the effects on research productivity and merit scores for faculty in a school of education Through this study, it is not known why research and grant productivity was not more affected by the change in Carnegie classification or the administrators raising their expectations.
A Current Snapshot of Institutional Repositories: Growth Rate, Disciplinary Content and Faculty Contributions Though IR growth rate has increased, the growth is not consistent across all IRs and does not yet pose a challenge to traditional models of scholarly publication. The rising amount of faculty content in IRs indicates faculty are increasingly willing to participate in the IR movement. However, faculty involvement may be more passive than active.
Study on Webometric Ranks of Sri Lankan State Universities The conclusion of the study is that Sri Lankan universities should reinforce their Web policies and improve Web site content while encouraging the Web engagement of potential contributors from the university staff by strengthening their Web publishing skills. The findings of this research can contribute to knowledge on the ways and means of achieving better Webometric rankings. In particular, this study has shown that the the overall success of Web-based ranking is dependent upon the visibility and activity of the university.
A Comparison of Research Output Counting Methods Using a National CRIS – Effects at the Institutional Level We established the counts of articles of a whole country using four different counting methods across a two-level organizational hierarchy. We have observed that the fractional counting method (F) and its modification that takes external authors into account with a weight of one half (R2) are very similar in both levels. The whole counting method (W) differs from the other methods we studied.
The preferences of authors of Chinese library and information science journal articles in citing Internet sources There has been an accelerated increase in the citation of Internet sources as supporting evidence in Chinese LIS research in the past two decades. It is essential for LIS researchers to practice sound research methodology by placing greater emphasis on the quality of the sources which they cite. The development of criteria and standardized guidelines would help researchers, journal editors, students, and librarians identify, access, and cite information on the Internet properly.
Analytical study of the ETD repositories and government initiatives for depositing ETDs in India The study of almost all the Indian ETD repositories reveal that still Indian universities and Librarians are engaged in the retro-conversion of the theses piled up in the libraries, many of the universities have digitized the theses as old as 1940s-1950s which might not have much relevance in current research.
Designing the Greek Citation Index in the humanities and the social sciences (GCI – H&amp;SS) Based on the findings of the preliminary research, the initial scope and goals of the index became more definite and precise.
Altmetrics as a means of assessing scholarly output It is possible for researchers to spend their time being extremely productive and positively impacting progress in their field without producing formally recognized outputs.
The Impact of Multi-Authored Papers: The Case of a Small Country CMS collaboration strongly influences the co-authorship geography of small countries. On an average, it affects the overall picture by about 44%. It affects not only very small and less productive countries but also productive countries.
Tweets vs. Mendeley readers: How do these two social media metrics differ? The comparison of citations with Mendeley reader counts and tweets provides empirical evidence that these three measures are indicators of different types of impact and on different social groups.
Characteristics and Longevity of Electronic Citations in Four Leading Biomedical Journals in Spain Electronic citations are increasingly used in some Spanish biomedical journals. Access to electronic citations is lost over time, and the probability of its retrieval is associated with the existence of additional information.
The first three years of the Journal of Global Health: Assessing the impact The current citation analysis raises favourable expectations for the JoGH's overall impact on the global health community in future years. Can we be satisfied with our impact to date? The numbers above are certainly encouraging. We are looking forward to further similar collaborations, as a growing evidence of our journal's increasing impact in global health research community.
Measuring the Quality of Contributions of Saudi Authors to LIS Journals Using Journal Impact Factor (JIF), SCImago Journal Rank (SJR), and Google Scholar Metrics (GSM) This study is expected to bring awareness to Saudi authors about the need to assess the quality of their previous work and target ranked journals for future submissions. The Saudi Library Association should play its role in getting the academic status to those librarians who meet the requirements for academic positions, including publications in JIF-ranked journals. The problem is also with the LIS curricula, which are conventional and outdated and do not reflect the current developments in information and communication technology (ICT) applications in libraries.
Assessment of scientific visibility of Estonia on web: a study The study showed a way to compare scientific power of CEE countries using webo-metrics method. So is found that there is a correlation between rankings of CEE countries based on Rich Files and ranking of CEE countries based on scientific documents in Scopus. Based on this method Germany, Poland and Czech Republic are First Class to the third, Estonia ranked tenth.
Achieving Quality in Research through Stimulated Publication Technique The strategy discussed on how to maximize journal publication to others researchers to practically use it. The more quality and quantity of publication published, the more cited will get from peer review the article.
Weighted Consensus Index for Assessment of The Scientific Performance of Researchers Experimental results on two citation data demonstrate that the weighted index may serve as a supplement to h-index and its variants to better draw the evaluation results.
SOCIAL NETWORK ANALYSIS OF THE ISPIM INNOVATION MANAGEMENT COMMUNITY IN 2009–2011 Overall, the results help to uncover the underlying structure of the scholarly network behind ISPIM, which helps to better understand the key contributors and their networks, and also the development points and promising research collaboration opportunities. Overall, the results reveal the network structure in the co-authorship network, which shows that the ISPIM network is constructed from multiple sub-networks with one or several key actors in a central network positions, and from a large number of isolated co-authorship pairs or groups. Thus, the results call for further and stronger international collaboration among the innovation management scholars of ISPIM and beyond.
JUST HOW GOOD ARE THE TOP THREE JOURNALS IN FINANCE? AN ASSESSMENT BASED ON QUANTITY AND QUALITY CITATIONS The paper evaluated the ranking of academic journal quality and research impact using the Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science (2013) citations database (hereafter ISI) for the "Business-Finance" category.
Bibilometrics Services and the Academic Library: Meeting the Emerging Needs of the Campus Community In the context of the growing emphasis on research assessment and the resultant rise of bibliometrics, academic libraries have an important role to play.As our local ex-ample shows, smaller-scale initiatives may also be effective in addressing the bibliometric needs of faculty and administrators.Our involvement in bibliometrics has asserted our professional expertise and demonstrated the library’s value to the college.
How many athletes qualified for the London Olympic Games? The definition of the size rule used by NOCs immediately brings to one's mind an analogy with the h-index (Hirsch, 2005).
New technology in the region – agglomeration and absorptive capacity effects on laser technology research in West Germany, 1960–2005 Following realization of the first workable laser in the USA in 1960, the new technology was adopted almost immediately in Germany. This study provides many important insights, but it must be remembered that the empirical evidence is limited to a certain technological field and thus the findings here may not be generalizable to other technological fields. Laser technology is science-based, meaning that analytical knowledge (Asheim and Gertler 2005) plays an important role in its inception and development.
Visibility and Citation Impact This empirical study has shown that although a paper may not be written and published in a high quality manner and journal, it is still possible for the paper to acquire adequate citations and world-wide recognition. Once a paper visibility increases, the citation will be increased at a significant rate. The results of the study indicate that self- archiving of the articles will greatly improve the visibility and citation impact of the articles.
Equality of Google Scholar with Web of Science Citations: Case of Malaysian Engineering Highly Cited Papers Therefore, the offered equation can be used as a reference to convert the number of Google Scholar citations to ISI citations. On the other hand, the number of versions of both systems has a significant positive effect on the number of citations. Future study is needed to determine the relationship between citation counts on the other databases such as Microsoft Academic Research, Scopus, SiteSeer index and ISI by considering journal article and conference papers.
Comments on the paper of J. M. Campanario: The effect of citations on the significance of decimal places in the computation of journal impact factors We show that CIF+1 = CIF_1 = 1/P and that lim CIF+1,n = lim CIF−1,n = 1/P.
Opening the Black Box: The Social Outcomes of Scientific Research Given the profound implications of science and technology, there is no way to divorce philosophy from policy.
Motivating and inhibiting factors of scientific collaboration of faculty members in Shahid Chamran University and Jundishapur Medical Sciences University in Ahvaz-Iran Identification of motivating and inhibiting factors can cause enhancing motivations and eliminate obstacles.
All That Glisters: Investigating Collective Funding Mechanisms for Gold Open Access in Humanities Disciplines The project is currently working towards sustainability and launch.
Emperor’s New Clothes The higher education industry has come to be obsessed with league tables of just about anything that can be ranked individuals, papers, journals, departments, universities, whole nations. The peer review of practice is also incompatible with the management dogma of modern higher education. It is in all our interests that peer review be questioned, which means surrendering the comfort offered by the peer review of myth and facing up to the peer review of practice.
Scientists' commitment to underperforming research projects: linking past success and the social environment The findings of this study advance the current theoretical understanding of (1) the role of the social environment in decision makers' commitment to failing projects, (2) interactions of different factors in these commitment decisions, (3) decision making in a research and innovation context, and (4) the inter-play of different organizational levels in research and innovation processes.
Assessing urology and nephrology research activity in Arab countries using ISI web of science bibliometric database The present data show promising and relatively good urology/nephrology research productivity from Arab coun-tries especially in the last decade.
The Characteristics of Quality Scholarly Submissions While there does not seem to be a magic feather that predicts manuscript success, two of our findings suggest that seeking outside expertise when developing a team of authors, and frequent electronic communication with those authors, might have a positive effect on the assessed quality of the manuscript. On the basis of these findings, we recommend certain practices when developing a team of authors and conducting research together.
The Chrysalis Effect Our conclusion is that the published literature overestimates the predictive accuracy of management science and reflects a form of publication bias referred to as the Chrysalis Effect.
Is professional recognition in plastic surgery related to activity in research The results demonstrate that the Brazilian Society of Plastic Surgery seeking professionals with a greater number of publications and journals of higher impact. This approach encourages new members to pursue a higher qualification, and give security to congressmen, they can rely on the existence of a technical criterion in the choice of speakers.
Global research status in leading nuclear science and technology journals during 2001-2010 In this study, we offered a further assessment of global research orientations towards NST publications by summarising the collaboration patterns, subject categories and journals and geographical and organisational distribution. To summarise, knowledge of the highest impact and productive journals in NST could be of paramount importance to authors, readers and research institutions, particularly libraries. Finally, this study will be informative for policymakers, journal editors and those interested in the progression of the NST research field.
In Defiance of Folly: Journal rankings, mindless measures and the ABS Guide Consequently, we urge its withdrawal. Failing that, we suggest that it should be ignored by business schools, and regarded as a quaint but dangerous experiment that it would be wise to consign to our past.
Delay and secrecy: does industry sponsorship jeopardize disclosure of academic research? This analysis finds that industry sponsorship is associated with changes in the disclosure behavior of academic researchers. Our data on German academic researchers supports the perspective that industry sponsorship jeopardizes public disclosure of academic research. The challenge facing policymakers is to gauge the impact of disclosure restrictions on the quantity, quality, and evolution of academic research to better understand how these restrictions may ultimately influence innovation and economic growth.
Relationship among Economic Growth, Internet Usage and Publication Productivity: Comparison among ASEAN and World’s Best Countries In conclusion, international collaboration between academic institutes and researchers is influenced by economic growth and access to internet in the countries.
Local Citation Analysis of National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health Grant Applications: Meeting the Needs of Researchers Overall, the authors found that citation analysis provides substantial evidence that the KU Libraries’ collection provides the necessary support for science and medical researchers at the University of Kansas. By way of the foregoing data and observations, the authors were able to satisfactorily address each of the eight questions the study intended to probe, as outlined in the introduction. The data that was collected can be used in the future to compare data collected in five to ten years to see if publishing patterns change over time and to assess to see that KU Libraries continue to serve the needs of successful grant writers at KU.
Research evaluation and the assessment of public value I will conclude this paper by arguing that, as the roles of evaluation are themselves linked with different research methods, the A&H yield themselves more easily to a specific type of evaluations: those pursuing an improvement goal.
Management or Productivity: A Scientometric Analysis on the Role of Presidents of 6 Universities From the results of 6 universities and 18 presidents from U.S. and P.R.C., we can find that the number and citation of publications has the steadily increase and working as a University President hardly influences the publications of science and technology in U.S.
Weighted in‐text citations and research impact patterns: A case study of library and information science We compared author rankings by different frequency-weighted citation counting methods, and extended the concept of re-citation analysis to include the analysis of patterns of authors’ being re-cited in individual articles.
Scientific Productivity and Idea Acceptance in Nobel Laureates Although further research is required in order to gain a more complete understanding of how creative idea acceptance occurs over time, our findings indicate that creative idea acceptance varies over the Nobel laureates' Nobel idea publishing careers.
Economic Growth and Internet Usage Impact on Publication Productivity among ASEAN’s and World’s Best Universities In summary, publication trends in top ten Malaysian and ASEAN universities are promising.
Exploring alternativity of institutional repositories to subscription resources based on users’ accesses log This work explores the satisfaction or alternative of open-access institutional repositories for NTU users' accesses to subscription resources.
A Comparison of the Impact Factor and the SCImago Journal Rank Index in Respiratory System Journals Our data reveal that use of the SJR index does not significantly change the classification of respiratory system journals compared to the IF.
Institutional Repository Literature: A Bibliometric Analysis The development and maturity of institutional repositories during the past decade occurred because of a need for institutions to better manage their collections and information assets, as well as to retain the knowledge held in these collections.
Assessing the scientific research productivity of a leading toxicology journal: A case study of <i>Human &amp; Experimental Toxicology</i> from 2003 to 2012 The documents in HET focus principally on original data, with very few review articles.
Analysis of Development and Research Trends of Aerospace Engineering Based on CiteSpaceII By CiteSpaceII, co-occurrence network of institutions of aerospace engineering was drawn. It demonstrates that there are many institutions in the aerospace engineering field but very little collaboration with other institutions. Harbin Institute of Technology, BeiHang University, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and Tsinghua University has some collaboration with each other. By CiteSpaceII, network of research fronts and intellectual base of aerospace engineering was drawn. Hypersonic inlet and tangent orbit have been both research fronts of national aerospace engineering since 2000.
Are sciences essential and humanities elective? Disentangling competing claims for humanities’ research public value We argue that debates about public research value should recognise that humanities have different (but equally valid) kinds of societal value.
Integrating Knowledge and Science indicators (Kientometrics) towards a rational framework of investigations: A comparative approach Findings of this research will contribute sciento- metrics community with a conceptual framework which has been exam- ined in real world.
INCORPORATING NETWORK ANALYSIS INTO EVALUATION OF 'BIG SCIENCE' PROJECTS: AN ASSESSMENT OF THE CANADIAN LIGHT SOURCE SYNCHROTRON The study concludes that the CLS has generated a large and growing scholarly community; at the core of the network is a group of highly linked and engaged scholars who have the aptitude and experience to extend their research results into application and use. Our preliminary results suggest that understanding this part of the scientific process could offer important insights and opportunities for management. This study provides an important first step in what could be valuable, long-term, longitudinal analysis exploring the relationship between collaborative efforts amongst scholars and key outputs and outcomes (immediate, intermediate, and long-term) and the role of big science investments such as the CLS in that process.
The Barriers and Solutions for group work and scientific cooperation in Iran "When individuals share in research with each other, their achievements will be im-proved both in terms of quantity and quality."
Measuring and Analyzing the Scholarly Impact of Experimental Evaluation Initiatives In this work we present a general framework for modeling the experimental data and their relationships with scientific contributions.
Assessing the Scientific Research Productivity of the Palestinian Higher Education Institutions The finding of this study is an actual presentation of “Publish or Perish” strategy in the world of academia.
Journal publication productivity of women scientists at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, India Overall analysis shows that 634 BARC women scientists, who are 16% of the total number of scientists (both BARC men and women), on an average 36% women scientists, have contributed (all the women scientists contributing to a paper have been credited with a paper) in comparison with BARC men scientists.
A literature for all conservationists, everywhere? Surely we need a literature for all conservationists, everywhere, written, read and utilized by researchers and practitioners wherever they may live and work?
The file drawer is full. Should we worry? They find that only 10 out of 48 null results were published, whereas 56 out of 91 studies with strongly significant results made it into a journal.
A study of chinese culture consumption based on co-words analysis and social network Through the study of the research hotspots of Chinese cultural consumption, the point of strength of developing Chinese cultural consumption can be found and the deep economic value and social value of cultural consumption can be excavated.
Like Doktorvater, like Son? Tracing Role Model Learning in the Evolution of German Laser Research Overall our results are consistent with a sub- stantial relevance of non-codified knowledge and role model learning in public research.
Study finds women are under-represented in journals Although the lower overall number of female scientists partly accounts for the disparity in publication output, it fails to explain the lower citation rates and differences in collaborations that the researchers observed. "This research should encourage investigations of the factors responsible and what we can do to eliminate them," says Sugimoto. "By highlighting the specific ways gender biases occur, studies like this make it possible for us as individuals to counteract the inherent biases that we, men and women alike, all have," says Shaw.
SAD effects on grantsmanship If the effects are similar and there is no reason to think that they would not be - granting agencies should consider set- ting the submission and evaluation dates for innovative and high-risk com- petitions so they do not coincide with the SAD months.
Electronic Theses and Dissertations and Institutional Repositories: Roadmap to Research Visibility in Africa The study revealed that a good number of university libraries have already adopted ETDs in their IRs; many universities in Africa have made it mandatory for their graduate students to submit their theses and dissertations in electronic form.
Characterization of the Peer Review Network at the Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health Such studies support the creation of monitoring tools and provide transparency and knowledge to stakeholders.
Scientometrics: untangling the topics Two consequences of the dominance of small article groups are that (i) a keyword-based comparison of articles with thematically similar others keeps statistical errors high (with all analyzed keyword schemes) and (ii) these errors propagate from ALMs to all other metrics.
Identification of Core Journals and Analysis of Collaboration Networks Among Researchers in Ibero America The authors conclude that a careful revision and improvement of the requirements that editors and journals require of their authors is of paramount importance for emerging online electronic libraries such as Redalyc.
Rank Advancement in Academia: What are the Roles of Postdoctoral Training? The findings sug-gest that postdoctoral training does not assist scientists to climb the career ladder faster nor help them to secure better appointments in the prestige hierarchy once they land tenure-track appointments. Scientists' career success proves to be shaped by two important fac-tors: research productivity and organizational contexts. Providing more clearly specified policies and prac-tices on campuses seems to be an effective means to mitigate the con-cern over female underrepresentation in academia, especially on the se-nior level.
Institutional Conflict of Interest: The Role of Interlocking Directorates in the Scientific Relationships between Universities and the Corporate Sector Shared patenting strategies may capture only a segment of the ways in which such conflicts are manifest, but they are nonetheless important because they constitute an important basis of strategic interorganizational coordination in an era of science with only limited barriers between basic and applied research.
Chinese universities economic research output 2000-2010 The main field of China's research output has been econometrics. A comparison with some other leading Asian countries suggested that the growth in Chinese output has brought it on a par with the levels being achieved by countries like Japan and South Korea. Thus, Chinese institutions do not appear to rely on star performers to the extent that has been noted in countries like Australia.
English language usage pattern in China mainland doctors: AME survey-001 initial analysis results This limited survey shows Mainland Chinese doctors are more likely to use Chinese medical materials. Overall their familiarity with international English journals is relatively low.
Systematic inequality and hierarchy in faculty hiring networks These results demonstrate the enormous role of institutional prestige in shaping faculty hiring across academe, both for institutions and for individuals seeking faculty positions.
Multinational teams and diseconomies of scale in collaborative research Our analyses highlight the evolution and functional impact of team dynamics in research and suggest empirical strategies to evaluate team science. Our results highlight the differential effects of knowledge production strategies by demonstrating that greater personnel or human capital investments by foreign countries may lead to highly cited works. Our study also advocates the establishment of evidence-based measures to evaluate and guide team science, which has been hitherto widely promoted and directed in research policies largely based on anecdotal expectations.
Transitions in urban water management and patterns of international, interdisciplinary and intersectoral collaboration in urban water science We find that there exist cross-boundary interactions in the professional community of UWS that are associated with a transition.
Research Misconduct Definitions Adopted by U.S. Research Institutions The most important finding of our study is that more than half (59%) of the institutions in our sample had misconduct policies that went beyond FFP. A second important finding of our study is that there is considerable variation in the misconduct policies of the institutions we examined. Additional research, such as interviews with institutional officials and researchers, could provide some insight into these issues, and we encourage others to address these questions.
Problems with Traditional Science Publishing and Finding a Wider Niche for Post-Publication Peer Review We echo this call: scientists must lead the way by placing pressure on peers, editors, EICs, and publishers to change and to see the advantages of PPPR and correcting the scientific record (Pöschl, 2012), and to convince publishers to provide a suitable platform for more transparent, honest, and unbiased TPR or face the ultimate negative con-sequence: abandonment of their journals by the peer pool as a result of a loss in confidence.
DO ABCs GET MORE CITATIONS THAN XYZs? Using a large sample from WoS, this study finds that articles with first authors whose surname initials come earlier in the alphabet are more likely to be cited, and are cited more frequently, and that the relation between surname initials and citations does not exist for the second- or last-author position.
Research productivity patterns in the organizational behavior and human resource management literature Our results present strong evidence that there indeed exists a very distinct empirical regularity in the bibliometric distribution patterns in the OB and HRM literature. Our findings show that the degree of authorship concentrations – thus, the extent of the phenomenon of ‘cumulative advantage’ in publication process – in the leading OB and HRM journals is quite comparable to those observed in the leading journals of other related business management disciplines like economics, finance, and accounting. A natural future extension would be to investigate the question: What drives differences in such bibliometric patterns and authorship concentrations across different academic disciplines and their leading journals?
The Joy of Science: Disciplinary Diversity in Emotional Accounts By joining correspondence analysis and qualitative analysis, we were able to assess the axes along which disciplines vary in their patterns of emo- tional expression.
Studies in Higher Education 1976-2013: a retrospective using citation network analysis This paper has provided a citation network analysis of the entire history of publications from one journal: SHE. The analysis has revealed its most published author, most cited author and most cited keywords. Further work using citation network analysis tools, by compar- ing and contrasting the output of a number of journals in the field of Higher Education, would be illuminating in indicating research trends in the sector as a whole.
Bibliometric analysis of global environmental assessment research in a 20-year period Our analysis indicated that an author keywords analysis was an ef-fective approach for mapping global EA research published during the period from 1993 to 2012.
Trends in Performance Indicators of Neuroimaging Anatomy Research Publications: A Bibliometric Study of Major Neuroradiology Journal Output Over Four Decades Based on Web of Science Database Bibliometric analysis suggests that anatomical research in neuroradiology is not languishing.
Social Impact of Scholarly Articles in a Citation Network The use of game theory to attack the problem of the measurement of the social impact of a scholarly manuscript in a citation network provides a rigorous mathematical treatment for the network approach to citation analysis. This mathematical model allows the exact calculation of the social impact value.
The Triple Helix and International Collaboration in Science The findings did not provide evidence supporting the institutional proximity argument.
A Classifier to Determine Which Wikipedia Biographies Will Be Accepted This study presents a simple method to predict if an article will be accepted or rejected by the Wikipedia community with nearly 97% AUC by using nine indicators.
Fate of Manuscripts Rejected From the Red Journal The acceptance rate for manuscripts submitted to the IJROBP is approximately one-third, and approximately 70% of rejected manuscripts are ultimately published in other PubMed-listed journals, but these ultimate-destination journals usually have a lower impact factor, leading to fewer citations and overall visibility.
A Bibliometric Analysis of US-Based Research on the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System Bibliometrics can help identify the most frequently published BRFSS-related topics, publishing journals, and publishing institutions. BRFSS data are widely used, particularly by CDC and academic institutions such as the University of Washington and other universities hosting top-ranked schools of public health. Bibliometric analysis and mapping provides an innovative way of quantifying and visualizing the plethora of research conducted using BRFSS data and summarizing the contribution of this surveillance system to public health.
Towards a consolidation of worldwide journal rankings - A classification using random forests and aggregate rating via data envelopment analysis Our position is that, if journal rankings are here to stay, we better pursue a rigorous perspective based on state-of-the-art methodologies that transcend the individual stakeholder interests in this contested field.
Activism, Legitimation, or Record: Towards a New Tripartite Typology of Academic Journals The article concludes with a discussion of the implications of these find-ings for the symbiotic relationship between the academy and scholarly publishing and argues that, in the digital age, this relationship is as important as ever.
The Future of Emerging Spanish Scientific Communication Journals In the next ten years, according to our panel of experts, RCECEs will play a key role as a complement to existing titles in the field of communications.
The Wage of Fame: How Non-Epistemic Motives Have Enabled the Phenomenal Success of Modern Science When describing science as a closed economy of atten-tion, where scientists invest their own attention in order to get the attention of others, we face an industry where a tendency towards efficiency organises itself. It even seems safe to say that we face a social organisation that tends to allocate the attention it disposes of efficiently.
Worldwide research productivity of paracetamol (acetaminophen) poisoning: A bibliometric analysis (2003-2012) Our study demonstrates evidence that research productivity related to paracetamol poisoning has increased rapidly during the recent years. The US obviously dominated in research productivity. However, certain smaller country such as Nigeria has high scientific output relative to their population size and GDP. A highly noticeable increase in the contributions of Asia-Pacific and Middle East regions to scientific literature related to paracetamol poisoning was also observed.
Citation Impact Scores of Top African American Scholars in Social Work Schools: The Story Behind the Data Future research calls for a more comprehensive knowledge of faculty research and scholarship activities overall, including unique subgroups of Social Work scholars such as African Americans.
An overview of fuzzy research with bibliometric indicators A general overview of fuzzy research using bibliometric techniques has been presented.
Will Open Access Get Me Cited? An Analysis of the Efficacy of Open Access Publishing in Political Science Our results have implications not only for authors but also for institutions and publishers.
The Changing Face of BECT: A Citation Analysis Covering 1966-2009 Over the period of 1966–2009 BECT has maintained a consistent level of impact as measured through citation analysis of its top-cited papers.
Alternative bibliometrics from impact factor improved the esteem of a journal in a 2-year-ahead annual-citation calculation: multivariate analysis of gastroenterology and hepatology journals The Eigenfactor Score and Cited Half-life predictors might be the new standards to assess the influence and importance of scientific journals; this approach may help researchers select journals in which to publish their work. In conclusion, there is a misuse of IF alone to evaluate journals.
Ranking journals using the dominance hierarchy procedure: an illustration with IS journals Results indicate that there is evidence of linear hierarchy among the journals, as evidenced by the test-statistic and the p values across the 3 year period as well for each individual year.
Organizational factors influencing scholarly performance: a multivariate study of biomedical research groups The study shows what organizational strategies may help in optimizing performance in various dimensions. First of all, three variables have the clearest impact on performance: (1) Self-categorization of the group leader as a committed researcher who is heavily involved in the groups' research. (2) Not too large and relatively flat groups consisting of (mostly two) research leaders and many young researchers; (3) Networking. The obvious question is whether societal impact requires specific managerial, leadership and organizational arrangements, something we will address in a follow up study.
Uncovering the multidisciplinary nature of technology management: journal citation network analysis This study investigated the multidisciplinary nature of TM using journal citation network analysis.
Exploring alternative metrics of scholarly performance in the social sciences and humanities in Taiwan The results suggest the need to consider disciplinary differences when evaluating scholarly performance.
Early stage identification of breakthroughs at the interface of science and technology: lessons drawn from a landmark publication We conclude that the 'Novoselov paper' describes a 'charge' breakthrough, and propose indicators that can be extracted from bibliographic data, and can be used to assist in identifying potential breakthroughs at early stage.
Academic careers in Computer Science: continuance and transience of lifetime co-authorships Our study revealed that the 3,860 researchers collaborated with a sustained number of new co-authors throughout their careers.
Role of bilateral institution in influencing collaboration: case study of CEFIPRA-a bilateral S&T institution established by India and France The major objective of the paper was to show the role a bilateral organisation plays in strengthening collaborative research and innovation between two countries. The study supports this proposition with a caveat as highlighted in the discussion. CEFIPRA has been the fulcrum of the Indo-French STI partnership. It gave fillip to the research linkages between the two countries; created new opportunities and also exposed Indian and French researchers to the exciting possibilities that joint research can lead to.
What is the optimal number of researchers for social science research? The results suggest that it is a universal social science phenomenon, across time and discipline, that articles with at least two authors are likely to be, on average, more highly cited than articles with one author, and that the difference is likely to be substantial, for example, at least 50 %. Nevertheless, unlike the case for SCI articles, additional authors after the second have little effect in some disciplines, although they are advantageous in others. The findings indicate that policy makers should only encourage larger teams of researchers in some social science disciplines, since larger teams are not universally beneficial.
Analysis of quantitative and qualitative indicators of SEE countries scientific output The scientific performance of the 13 countries of the region of South East Europe has been analyzed based on two quantitative (number of publications per FTE researcher and RPA) and two qualitative indicators (the h index and top 1 % cited publications). Research presented in this paper gives information for making significant decisions regarding R&D in specific country or region. Based on the RPA indicator we can conclude that the degree of specialization in most SEE countries in the field of Social Sciences and Humanities is at very low level.
Ranking computer science conferences using self-organizing maps with dynamic node splitting The analysis of the dataset gave us some insights.
Embedded information structures and functions of co-authorship networks: evidence from cancer research collaboration in India Our analysis of the structures of the cancer research collaboration networks in India has revealed a number of interesting characteristics of the network.
X-centage: a Hirsch-inspired indicator for distributions of percentage-valued variables and its use for measuring heterodisciplinarity The present paper introduces two independent concepts. The first attempts reported here, however, suggest that using the X-centage indicator to measure reference heterodisciplinarity is a coherent procedure that may deserve further elaboration. Both concepts can be extended far beyond the limits of the present exercise.
How do collaborative features affect scientific output? Evidences from wind power field collaborative diversity and strength have positive effects on scientific output, while collaborative inertia has negative effects. Meanwhile, it is found that centrality and structural holes mediate the relationships between collaborative features and science performance. The findings have some important policy implications to scientific collaboration: (1) research institutions should actively participate in diverse collaborations; (2) rather than only collaborating with previous partners, they should seek more new partners; and (3) collaborative features are important antecedents of scientific networks.
Publish (in a group) or perish (alone): the trend from single- to multi-authorship in biological papers We lastly conclude that the number of SA papers in all subareas of biology in the coming years might continue decreasing and becoming rare, perhaps even to the point of extinction (to use a very common term in biology).
Comparative study on the obsolescence of humanities and social sciences in China: under the new situation of web The aging speed of seven disciplines in humanities and social sciences roughly follows: Management, Economics, Education, Law, Literature, Philosophy, History.
Interdisciplinarity of scientific fields and its evolution based on graph of project collaboration and co-authoring In this paper we have presented a new measure of interdisciplinarity based on Stirling's diversity index.
Topical connections between the institutions within an organisation (institutional co-authorships, direct citation links and co-citations) This study presents a proposal with which the topical connections of the institutions of an organization can be investigated through analysis of co-authorships, direct citation links, and co-citations.
Knowledge flow out of the domain of information science: a bibliometric and citation analysis study The present study conducts a bibliometric and citation analysis of journals citing four information science journals from 1998 to 2010.
Feature report on China: a bibliometric analysis of China-related articles Our analyses manifest that China has attracted increasing attention from the world in the past 48 years.
Analysing the conceptual evolution of qualitative marketing research through science mapping analysis The results made it possible to identify eight thematic areas that employ qualitative research in the field of marketing: Consumer behaviour, Supply chain management, Dynamic capabilities, Methodology, Media, Business to business marketing, International Marketing and Customer Satisfaction.
Medical theses and derivative articles: dissemination of contents and publication patterns This paper examined a range of issues related to derivative articles from medical theses, a subject that is, to our knowledge, currently under-investigated in the literature. We found that the Discussion section is highly predictive for identifying derivative articles based on text analysis. This analysis could have potential implications to assess the PhDs publications and provide insights into the scientific scope of theses as an important resource of information on the academic publications.
Improving the normalization effect of mean-based method from the perspective of optimization: optimization-based linear methods and their performance Based on these results, we conclude that mean-based method is acceptable for general field normalization, but in the face of higher demands on normalization effect, the weighted-optimization-based affine method may be a better choice.
Latin American scientific output in Public Health: combined analysis using bibliometric, socioeconomic and health indicators Latin American is increasing its presence in the international scientific community, but there are considerable differences among the countries.
Patents as instruments for exploring innovation dynamics: geographic and technological perspectives on "photovoltaic cells" The maps of patents in different dimensions are instrumental to understanding the complex dynamics of innovation by providing different projections of these dynamics.
The strength of strong ties: How co-authorship affect productivity of academic economists? This paper analyses the effects of the collaborative behaviour (co-authorship) of Italian academic economists on their scientific productivity.
Proof over promise: towards a more inclusive ranking of Dutch academics in Economics & Business However, we do argue that the hIa-index and the related CAY metric provide an important additional perspective over and above a ranking based purely on publications in high impact journals alone. Citation-based rankings are also shown to inject a higher level of diversity in terms of age, gender, discipline and academic affiliation and thus appear to be more inclusive of a wider range of scholarship.
What factors affect the visibility of Argentinean publications in humanities and social sciences in Scopus? Some evidence beyond the geographic realm of research These results could contribute to constructive reflection upon publishing policy. The existence of a community of journals that tolerates biased patterns may make researchers echo and perpetuate poor practices, constructing or adapting the channels of communication. Such results also prove useful as a point of reference when evaluation criteria are elaborated by scientific committees, as unsupervised promotion and evaluation patterns could become based on local or overly subjective precepts, disregarding the disciplinary practices of the international scientific community.
The dark side of open access in Google and Google Scholar: the case of Latin-American repositories "We conclude that neither Google nor Google Scholar accurately represent the actual size of OA content published by Latin American repositories; this may indicate a non-indexed, hidden side to OA, which could be limiting the dissemination and consumption of OA scholarly literature."
The implications of educational and methodological background for the career success of Nobel laureates: an investigation of major awards We observe that laureates with a theoretical orientation are able to acquire more awards than empirically oriented Nobelists. Having received the highest level of educational attainment from the US and Great Britain is beneficial for academic recognition. At the institutional level we find that laureates educated at the University of Cambridge and Harvard University generate more recognition than other laureates in Chemistry, while laureates educated in Columbia and Cambridge dominate in Physics.
Impact analysis of domestic and international research collaborations: a Malaysian case study Our analysis shows that Malaysian research at large benefits from both types of scientific collaborations in varying degrees: though a higher percentage of ISI articles in Malaysia is credited to domestic publications, international publications as a whole is attributed to higher annual citation counts and average citation values throughout the study period of 2000–2009.
Identifying the landscape of Alzheimer's disease research with network and content analysis "In the present study, we attempted to identify the current landscape of AD research."
Mapping the intellectual structure of scientometrics: a co-word analysis of the journal Scientometrics (2005-2010) Thus it can be concluded that during year 2005–2010 scientometrics has good number of established themes and new themes had emerged due to dynamic nature of the subjects. Scientometrics themes have well defined genealogies such as, Citation analysis, Author productivity, Bibliometric analysis and other appear to emanate from multiple preceding themes as, H-indicator, Co-citation map, and Co-citation link. Some topics emerge quickly with little evidence of ancestry as knowledge mapping, Back-link, Weak-tie, Bayesian analysis, Stochastic model and others.
World camel research: a scientometric assessment, 2003-2012 In all 3,089 papers were published on global camel research 2003–2012. Its publications has increased from 194 in 2003 to 487 in 2012, registering an annual average growth rate of 11.20 %.
Network analysis of Zentralblatt MATH data Through the results of our analysis of the ZB data from a time period 1990–2010 we conclude that mathematicians tend to work alone or in small groups.
An entropy-based social network community detecting method and its application to scientometrics In this paper, we present a novel network community detecting method based on the concept of entropy and validate the accuracy of the method through simulation analysis.
Comparative analysis of some individual bibliometric indices when applied to groups of researchers This paper performed a comparative analysis of some bibliometric indicators, including the h-index itself, fifteen of its variants and the highly cited publications indicator, confronting their results at different aggregative levels (individuals and groups), to identify those indicators that generate consistent rankings (i.e., that do not violate property P2). In this analytical example, all the fifteen h-index’s variants studied behaved consistently at different levels of aggregation; despite the occasional arise of incomparabilities. Moreover, the analysis corroborates the ranking consistency to the highly cited publications indicator when applied to different units of analysis, as claimed by Waltman and Van Eck (2012), and formally addressed in Marchant (2009b) and Bouyssou and Marchant (2014).
Exploring a prototype framework of web-based and peer-reviewed "European Educational Research Quality Indicators" (EERQI) A first conclusion then is that a prototype EERQI framework has been constructed.
The role of public funding in nanotechnology scientific production: Where Canada stands in comparison to the United States Regarding the influence of public funding on scientific production, the impact on the number of papers is overwhelmingly significant and positive in the United States, where both the number and the quality of publications increases as funding amount rises.
Patterns of text reuse in a scientific corpus It provides an important baseline for what is regarded as standard practice within the affected research communities, a standard somewhat more lenient than that currently applied to journalists, popular authors, and public figures. Adaptation to the recent dramatic changes in scholarly communications infrastructure will have significant implications for how the next generation of researchers is trained, and large-scale textual analysis will continue to provide a window into how their normative behavior evolves.
Nanotechnology researchers' collaboration relationships: A gender analysis of access to scientific information This article demonstrates that the underrepresentation of women in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics has an impact on the interpersonal processes of scientific collaboration, to the disadvantage of women scientists.
An increasing citation black hole in ecology and evolution Over the last two decades, there has been an increase in the number of citations published in OSM that are invisible to services used for citation counting. These findings pose a global issue and highlight that both individuals and journals are at a potential disadvantage by including citations in OSM. A solution to this problem is urgently required and could include journal indexing of citations in OSM or the inclusion of all citations in the bibliography of the main text, which would require the abolition of maximum bibliography limits.
Research quality evaluation: comparing citation counts considering bibliometric database errors This paper proposed a statistical methodology for the pair-wise comparison of citation counts, which takes into account the omitted citation database errors. In research quality evaluation this methodology may be of interest to database practitioners and users, as it establishes when a citation count is (or not) significantly higher than another, beyond any reasonable doubt. The subject of a future investigation will be extending these comparisons to more than two citation counts.
Causality between research output and economic growth in BRICS Our findings provide important policy implications for research policies and strategies for BRICS countries. Regarding the research-economic growth nexus, our empirical results support the neutrality hypothesis for Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa and the feedback hypothesis for India. The dissimilarity of the results could be attributed to two reasons. In general, causality analyses are known to be methodology-dependent.
The quality of work in public universities with no-parametric statistical models Italian researchers exhibited a normal family burden according to their high levels of engagement and the satisfactory assessment of the work organisation but only in their own sphere of action.
Looking Back at Steel Research International and Its Future By identifying the trends of steel research, confirmed sub-research areas, and revealing core keywords, the results of this study provide valuable insights into understanding the knowledge structure of the steel research field and research directions for Steel Research International.
The library's role in the management and funding of open access publishing With extensive experience working with publishers and a greater awareness of the open access movement than many researchers, librarians can wield exceptional influence on the progression of open access. Ultimately, this ongoing research aims to track the change in stakeholder attitudes over time and to help identify new opportunities for co-operation in the growth of open access publishing.
'Total cost of ownership' of scholarly communication: managing subscription and APC payments together If available data become more comprehensive and transparent, then all parties (libraries, publishers, research funders, and intermediaries) will have better knowledge of the APC market and can more accurately predict the effects of offsetting.
Penetration of Nigerian predatory biomedical open access journals 2007-2012: a bibiliometric study More in-depth studies are required to develop further information about the journals such as how much scientific information the journals contain, as well as the science literacy of the authors and the editorial. In view of the foregoing implications, there is need for further studies of these Nigerian publishers beyond descriptive bibliometric examination. However, OA publishing is still evolving, and there is need for open-minded-ness over the evolution of OA journals, while checking abuses that might have dangerous consequences for society.
Predatory journals and their article publishing charges This present study shows that around 72% of the predatory journals set an APC, which is higher than all previous findings. Comparing the number of journals charging APCs compared to the percentage from DOAJ, the findings suggest a connection between predatory practices and charging author fees. However, a comprehensive assessment of the dynamics of open access journal publishing beyond author charges should be done to avoid using APCs alone as a measure of whether a journal is predatory or not.
Plagiarism in research We suggest that plagiarism should be understood as "using someone else's intellectual product (such as texts, ideas, or results), thereby implying that it is their own”. As a result of our normative analysis, we suggest that what makes plagiarism reprehensible is that it involves an unfair acquisition of scientific credit. In addition, intentional plagiarism involves dishonesty. In plagiarism of data or results, fabrication is also implied.
Measuring the effectiveness of scientific gatekeeping Despite this finding, results show that in our case studies, on the whole, there was value added in peer review. Editors and peer reviewers generally—but not always—made good decisions regarding the identification and promotion of quality in scientific manuscripts.
Characteristics and Trends of Published Adult Hip Research over the Last Decade In conclusion, it is apparent that the researchers in select-ed countries have published their studies in the adult hip discipline. Academic oligopoly led by several developed countries may be a huddle to generalize knowledge. Diversification of the countries that publish on adult hip research could generalize the knowledge and contribute to the devel-opment of adult hip orthopedics.
Migrant scientists and international networks This article contributes to an understanding of collaboration patterns of internationally mobile scientists working in four fields.
ACCEPTANCE RATE AND REASONS FOR REJECTION OF MANUSCRIPTS SUBMITTED TO VETERINARY RADIOLOGY & ULTRASOUND DURING 2012 Submitting authors are encouraged to do more to recognize and address manuscript flaws before submission, for example by internal review.
The NIH Public Access Policy and Federally Funded Research: An Analysis of Problem Recognition and Agenda Setting This interpretive study offered an analysis of the U.S. National Institute of Health's (NIH) public access policy, the law that requires NIH-funded researchers to deposit electronic copies of their peer-reviewed manuscripts into the National Library of Medicine's online archive, PubMed Central.
An Explanation of Resisted Discoveries Based on Construal-Level Theory From the results of our analysis, suggestions are provided to reduce resistance to real discoveries, which will benefit the development of science.
The (lack of) Impact of Retraction on Citation Networks The phenomenon of self-cites to retracted work is a serious problem.
Penetrating the Omerta of Predatory Publishing: The Romanian Connection This article describes the relevance of one publication and its influence upon many aspects of scientific affairs in Serbia.
Outside the Classroom and Beyond Psychology: A Citation Analysis of the Scientific Influence of Teaching Activities Our examination of the citation rates of ToP teaching activities suggests a greater need for the recognition that teaching activ-ity research is scholarship.
The impact of a streamlined funding application process on application time: two cross-sectional surveys of Australian researchers Streamlined applications were shorter but took longer to prepare on average. Many potentially productive years of researcher time are still being lost to preparing failed applications. Streamlining the application system has not had the desired effect of reducing applicants' time. Reducing wasted time is not just an issue in Australia.
Potentially coercive self-citation by peer reviewers: A cross-sectional study Self-citation in peer reviews is common and may reflect a combination of appropriate citation to research that should be cited in published articles and inappropriate citation intended to highlight the work of the peer reviewer.
Journal Rankings by Health Management Faculty Members: Are There Differences by Rank, Leadership Status, or Area of Expertise? Perceived journal prestige varied between a department chair and untenured faculty in different disciplines, and this perceived difference could have implications for promotion and tenure decisions. Notably, the health management-oriented journals (HCMR and JHM) were ranked higher in the current study than in the previous study, suggesting that journal-ranking percep-tions may have changed in the decade between the Williams et al. study and the current one.
Analyzing Worldwide Research in Hardware Architecture, 1997-2011 The study was an overview of the research activity in the field of hardware architecture for the years 1997 to 2011. The years toward the end of the period saw a remarkable increase in the amount of research in networks and sensors, including wireless sensor networks and ad hoc networks; also showing notable increase were security, stability, energy, chips, optical, and education. The U.S. dominated the field (32.5% of the total collaboration-weighted production) with high research impact, much higher than most other countries.
LIS journals categorization in the Journal Citation Report: a stated preference study Although the analysis relies upon a simple measure of a journal's IS/LS categorization, it does confirm the results indicated by previous clustering studies of the relative isolation of journals in ISys and their low affinity to other journals in IS and LS (Ni et al. 2013; Tseng and Tsay 2013).
How have the Eastern European countries of the former Warsaw Pact developed since 1990? A bibliometric study Our results show that the breakdown of the communist regime did not lead, on average, to a huge improvement in the publication performance of the Eastern European countries and that the increase in international co-authorship relations by the researchers affiliated to institutions in these countries was smaller than expected.
Scientific collaboration between BRICS countries It is thus possible to answer to the first of the research questions saying that in the group of BRICS countries some relatively strong scientific collaboration ties exist. Thus the main suggestion is that the time has come to produce relevant pieces of policy able to positively foster scientific collaboration. The research effort of BRICS countries—which are taking over a relevant role in this field is, in general, growing.
What difference does it make? Impact of peer-reviewed scholarships on scientific production "We found that the FAPESP peer review system does indeed make a difference."
Functional information characteristics of large-scale research collaboration: network measures and implications Our analysis has revealed a number of important structure-functional characteristics of collaboration patterns exhibited by strength-coupled co-authorship networks.
The impact of African science: a bibliometric analysis Africa's share of global scientific publications started to increase after 2004, thus revealing for the first time in many years, a trend for convergence with the leading world regions. However, when one analyses the relative scientific output normalized by GDP (Docs/GDP) and population (Docs/Pop), the results show quite distinct situations. Further research on the interactions between scientific investment, brain drain and external collaborations, and a more analytical approach of the determinants of scientific impact in some specific scientific areas, are all suggestions for future studies.
How small is the center of science? Short cross-disciplinary cycles in co-authorship graphs By examining co-authorship cycles that cross two or more disciplines, the present paper demonstrates that cross-disciplinary brokers can sometimes be found in close proximity to each other, and that when they are, they are at least sometimes also close to the Nobel laureates and other highly-productive, well-connected, politically-influential individuals who informally define disciplinary centers.
Exploring the interdisciplinary evolution of a discipline: the case of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology This paper provided evidence of the dynamic nature of BMBs interdisciplinary relations, and of an increasing tendency of BMB researchers to cite literature from other disciplines. Our study confirms that interdisciplinarity evolves mainly from neigh-bouring fields to distant cognitive areas. In conclusion, we examined the evolution of the interdisciplinarity of BMB over a period of over a century by cross discipline citations and science overlay map.
On the effects of institutional size in university classifications: the case of the Shanghai ranking We conclude that around 30 % of the variation in the ARWU indicators can be attributed to variation in size. Clearly, size-related factors cannot be overlooked when using the ranking results. Future directions of our investigation of the debate size/excellence will assemble more data pertinent to size, including the expenditure of academic institutions, and consider the factors that govern variations in measures of output per unit of input.
Factors determining authors' willingness to wait for editorial decisions from economic history journals Researchers' decisions regarding manuscript submissions were mainly dependent on journal characteristics.
The influence of R&D intensity of countries on the impact of international collaborative research: evidence from Spain Our results show differences by field in the collaboration pattern which are consistent with those previously described in the literature (Luukkonen et al. 1992).
A simple approach to describe a company's innovative activities and their technological breadth Our results suggest that the IPCh and the cIPCh index developed in this study can make a distinction between innovation performances of two firms, at least as shown by patent activity.Moreover, the results of our empirical study suggest that these indices can be used as an alternative type of indicator for judging firms' performance in terms of patent innovation in the same industry and this in a simple and objective way.In conclusion, the IPCh and cIPCh indices provide a new set of simple tools to gauge the innovative activities and technological breadth of patents, as well as their influences at the firm level in the same industry.
Bibliometric indicators of young authors in astrophysics: Can later stars be predicted? Our results underline the necessity to correct citation indicators for the age of the cited papers and also for varying citation behaviour.
The role of academic collaboration in the impact of Latin-American research on management "The impact of the Latin American articles on management in the stage analyzed depends on the academic collaboration." "The level of collaboration is associated to the impact of the Latin American publications on management." "The findings indicate that the development of the networks of collaboration is a favorable strategy to reach competitive advantages by means of development of social capital of academic institutions."
Careers of young Polish chemists High degree of academic inbreeding is due to the legal system in Poland, which (nominally) is designed to prevent academic inbreeding, but the regulations can be easily circumvented.
An approach to the author citation potential: measures of scientific performance which are invariant across scientific fields A possible application of this result is in the selection and promotion process within interdisciplinary institutions, since it allows comparisons of authors based on their particular scientific research.
A bibliometric study of China's science and technology policies: 1949-2010 The number of S&T policies in China increased rapidly since the 1978 National Science Conference. The main direction of S&T policies shifted from being rarely mentioned in pre-reform policies, to focusing heavily on import in the phase of 1978–1984, to fostering high-tech R&D in the phase of 1985–1994, to seeking international cooperation in the phase of 1995–2005, and to advocating indigenous innovation from 2006 onward. The S&T system reform orientated towards S&T commercialization and industrialization possibly hindered the development of basic research. The most influential policies are mainly published by the SCNPC and the SC, since they have higher administrative rankings than the MOST, despite it being the most productive policy-making agency of all.
Forty years of gender disparities in Russian science: a historical bibliometric analysis Our analyses of Russian research output, productivity, collaboration and scientific impact over the 1973–2012 period clearly show that gender parity is far from being achieved. Women remain underrepresented in terms of relative contribution to research output across disciplines, although it is in Mathematics and in Physics, both Russian specialities, that we observed the greatest gap (Fig. 1). As a result, we cannot interpret this increase as an improvement of the position of women in Russian science.
The scientific production of Ibero-American authors on information literacy (1985-2013) It is important to emphasize the need for bibliometric studies of the scientific literature on IL in the Ibero-American context to be conducted periodically.
Introducing sub-impact factor (SIF-) sequences and an aggregated SIF-indicator for journal ranking In this work, we proposed a set of partial indicators, so-called SIF-indicators to gauge a journal's contribution to knowledge accumulation.
Scientific relatedness in solar energy: a comparative study between the USA and China In this study, we comparatively understand the scientific relatedness of the USA and China between 2000 and 2013, taking a network approach in the solar energy field based on the panel data from WoS database. Our results show that researchers should take into account the relatedness of the topics. Our work has potential implications for the future innovative research in the solar energy field.
Rescaling the h-index It was shown that Glänzel's (Glänzel 2006) simple formula [Eq. (1)] is a suitable basis for estimating the h-index when the variable of the underlying distribution is rescaled.
Online supplemental information: a sizeable black hole for citations References in OSI represent authentic citations that remain hidden if OSI is not included in the process that feeds citation databases.
Is the CE/BCE notation becoming a standard in scholarly literature? From our findings, it seems that the BCE/CE notation is not growing at the expense of BC and AD notation in the scholarly literature, and that both notations are used in a relatively stable fashion. Therefore, it appears that the BCE/CE notation will not replace the current BC/AD notation based on the current trend. In addition, further research is needed to confirm the above mentioned findings over a prolonged period of time.
Bibliometric study of the scientific research on "Learning to Rank" between 2000 and 2013 Among the main results of the metric study, the most relevant was the fact that there had been a significant increase in research into L2R topics over the past 5 years with computer science being the most explored area of knowledge. Another of the contributions of this work is given by the clustering and characterization of every L2R-related descriptor. According to this clustering, the main areas of research which have boomed and stabilised are IR, ranking functions, ranking model, knowledge management, web searches, learning algorithms, search engines, algorithms, optimization, machine learning and learning systems.
Using machine learning techniques for rising star prediction in co-author network In this paper, discriminative and generative machine learning techniques are used for prediction of rising stars in co-author network.
Characterizing highly cited papers in Social Work through H-Classics Using H-Classics, which is based on the known H-index, we discover new findings and more precise results on the Social Work discipline. Finally, we should point out that many of the highly cited papers shown in Table 1 (see papers 1, 5, 13, 16, 27, 47, 53, 64) are reflections on the Social Work profession and Social Work education, which is a characteristic feature of emerging disciplines that are in the process of growth and consolidation (Martínez et al. 2014b).
A multivariate stochastic model to assess research performance The SIMCA rank results as being highly correlated with a “deterministic” composite indicator composed of the weighted values of the same five starting indicators, thus indicating a convergence in the results from the two approaches.
The relationship between tweets, citations, and article views for PLOS ONE articles It is concluded that the scientific citation process acts relatively independently of the social dynamics on Twitter.
An overview of academic publishing and collaboration between China and Germany Publications from either China or Germany have been growing rapidly but China has advanced with much greater speed and, indeed, surpassed Germany in 2006.
Publication practices in the Argentinian Computer Science community: a bibliometric perspective Specifically, with respect to the first question stated at the beginning of the paper, we could observe that in the big picture of the analyzed articles there is a uniform tendency: across the years, the gap between the number of journal and conference articles published has decreased considerably. This suggests that the CONICET CS community is already shifting to journal publications. More importantly, the shift of CS towards journal driven publication practices, the pre- vailing academic standard, will make computer scientists more competitive with other well established disciplines.
Does a paper being featured on the cover of a journal guarantee more attention and greater impact? Our empirical study find that a cover is just a cover, it would not increase the attention nor the scholarly impact of the study. In most cases, cover paper is not the best one, nor at the upper level in an issue considering the attention or the citation impact. However, a paper being featured on the cover of a journal doesn't guarantee more attention and greater impact.
On the causes of subject-specific citation rates in Web of Science Our results suggest that the average citation rate is far more influenced by the extent to which the papers (cited as references) are included in WoS as linked database records. Consequently, one should consider less the citation culture or habits of the researchers in the different disciplines—in connection with the discipline-dependency of citations—and more the different coverage or comprehensiveness of the corresponding citation database.
Explaining article influence: capturing article citability and its dynamic effects Findings and implications are discussed.
Social network analysis of international scientific collaboration on psychiatry research The results show that we should encourage multiple collaboration types in psychiatry research as they not only help researchers to master the current research hotspots but also provide scientific basis for clinical research on psychiatry and suggest policies to promote the development of this area.
Increased Rates of Authorship in Radiology Publications: A Bibliometric Analysis of 142,576 Articles Published Worldwide by Radiologists Between 1991 and 2012 Radiology has had a steady increase in mean number of authors per paper since the early 1990s that has varied by study design. The increase is probably multi-factorial and includes components of author inflation and increasing complexity of research. Findings support the need for reemphasis of authorship criteria to preserve authorship value and accountability.
An Automatic Method for Extracting Citations From Google Books In answer to the first research question, the new automatic GB citation extraction method seems to give sufficient results for it to be useful in research assessment.
Classifying Scientific Disciplines in Slovenia: A Study of the Evolution of Collaboration Structures The details of this subcluster suggest that the classification system of the Slovenian Research Agency is based on a limited number of historically defined epistemological criteria that require continual revision.
Measuring Academic Influence: Not All Citations Are Equal One of our main results is that counting the number of times a paper is cited (countsInPaper_whole) is one of the best predictors of how influential a reference is.
Are physicists afraid of mathematics? we emphasize that in all cases the citation data is so noisy that its not reliable for identifying unambiguous trends capable of predicting citation success.
HIV research productivity and structural factors associated with HIV research output in European Union countries: a bibliometric analysis HIV research productivity varies noticeably across EU countries, and this variation is associated with recognisable structural factors. We believe that evaluating the publication output from HIV research in Europe sets the basis for analysing HIV research and setting strategies to increase research output from all EU countries and its visibility in the scientific community.
Editorial board interlocks in financial economics This paper portrayed and analyzed the social structure of editorial board membership in financial economics; our sample consisted of all editorial board members in twenty leading finance journals, from 1994 to 2013. Future research could expand the analysis of editorial networks, by exploring interlocks in terms of the academic institutions from which the editors acquired their doctoral degree.
OM3: Ordered maxitive, minitive, and modular aggregation operators - Axiomatic and probabilistic properties in an arity-monotonic setting Derivation of reliable and fair evaluation or ranking methods for information resources producers is an important challenge for information sciences and mathematics. Some interesting remarks may be also induced by analyzing the behavior of OM3 operators in a probabilistic setting. Our future work should be committed towards utilizing functions that result in a value ∈ [k for some k > 1.
Detection of paradigm shifts and emerging fields using scientific network: A case study of Information Technology for Engineering The network analyses done in this paper were intended to reveal the important network growth characteristics of IT for engineering.
How do alumni faculty behave in research collaboration? An analysis of Chang Jiang Scholars in China This study began with the expectation that alumni faculty and non-alumni faculty would differ significantly in their collaborative behaviour after returning from abroad.
Bibliometric evaluation vs. informed peer review: Evidence from Italy Our results reveal that, in the total sample, there is fair to good agreement between bibliometric and informed peer review. Furthermore, there is no evidence of systematic differences between the average scores provided by the two evaluations, although peer review assigns a lower number of papers to the top class relative to bibliometric analysis. Our results have important implications for the organization of large-scale research assessment exercises, like those that are becoming increasingly popular in many countries. First and fore-most, they suggest that the agencies that run these evaluations could feel confident about using bibliometric evaluations and inter-pret the results as highly correlated with what they would obtain if they performed informed peer review, at least in the disciplines studied in this paper and for research output published in ranked journal articles. We hope that future work will uncover other aspects of these processes and address some of the limitations in the present study.
Does massive funding support of researchers work?: Evaluating the impact of the South African research chair funding initiative The evidence from our data suggests that substantial research funding is associated with higher numbers of publications and citations, though the increase is moderate when compared to the performance of researchers of equivalent standing.
Top cited articles in thermodynamic research The characteristics of languages, publication outputs of decades, journals, Web of Science categories, countries, institutions, authors, and top articles with exceptionally high TC2011 and C2011 were revealed. Wigner function in one early classical article has been frequently cited and still has a strong influence. Frequency scale factors, OPLS all-atom force field, entanglement between two or more quantum objects, and some softwares including VAMP, NMRPipe, GRASP2, AutoDock, DMol³, and Maxent have experienced a high growth rate of citations.
Cross-evaluation of metrics to estimate the significance of creative works Our cross-evaluation of metrics to estimate the significance of movies uncovers two main findings. First, aggregation of numerous expert ratings performs better as an indicator of significant films than the ratings of an individual expert. Our second and more important result is that well-conceived automated methods can perform as well as or better than aggregation of expert opinions at identifying significant films, even when we do not account for missing rating data.
Where Should I Send It? Optimizing the Submission Decision Process So, where should you send it? The answer, not surprisingly, is that it depends on the relative importance of citations, revisions, and publication time.
Bibliometric Analysis of Factors Predicting Increased Citations in the Vascular and Endovascular Literature Authors involved in vascular research may enhance the impact of their work by embarking on research strategies of high methodologic quality.
Analysis on International Scientific Collaboration and Research Focus on Depression Field In conclusion, this article examined collaborative efforts in depression research at the level of authors, institutions, and countries. Collaborative research offers not only scientific knowledge, but also suggestions for changes in policy that will financially support depression research in the future. Further, identifying research focus within the field can help researchers navigate the forefront of depression research.
"How We Know What We Know": A Systematic Comparison of Research Methods Employed in Higher Education Journals, 1996-2000 v. 2006-2010 Our findings one decade later lead us to conclude that adequate comprehension of most of the research published in these three leading higher education jour-nals now hinges on advanced quantitative methods training. At this point, the field would benefit from an intentional conversation about the state of knowledge production and about the continued shift toward more advanced quantitative methods—a shift that may be lim-iting opportunities for alternative methodological approaches and the generation of more varied types of new knowledge. Our results suggest that calls for more extensive research methods training for higher education personnel, including student affairs professionals (e.g. Malaney, 2002), are certainly warranted.
Global ontology research progress: a bibliometric analysis In this study, we provided a panorama of global ontology research during 1900-2012, as well as some significant points on the research performance throughout the period. Ontology research is an emerging and multidisciplinary field. We suggest the interdisciplinary research of ontology to be an interesting and meaningful future analysis, from the aspects of knowledge integration and diffusion.
Do Croatian open access journals support ethical research? Content analysis of instructions to authors Low representation or absence of some key ethical issues in author guidelines calls for more attention to the structure and the content of Instructions to authors in Croatian OA journals.
Analyzing the Scientific Evolution of Social Work Using Science Mapping This conceptual and empirical analysis shows how research themes have evolved in social work.
Academic foundations of hospitality management research with an emerging country focus: A citation and co-citation analysis The findings of the study contribute significantly to T/H and general management literature since the study is the first attempt to explore the academic foundations of hospitality research in an emerging country domain via citations and a journal co-citation analysis. Contrary to Kim et al. (2009), there continues to be considerable dependency on other disciplines in hospitality management research related to emerging countries. This indicates a risk to the growth and maturity of the T/H field.
Bibliometric profile of the global scientific research on multiple sclerosis (2003-2012) We emphasise the progressive growth of publications worldwide, the publication of articles in a wide variety of journals covering numerous subject areas, and the research leadership of Western countries, most notably European countries, the US and Canada.
Tracing database usage: Detecting main paths in database link networks This study provides a quantitative way to analyze database usage by identifying main paths in database link networks.
The value of experience in research This study employs data from research published in five highly regarded transportation journals in order to examine how different factors influence the number of times an article is cited.
Should the research performance of scientists be distinguished by gender? What emerges is a heterogeneous panorama, even within the same discipline (UDA).
Relationship between altmetric and bibliometric indicators across academic social sites: The case of CSIC's members It is concluded that altmetrics could reflect an alternative dimension of the research performance, close, perhaps, to science popularization and networking abilities, but far from citation impact.
Uncited papers, uncited authors and uncited topics: A case study in library and information science During the period 1991–2010, yearly ratios of uncited papers in IPM, JASIST, JDOC and SCIENTO fluctuate within the interval 0-0.1. The fact that almost all uncited authors in a given journal published only one paper in this journal proves that uncited authors are the least productive authors of this journal. This observation leads to the following suggestion for editors, authors and reviewers: articles with a majority of keywords outside the category of the journal for which they are submitted, may fall outside the scope of the journal, and hence may not gather many citations. They should better be published elsewhere.
Unsupervised characterization of research institutions with task-force estimation In this work it is shown that it is possible to extract, in an unsupervised manner, information from a bibliographic data base that allows to estimate the task-force and a set of new, relevant indicators of a given research area (in the considered study, Chemistry) in a particular institution(s). It is also shown that it is possible to distinguish between core members and collaborators. The proposed approach enables identifying these active members, being thus very helpful in terms of comparison and policy making.
Understanding and modeling diverse scientific careers of researchers Researchers who have worked in many fields in their entire careers but remained confined in few fields in each time window get high importance in terms of citations compared to the others.
Features of top-rated gold open access journals: An analysis of the scopus database To summarize, we have found that English is significant with a positive sign, while Multilingual and Spanish are significant with negative signs, and there are no signs of significance for other tested languages.
Trajectories of science and technology and their co-evolution in BRICS: Insights from publication and patent analysis This paper focuses on the performance of science and technology in Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS).
Field-normalized citation impact indicators using algorithmically constructed classification systems of science Globally, for all the universities taken together citation impact indicators generally turn out to be relatively insensitive to the choice of a classification system. Nevertheless, for individual universities, we sometimes observe substantial differences between indicators normalized based on the journal subject categories and indicators normalized based on an appropriately chosen algorithmically constructed classification system. Our algorithmically constructed systems are defined at the level of individual publications rather than at the level of entire journals. Our systems are therefore better able to handle publications in multidisciplinary journals and in other journals with a broad scope.
The relationship between the research performance of scientists and their position in co-authorship networks in three fields In summary, our study shows there is a relationship between the position of scientists in the co-authorship network and their research performance, with these relationships being stronger in the experimental fields (Pharmacology and Nanoscience) than in Statistics. Having a high number of collaborators and/or high strength of links with co-authors is associated to a higher g-index of scientists in all three fields. No clear benefits from intermediary positions (high betweenness) or from those in connection with well-connected authors (high eigenvector centrality) are derived from this study.
A general conceptual framework for characterizing the ego in a network The concepts of Zipf lists, Zipf ranks and the h-index of a Zipf list can be used to describe most h-type indices via magnitudes of nodes or magnitudes of links. The main theoretical contributions of this article are (1) it provides a unification of different h-type indices introduced previously; (2) it shows that it is possible to shift the focus from h-indices to h-degrees; (3) informetric concepts such as Zipf lists and Zipf ranks can be placed in the framework of network analysis. We suggest further investigations to develop theoretical models based on this framework.
Restricting the h-index to a publication and citation time window: A case study of a timed Hirsch index In conclusion, t = 2 as used by Fiala (2014) appears to me as somewhat too small, because it just includes the maximum of most of the curves in Fig. 4.
The source-effort coverage of an exponential informetric process Both models are compared: the mathematical adjustment of an IPP initiated by Egghe, and the mathematical adjustment of an EIP, presented in this article.
Visualization of co-readership patterns from an online reference management system Knowledge domain visualizations based on readership statistics are therefore multifaceted and timely, but it is important that the characteristics of the underlying sample are made transparent.
Distributions of scientific funding across universities and research disciplines First, among universities, the inequality of funding distribution is checked based on the Gini coefficient (Halffman & Leydesdorff, 2010).
Scientific teams: Self-assembly, fluidness, and interdependence Our findings have important implications for studying the organization of science.
Visualizing information science: Author direct citation analysis in China and around the world We combine citation analysis, co-occurrence analysis, social network analysis, and factor analysis; and analyze the direct citation relations of three author groups–prolific authors, highly cited authors, and core authors–in information science in China and around the world.
The effect of data pre-processing on understanding the evolution of collaboration networks This paper illustrates how certain choices for pre-processing network data can affect our knowledge about the properties and evolution of collaboration networks and reasoning about underlying social processes.
Voicing an impact: who does the National Institutes of Health support for voice disorder research? The study of voice disorders involves an interdisciplinary approach, as PIs in numerous specialties receive NIH funding support.
Open access behaviours and perceptions of health sciences faculty and roles of information professionals This is the first comprehensive and detailed study focusing on the health sciences faculty's and librarians' behaviours and perceptions of open access initiatives in Tanzania and reveals findings that are useful for planning and implementing open access initiatives in other institutions with similar conditions.
Scientific research in obstructive sleep apnea syndrome: bibliometric analysis in SCOPUS, 1991-2012 Scientific production on OSA is increasing with limited international collaboration.
Hematology research output from Chinese authors and other countries: a 10-year survey of the literature In conclusion, there is no doubt that the USA has played the most important role in the field of hematology research in the past decade. Overall, the quality of publications in European countries is better than Asian countries. Although China has made considerable progress in hematology research, the quality of research needs improvement.
Is There a Relationship between Research Sponsorship and Publication Impact? An Analysis of Funding Acknowledgments in Nanotechnology Papers The study explored how funding affects research impacts.
Assessing the true role of coauthors in the h-index measure of an author scientific impact In summary, the above indicates that the effect of co-authors on evaluating the popularity of an author through the h-index method can be investigated through a principal component analysis method. It is found that an effective h-index can be calculated from the co-authorship popularity H-matrix eigenvalues, through the selection of team partners, but also up to the whole team size. In conclusion, it can be claimed that the PCA method rather easily gives what is searched for, i.e. an estimate of the role of co-authors, as the additional weighted value to the measure of an author research paper's popularity within the h-index scheme.
A Novel Approach to Citation Normalization: A Similarity-Based Method for Creating Reference Sets To summarize, this study has presented a similarity-oriented method for creating reference sets used for constructing normalized citation counts.
Differences in Citation Impact Across Countries These facts can be interpreted as indicating that, to a large extent, country citation distributions behave as if they differ by a relatively constant scale factor over a large part of their support. A convenient practical consequence is that country differences in citation impact can be well summarized by average-based indicators. The conjecture is that the similarity across highly skewed university citation distributions, and the important role of scale factors in accounting for their differences in citation impact, may go a long way towards explaining why the university rankings according to the MNCS and the PPtop10% are very similar indeed.
Influence of Society for Academic Emergency Medicine Grant Mechanisms on Postaward Academic Productivity SAEM RTG recipients were more likely to obtain federal funding postaward than nonrecipients.
Bibliometric trends in ophthalmology 1997-2009 JIF tends to rise annually by 10% in medical, surgical, and ophthalmic fields. Journals publishing reviews, basic science, or large volume on broad range of topics rank at the top for JIF. Future studies can further define the role and limitations of the new scientometric indicators in medicine and ophthalmology.
The 'translational' effect in medical journals: Bridging the gap? Based on references in the publications, the profile of the medical journals with the word 'translation' in the title is not different from the journals assigned to the same categories as the former.
Cross-disciplinary research: What configurations of fields of science are found in grant proposals today? According to the results of the LCA, cross-disciplinary research tends to be the exception rather than the rule in the grant proposals examined here.
How accurately does output reflect the nature and design of transdisciplinary research programmes? The first and most obvious conclusion is that bibliometrics is no substitute for the in-depth, multi-method analysis of knowledge integration in transdisciplinary science.
Measuring the benefits of university research: impact and the REF in the UK Nonetheless, in our view the REF has still performed a valuable function in raising the profile of impact.
Accountability in context: effects of research evaluation systems on publication practices, disciplinary norms, and individual working routines in the faculty of Arts at Uppsala University The study of publication patterns over time reveals two main changes; a further emphasis on English language publications and a large increase in the proportion of peer-reviewed publications. It is however hard to ignore that these developments are perfectly in line with the incentives in both the local allocation model at UU and in the national model: To publish for an ‘international and scholarly audience’. In-depth contextualized studies of research practices are needed in order to understand how perform-ance-based funding systems influence academic research on the ground.
Reception of Spanish sociology by domestic and foreign audiences differs and has consequences for evaluation Here we have taken advantage of a Spanish citation index (IN-RECS) to compare domestic and foreign interest in Spanish authored sociology papers.
A method for identifying journals in a discipline: An application to information systems Overall, the study demonstrates the suitability of this method for identifying core journals in a discipline.
Bibliometric Analyses of Physical and Occupational Therapy Faculty across Canada Indicate Productivity and Impact of Rehabilitation Research The h-index, although not without flaws, provides a useful metric that indicates that physical and occupational faculty in Canada are productive scientists having a measurable impact and that this impact increases with rank and greater funding. Overall, our results suggest that PT and OT faculty across Canada are productive scientists when compared with clinical academic faculty in other fields. An h-index is useful to measure scientific output and impact but should not be considered in isolation.
A bibliometric study of SSME in information systems research This analysis provides an understanding of the state of SSME research and examines publication productivity at the individual and institutional level. The results revealed the main publication country is US and the research areas will focus on Business Economics, Computer Science, and Information Science Library Science. The analysis provides a roadmap for future research, abstracts technology trend information and facilitates knowledge accumulation, therefore the future research can concentrated in core categories.
The research output of European higher education institutions "In conclusion, the preliminary results obtained using this indicator show a highly diverse situation within the EU in terms of the quantity and quality of research output, but they also indicate that a convergence process in this aspect is underway."
Philosophy of science viewed through the lense of "Referenced Publication Years Spectroscopy" (RPYS) Our findings alert us to differences in the ways various academic research cultures behave, as manifested in their publication and citation practices. Our preliminary study is intended, in part, to showcase the value of this relatively new method, RPYS. Employing this method, we have also uncovered a number of interesting aspects of the epistemic culture of philosophy of science.
Patterns and evolution of coauthorship in China's humanities and social sciences The coauthorship patterns of China significantly evolved from no collaboration to national and international collaboration. International collaboration produced higher impact publications than did non-international collaboration, and MIC produced higher impact publications than did BIC. Approximately, MIC is 1.5 times the CPP of BIC, 3 times the CPP of NAC and 4 times the CPP of NOC.
Clustering research group website homepages This clustering approach may be useful for policy makers in identifying future collaborators with similar research interests or for monitoring research fields.
A comparative study on detecting research fronts in the organic light-emitting diode (OLED) field using bibliographic coupling and co-citation This study shows that while both bibliographic coupling and co-citation can detect research fronts adequately, bibliographic coupling shows better performance, detecting more important research fronts better and earlier than co-citation analysis when using fixed citation windows. Researchers are encouraged to employ bibliographic coupling to study research fronts in future studies. In future studies, researchers are encouraged to expand on expert interviews and focus group talks to validate the research findings and provide better advice to technology policymakers on current and future development.
What is the best database for computer science journal articles? We found that WoS, INSPEC and Scopus provided better quality indexing and better bibliographic records in terms of accuracy, control and granularity of information, when compared to GS and DBLP.
The evolution of conceptual diversity in economics titles from 1890 to 2012 The 1970s was a strikingly different decade in terms of the average conceptual diversity because the authors were using most terms or concepts in their titles.
The Matthew effect in China's science: evidence from academicians of Chinese Academy of Sciences Our analysis of the data indicates that the Matthew effect exists in China's science, as reflected in the uneven selection of CAS academicians among different regions and academic divisions. However, from the perspective of regions and disciplines, this effect has weakened since 1993. We suggest that the Chinese central government should take effective countermeasure to balance regional development by alleviating the Matthew effect in the election of CAS academicians, while the local governments seek to take advantage of the Matthew effect by supporting the development of "rich" areas (growth pole) and the stimulation of “poor” areas inside the region. Eventually, we have to acknowledge some limitations of this study, which deserve further exploration.
Topics in the literature of transition economies and emerging markets The study makes the following contributions: First, it is a cross-disciplinary study based on a very large database including nearly 700 journals in the disciplines of economics and business. In conclusion, the developed topic model provides a detailed view on this nascent literature. Promising venues for future research include the study of the level of cross-fertilization of common topics between the economics and business literature as well as across research of transition economies and emerging markets via citation analysis.
Globalization of the social sciences in Eastern Europe: genuine breakthrough or a slippery slope of the research evaluation practice? Although the evaluation process based on bibliometric indicators is believed to be more adequate the more it is formal and stimulating (Moed 2009), it seems that the policies of (some) EE countries are too formal in stimulating futile publication behavior, aimed primarily at quantity, rather than quality.
Predicting results of the Research Excellence Framework using departmental h-index Based on these empirical findings, we then use the departmental h-index to make predictions for the rankings of universities in four different subject areas for REF 2014.
Errors in DOI indexing by bibliometric databases Although being relatively rare, DOI indexing errors should be considered by bibliometricians when querying bibliometric databases by DOI. This short communication reported the existence of bibliometric database errors concerning DOI indexing. Future research will go into the multiple DOI assignment issue in more detail, investigating the practical reasons behind this error and providing a more accurate estimation of the error rate, for both Scopus and WoS.
Bibliometrics-aided retrieval: where information retrieval meets scientometrics Bibliometrics-aided retrieval (BR) in the context of subject delineation for evaluative purposes essentially differs from traditional information retrieval. BR is a powerful tool to develop and adjust search strategy at any level of aggregation. 'Core documents' represent the most interlinked papers in a set.
Meso-level retrieval: IR-bibliometrics interplay and hybrid citation-words methods in scientific fields delineation To conclude this part, a pragmatic mix of IR and bibliometrics strategies is desirable for addressing field delineation.
The hw-rank: an h-index variant for ranking web pages The primary aim of this short paper was to show that information retrieval can be informed by bibliometrics, and that better interaction between the two communities can lead to interesting complementary developments and possible algorithmic improvements. The preliminary results are promising, however further extensive studies are needed to decide on the applicability of this measure, including extensive user studies to compare rankings based on the hw-index with rankings based on the PageRank. A further research direction we are currently exploring is the application of the h-index for measuring popularity of queries over time, as popularity is a metric used by search engines in the ranking of web pages.
Modeling uncertainty in bibliometrics and information retrieval: an information fusion approach We find that bibliometrics and IR have much to gain from IF approaches, in particular when it comes to uncertainty modeling and its relation to the information seeker.
Co-cited author retrieval and relevance theory: examples from the humanities Considering both the strengths and weaknesses of AuthorWeb, how might co-cited author mapping and retrieval be developed in the future?
Science models for search: a study on combining scholarly information retrieval and scientometrics The precision tests turned out that science-model driven search services provide beneficial effects to information retrieval quality which are on average as high as the precision of standard rankings. They provide a particular view to the information space that is quite different from traditional retrieval methods such that the models open up new access paths to knowledge spaces.
Citation Impact of NHLBI R01 Grants Funded Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act as Compared to R01 Grants Funded Through a Standard Payline Despite shorter durations and lower budgets, ARRA R01 grants had comparable citation outcomes per $million spent to that of contemporaneously funded payline R01 grants.
Mapping Collaboration Networks in the World of Autism Research While IMFAR has traditionally been dominated by a large North American presence, greater global representation may be attained by shifting meeting locations to other regions of the world.
Identification of, and knowledge communication among core safety science journals A consistent picture emerges of the core safety journals, with AAP and JSR being the closest to SS, with RESS and JLPPI being almost as close and RA and JHM being somewhat more distant.
Modelling of technology lifetime based on patent citation data and segmentation An accurate estimation of a technology lifetime requires the ability to judge and analyse the diverse factors of the relevant technological and market environment. A case study shows that the proposed methodology provides reliable estimates of patent lifetime. Therefore, a future research may include developing a model that also considers the trends of the number (or growth) of the patent citation for estimating technology lifetime.
Medical education research in GCC countries GCC countries contributed very little research in medical education during the period 1996-2013. They introduced many incentives but their progressive impact in medical education research is still marginalized. GCC states need to invest more in R&D in the field of medical education, establish collaboration with talent and research rich international institutes.
DOES ONLINE AVAILABILITY INCREASE CITATIONS? THEORY AND EVIDENCE FROM A PANEL OF ECONOMICS AND BUSINESS JOURNALS By including fixed effects for journal volumes as controls for unobservable quality of the articles in the volume, the estimate of the online access effect was reduced from the extraordinary levels found in the previous literature down to a precisely estimated value of 0.
Publishing success of marketing academics: antecedents and outcomes The findings in this article suggest that marketing academics and educational managers wishing to raise the performance and improve the well-being of academics should look more closely at organisational support rather than additional pressure. As well as being harmful to general academic well-being, the publish-or-perish (PP) approach appears harmful to the productivity of both high and low performing academics. Our research plan is to continue to conduct similar surveys every three years to build a more comprehensive model based on longitudinal data to analyse.
Webometrics as a method for identifying the most accredited free electronic journals The case of medical sciences It is hoped that this research, as an addition to the webometrics literature, can help researchers and academics identify the most accredited free English EJs in medical sciences. Thus, the results mentioned in this article can help researchers and academic authorities, particularly in medical universities, identify reliable free EJs. As for the future, it is also suggested that the framework of this research be applied for identifying the most accredited free electronic journals in other scholarly domains.
Science mapping in industrial marketing The evolution of IM research is consistent with power law distribution in use by scientometrics, namely, Lotka’s and Bradford’s laws. Practitioners find in this paper a sound basis for an overall overview of the key issues addressed by researchers on IM over the past decades. For future research, we suggest three study dimensions that will deepen the understanding of IM research behavior.
The Contribution of Australian Academia to the World's Best Economics Research: 2001 to 2010 Our results provide evidence that the higher education reforms introduced by the Australian government in the late 1980s and reinforced after 2000 may be having the desired effect.
Scholarly Communication in a Digital Environment: Populating the Institutional Repository of the University of Botswana While many institutions have overcome the challenges, others such as UB are struggling to counter them. This seems to be one major reason that the uploaded contents into the IR are fewer than 1,000 items after four years of its existence. The slow pace at which contents are uploaded is due to the absence of motivation on the part of the major stakeholders of the project.
Russian publications and journals on Earth sciences in international databases Thus, bibliometric analysis has made it possible to determine the position of Russian developments in Earth sciences in the worldwide research flow and to specify the place and role of Russian journals in geo- sciences, while thematic analysis has shown the disci- plines most developed in our country. To intensify the promo- tion of Russian publications into international index- ing systems, the most promising option is perhaps the development of the publishing industry and the inclu- sion of an increasingly large large number of domestic jour- nals into international citation DBs.
Research in prehospital emergency medicine: comparison by geographic origin of publications In 2010 and 2011, in the field of prehospital emergency medicine, Europe and America were equally dynamic.
Coverage of journals from mainland China in the field of emergency medicine by major international biomedicine databases Only a few Chinese EM journals are indexed or abstracted in the international databases. That is to say, the visibility of EM journals is relatively low. More work should be done to achieve better visibility of EM journals, such as adding more accurate information in English, or establishing a website with excellent content and a variety of extended services, engaging with some of the Emergency Medicine blogs, inviting foreign professionals to serve as editorial and reviewing board.
Organizational design of University laboratories: Task allocation and lab performance in Japanese bioscience laboratories This study presents evidence on the division of labor in Japanese biology laboratories, and shows that while the stereotype of the lab head planning and the members executing is not rare, other combinations are also quite common.
Non-tenured post-doctoral researchers' job mobility and research output: An analysis of the role of research discipline, department size, and coauthors The paper examines the impact of a change of affiliation on short-term research output. Matching analysis provides evidence for a negative effect of moving to another university on a researcher's social capital (i.e. colleagues and coauthors) and thereby publications: Mobile researchers with more social ties in the form of coauthors or colleagues at the doctorate granting institution publish less in the years following the doctorate, than their less connected counterparts. Consequently, it might be worthwhile for future research to dig deeper into the different contexts of researchers in trying to explain the outcome of their career decisions.
Creativity in scientific teams: Unpacking novelty and impact This study develops our understanding of team science and highlights the need for a governance approach to scientific work.
Competition for talent. Country and organizational-level effects in the internationalization of European higher education institutions We suggest that policies should be tailored to structural conditions of HEIs and countries, whereas imitating the approaches of highly attractive places might be damaging.
A Dedicated Research Program Increases the Quantity and Quality of Orthopaedic Resident Publications The results of our study suggest that implementation of a dedicated resident research program improves the quantity and to some extent quality of orthopaedic resident research publications, but this effect did not persist after graduation.
Publishing in Public Administration: Issues with Defining, Comparing, and Ranking the Output of Universities The article discusses key chal- lenges in measuring and ranking article output in the discipline of public administration. While the absolute top institutions tend to remain roughly the same no matter what ranking methods and assumptions are used, there are still wide variations between the lists. Performance measurement and ranking is by definition conservative and has homogenizing tendencies.
International rankings: Universities vs. higher education systems System rankings need to be more inclusive in terms of number and type of countries they cover, and to better reflect the diversity of missions fulfilled by national higher education systems.
Perceived incentives to transdisciplinarity in a Japanese university research center Our study concludes that TDR is perceived as a risky strategy in terms of future employability, as it seems to be associated with lower productivity in terms of publications, currently the key parameter of scholarly evaluation. Activity-based measures seem more appropriate for evaluating scientists engaged in TDR. Therefore, we recommend the development of evaluation schemes grounded in activity-based measures and the granting of permanent positions to scientists pursuing TDR.
Unraveling scientific impact: Citation types in marketing journals In sum, these results suggest that inference on impact based solely on overall number of citation counts is problematic. Mere citation counts may not represent the true scholarly impact of an article or author.
Publish or Perish, and Pay-The New Paradigm of Open-Access Journals Residents should ask their program directors or designated institutional official in their organization for their policies for funding open-access publishing costs.
Fostering interdisciplinary research in universities: a case study of leadership, alignment and support A series of three recommendations are made to move the interdisciplinary project forward: stay clear on focus, extend the benefits of serendipity to more people, and remember that one size does not fit all. The challenge for Great Western University is to continue to forge agreement on expectations, to understand the impediments to these expectations and to correct them.
Study of dynamics of structured knowledge: Qualitative analysis of different mapping approaches The findings prove that only the authors' mapping shows continuous changes in classification dynamics which confirm the modifications made by the CCS developers recently.
Spanish journals of social work A first conclusion of this study could be that there are not few journals of social work published in Spain. They are published mainly by universities and professional organisations, and to a lesser extent, by professional associations and publishing houses.
Competitive funding, citation regimes, and the diminishment of breakthrough research The findings suggest they do: a highly competitive system which does not maintain a sufficient degree of security can hinder the process of creating groundbreaking research.
Governing Knowledge: The Formalization Dilemma in the Governance of the Public Sciences Using the current Australian research governance system as an example, it has been shown that such processes, while being indispensable for practical and political reasons, under specific circumstances also may stimulate superficial and ultimately unreasonable ways of using rational forms of knowledge in governance contexts. It has further been shown that precisely this use may have a range of possibly unintended and certainly undesirable effects as concerns the activities of relevant actors in the public science system. Moreover, it has been illustrated that these effects ultimately also concern some of the epistemic dimensions of the activities governed.
The Coming of Age of the Academic Career: Differentiation and Professionalization of German Academic Positions from the 19th Century to the Present Our research shows that developments underlying the differentiation and professionalization of the academic career are the expansion of the university system and the democratization of higher education.
Cooperation and coauthorship in scientific publishing To conclude, the analysis of PR journal publication data provides a unique opportunity to interpret coauthorship collaboration in terms of cooperative behavior taking place in a natural environment, as opposed to behavioral experiments in artificial laboratory setups.
The Evolution of Dental Journals from 2003 to 2012: A Bibliometric Analysis Significant growth in the dental literature in terms of number of journals, frequency and number of publications and acquired citations was noted.
Characterizing Social Media Metrics of Scholarly Papers: The Effect of Document Properties and Collaboration Patterns On the whole, our results confirm that citations and social media metrics are essentially different. Therefore, social media metrics cannot actually be seen as alternatives to citations; at most, they may function as complements to other type of indicators. This complementarity, however, still needs much research to be better understood.
New journal classification methods based on the global h-index In this paper, we introduced the global h index and combined it with the original h index to obtain extra performance information.
Breadth and depth of citation distribution This study reports that citation distribution can be generally divided into four dimensions, namely, spatial, temporal, breadth, and depth distribution. In summary, this study proposes the use of easily computable Indices X, Y, and XY to estimate the breadth and depth of citation distribution. However, further studies must be conducted to verify our results.
Factors Affecting Citation Rates of Research Articles Some generality across the fields was found with regard to the selected predicting factors and the degree of significance of these predictors.
A Study of Research Collaboration in the Pre-Web and Post-Web Stages: A Coauthorship Analysis of the Information Systems Discipline In this study, an analysis of secondary data was performed to examine the phenomenon and the impacts of research collaboration in the pre-web and post-web stages for the field of IS.
Peer-Selected "Best Papers"-Are They Really That "Good"? There is strong evidence that the selection of best papers in Computer Science conferences is better than a random selection, and that a significant number of the best papers are among the top cited papers in the conference.
International rankings and the contest for university hegemony After just a decade, or several in the US context, the rankings have established themselves as a new sort of gatekeepers of higher education, a form of bureaucratic certification that has become the norm in both the private and public sectors (Post et al. 2013).
Journals, Preferences, and Publishing in Agricultural and Environmental Economics The substantive results indicate that the AJAE is regarded as outperforming prestigious journals in environmental economics (JEEM), economics (REStat), and natural sciences (Science) in terms of career progression.
Error correction of reference indexing system including multimedia journals The 'Science Citation Index Processing System: SCIPS' has been developed for reference indexing and to evaluate the impact factors and immediacy indices.
The scientific profiles of terrestrial mammals in Great Britain as measured by publication metrics The most studied species were native, with large population size and were most likely to be large herbivores or carnivores.
Ranking and identifying influential scientists versus mass producers by the Perfectionism Index The development of indices to characterize the output of a scientist is a significant task not only for funding and promotion purposes, but also for discovering the scientist's “publishing habits”.
Analyzing knowledge flows of scientific literature through semantic links: a case study in the field of energy The method of semantic analysis presented in this paper provides an understanding into the internationality of research not provided by studies of researcher mobility and co-authorship patterns. Our case study highlights the diversity in the ways that research produced by a country may be used in different international contexts, even within a relatively narrow research area. Such analyses may be helpful in establishing more effective multi-national research collaboration.
Bibliometric analysis of two subdomains in philosophy: free will and sorites All in all, both philosophers involved in this study acknowledge the validity of the various networks presented. Bibliometric mapping appears to provide an interesting tool for describing the cognitive orientation of a research field, not only in the natural and life sciences but also in philosophy, which this study shows.
The evolution of female authorship in computing research The data presented in Table 1 allows us to conclude that the difference in the duration of men and women's lives as researchers could explain the difference in the number of papers published by men and women.
Structure and evolution of co-authorship network in an interdisciplinary research field Through structural and longitudinal analysis, we find that this examined network gradually evolves into a “core-periphery” structure and that the “core” evolves from a small cluster (corresponding to the “segregation” state of the whole network) to a structure of “chained-communities”, and then to a modular structure that contains a growing cohesive-core.
Visualizing the intellectual structure and evolution of innovation systems research: a bibliometric analysis In this paper we have drawn on bibliometric data relating to 1,364 journal articles listed in the Thomson Reuters’s WoS and the co-word analysis and co-citation methods of the CiteSpace bibliometric software to examine the development of ISs research. Key co-word analysis enabled us to explore the evolving content of IS research, co-occurrence analysis permitted the identification of the disciplines and institutions that were the source of major contributions, journal co-citation and author co-citation analysis depicted the networks connecting journals and authors. The analysis also highlighted the dominance of Anglo-American journals and scholars in part reflecting the choice of data source (WoS) and document type (journal articles).
Identifying patterns and structural influences in the scientific communication of business knowledge Instead of the typical one-dimensional, rank-based approach to journal evaluations, this study used several quantitative techniques to identify the scientific communication patterns and structural influences of 47 key business journals.
A numerical algorithm with preference statements to evaluate the performance of scientists The limitations of numerical algorithms, mentioned in the introduction, are largely addressed by the approach proposed here: Preferences are explicitly taken into account, creativity could be distinguished to some extent, the evaluation is highly flexible to consider multiple product categories, and a maximum limit of taken-into-account products would avoid an excessive focus on quantity.
Power laws in citation distributions: evidence from Scopus We have used a large, novel data set on citations to scientific papers published between 1998 and 2002 drawn from Scopus to test empirically for the power-law behaviour of the right-tails of citation distributions. We have found that the power-law hypothesis is rejected for around half of the Scopus fields of science. Our results suggest that theories implying that the most highly cited scientific papers follow the Yule, power-law with exponential cut-off or log-normal distribution may have slightly more support in data than theories predicting the pure power-law behaviour.
The research activity of the current faculty of the Greek chemical engineering departments: a bibliometric study in national and international context In conclusion, bibliometrics, using easily accessible data, is a useful tool which allows the prompt and objective evaluation of at least the research performance among departments of the same discipline, which, however, represents only a fraction of the complete quality of each department. Consequently, the findings of the present work should provide feedback to the academic community, which should not “let sleeping dogs lie”, but should take all appropriate actions to improve and advance the research performance and policy in the intriguing field of chemical engineering in Greece.
Economical writing (or, "Think Hemingway") We found support for this hypothesis by comparing the banquet speeches of Nobel laureates.
Too many journals? Towards a theory of repeated rejections and ultimate acceptance In summary, we developed three, increasingly realistic theoretical models that all show that the dissenting editor of the panel, mentioned in the introduction, is right on both counts.
Close to the edge: co-authorship proximity of Nobel laureates in Physiology or Medicine, 1991-2010, to cross-disciplinary brokers It has been shown here that Nobel laureates in Physiology or Medicine between 1991 and 2010 are close, as measured by co-authorship distance, not only to the disciplinary boundaries within the broad area of biomedicine, but also to the boundaries between biomedicine and a wide range of non-biomedical disciplines.
Worldwide contributors to the literature of library and information science: top authors, 2007-2012 Our results show that a similar situation prevails at the individual level, both worldwide (all contributing authors) and among LIS faculty in the US and Canada, the United Kingdom, and elsewhere. Faculty in the natural sciences and LIS are overrepresented among the top 50 authors while librarians, computer scientists and non-academic authors are underrepresented. This study confirms not just the concentration of LIS research, but a countervailing trend toward increased diversity with regard to the countries and disciplines represented in the literature.
Academia's never-ending selection for productivity Our analysis shows that to keep the hope of getting a research position (not so) young scientists need not only to have more research experience but also to be more prolific. This example demonstrates that the “publish or perish” dogma has accelerated by an unprecedented extent in the past few years. Such toughening of the research job market may discourage young and motivated biologists from engaging in an academic career.
Increasing science and technology linkage in fuel cells: A cross citation analysis of papers and patents The resulting data indicates that the numbers of cross citations between papers and patents are not particularly high, but are gradually increasing. From the test results, this study has found that while science linkage increased annually at a rapid rate, technology linkage did not show an increasing trend. Therefore we suggest that papers and patents published by academic institutions tend to cite more from other academic organizations.
Geometric journal impact factors correcting for individual highly cited articles The results show that the geometric JIF is superior to the standard JIF in terms of stability.
Problems and challenges of information resources producers' clustering In this paper we focused on problems and challenges that one may encounter when applying clustering techniques on data sets representing performance records of information resources producers.
Quantitative analysis of the Italian National Scientific Qualification Therefore, exceeding the medians is poorly correlated with getting qualification in half of the SDs, suggesting that the role of the indicators should be reconsidered.
Publication rate expressed by age, gender and academic position - A large-scale analysis of Norwegian academic staff Overall, our findings confirm several of the established findings on this issue: the differences among genders, age groups and types of academic personnel.
Do PageRank-based author rankings outperform simple citation counts? Does PageRank benefit author rankings compared to citation counts? In this study we tried to address this problem and our response to the question is negative.
Who is collaborating with whom? Part I. Mathematical model and methods for empirical testing Both the theoretical approach of the mathematical model of Social Gestalts presented in Section 2 and the methods (analysis) in Section 3 of this paper, are an essentially improved description and interpretation of the original model and analysis published in the open access paper by Kretschmer and Kretschmer (2013).
Who is collaborating with whom? Part II. Application of the methods to male and to female networks The structures of female co-authorship networks differ markedly from the structures of the male co-authorship networks.
Completing h As indicated in the title and throughout the text of this paper, we regard our introduction of the "speed of light” conversion factor as a matter of completing, rather than modifying, the definition of the h-index.
Providing impact: The distribution of JCR journals according to references they contribute to the 2-year and 5-year journal impact factors The most interesting result is the general trend in the Bradford-like distributions we found: few journals account for many references.
Methods for the generation of normalized citation impact scores in bibliometrics: Which method best reflects the judgements of experts? As the results of the evaluations show, the validity of the indicators seems to be very similar – especially concerning papers assessed as “good” or "very good" by faculty members. However, the results of this study suggest that overall, all the indicators involved here measure the normalized impact similarly – if we enlist the judgement of peers as an external criterion for the validity of the indicators. Since F1000 focuses on biomedicine, it is important that the results of this study are validated by other studies based on datasets from other disciplines or (ideally) based on multi-disciplinary datasets.
How important is computing technology for library and information science research? Computing technologies are important to about two thirds of LIS research, at least in terms of published journal articles.
Average evaluation intensity: A quality-oriented indicator for the evaluation of research performance The proposed method may serve as a preliminary theoretical framework that can inspire and advance a quality-oriented approach to the evaluation of research performance.
Publication productivity of neurosurgeons in Great Britain and Ireland The h-index is a useful bibliometric marker, particularly when comparing between studies and individu- als. Women remain underrepresented in both clinical and academic neurosurgery in Britain and Ireland. A dedicated mentoring program may reduce this sex disparity.
Guest Authors or Ghost Inventors? Inventorship and Authorship Attribution in Academic Science Authorship and inventorship appear to be obsolete because they do not capture the increasing division of labor and responsibility typical of contemporary scientific research teams.
Ranking Games We suggest as alternatives careful socialization and selection of scholars, supplemented by periodic self-evaluations and awards.
Open Access, Library and Publisher Competition, and the Evolution of General Commerce The most important developments in scholarly publishing are taking place quietly, with essentially no public discussion. However, publishers have provided much better access to scholarly information through the often criticized Big Deal packages. More importantly, these Big Deals appear to point the way to the future of the whole economy, where prog- ress is characterized by declining privacy, increasing price discrimination, increasing opaqueness in pricing, increasing reliance on low-paid or unpaid work of others for profits, and business models that depend on customer inertia.
How accurately does the VIVO Harvester reflect actual Clinical and Translational Sciences Award-affiliated faculty member publications? While the references produced by VIVO Harvester could be confirmed in PubMed, the VIVO Harvester retrieved only two-thirds of the required references from PubMed.
Ethical Numbers: Ethics Training in U.S. Graduate Statistics Programs, 2013-2014 Integrating statisticians into research teams early in the planning phases of study design has become the expectation, as the way data are collected has a great impact on how they are modeled, analyzed, and interpreted. As integral members of a research team, statisticians must be trained to recognize, examine, and process the ethical dimensions of their work. Integrity across the scientific enterprise is imperative in order to engender and maintain public trust in data, science, and the resulting public policy.
The vascular surgeon-scientist: A 15-year report of the Society for Vascular Surgery Foundation/National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute-mentored Career Development Award Program The SVS Foundation Career Development Program is extraordinarily successful, with graduates of this program becoming independent surgeon scientists that contribute to academic vascular surgery through numerous activities.
Publication performance of women compared to men in German cardiology Female cardiologists had a better publication success than males concerning high rank peer reviewed publications.
The Role of Connections in Academic Promotions Our preferred interpretation of the empirical evidence is that candidates with a strong connection may have enjoyed preferential treatment, which overshadows the potential informational advantages of strong links.
Authorship in a multicenter clinical trial: The Heart Failure -A Controlled Trial Investigating Outcomes of Exercise Training (HF-ACTION) Authorship and Publication (HAP) Scoring System Results Given the success in publishing a large number of manuscripts and widely distributing authorship, regular use of a transparent, objective authorship assignment system for publishing results from multicenter trials may be recommended to optimize fairness and dissemination of trial results. The HAP score emerged as a successful system to involve most of its investigators across many sites.
Measuring the attractiveness of academic journals: A direct influence aggregation model Ranking academic journals is a difficult exercise. Whether one agrees with ranking methods based on citation counts or not, they are an attempt to give an objective evaluation of the academic journals which are nowadays part of the academic landscape and will not disappear in the near future.
Contribution of Arab countries to breast cancer research: comparison with non-Arab Middle Eastern countries The present data reveals a good contribution of some Arab countries to the field of "breast cancer" research.
The size of research funding: Trends and implications No country has chosen to exclusively focus on large CoE or any other single type of funding instrument. It also seems equally clear that an optimal funding approach should involve a mix of different instruments.
The impact of foreign-born scientists and engineers on American nanoscience research In sum, these findings indicate that American nanoscientific innovation has demonstrably benefited from the inflow of foreign talent.
A bibliometric study of international scientific productivity in giardiasis covering the period 1971-2010 Despite its methodological limitations, this study represents the first effort to explore the development and research productivity of Giardia and giardiasis over time and has pointed out two interesting characteristics of the Giardia and giardiasis literature: the concentration of papers over journals disseminating the research results, and that research in this field growing and will likely continue to grow in the future.
Long-Distance Interdisciplinarity Leads to Higher Scientific Impact The findings support the assumption that interdisciplinary research is more successful and leads to results greater than the sum of its disciplinary parts.
A Model of the Academic Review Process with Informed Authors Research on the academic review process is an important endeavor, as it may help improve the process and the productivity of scholars.
R & D on carbon nanostructures in Russia: scientometric analysis, 1990-2011 Based on this case study, we believe an alternative strategy should be pursued, which bets on the integration of academic and university science, perfects the institute of IP to advance science-intensive industries, and promotes patents for innovations development.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Top 100 Cited Cardiovascular Articles In conclusion, our analysis provides an insight on the citation fre- quency of top cited articles published in cardiovascular medicine to help recognize the quality of the works, discoveries, and the trends steering cardiology.
The Gatekeepers of Modern Physics Periodicals and Peer Review in 1920s Britain This study explores the nature of peer review, suggesting how a historical approach can contribute to contemporary debates.
Phase transitions in the web of science The strengths of the phase transitions quantify the importance of interdisciplinary interactions.
A retrospective evaluation of The North American Journal of Economics and Finance (1990-2014) Overall, the journal has a diverse authorship and it has been a success over the last 25 years.
Research Constituents and Authorship Patterns in the Production and Operations Management Journal Our results show that the institutions making the greatest contributions to the journal based on author affiliation are UT Dallas, Georgia Tech., Harvard, Minnesota, and Maryland, with the ten most prolific institutions accounting for 20 percent of the journal's articles. When compared to affiliated faculty research, the institutions contributing to POM based on the research of their doctoral graduates have remained more consistent over time. Many interesting questions remain, for example, why has the average number of authors per article been increasing?
Open access and soft power: Chinese voices in international scholarship The growth of an open, transparent and inclusive national research and innovation system, supported by high-quality, digitally appropriate mechanisms for scholarly communication, will be the real source of China's soft power in the OA age.
Making Science: New Generations of Collaborative Knowledge Production Our ethnographic data uncovered a somewhat contradictory picture of scientific knowledge production in the wake of this shift. While this indicates a globalization of sorts in STT knowledge production, “open science" is still far removed from reality, and traditional social structures continue to play an important role in knowledge generation. Collaborations are predicted by face-to-face interactions, geographical proximity, preferential attachment, and efforts to keep competitors at arm's length.
The Effects of Diversity and Network Ties on Innovations: The Emergence of a New Scientific Field "In summary, we found that innovation, exemplified as publishing in a new scientific discipline, benefits from both homophily and diversity."
Changing Ties in a Far-Flung, Multidisciplinary Research Network: The Case of GRAND Our research brings into the foreground how researchers benefit from a network such as GRAND even if collaborative ties do not grow and traditional outputs are slower to come. The ties researchers develop in GRAND are valuable because they provide access to expertise, build reputations, and create connections for future work. Hence, the evaluation of research collaboration needs to attend to knowledge transfer processes and longer time horizons.
Revising as Reframing: Original Submissions versus Published Papers in Administrative Science Quarterly, 2005 to 2009 Author self-reports paint a clear picture of the impact of peer review on articles reviewed and ultimately published by ASQ. The overwhelming focus was on the interpretive elements of the text that linked the study and its findings to the larger scholarly conversation. Our findings thus provide concrete support for Ellison's (2002) hypothesis that peer review is a driver of the growing length and complexity of social scientific articles.
Peer Reviewing in Political Science: New Survey Results One solution is to bring peer review into the light. We need a system that collects data from journals (and other institutions) on who reviews and presents them in a format usable by scholars and their relevant tenure/promotional bodies. Such a system would provide verifiable data that overcome our suspicions of reviewing self-reports as cheap talk.
Heterogeneous research networks in Latin American schools of business management This research hopes to aim the research policy design to be able to steer and promote heterogeneity that could improve the relationship between producers and users of knowledge.
Assessment of research productivity of Arab countries in the field of infectious diseases using Web of Science database The present data reveals that some Arab countries contribute significantly to the field of infectious diseases. However, Arab countries need to work harder to bridge the gap in this field. Compared with non-Arab countries in the Middle East, research output from Arab countries was high, but more efforts are needed to enhance the quality of this output. Future research in the field should be encouraged and correctly directed.
Scholarly article seeking, reading, and use: a continuing evolution from print to electronic in the sciences and social sciences Articles still remain important to academics' work life for research, writing, teaching, and current awareness.
Counterpoints about predatory open access and knowledge publishing in Africa Policymakers in Africa need to embrace OA and set useful policies in place for regional journals and regional reposito-ries and for academic reward, and support this with technical investment to enable quality online publishing.
The citation evolution law of papers published in the same year but different month Citations of papers followed the same pattern irrespective of discipline, subject or journal: citations of papers published in the same year but different month were obviously different in the first few publishing years, but as time went on, only the difference in publication month in a calendar year did not affect the papers' longer-term citation.
A Bird's-Eye View of Alzheimer's Disease Research: Reflecting Different Perspectives of Indexers, Authors, or Citers in Mapping the Field In this study, we found the differences in the field structure between subject headings and keyphrases, and between co-word and citation analysis in AD-related research.
Toward a Bill of Rights for Manuscript Submitters I write this article with the hope that the ideas I share here will stimulate conversation and perhaps provide insights useful to manuscript submitters, journal editors and reviewers, and to the Academy as a whole. It is time for editors to take the next step—making these commitments more public and visible to manuscript submitters via practices and procedures that are easily recognized and accessed at their journals and on their websites.
The Hundred Most Cited Articles in Bariatric Surgery Many of the milestone papers in bariatric surgery have been included in this bibliometric study. A huge increase in research activity during the last decade is clearly visible in the field. Updates of bibliometric articles are necessary, due to their limited life span; updates are likely to identify trends in research patterns [1, 2, 7].
Cite Globally, Analyze Locally: Citation Analysis from a Local Latin American Studies Perspective When considered carefully within local contexts, analysis of secondary source cita- tions reveals important information for collection development. Spanish-language citations are much higher than the benchmarks determined by Knievel and Kellsey. This exceptional usage indicates that Spanish-language sources especially are essential to the research mission at UNM. Librarians need to look at their local research community and their usage habits and should not rely on general stud- ies for answers.
Evolutionary longitudinal network dynamics of global zoonotic research This study provides longitudinal analysis of countries networks of zoonotic research during 1980–2012 based on large scientific data developed from Scopus. The overall properties of these networks as well as their dynamics over these 33 years are examined in detail. Nevertheless, the density of the network is still low which means that limited numbers of countries are collaborating.
Collaborative Networks as a measure of the Innovation Systems in second-generation ethanol The commercial production of lignocellulosic ethanol as well as new products from this technological conversion will become a reality in the coming years.
Article processing charges in OA journals: relationship between price and quality "This would seem to indicate that while publishers to some extent take the quality into account when pricing their journals, authors are even more sensitive to the relationship between price and quality in their choices of where to submit their manuscripts."
Emerging countries assertion in the global publication landscape of science: a case study of India The study claims that the global publication landscape is changing with emerging economies especially China playing a major role behind this change.
A decade of research in statistics: a topic model approach Our results seem to confirm the expectations.
Nano language and distribution of article title terms according to power laws Nano terms which come about in article titles can serve as a good generalized indicator of the subject content.
Mining research trends with anomaly detection models: the case of social computing research By characterizing new research trends as innovative anomalies triggered by changes in research process, we have demonstrated the application of anomaly detection model in research trends analysis in this study.
What can university administrators do to increase the publication and citation scores of their faculty members? Overall, although we found that many factors influence publication and citation scores, two sets of major results emerge from this study: first, scholars who are in the low performing profile (low publication and citation scores) differ from those in the non-publishing profile (zero publication and zero citation) only by being in top-tier universities and by having high levels of funding from research councils; second, scholars who publish frequently and are frequently cited (high-impact frequently publishing profile) differ from those in the low performing profile in many ways: they are full professors, they dedicate more time to their research activities, they receive all their research funding from research councils, they are more involved in passive knowledge transfer activities and, finally, they are located in top-tier universities.
Towards understanding longitudinal collaboration networks: a case of mammography performance research In this paper, we presented a detailed account of descriptive, static and static-comparative of research collaboration networks in ‘mammography performance' over 30 years.
The open access advantage considering citation, article usage and social media attention In summary, the OA advantage exists not only for citation, but also for article usage. Compared with the short period attention for non-OA papers, the OA advantage of article usage exists for a much longer time period.
Global trends in scientific production in enology and viticulture in selected emerging economies (BRIC) This study provides indicators of the research situation in BRIC countries in the field of viticulture and oenology based on the analysis of the articles published in journals that can be found in the SCIE.
Diversity of individual research disciplines in scientific funding This thorough investigation of interdisciplinary applications in a scientific foundation provides new insights in managing scientific funding. The findings in this paper provide new insights to funding agencies and departments of research management in universities in terms of managing scientific funding. In the future, the influence of DIRD on individuals' sponsored funding will also be a good research question for further investigation.
Identifying the research focus of Library and Information Science institutions in China with institution-specific keywords In this paper, we use the Keyword Activity Index (learnt from the Activity Index) to identify which topics are emphasized by a given institution in the context of LIS research in China.
Management of science, serendipity, and research performance: Evidence from a survey of scientists in Japan and the US These three findings imply that there is a trade-off between pur-suing serendipity and achieving research efficiency in science, via who plays the managerial role and who the leading research role.
Impact-oriented science policies and scientific publication practices: The case of life sciences in Japan Our results offer a few policy implications.
Temporal trend, geographic distribution, and publication quality in asbestos research This study provides the first bibliometric analysis of scientific production in asbestos research. Interest appears to be higher in selected countries, with strong national features, and is growing again in the new millennium.
From Manuscript Evaluation to Article Valuation: The Changing Technologies of Journal Peer Review Throughout the history of scientific manuscript evaluation, four judging instances have gradually emerged: the editor-in-chief, the editorial committee, outside reviewers, and readers.
Faster-Better-Cheaper Projects: Too Much Risk or Overreaction to Perceived Failure? The results presented here suggest that NASA’s implementation of a stretch goal (the FBC paradigm) was a success despite the negative perceptions of it that developed inside and outside of NASA. We conclude with the recommendation that NASA should challenge itself with stretch goals, but with science goals rather than human exploration goals. Additionally, perhaps the greatest lesson that other organizations (and NASA itself) may take from NASA’s FBC experience is that working toward stretch goals requires an enhanced tolerance for failure and that such tolerance may be developed by adopting a holistic view of success and failure.
Centrality and Flow Vergence gradient based Path analysis of scientific literature: A case study of Biotechnology for Engineering Complex network analyses techniques are used in this paper to reveal the important network growth characteristics of BT for engineering.
Knowledge map of creativity research based on keywords network and co-word analysis, 1992-2011 Based on screening out the 163 top keywords from 4,575 papers on creativity research which are included by Web of Science Database during the period of 1992–2011, we intuitively and vividly drawn the keywords network and it spatial structure of major research topics and paradigms in creativity fields by employing K-core of SNA, Co-word analysis, and MDS and the functions of software UCINET 6.0 and NetDraw.
Breaking Down Silos: Mapping Growth of Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration in a Translational Science Initiative This paper demonstrated growth over time in scientific collaboration among members of the Washington University ICTS.
Social Network Analysis to Assess the Impact of the CTSA on Biomedical Research Grant Collaboration In summary, our analysis revealed the community structures of BRGC networks across CTSA-affiliated investigators to be different from those of random graphs. The strength of deviation from the random graphs and intercommunity cross talk was especially pronounced post-CTSA potentially as a result of increased interactions and environment created through CTSA funding at the University of Kentucky.
Co-Authorship Network Analysis in Industrial Ecology Research Community In this study, we investigated the co-authorship network and characteristics of the IE research area with publications in the JIE. This kind of research can help to analyze the current progress and development in IE research as well as to progress in a productive and constructive direction (e.g., collaboration among many research communities and corporations). In this study, there are some limitations.
Impact of Fellowship Training on Research Productivity in Academic Ophthalmology Academic ophthalmologists with fellow-ship training have significantly higher scholarly output than non-fellowship-trained ophthalmologists do, as measured using the h-index. Research productivity increases with departmental academic rank from Assistant Professor to Professor.
Big names or big ideas: Do peer-review panels select the best science proposals? Our findings demonstrate that peer review generates information about the quality of applications that may not be available otherwise.
Invention as a combinatorial process: evidence from US patents We find that the combination of technologies has indeed been the major driver of modern invention, reflected in an invariant introduction of new combinations of technologies engendered by patented inventions. Our results highlight tantalizing, and empirically grounded, similarities between the combinatorial process of modern invention and another important generative combinatorial search process, namely biological evolution. Assessing the quality and usefulness of patented inventions remains a matter of much research and debate.
A Modified Nature Publishing Index via Shannon Entropy In this paper, a Shannon Entropy approach based only upon the number of articles published by institutions has been developed to modify the quasi-official ranking released by NPG, which may face some problem to determine a widely accepted ranking for different preferences.
The rhetoric and reality of research reputation: 'fur coat and no knickers' It is apparent that research reputation is based more upon quality of research pro-ductivity than quantity of output.
Academic productivity before and after tenure: the case of the 'specialist' The surprising result is that whenever they go up for tenure, their research productivity and journal publi- cations paths are characterized by a bang-bang solution, that is, sometimes they are on, working on their research projects at maximum effort, and sometimes they are off, doing almost no work.
Does Co-authorship Lead to Higher Academic Productivity? First, greater collaboration leads to a higher academic productivity even after discounting by the number of authors who worked on an article.
ResearchGate: Disseminating, Communicating, and Measuring Scholarship? The comparisons of the rankings between institutions found that total impact points correlated moderately with all of them, and while it correlated less well, in general, with the other rankings than they did with each other, the difference was not large. If the uptake of ResearchGate increases, then it seems likely that the correlation between the ResearchGate metrics and existing university ranking schemes will increase as ResearchGate becomes more comprehensive.
User Participation in an Academic Social Networking Service: A Survey of Open Group Users on Mendeley In this study, we examined users' practices and motivations for joining an online research group in an ASNS-Mendeley. Our study also shows that ASNS users have different or even multiple motivations for creating or joining open groups; however, the incentives to meet these different motivations have yet to be fully studied. Future work includes further examination of user participation and actual interactions in ASNS groups; the exploration of the reasons for the uneven presence of academic disciplines; the identification of the features that academic users prefer and the incentives that motivate them to further engage with ASNSs; and finally, the roles that librarians and information professionals may play in ASNS groups, which may have a significant impact on the future research and development of ASNSs.
Journal Maps, Interactive Overlays, and the Measurement of Interdisciplinarity on the Basis of Scopus Data (1996-2012) The results are informative maps both locally and globally.
The Roles of Sharing, Transfer, and Public Funding in Nanotechnology Knowledge-Diffusion Networks First, we identified two types of interactions between knowledge sharing and knowledge transfer in nanotechnology inventor networks, as described in hypotheses 1 and 2.
Use of Politeness Strategies in Signed Open Peer Review We identified high frequency and variety of politeness strategies in the alt.chi peer-review corpus. Although these strategies affect clarity of criticisms, they also provide a means for maintaining relationships and ensuring that authors will not become discouraged. We recommend, based on our observations, combined with what we know from the literature on the use of politeness strategies, four ways to improve the design of peer-review processes and the software systems that support them. Future studies are needed that examine other measures of reputation and academic capital to be able to understand better their effects on reviewers' behavior.
Bibliometric Evolution: Is the Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology Transforming Into a Specialty Journal? Applying a recently developed method for measuring the level of specialization over time for a selection of library and information science (LIS)-core journals seems to reveal that Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology (JASIST) is slowly transforming into a specialty journal.
A Framework to Explore the Knowledge Structure of Multidisciplinary Research Fields In this paper, we have presented a novel framework for exploring knowledge structure of any given research domain.
Changed Responsibilities in Scholarly Communication Services: An Analysis of Job Descriptions Terms and expressions in job descriptions reflect concurrent understanding of libraries about challenges and requirements in the development of digital collections as well as other issues related to scholarly conduct. This article has uncovered a changed pattern of SC services in the past several years.
Rankings and university performance: A conditional multidimensional approach We provide a first attempt to overcome current limitations of ex-isting rankings by using an original and comprehensive database on European universities microdata integrated with bibliometric data on the scientific production, and by applying recently developed tech-niques in efficiency analysis.
Which factors drive the decision to opt out of individual research rankings? An empirical study of academic resistance to change Overall, we can conclude that the detected determinants of the decision to opt out of the Handelsblatt ranking are not only statistically significant, but also of relevance in absolute terms. In this paper we presented empirical evidence from the recent boycott initiative of German business scholars toward the well-recognized Handelsblatt rankings indicating that scientists' decisions to boycott rankings may not always be driven by theoretical concerns about the employed quantitative measures and methods. At least to a significant extent the observable resistance to cultural and institutional changes and the hostility vis-à-vis public research evaluation exercises and greater transparency about individual research performance can be explained by factors related to the individual costs and expected benefits of the concerned researchers.
Scientific Research of Senior Italian Academics of Occupational Medicine: A Citation Analysis of Products Published During the Decade 2001-2010 This study found that there is a large difference in scientific performance in a homogeneous group of scholars. For occupational medicine, a positive assessment of its scholars can influence the trend and address the future of the discipline. This could make the difference between a thriving discipline and a languishing one.
An International Study of Research Misconduct Policies Our most important finding is that there is considerable variation in the definition of research misconduct found in national policies. To promote integrity in international research collaborations, countries should seek to harmonize and clarify misconduct definitions and develop procedures for adjudicating conflicts when harmonization does not occur. This finding indicates to us that most national governments are taking research misconduct seriously and are attempting to promote research integrity. Furthermore, having a policy probably reflects a national commitment to scientific research, since having a policy was associated with R&D funding rank and R&D intensiveness.
Rethinking Authorship in the Era of Collaborative Research For many years now, standard authorship practices in research communities have been riddled with serious problems.
Factors influencing publication of scientific articles derived from masters theses in public health Most masters theses of our MPH program are disseminated in the scientific literature.
25 years at Knowledge-Based Systems: A bibliometric analysis In this paper, a bibliometric analysis of KnoSys has been devel- oped. The journal has attracted the interest of the scientific commu- nity throughout years, which is observed in the great growth of publications, citations and submissions received. We have identified two emergent themes that could attract the interest of the scientific community in the future: Ontology and Social networks.
ERA 2012 Versus ERA 2010: Like the Curate's Egg ... Good in Parts The comparison of the 2010 and 2012 ERA data collections reveals an overall improvement in performance across the board with most universities improving or at least holding their ground.
A method of searching for related literature on protein structure analysis by considering a user's intention In this paper, by using an input article and an additional article as the input query, we proposed a method of implementing a relevant literature search that considers the user's intentions.
Citation indexes of scientific works Thus, proceeding from the analysis of the pre- sented data, we can make the following conclusions: a substantial increase in the fullness and validity of information requires improving the automated sys- tems of citing scientific works through maximally wid- ening the possibilities of author-introduced correc- tions using convenient tools; it is necessary to improve and unify the citation indexes to increase their objectivity and to draw com- parisons on these indicators only within individual knowledge fields and age groups. The most acceptable (com- promise) option would perhaps be the use of the index Kh = max{Khħ, Kh₂, Kh3}.
Brazilian scientific production on phytoplankton studies: national determinants and international comparisons "We conclude that studies can be more deliberately targeted to reduce national and international asymmetries by focusing on projects with large spatial scales and projects that concentrate on less-studied geographic regions, thus encouraging increased productivity in remote areas of the country."
Visualization of e-Health Research Topics and Current Trends Using Social Network Analysis This study promotes a systematic understanding of e-health by identifying topic networks, thereby contributing to the future direction of e-health research and education.
Half a century of the Russian Journal of Nondestructive Testing: Past, present, and future Thus, by 2020 Defektoskopiya, together with its English version RJNDT should rise to the average world level of similar journals, such as Materials Science and Characterization and Testing according to the international classification [7]).
Disparities in Cardiovascular Research Output and Citations From 52 African Countries: A Time-Trend, Bibliometric Analysis (1999-2008) The increases in cardiovascular research outputs from Africa are concentrated in a few countries. The reasons for regional differences in research outputs require further investigation, particularly relative to competing disease burdens. Higher prioritization of cardiovascular research funding from African countries is warranted. Despite the increases in CVD burden in Africa, the amount of cardiovascular publications currently being produced is among the lowest in the world and is out of proportion to the disease burden in many countries. Institutions and governments should allocate funds for regional and international projects to improve cardiovascular-scientific outputs.
Bibliometric Mapping: Eight Decades of Analytical Chemistry, With Special Focus on the Use of Mass Spectrometry Bibliometric mapping reveals clear shifts in analytical chemistry research topics from inorganic and (small-molecule) organic chemistry to biochemistry and complex biomolecules. Furthermore, a sequence of new methods emerging and sometimes replacing older ones is apparent in the time series analyses. However, we show here how these findings can be obtained using semi-automatic bibliometric mapping methods to visualize the evolution of research fields in an unsupervised manner.
Bibliometric profile of the global scientific research on methanol poisoning (1902-2012) Scientific production related to methanol poisoning is increasing. articles have been published in a wide range of journals with a variety of subject areas, most notably clinical toxicology; and the country with the greatest production was the USA.
Product and Process Innovation in the Development Cycle of Biopharmaceuticals Our study builds on the latest research on inno-vation theories to provide empirical evidence that demon-strates reshaping of innovation processes through utilization of scientific knowledge.
The determinants of open access publishing: survey evidence from Germany Consequently, the paper emphasizes that a “one-size-fits-all" approach, as promoted by most recent policy initiatives, is unlikely to provide an effective framework for shaping the future of scholarly publishing. In sum, the respondents' publishing behavior is governed both by personal and field-specific assessments of OA publishing, where a more favorable perception is positively associated with the likelihood of using the “gold road". The challenge of fostering OA publishing in Germany, like in any other country, is to facilitate access to academic publications without undermining the incentives to provide the required quantity and quality of publishing services.
Technical pitfalls in university rankings Each case also results in recommendations that address the technical issues involved. We hope that the reaction from the rankings providers to criticisms of the technical defects in their products will be to provide better designed and implemented products that actually inform their audience and help them make better decisions. Of all the ranking schemes analyzed in this study, the one that emerges as having successfully eschewed the pitfalls presented above is the CWTS Leiden Ranking (2013).
Academic inbreeding in the Portuguese academia In general, it can be concluded that inbreeding is a phenomenon assuming relevant expression in the four public Portuguese universities selected for the study.
IS ECONOMICS A HOUSE DIVIDED? ANALYSIS OF CITATION NETWORKS The network of citations in economics in articles published during the 1990s and 2000s exhibits a division where authors are significantly less likely to cite articles by authors at univer-sities across the divide.
Are Scholarly Articles Disproportionately Read in Their Own Country? An Analysis of Mendeley Readers The results give clear evidence that Mendeley readers disproportionately select articles from their own countries in many different fields. A final important implication of the results is that more internationally collaborative research may appear to be better because it attracts a larger audience in each of the countries of the authors rather than because the research is better. Hence, research funders and policy-makers should not justify incentivizing international collaborative research on the basis that it is likely to be better than national research, although they may still wish to incentivize it on political grounds, for publicity, or for specific research needs, such as large science projects that individual countries could not easily fund.
How Is Research Blogged? A Content Analysis Approach These factors suggest a genuine attempt to engage with a wider, non-academic audience. In this sense, research bloggers perform the role of citizen journalists. In addition, bloggers provided another public service: more than one-fourth of posts gave advice and recommendations or advocated against life styles, interventions, or treatments, showing the bloggers’ interest in spreading helpful informa- tion for practical use.
A New Approach to Measure the Scientific Strengths of Territories The analysis demonstrates that there is a significant ter- ritorial concentration of research activity in some specific subject categories, particularly in the life sciences and engi- neering.
Testing the Strength of the Normative Approach in Citation Theory Through Relational Bibliometrics: The Case of Italian Sociology Relevant scientific works were cited by the members of the entire community regardless of their membership in any particular camp.
Assessment of Journal Similarity Based on Citing Discipline Analysis The present article proposes a method for assessing journal similarity based on the disciplines assigned to citing journals and has demonstrates its applicability by focusing on a disciplinary grouping consisting of journals in allied areas.
Adverse selection of reviewers In this article, we have analyzed the editor-reviewer relationship from the viewpoint of agency theory where reviewers are seen as agents of journal editors (the principal).
Statistical relationships between journal use and research output at academic institutions in South Korea "In this study, we explored the statistical relationship between research output and e-journal usage at institutions in South Korea by performing the comparative and diachronic ana-lyses, and the analysis by field."
Somes patterns of Cuban scientific publication in Scopus: the current situation and challenges Cuban scientific output is on the rise, its international presence and scientific leadership coming to light mainly in domestic journals, in the Spanish language, and featuring a low rate of international collaboration.
Research on women in science and higher education: a bibliometric analysis In summary, the present study provides an overview of how scientific output in the field of WSHE has evolved over time.
A comparative analysis of global and national university ranking systems Overall, our findings indicate that national rankings tend to include a larger number of indicators that primarily focus on educational and institutional parameters, whereas global ranking systems tend to have fewer indicators mainly focusing on research performance.
What drives the relevance and reputation of economics journals? An update from a survey among economists A journal's perceived relevance has a much stronger impact on the journal's reputation though than reputation on relevance.
Assessing the profile of top Brazilian computer science researchers Our findings demonstrate that it is necessary to go beyond counting publications to assess research quality and show the importance of considering the peculiarities of different areas of expertise while carrying out such an assessment.
How is credit given to networking centres in their publications? A case study of the Spanish CIBER research structures In general, the best approach seems to be the combination of CIBER_address + CIBER_funding + Author_CIBER sets, because we got around 80 % of all possible CIBER publications, obtaining a fairly reasonable accuracy.
Why do I publish research articles in English instead of my own language? Differences in Spanish researchers' motivations across scientific domains Our survey results show a generally favourable attitude towards the use of English for academic publication purposes, with patterns that were mostly consistent across different scientific domains. First, our study has implications for applied linguistics and pedagogy because it sheds some light on non-Anglophone researchers' perceived difficulties in writing research articles for publication in English-medium journals. Secondly, our findings have implications for science policy since the choice of language is also related to scientific productivity and visibility, the quality and impact of research, and research assessment policies.
Collaborative interdisciplinary astrobiology research: a bibliometric study of the NASA Astrobiology Institute (1) NAI researchers prefer publishing in high-impact multidisciplinary journals.
A new method for automatically constructing domain-oriented term taxonomy based on weighted word co-occurrence analysis The experiment results prove that this proposed method in helping users doing semantic searches and expanding their searching results is effective and can meet the requirement of some specific domains.
A bibliometric assessment of ASEAN collaboration in plant biotechnology Based on bibliometric data for the period 2004–2013 extracted from Scopus and decon-structed by a proprietary, non-commercial home-grown publication parser tool, this paper investigates the research collaborations of ten ASEAN member countries at the domestic, regional, and international levels in the area of plant biotechnology and ASEAN's con-tributions to advancing plant biotechnology research.
Accuracy evaluation of Scopus Author ID based on the largest funding database in Japan We conclude that the accuracy of the Author ID for Japanese researchers is sufficient and nearly equal to the Researcher Numbers in the KAKEN funding database, one of the most reliable systems in Japan.
An academic odyssey: writing over time The readability of Hartley's book chapters (as measured by the Flesch Reading Ease score) has remained remarkably similar for over 50 years, but there is a suggestion that they have got easier to read in the latter years.
Influence of omitted citations on the bibliometric statistics of the major Manufacturing journals This paper studied the omitted-citation rate of two bibliometric databases (i.e., WoS and Scopus), referring to the articles published by thirty-four Manufacturing journals, in the period from 2006 to 2012.
A bibliometric analysis on tobacco regulation investigators In this work, we employed author topic modeling to conduct a bibliometric analysis on the publications of principle investigators on tobacco.
What Does It Take To Be A Successful Pediatric Surgeon-Scientist? Mentorship, persever-ance, institutional commitment to protected research time, and financial support are considered to be important to facilitate the successes of pediatric surgeon-scientists.
Poorly Cited Articles in Peer-Reviewed Cardiovascular Journals from 1997 to 2007 Analysis of 5-Year Citation Rates Nearly half of all peer-reviewed articles published in cardiovascular journals are poorly cited 5 years after publication, and many are not cited at all.
The assortativity of scholars at a research-intensive university in Malaysia This study holds significance to policymakers in understanding the socio-academic factors that bring scholars together. When taking into account assortativity through discrete parameters in our BM network, we see this perception of “similarity breeds connection" only partially true. Future studies could include more assortative parameters, such as nationality, age, educational level, social class and so forth, in a variety of research domains, such as those in the sciences and humanities.
Critical success factors for institutional repositories implementation The results of this study indicate that a total of six factors from the 46 attributes were confirmed by factor analysis, namely, “management”, “services”, “technology”, “self-archive practices”, "people" and "resources”.
Coverage of academic citation databases compared with coverage of scientific social media Personal publication lists as calibration parameters The paper confirms the usefulness of personal publication lists as a calibration parameter for measuring coverage of information services.
Finding "good enough" metrics for the UK's research excellence framework Policy makers should reconsider the role of metrics in research assessment.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Scholarly Publications of Librarians at the University of Mississippi, 2008-2013 This exploratory study set out to determine the research productivity of librarians in regards to tenure and tenure track faculty, types of sources cited by those librarians, and how many of the cited sources were available through the J.D. Williams library. That statistic implies that librarians are not only familiar with their library's collections, but are confident in the scope and knowledge of the resources they are providing. As this study was exploratory and lacks a similar study and results to which it could be compared, similar studies of different academic libraries should be considered in order to determine if the findings from this study are unique or if other libraries show similar patterns.
The Utility of Google Scholar When Searching Geographical Literature: Comparison With Three Commercial Bibliographic Databases The statistical approach applied to the data consolidates our hypoth-esis that GS leads the other tools widely on the number of results, independent of keyword, subfield, year of publication, or time of search. By retrieving a large number of unique references, GS may yield additional information. In conclusion, since the price of commercial DBs is continuously increasing (Chen, 2010a; Cusker, 2013) and the budgets of academic libraries are often restricted and becoming more so, we think the free access provided by GS makes it a superior asset for accessing academic literature.
Library and Information Science Research in China-A Survey Based Analysis of 10 LIS Educational Institutes In this study, our primary goal was to conduct a quantitative evaluation on the achievement, research productivity, and research hot spots in the "LIS" field in China.
The 100 top-cited tuberculosis research studies "The majority of TB articles have been published in those medical journals with the highest impact factors, and are from the most industrialised countries."
The relationship between manuscript title structure and success: editorial decisions and citation performance for an ecological journal We conclude that titles have changed in structure over time, but features of title structure have only small or no relationship with success during editorial review and post-publication impact. The title feature that was most predictive of manuscript success: papers whose titles emphasize broader conceptual or comparative issues fare better both pre- and post-publication than do papers with organism-specific titles. One exception seems to be that titles written to focus on narrow aspects of a study – the specific geographic region or population studied (for medical studies) or the specific study species (for ecological studies) – are less impactful than papers with titles that emphasize the broader conceptual or comparative context of a study.
Interdisciplinarity and Impact: Distinct Effects of Variety, Balance, and Disparity These findings have important implications for interdisciplinary research and science policy.
The Effects of International Mobility on European Researchers: Comparing Intra-EU and US Mobility Researchers mobile to the United States consistently report stronger positive effects on their scientific productivity than their peers who are mobile within the EU.
How Media Scholars' Attributes Affect Their Ratings of Journalism and Mass Communication Quarterly The negative effect of the importance of impact factor in respondents' institutions on the standing of JMCQ (but not on other ratings of the journal) shows that impact factor does play a role in the perceived standing of the journal in the field. This study shows that the ratings of an association journal such as JMCQ can be influenced by specific characteristics of media scholars with knowledge and use of the journal as consistent positive predictors. Using subjective ratings can supplement other computation-based ratings to provide a more comprehensive picture of the quality and reputation of academic journals.
Reviewer recommendations and editors' decisions for a conservation journal: Is it just a crapshoot? And do Chinese authors get a fair shot? Our results demonstrate that the review process is not a crapshoot; reviewers are providing useful information and editors are using this information to make reasonable decisions. This study confirms the value of the peer review system, and indicates that editors are using reviewer recommendations in a reasonable way to make their final decision. The cause of the low acceptance rate of papers from China is almost certainly due to the lower average quality of papers.
Analysis of an Advisor-Advisee Relationship: An Exploratory Study of the Area of Exact and Earth Sciences in Brazil We detected a positive and significant correlation between the duration of the relationship and the number of advisee publications, as measured by the Spearman Correlation Coefficient.
The evolving role of collaboration in developing scientific capability: Evidence from Korean government-supported research institutes Overall, our results have the following implications. First, the transition of knowledge inflow into the compe-tency of research organizations in developing countries requires the drive of the government and accompanies the internalization of knowledge. This study therefore suggests an efficient growth model of scientific capability in a developing country.
Counting quality? The Czech performance-based research funding system Instead of improving the quality of research, the Evaluation Methodology has threatened the stability and the continuity of research organizations in the Czech Republic and has become a serious problem of the Czech research and innovation system.
Impacts of performance-based research funding systems: The case of the Norwegian Publication Indicator The bibliometric analyses find strong increases in publication output from 2004 to the present in terms of total number of publications, publication points, and journal articles in the WoS.
Impact of inbreeding on scientific productivity: A case study of a Japanese university department Our results imply that the effect of inbreeding at different organizational levels have different impacts on productivity.
Disciplined by the Discipline: A Social-Epistemic Fingerprint of the History of Science The process of discipline-building in the history of science has led its amateurs and practitioners to be socialized and sensitized in relatively strong intra-disciplinary terms with minimal interdisciplinary openness. In the course of about one century, its flagship journal shows how the discipline has become inward-looking and largely insulated from other scientific perspectives. In this field, high levels of internal communication now go hand in hand with limited direct contact with other disciplines.
Citation analysis of otorhinolaryngology journals: follow-up study These data may indicate changing clinical and research interests within our field, as well as increased speed and ease with which the internet has allowed citation.
A comparative bibliometric analysis of the top 150 cited papers in hypospadiology (1945-2013) Although there are inherent potential elements of bias in citation analysis, this study demonstrates that citation analysis in a complicated topic can provide a high-throughput, uncomplicated method of quickly deciphering important contributions of authors and institutions to the field of hypospadias research.
Characteristics and fate of orthodontic articles submitted for publication: An exploratory study of the American Journal of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedics Rejection by the AJO-DO does not preclude publication elsewhere, although articles rejected for poor study design were least likely to be eventually published.
What the Overall doesn't tell about world university rankings: examples from ARWU, QSWUR, and THEWUR in 2013 The findings of the present study corroborate in a general sense the findings of the two factor-analytical studies which used 2005 and 2007 data (Saisana & d'Hombres, 2008; Steiner, 2007), although the findings are not exactly replicated. In short, the findings do not support the assumption that the indicators within each system are mutually supporting and additive as conceptualised by the ranking providers. These call for a re-conceptualisation of university ranking.
Peer-review warning: system error, reviewers not found Nevertheless, these alternatives, or any of the above strategies when implemented alone, will not easily transform our current peer-review system in the short term. Given these first signs of system collapse, urgent and pragmatic measures are needed to explicitly increase the pool of reviewers and strongly reduce their burden of work. Finally, the scientific community needs to recognize the critical role of reviewers within the broader debate of where the peer-review process is heading.
Scatter of orthopaedic research: can orthopods stay up-to-date with research? Our results demonstrate the vast scatter of orthopaedic research. Four orthopaedic RCTs are published every day. To read even 25% of the new RCTs and SRs published in orthopaedics, a surgeon would require a subscription to 13 different journals monthly, a costly and time-consuming endeavour.
Streams of Thought: Knowledge Flows and Intellectual Cohesion in a Multidisciplinary Era Results present a consistent picture of the effects of institutional shifts on the intellectual cohesion of one important research community.
Duplicate publications and related problems in published papers on oral and maxillofacial surgery Duplicate material is still being published, and salami-slicing is relatively common among publications on oral and maxillofacial surgery.
Tracking Australian health and medical research expenditure with a PubMed bibliometric method Our analyses confirm that increased HMR expenditure is associated with an increase in HMR publications in PubMed.
The 50 Most-cited Articles in Orthopaedic Surgery From Mainland China The 50 most-cited articles that we identified should be considered influential, although a large gap remains between mainland China and the global orthopaedic community in terms of citations per article.
Team size matters: Collaboration and scientific impact since 1900 The results presented show that, from 1900 onward, coauthorship, interinstitutional collaboration, and international collaboration have been increasing in both NMS and SSH.
Can we rank scholarly book publishers? A bibliometric experiment with the field of history Can we rank scholarly publishers?
Argue, observe, assess: Measuring disciplinary identities and differences through socio-epistemic discourse This study finds that by using only a limited set of terms previously found by corpus methods as indicative of disciplinary differences, a large-scale automated method can discern among the three target disciplines at a notably high rate of accuracy, and specifically based on criteria that mirrors the findings of studies of these same disciplines' differences in the fields of information science, applied linguistics, and the sociology of science.
Who publishes in "predatory" journals? Our attempt to examine author profiles suggests that authors who publish in predatory journals are indeed distinct from authors who publish in OA journals that have a more rigorous review process.
Clusterization and mapping of waste recycling science. Evolution of research from 2002 to 2012 The results show that the data-retrieval stage could be satisfactorily conducted in this case by exploiting the highest-coverage database (Scopus) losing only roughly 8% of the information.
Hyperlinks embedded in twitter as a proxy for total external in-links to international university websites The use of Twitter as a source of data for webometric analysis would seem to produce promising results. However, using Twitter to predict the total number of links still has certain limitations that prevent it being fully recommended for global use. It may therefore be concluded that, although Topsy indicators correlate with other link indicators, measuring the number of tweets with hyperlinks differs somewhat from other link metrics.
BRICS countries and scientific excellence: A bibliometric analysis of most frequently cited papers The investigation presented here shows that the BRICS countries have cohorts of scientists producing papers in the domain of excellent research (Ptop10% and Ptop1%). The five BRICS countries compete with the top-performing countries worldwide for elite status, and they cooperate with these leading countries in an elite network of communications. The data suggest that an exceedingly robust global science system has emerged, one that is open to new entrants from the BRICS countries, based on merit.
A strategic management approach for Korean public research institutes based on bibliometric investigation This paper interpreted GRIs' research portfolios regarding to national strategies from the perspective of knowledge production and consumption. Our findings have important implications for science and technology in terms of (i) a rigid R&D portfolio, (ii) giant institutes in some areas, and (iii) development plans for each Category. The existence of exclusive institutes also implies that the national R&D might be susceptible to research failure.
Factors affecting citation networks in science and technology: focused on non-quality factors According to the comprehensive analysis, relevant variables should be applied to policy-making elements for journals. In order to increase citation of articles, based on the result of this research, a collaborative research from several affiliations or teams should be facilitated, a broad range of reference retrieval is needed as the higher number of references means vigorous research, and the more number of keywords needs to be allowed when submitting articles through modification of editing policies of academic journals.
How is an academic social site populated? A demographic study of Google Scholar Citations population This work concludes that this academic social network presents some biases in the population distribution that does not make it representative of the real scientific population.
The inner quality of an article: Will time tell? In this paper, by comparing articles published at the same time in the same outlet (i.e., the same issue of a volume), we find evidence of potential biases due to institutional affiliation or connection, which suggests that authors profit from the symbolic capital or power of a top university. Such a comparative advantage disappears over time, however, through stabilization of the relative difference and, except for a few articles, even decreases over time. Interpreting this result in light of our hypothesis, we conclude that the inner quality of the papers published in these top journals is revealed over time.
A bilateral comparison of research performance at an institutional level Based on these findings, we can conclude that NCNST and CNSI are indeed comparable. NCNST had many advantages in terms of author and paper quantities, growth rate and the strength of collaboration but lost dominance in terms of research quality. Our study has limitations that are necessary to be pointed out for future research opportunities.
Edited books in the Social Sciences and Humanities: Characteristics and collaboration analysis In this article we study peer reviewed edited books as an important publication channel for the Social Sciences and especially for the Humanities, defined as collections of chapters written by different authors gathered and harmonized by one or more editors.
Topic-based heterogeneous rank We contend that the ranking of academic entitie like papers, authors or journals with respect to their topic is an important method in light of the growing interest in the role of context in citation research.
Dynamic subfield analysis of disciplines: an examination of the trading impact and knowledge diffusion patterns of computer science These results have demonstrated a growing impact of CS in knowledge production and diffusion among all scientific disciplines.
The author-editor game In that sense, editor's bias might be a more effective way to influence manuscript quality control than direct authority of editor.
The generational gap of science: a dynamic cluster analysis of doctorates in an evolving scientific system This article presents a perspective on the temporal dynamic characterization of doctorates in an evolving scientific system.
Network Effects in the Academic Market: Mechanisms for Hiring and Placing PhDs inCommunication (2007-2014) In this study, we systematically examined the recruitment network of U.S.-based universities with doctoral programs in communication. Our findings highlight the important role of network mechanisms vis-à-vis node-level attributes during the formation of recruitment ties. The network effects we identify in this article accentuate the importance of active networking in academic life.
Publication performance and research output of Neurology and Neurosurgery training institutes in India: A 5-year analysis This evaluation of the publication performance and research output of neurology and neurosurgery training institutes would serve as a baseline data for future evaluations and comparisons. The absence of any publication and research output from several training institutes is a matter of concern. Thus, there is an imperative need to train neuroscience scholars and residents more rigorously in the domains of scientific research and writing.
Project selection in NIH: A natural experiment from ARRA Overall, these results suggest that the NIH's project selection appears generally in line with its purported mission.
Defining and identifying Sleeping Beauties in science Our analysis emphasizes a complex feature of citation dynamics that so far has received little attention, and also provides empirical evidence against the use of short-term citation metrics in the quantification of scientific impact.
Research Portfolio Analysis in Science Policy: Moving from Financial Returns to Societal Benefits However, we do identify potentially fruitful uses of portfolio analysis in science policy.
Accounting for Impact? The Journal Impact Factor and the Making of Biomedical Research in the Netherlands Taken together, our findings suggest this indicator should not be dismissed as mere idle ‘publication talk,’ or as floating in some external 'cultural' realm separated from the 'serious business' of knowledge making.
Density equalizing mapping of the global tuberculosis research architecture This is the first density equalizing and scientometric study that addresses tuberculosis research over a period of 112 years. It illustrates global tuberculosis research architecture and stresses the need for strengthening global research efforts and funding program.
Bibliometric Methods in Management and Organization Bibliometric methods reveal great potential for the quantitative confirmation of subjectively derived categories in published reviews as well as for exploring the research landscape and identifying the categories.
The thematic orientation of publications mentioned on social media Large-scale disciplinary comparison of social media metrics with citations Mendeley is the strongest social media source with similar characteristics to citations in terms of their distribution across fields. This paper reinforces the relevance of Mendeley as a social media source for analytical purposes from a disciplinary perspective, being particularly relevant for the social sciences (together with Twitter). Key implications for the use of social media metrics on the evaluation of research performance (e.g. the concentration of some social media metrics, such as blogs, news items, etc., around multidisciplinary journals) are identified.
Geographic variation in social media metrics: an analysis of Latin American journal articles The differences uncovered by this study point to the need of careful sample selection when making generalizable claims about altmetrics.
Usefulness of altmetrics for measuring the broader impact of research A case study using data from PLOS and F1000Prime The current study makes a contribution to the clarification of the question of the broad impact measured by altmetrics. Even if the results with regard to the use of Twitter and Facebook counts are promising, there are a series of unanswered questions which result from the findings presented here: Why do papers with the “good for teaching" tag receive higher Twitter and Facebook counts than papers without this tag?
Altmetrics for the humanities Comparing Goodreads reader ratings with citations to history books Goodreads needs to be examined further with respect to other academic subject areas; however, the field of history has been a convincing starting point for investigating how scholarly books are received and evaluated beyond academia.
Differences in personal and professional tweets of scholars An overview of various affordances found in Twitter is provided and a novel use of Amazon's Mechanical Turk for the categorization of tweets is described that can be applied to future altmetric studies.
Multiple h-index: a new scientometric indicator Given the advantages of the mh-index, it is hoped that the scientific world will use it for evaluating the output of researchers.
Endovascular Treatment for Extracranial Carotid Stenosis: A 10-Year Bibliometric Analysis Publication in journals across disciplines and multidisciplinary collaboration are 2 peculiar characteristics of research in this topic.
Predicting Research Trends Identified by Research Histories via Breakthrough Researches In this study, we proposed methods for comprehending and predicting scientific research trends.
Exploring the GIS Knowledge Domain Using CiteSpace The analysis of bibliographic records in GIS provides a unique and interesting snapshot of the GIS knowledge domain. Specifically, results show the high degree of cross-fertilization of ideas, methods, and approaches in numerous fields all of which are tied together by GIS technology. CiteSpace proves to be a highly efficient tool for exploring knowledge domains and provides an effective alternative to the more traditional literature reviews that are often published in specialty research areas.
The internationalisation of operations management research Several notable results were evident. First, the research contribution of affiliated authors and PhD graduates by institutions in North America, measured as the percent of total research published, has decreased from 1985 through 2010 by almost one percent annually. It is readily apparent that the research constituency, affiliated authors and PhD graduates, has become more globally widespread.
The top 100 cited articles published in emergency medicine journals The top-cited articles published in EM journals help us recognize the quality of the works, discoveries, and trends steering EM.
Two-phased composite I-distance indicator approach for evaluation of countries' information development "The results presented in this study clearly indicate that the CIDI ranking methodology is unbiased and more stable than the official IDI ranking methodology, and can be used as an appropriate framework for information society evaluation measurement."
Measuring the gap between perceived importance and actual performance of institutional repositories "This study may help libraries and other IR start-ups understand what sources and services they need to develop to make their applications successful in an already very populated network of services."
The 'logic of escalation' in performance measurement: An analysis of the dynamics of a research evaluation system My discussion has shown that the tendency of performance measurement to become increasingly complex technically and also idiosyncratic is, in epistemic terms, intrinsically related to the use of a specific type of numerical performance measures.
Duplicate Publication in Radiology Journals Duplicate publications in radiology journals are uncommon.
Scientific collaboration and team science: a social network analysis of the centers for population health and health disparities Understanding research collaboration networks can help to more effectively design and manage future team-based research, as well as pinpoint potential issues and continuous evaluation of existing efforts.
Too little and too much trust: performance measurement in Australian higher education In this article, we have drawn attention to the way in which the approach to managing academic performances in Australia today seems to embody some conflicting assumptions about the nature of the knowledge workers and their motivations: an anomaly we referred to as 'too little' and 'too much' trust. What these interviews have highlighted is that this machinery is distorting in its attempt to squeeze knowledge work that is highly diversified, complex, and dynamic and thus also somewhat unpredictable as to its results into one common and inflexible grid of metrics. We have further illustrated by way of selected comparative examples that while some form of performance measure-ment is now common in academic work almost everywhere, that the kinds of top-down, micro-managed, and template approach often used in Australian higher education is not the only way to proceed.
Context-Aware Reviewer Assignment for Trust Enhanced Peer Review Experimental results have demonstrated that our proposed CONCERT approach is more reasonable than existing reviewer assignment approaches, and it can greatly help reduce the estimation bias caused by stringent reviewers and lenient reviewers from the 'true' rating, i.e., the variance of estimation bias of the ratings provided by these reviewers. This leads to trust enhanced peer selection. In our future work, the mathematical proof of the effectiveness of cross-assignment will be studied.
Analysis of essential patent portfolios via bibliometric mapping: an illustration of leading firms in the 4G era The strategic choice view postulates that technological assets are the main source for causing the differences in a firm's future strategies in standardisation (Suarez 2004). Under this premise, the current research intended to show how to analyse the essential patent portfolios of leading firms via bibliometric mapping. Besides, this research provides managerial implications for incumbent companies in the 4G era. In the future, this research can be extended by incorporating LTE-Advanced standards.
Current status on health sciences research productivity pertaining to Angola up to 2014 The number of publications has increased steadily over the past 10 years, with predominance on malaria topics. Angola was the country with the largest number of major affiliations of the first author, but the contribution of Angolan institutions was relatively low, indicating a need to reinforce academic research institutions in the country. In summary, this work highlights the rapid increase of scientific publications related to Angola but also a need for reinforcing academic-driven research in this country.
The research impact of school psychology faculty The current study found significant differences in median h index values between assistant, associate, and professors in school psychology training programs. These values might be used as national norms for the discipline (see Tables 2 and 3). It was recommended that the h index be integrated with peer review and diverse other indicators when considering individual merit.
Research patterns and trends of Recommendation System in China using co-word analysis In China, research on RecSys is relatively mature and well-developed. On the whole, mature and well-developed research subfields of RecSys in China have been formed, and have great potential for further development. This study also identified a few emerging themes with great potential for development. The results and interpretations can contribute to understanding the research on RecSys by Chinese researchers.
Calibrated fair measure of particle physics publications: indices to quantify an individual's scientific research output The research institutions would find it a helpful tool in their search for the best candidate for a specific position. The calibrated results, Eq. (2), agree well with his record prior to his CMS membership and also post to it.
Fifty top-cited classic papers in orthopedic elbow surgery: A bibliometric analysis Identification of the most cited papers in elbow surgery shows an insight into the historical development of elbow surgery and provides the foundation for further investigations.
An analysis of file format control in institutional repositories The results show that file controls currently applied to institutional repositories do not suffice to grant their stated mission of long-term preservation of scientific literature. In institutional repositories such problems are even greater because their mission requires them to accept almost any type of document. Therefore, efficient management of repositories should include revision and correction of file formats in order to guarantee their preservation.
Correlation analysis for comparison of the citation impact of journals, magazines, and conferences in computer science Our analysis results show that the citation impacts of different publication types in the same research areas are not always correlated at a certain level. Besides these findings the results could help researchers decide which type of publication should be their first target as a publication outlet and where to look to collect more important related references for their research projects. More specifically in future work it would be better to compare related journals, magazines and conferences in each specific category classified by ISI.
Factiva and Canadian Newsstand Major Dailies Comparing retrieval reliability between academic institutions Initially interested in examining how the potential yield of stories might compare between two different databases, Canadian Newsstand Major Dailies and Factiva, we unwittingly stumbled onto an e-resource issue much more worrisome.
Disclosing the network structure of private companies on the web The case of Spanish IBEX 35 share index Although the processes of AWDs creation and categorisation are complex (web policy seems not to be driven by a defined or conscious plan), their influence on the web performance of IBEX 35 companies is meaningful.
An application profile for research collaboration and information management This study has used RDF as a common representation language for both the SF for DCAP and the LOD principles to develop an approach to the design of interoperable and linkable application profiles.
Opening science: towards an agenda of open science in academia and industry Overall it becomes evident, that the proponents of open science strive for an improved scientific system.
Contribution of postdoctoral fellows to fast-moving and competitive scientific research Our study also found that postdoctoral fellows are more prevalent in fast-moving and competitive scientific research in both Japan and the United States.
Brazilian impact factor of physics journals - the third side of the coin We showed here that this process is even more harmful for science in Brazil, perhaps in other peripheral countries as well. We thus conclude that the international published IF does not properly depict the quality of the physics research in Brazil, a conclusion that could be extended to other fields and to other developing countries.
Do Editorial Board Members in Library and Information Science Publish Disproportionately in the Journals for Which They Serve as Board Members? Within this set of journals, however, board member authors are not especially likely to publish in their own journals. In fact, nearly two-thirds publish fewer than the expected number of articles in the journals for which they serve as board members. The results presented here suggest that this may be the case. Finally, if articles by board members are especially likely or unlikely to be accepted, can this pattern be traced to differences in research quality, to authors' familiarity with the publishing process, or to systematic bias?
Exploring Trade-offs in the Organization of Scientific Work: Collaboration and Scientific Reward We find that collaboration is associated with important trade-offs, including higher-quality publications, lower individual productivity and credit shared across collaborators—although in a way that sums up to more than 1.
How to successfully publish interdisciplinary research: learning from an Ecology and Society Special Feature We have attempted to assess the elements of an ideal-typical story wall summarizing the success factors for publishing a team's interdisciplinary efforts. However, with the caveat that the factors may have a different relevance in a different project context, we strongly suggest that they should at least be inspiring and useful for planning and undertaking interdisciplinary publishing processes in a more sophisticated way.
Global Bibliometric Analysis of the 'Mining & Mineral Processing' Subject Category From the Web of Science (1997-2012) Bibliometric analysis has been applied to the subject category of the Web of Science ‘Mining & Mineral Processing' in order to define the evolution of research in this area and to perform a global analysis of the most productive countries, along with the main research centers.
Investigation of the degree to which articles supported by research grants are published in open access health and life sciences journals This study... shows that the percentage of non-grant-funded articles is clearly reduced in APC OA journals, especially relative to free OA journals, and that the percentage of grant-funded articles increases with increased APCs.
Computer science research: the top 100 institutions in India and in the world We have presented a scientometric, network-theoretic and text-based characterization of CS domain research in major Indian institutions (I100 as representative sample) vis-à-vis the most productive institutions in the world (W100 as representative sample) during the last 25 years period (1989–2013).
Detecting seminal research contributions to the development and use of the global positioning system by reference publication year spectroscopy Our findings highlight several pioneering contributions, primarily from quantitative disciplines, that appear essential to the pervasive impact of GPS today.
The citation advantage of author-pays model: the case of Springer and Elsevier OA journals The citation advantage can be attributed to the higher visibility of the OA articles, implying the popularity and usefulness of the OA author-pays model to their readership.
The 100 Most-Cited Human Cleft Lip and Palate-Related Articles Published in Dentistry, Oral Surgery, and Medicine Journals The 100 most-cited articles in human cleft lip and palate research published in dentistry, oral surgery, and medicine journals are listed and characterized.
Does Research Output Cause Economic Growth or Vice Versa? Evidence From 34 OECD Countries Our findings provide important policy implications for research policies and strategies for OECD countries. Similar to other previous studies, what emerges from our empirical findings is that it is difficult to derive any consis-tent set of results concerning the nexus between research articles published and economic growth in OECD countries with the current available methodologies. Future research in the topic should examine how addi-tional regressors can provide a holistic picture of the research market and its impact to the countries' economies.
Knowledge Dialogue to Attain Global Scientific Excellence and Broader Social Relevance Rather than focusing on increasing the global brain circulation, we propose that institutions would be better served by innovating and searching for ethical and desirable future science-society scenarios in dialogue, in which the participant is recognized rather than just the participation. However, internationalization strategies must not jeopardize localization for relevance. We suggest that a practical first step is to use Holbrook’s (2012) rubric, which synthesizes the types of broader impacts that have been used in scientific systems around the world, to diagnose the current state of broader impacts in extant policies (table 2).
Tech mining to generate indicators of future national technological competitiveness: Nano-Enhanced Drug Delivery (NEDD) in the US and China The activity trend has dramatically changed since 2001, as China has advanced notably in NEDD research.
The Association of the H-Index and Academic Rank Among Full-Time Academic Hand Surgeons Affiliated With Fellowship Programs The h-index is a reliable tool for quantitatively assessing research productivity and should be considered for use in academic hand surgery.
Societal impact evaluation: Exploring evaluator perceptions of the characterization of impact under the REF2014 The findings highlight the range of views evaluators had about how impact should be characterized during assessment.
Evaluating scientific research in Italy: The 2004-10 research evaluation exercise The Italian VQR 2004–10 has been an unprecedented research evaluation exercise, both for its size, having analyzed almost 185,000 research outcomes, and for the adoption of a highly innovative mix of peer review and bibliometric methods.
Options and limitations in measuring the impact of research grants-evidence from Denmark and Norway Furthermore, the applicants' complex landscape of multiple projects and grants makes it difficult to isolate the output of a single grant.
Defining the role of cognitive distance in the peer review process with an explorative study of a grant scheme in infection biology The article explores the issue of cognitive bias in the peer review process.
Motivation and research productivity in a university system undergoing transition Using data from a self-administered survey of Romanian academics of economics and business administration, we have found that intrinsic motivation is positively and extrinsic motivation is negatively correlated with research productivity. We argue that the negative correlation between extrinsic motivation and research productivity indicate that, in a science system undergoing transition, extrinsically motivated academics find better opportunities to achieve their objectives outside the university system. We also find that in our setting of a transition economy, researchers with a higher academic rank are more productive than junior faculty members, and academics who have a PhD published more than in- structors who are still striving to obtain a PhD.
Tracking the development of disciplinary structure in China's top research universities (1998-2013) The results show that the majority of the 985 universities have very similar disciplinary structures to China’s research structure.
Research classification and the social sciences and humanities in Australia: (Mis)Matching organizational unit contribution and the impact of collaboration It is clear that for a sizeable proportion of the articles written by authors from two SSH fields the classification by FoR codes does not correspond with the authors' organizational unit name.
Predicting Productivity Returns on Investment Thirty Years of Peer Review, Grant Funding, and Publication of Highly Cited Papers at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Hence, the seemingly conflicting findings on peer review percentile ranking of grants and subsequent productivity largely reflect differing questions and outcomes.
New ways of building, showcasing, and measuring scholarly reputation While we believe that the topic of emerging reputational mechanisms and platforms has not been considered in such depth and detail before, and certainly not in regard to scholars from continental Europe, what we have reported on here is nevertheless a relatively small, exploratory study, and care needs to be taken when it comes to generalizing its findings.
Globalization of national journals: investigating the growth of international authorship In spite of the fact that journals of national publishers have become more international during past 24 years, this change does not occur at the same rate for all journals with respect to different fields, countries, and geo-graphical regions.
The ethical issues in instructions for authors of Chinese biomedical journals From this investigation, we conclude that Chinese biomedical journals in general pay insufficient attention to the instructions for authors. About 30% of the journals did not update their instructions regularly, and one set of instructions was 10 years old, which is incredible. Chinese biomedical editors should be more aware of publishing ethics in order to reduce opportunities for problems in the publication process.
Growing trend of China's contribution to the field of spine: a 10-year survey of the literature Chinese contributions to the field of spine have a significant increase during the past 10 years, particularly from Mainland China.
Scientific publication in orthopedics journals from Chinese authors: a survey of 10-year survey of the literature The total number of orthopedics articles in China increased markedly from 2003 to 2012. Of the three regions, Mainland China published the most articles, clinical trials, randomized controlled trails, and case reports. In general, Spine was the most popular journal to choose in the three regions.
Scholarly Investigation Into Otitis Media: Who Is Receiving Funding Support From the National Institutes of Health? The NIH has offered considerable grant support for researchers studying OM, as awards to principal investigators in numerous specialties have exceeded a quarter of a billion dollars since 2000.
Impact and alternative metrics for medical publishing: our experience with International Orthopaedics In conclusion, social media may provide alternative metrics for a journal's impact.
Using heterogeneous patent network features to rank and discover influential inventors We propose a new inventor-ranking method based on the heterogeneous patent network.
The Continuing Growth of Global Cooperation Networks in Research: A Conundrum for National Governments This suggests that power relationships are not reproducing those of the political system. The network has features an open system, attracting productive scientists to participate in international projects. National governments could gain efficiencies and influence by developing policies and strategies designed to maximize network benefits—a model different from those designed for national systems.
Weaving the fabric of science: Dynamic network models of science's unfolding structure In this paper, we built on the work of Latour, who argued for the diverse network of scientific things involved in the scientific process, and the work of Newell and Simon, who proposed that problem solving and discovery occur by wandering over complex conceptual networks.
Studying the Publication Pattern of Canadian Computer Scientists This study confirms that conference proceedings are the main venue for the dis-semination of computer science research in Canada. However, when the docu-ment structure and impact/quality of conference papers and journal articles were compared, it was found that journal articles outperformed conference papers in many of the dimensions. To achieve a higher scientific impact, computer scien-tists may want to consider publishing more in journals, though this requires more effort than publishing in conference proceedings.
Behind league tables and ranking systems A critical perspective of how university quality is measured Our results reveal that, in spite of the vast number and variety of indicators, there is a positive and significant correlation between the rankings analyzed. This finding supports the hypothesis that there is some degree of convergence in the way universities are ranked. Future research efforts should be directed towards the creation of a consolidated and rigorously tested set of indicators to represent the core factors that are thought to influence university quality.
Mapping Ceramics Research and Its Evolution We illustrated here how a simple data mining can be a pow- erful tool to map a field of research and explore the relation- ships between academic research and technological changes.
Emerging medical informatics research trends detection based on MeSH terms This study is a work to forecast the trends of medical informatics research. Overall, medical informatics has shifted its focus from acquisition and storage of healthcare data by integrating computational, informational, cognitive and organizational sciences to semantic analysis for problem solving and clinical decision-making. A multidisciplinary approach for tackling major scientific problems is appropriate more often than not.
Do Nobel Laureates Create Prize-Winning Networks? An Analysis of Collaborative Research in Physiology or Medicine The Laureate networks appear to be more interconnected, with many more bridging opportunities realized. The Laureate network is structured in a way that allows more interaction and visibility, and therefore more knowledge about the work of those operating within it. Thus, the Laureate network could be interpreted as being better structured for originality than is the non-Laureate network.
You are invited to submit... We discuss strategies researchers and institutions can consider to reduce the number of invitations received and strategies to maintain the credibility and reputation of researchers and institutions.
Age and complementarity in scientific collaboration Age and team work are, therefore, of prime interest in the economics of science, and this study demonstrates that the two must not be analyzed in isolation. It investigates the relation between age composition of collaborators and the complementarity of their inputs. It suggests an optimal age difference between co-authors of about 10 years. This result is highly significant and robust to the way research output and human capital are measured.
A correction of h-index to account for the relative importance of authors in manuscripts C-index is proposed to correct the h-index and other indices in order to quantify the scientific output of a single researcher taking particular care of the role in the development of scientific manuscripts. The use of yearly C-index provides a suitable manner to evaluate the whole career of a scientist and the real impact of her/his contribution in the research field. All these characteristics make C-index a suitable parameter, which combined with others, can be used for the purposes exposed above and also to contrast careers and achievements of scientists.
CREDIBILITY, PEER REVIEW, AND NATURE, 1945-1990 Examining the history of a journal such as Nature shows that refereeing in the late twentieth century was much less systematic and universal than some might assume.
Who Reads Research Articles? An Altmetrics Analysis of Mendeley User Categories This study suggests that the Mendeley readership consists of many undergraduate and postgraduate students, as well different groups of academics and non-academics.
Is There a Clubbing Effect Underlying Chinese Research Citation Increases? Our study identifies another explanation for China's fast rise in research impact from the perspective of forward citations.
What Is Behind the Curtain of the Leiden Ranking? Based on the results, we offer recommendations for improving the Leiden Ranking (for example, publica-tion of sample calculations to increase transparency).
Authors self-citation behaviour in the field of Library and Information Science The study proves statistically significant association between authorship strength and total citation count. Cooperation enriches the quality and amplifies the total citation count. There is a need to have much through understanding of self-citation behavior in the field of Library Science and Information Science.
Authorship pattern and collaborative research in the field of spacecraft technology It is revealed from this study that multiple-authored papers have dominated this field of research. The degree of collaboration is high and could be attributed to the interdisciplinary nature of research, the high cost of space missions, and a common interest of scientists in the same research fields. Lotka's Law of Scientific Productivity is tested and conforms only partially for spacecraft technology research. The findings of this study will be useful in understanding the importance of research and development activities, measuring the productivity of different countries, and the performance of space scientists.
A bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Membrane Science (1976-2010) This study provides new evidence for the misleading role of impact factor with a 35-year investigation of a science journal. Thus, although the impact factor has been widely accepted to evaluate journal rankings, it seems that it is not appropriate to use impact factor as the sole indicator. The citation life cycles could reveal the impact history of the most cited articles, providing important clues for the journal's editors and readers.
The kaleidoscope of disciplinarity Our overview presents a framework of criteria used to define disciplines. This work can help facilitate communication between those who are defining disciplines and those who measure it. However, and perhaps more importantly, our work has identified a great divergence between these two areas and suggest caution for those using metrics to make decisions regarding future of disciplines. Therefore, the future of disciplines is dependent upon the continued assessment of conceptualizations of disicplinarity and development of a theory of disciplines that takes into account the varied perspectives represented in the kaleidoscope of disciplinarity.
Arts and humanities research evaluation: no metrics please, just data Data are already used as impact evidence in the arts and humanities but this practice should become more widespread.
I Like, I Cite? Do Facebook Likes Predict the Impact of Scientific Work? Taken together, our findings indicate an interdisciplinary difference in the predictive value of Facebook likes, according to which Facebook likes only predict citations in the psychological area but not in the non-psychological area of business or in the field of life sciences. Our paper contributes to understanding the possibilities and limits of the use of social media indicators as potential early indicators of the impact of scientific work. Thus, we are convinced that science would benefit from an open-minded allowance of diverse indicators to assess the multitude of aspects of scientific performance observed from the angle of different stakeholders.
Prizes and Productivity How Winning the Fields Medal Affects Scientific Output It appears that tournaments can have large postprize effects on the effort allocation of knowledge producers.
Job mobility, peer effects, and research productivity in economics Our results indicate that, on aggregate, the local research environment has an insignificant effect on research productivity.
Analysis of academic productivity based on Complex Networks The construction of different networks allows us to extract important conclusions about the structure of complex institutions, such as Research Institutes or Universities.
Funding ratios in social science: the perspective of countries/territories level and comparison with natural sciences The results show that, in these countries/territories, People's Republic of China has the highest funding ratio in social science.
A bibliometric analysis of Technology Centres This study describes the importance of TCs as creators of scientific output, increasingly connecting public and private sectors.
Detecting the intellectual structure of library and information science based on formal concept analysis The empirical analysis verified that the FCA-based intellectual analysis clearly revealed the complicated relationships between research themes, between authors, as well as between research themes and authors at different levels. However, there are still remaining issues. Another future work may focus on how to formulate a multiple-valued formal context to better represent authors' interests.
Mapping of important international academic awards This study aimed to select the important international academic awards by surveying the reputations of the preselected 207 international academic awards and exploring the rela- tionships between these awards by mapping the selected 90 important international aca- demic awards.
Measuring university quality This paper describes an attempt to improve existing estimates of university quality by building a Bayesian hierarchical latent trait model and inputting data from eight rankings. In future research, this hierarchical latent variable model of university quality could be extended in several ways.
Co-authorship proximity of A. M. Turing Award and John von Neumann Medal winners to the disciplinary boundaries of computer science It has been shown here that computer science, still a small science discipline, shares a significant characteristic with biomedicine, now a big science discipline: in both, many of the most prominent “central” researchers are close, in terms of co-authorship, to other disciplines.
Citation success of different publication types: a case study on all references in psychology publications from the German-speaking countries (D-A-CH-L-L) in 2009, 2010, and 2011 In summary, the results point to the fact that citation analyses, which are limited to journal papers, tend to neglect very high portions of references that are cited in scientific publications. Professional and perhaps special databases for scientific disciplines—databases with high quality control and high coverage of the publications and their complete reference lists are required for serious and reliable citation analyses, which result in fair evaluations of the citation success of scientists, research teams, institutions and nations.
A comparison of 17 author-level bibliometric indicators for researchers in Astronomy, Environmental Science, Philosophy and Public Health in Web of Science and Google Scholar This paper proposes that scholar rankings in WoS and GS are primarily caused by a combination of indexing policies, citation matching algorithms, and the mathematical properties of the different indicators not the academic performance of the scholar.
Leading emerging markets: capturing and diffusing scientific knowledge through research-oriented repositories In this study we analyse the BRIC and CIVETS economies from a new perspective, as the study of the spread of knowledge.
Methods for estimating the size of Google Scholar However, all the methods show considerable limitations and uncertainties due to inconsistencies in the Google Scholar search functionalities.
Scientific collaboration dynamics in a national scientific system Multiple approaches are needed to account for the complex phenomenon of scientific collaboration, especially for national scientific systems. While science can be viewed as a general phenomenon it is also conditioned by local institutional contexts.
Predicting results of the research excellence framework using departmental h-index: revisited Although they sometimes correlate well, the similarities are not good enough to make accurate predictions; h-indices used in this way do not track the peer review exercises well enough for them to form a component of, or substitute for those exercises. This means that the departmental h-index does not offer a way to foretell the direction of changes of universities in the rankings in these subject areas. Our study shows that a very different landscape would have emerged in the UK if REF 2014 had been entirely and simplistically based on the automated departmental h-index.
Contribution of Arab researchers to ophthalmology: a bibliometric and comparative analysis In conclusion, the present data show promising increase but relatively low ophthalmology research productivity from Arab countries.
Scientific impact of studies published in temporarily available radiation oncology journals: a citation analysis The vast majority of articles published in temporarily available radiation oncology journals had limited clinical impact and achieved few citations.
On a heuristic point of view concerning the citation distribution: introducing the Wakeby distribution We conclude that the WD is in some sense the best PD to adequately fit the examined bibliometric data sets.
Identifying research fields within business and management: a journal cross-citation analysis This paper has shown that it is possible to identify sub-fields within the B&M discipline by analysing the cross-citations between journals.
Does Interdisciplinary Research Lead to Higher Citation Impact? The Different Effect of Proximal and Distal Interdisciplinarity This article confirms that the relationship between interdisciplinarity and citation impact is complex. Very low or very high degrees of IDR are found to decrease citation impact, whereas some middle degree of IDR, which we characterised as proximal interdisciplinarity, tends to have higher citation impact. More research is needed to further develop robust characterisations of this middle degree of IDR and compare their predictive capacity, given the similarities and differences between our results and those of other approaches such as Uzzi’s [51].
How novelty in knowledge earns recognition: The role of consistent identities This project was motivated by the puzzling dual implication of novelty for the recognition of knowledge. Novel, unusual recombinations of knowledge may be subject to a higher risk of rejection by evaluating audiences. Yet audiences may also deem a contribution valuable precisely because it is highly novel. The empirical results supported the argument: indeed, highly novel publications received more citations to the extent that their authors or authors' mentors were already recognized for novel work. The study's simple practical message to scientists who seek audience recognition is that they have a better chance to succeed if they visibly commit to novel rather than incremental, normal-science work.
The bureaucratization of science Scientific work is increasingly "organized". This paper develops organization theories by showing that they operate even for professionals and semi-professionals in self-organized work groups (as most academic research projects are self-organized), that the size effects apply across modest increases in size, and that there is a contingency between size and interdependence, suggesting that the technology of production may be key to understanding bureaucratization and the size-structure relation (Child, 1973; Collins, 1975; Fuchs, 1992; Shinn, 1982; Whitley, 1984; Woodward, 1965). Furthermore, our results suggest that using an organizational studies lens to examine science raises significant questions with respect to the reward system of science and for an understanding of scientific careers.
Publication Productivity in the Supply Chain Management Discipline: 2011-13 Assessment of relative research productivity of academic programs remains an important pursuit for our field as SCM programs compete for research funding and salaries against more-established disciplines like accounting, finance, and marketing. The analyses in this article serve to provide a long-term, historical perspective of the status and maturation of the supply chain management discipline by addressing two objectives: (1) Assess the relative research productivity of academic institutions in SCM journals; and (2) evaluate author concentration as an indicator of the expansion of the SCM discipline. Overall, the results largely point to greater author- ship diversity that fuels continued expansion of SCM as a discipline.
Public health research in India in the new millennium: a bibliometric analysis While public health research output in India has increased significantly, there are marked inequities in relation to the burden of disease and the geographic distribution of research. Systematic priority setting, adequate funding, and institutional capacity building are needed to address these inequities.
Russian Bioscience Publications and Journals in International Bibliometric Databases Bibliometric analysis enabled us to determine the current position of Russian biological studies in the world research stream, highlight the position and the role of Russian bioscience journals, and identify the most developed subject areas in Russia. However, Russian journals have two major problems: (a) rather low impact factors that come significantly short of the worldwide average for journals in certain subject areas (Fig. 1); and (b) a comparative overrepresentation of Russian papers possibly resulting in low impact factors. The most promising approach to enhance visibility and availability of Russian papers in the international information market includes developing the publishing business and promoting Russian journals into international bibliometric databases.
A Quantity-Quality Composite Ranking of Indian Institutions in CS Research The results obtained show that our framework is quite accurate and highly correlate with the well-established H-index metric, and is also congruent to the exergy-based quality-proxy approach.
Tackling the "So What" Problem in Scientific Research: A Systems-Based Approach to Resource and Publication Tracking Since implementation, the authors have (1) seen a marked increase in the number of publications citing VICTR support, (2) captured at a more granular level the relationship between specific resources/ services and scientific output, (3) increased awareness of VICTR's scientific portfolio, and (4) increased efficiency in complying with annual National Institutes of Health progress reports.
Twenty-six years of operations management research (1985-2010): authorship patterns and research constituents in eleven top rated journals In this paper, we wanted to recognise those individuals and institutions that have had a significant influence on the development of the field of OM over the period 1985 through 2010.
The Internationalization of Research in Europe: A Quantitative Study of 11 National Systems From a Micro-Level Perspective Our study shows that research productivity of European academics is strongly corre-lated with international research collaboration: The average research productivity rate of European academics involved in international collaboration (whom we term inter-nationalists) is consistently higher than the rate of European academics not involved in international collaboration (whom we term locals) in all academic fields and in all countries studied.
A Novel Ranking Model for a Large-Scale Scientific Publication We have introduced and studied a new approach for sorting publications matching a keyword based query.
Quantifying the impact of weak, strong, and super ties in scientific careers In summary, we developed methods to better understand the diversity of collaboration strengths.
Opening Access to Research Without intervention, the scholarly journal market is likely to offer limited access to the wider public, alongside high subscription charges for research institutions, while authors can publish for free and many publishers reap high profits.
Five-year institutional bibliometric profiles for 103 US neurosurgical residency programs This study comprises the most comprehensive 5-year bibliometric evaluation of nearly all academic neurosurgical programs in the US.
Examining the Impact of Chemistry Education Research Articles from 2007 through 2013 by Citation Counts This study explored the number of citations for CER articles published from 2007 to 2013. The results serve to provide a high, medium, and low context for the authors of any of the 749 articles in the database using either the GS or WoS metric. This information can provide information to researchers in the field to place their work in context and to serve those who evaluate CER researchers.
Association of percentile ranking with citation impact and productivity in a large cohort of de novo NIMH-funded R01 grants In a large cohort of de novo investigator-initiated R01 grants funded by NIMH, we found no association between peer-review-based grant percentile score and subsequent field-normalized citation impact.
On the Categorization of Scientific Citation Profiles in Computer Science Access to a massive computer science bibliographic dataset from Microsoft Academic Search made it possible for us to conduct an exhaustive analysis of citation profiles of individual papers and derive six main categories not previously reported in the literature.
Procedural Injustice in the System of Peer Review and Scientific Misconduct I have explored relationships between the peer-review system and a pressing problem in the social and natural sciences—scientific misconduct.
Perceived discontinuities and continuities in transdisciplinary scientific working groups Using the theoretical lens of organizational discontinuity theory and both quantitative and qualitative data, we found that the working group structure can be successful under specified conditions.
Evaluation of the program of introduction to research in pediatric residency at Hospital General de Ninos Pedro de Elizalde, 1997-2012 Only 30.8% of research projects conducted by residents were disseminated; those with retrospective data collection and analytical designs had more chances of being disseminated. Lack of time was the most common reason for failure to reach dissemination. The increased scientific production by residents and the dissemination of their work support the development of the program.
Do scholars in Economics and Finance react to alphabetical discrimination? Indeed, our results for Economics provide evidence for strategic co-authoring behavior among authors with surname initials close towards the end of the alphabet.
Metrics for Original Research Articles in the AJR: From First Submission to Final Publication The observed metrics may provide valuable insights for authors and for AJR editorial staff in ongoing efforts to shorten turnaround times from manuscript submission to publication. Our observations regarding decisions rendered should be reassuring to authors given that among new research articles invited for revision, the large majority were ultimately accepted, whether the revisions were major or minor.
Opportunities and challenges for research collaboration among the BRICS nations All this leads to the conclusion that BRICS has to enhance mutual research collaboration.
A worldwide bibliometric analysis of published literature in plastic and reconstructive surgery Bibliometric analysis can be used to identify not only major centres of plastic surgical research, such as the USA and UK, but also centres that produce high-quality data, such as Canada, and cost-effective research, such as Turkey. It can also highlight the areas of increasing success in plastic surgical research.
Disciplinary differences in the use of academic social networking sites The results on the population of researchers on social sites show that the scientific areas where the penetration of these technologies is largest are humanities and social sciences and natural resources. These results lead to the conclusion that there are significant differences in the way in which the populations are distributed among the academic social sites, demonstrating the predominance of humanities and social scientists in Academia.edu and biomedical researchers in RG. These results also indicate that these behavioural differences are across social sites.
How to conduct a multi-item research assessment in bibliometric studies? Theoretical support and empirical evidence This study offers several theoretical and practical implications for future research. Combining various research indicators and forming a multi-item construct seems necessary. Future researchers are invited to follow this practical guidance when they conduct related research.
Designing a CTSA-Based Social Network Intervention to Foster Cross-Disciplinary Team Science The results provide insight into the feasibility of intervention programs on scientific collaboration networks, as well as suggestions on the implementation of such programs to assemble cross-disciplinary scientific teams in CTSA institutions.
The Rockefeller University Graduate Tracking Survey System The GTSS provides an efficient and convenient mechanism to track the graduates of a wide variety of training programs. It has the potential to aggregate standardized data across institutions, thus providing benchmarks for the assessment of individual training programs and data for program improvement.
The role of chairman and research director in influencing scholarly productivity and research funding in academic orthopaedic surgery In conclusion, the academic success of an Ortho-paedic Surgery department is directly associated with the scholarly productivity and funding of both the DC and the RD. This study also shows a significant correlation between a funded RD and a well-funded department. This finding was not repli-cated for an unfunded RD.
Bibliometric analysis on global Catha edulis (khat) research production during the period of 1952-2014 In conclusion, this bibliometric study provides a demonstration of worldwide research activity on khat.
Academic generations and academic work: patterns of attitudes, behaviors, and research productivity of Polish academics after 1989 Polish academics under 40 exhibit different academic behaviors and academic attitudes than their older colleagues: they work differently and they think differently about the nature of their work.
Explaining the increase in publication productivity among academic staff: a generational perspective Based on the data and literature review presented above, there are obviously several reasons for the large increase in published output per academic staff member over the last three decades.
Increased Resident Research over an 18-Year Period: A Single Institution's Experience There has been a significant increase in resident publications over time, coinciding with the implementation of work hour restrictions. T32 grants were most predictive of increased resident publications, while PhD degrees were not significantly associated. Graduate medical education policies should take into account the potential benefits of increased time available for residents to pursue research projects in order to optimize educational opportunities beyond the clinic and operating room.
Changing Authorship Patterns and Publishing Habits in the European Journal of Pediatric Surgery: A 10-Year Analysis Increase in cooperation within and between institutions is a positive trend, aiming with the goal of improving quality of publications.
Scientific publications from Arab world in leading journals of Integrative and Complementary Medicine: a bibliometric analysis Scientific research output in the ICM field in the Arab world region is increasing. Most of publications from Arab world in ICM filed were driven by societal use of medicinal plants and herbs. Further investigation is required to support these findings in a wider journal as well as to improve research output in the field of ICM from Arab world region by investing in more national and international collaborative research project.
Are Quantitative Measures of Academic Productivity Correlated with Academic Rank in Plastic Surgery? A National Study Academic rank in plastic surgery is strongly correlated with sever-al quantitative metrics of research productivity.
Bibliometric Assessment of European and Sub-Saharan African Research Output on Poverty-Related and Neglected Infectious Diseases from 2003 to 2011 The volume and citation impact of papers from sub-Saharan Africa has increased since 2003, as has collaborative research between Europe and sub-Saharan Africa. >90% of publications from EDCTP-funded research were published in high-impact journals and are highly cited. These findings corroborate the benefit of collaborative research on PRDs.
Honorary authorship in postgraduate medical training A paradigm shift from the current system is needed, where enforcement of ethical authorship practices is shifted away from journal editors.
A retrospective analysis of the effect of discussion in teleconference and face-to-face scientific peer-review panels Subtle differences were observed between settings, potentially due to reduced engagement in teleconferences.
Coherent measures of the impact of co-authors in peer review journals and in proceedings publications These simple relations, at this time limited to publications in physics, imply that coauthors are a "more positive measure" of a principal investigator role, in both types of scientific outputs, than the Hirsch index could indicate.
Does quality and content matter for citedness? A comparison with para-textual factors and over time These results call into question a discrepancy between the algorithmically based indicators and the qualitative judgments by experts. The results of this study can contribute to the empirical specification of the relevance of a normative versus a constructivist theory of citation. In our opinion, the impact of a paper can thus be analytically divided into two parts: first, the impact of a paper is related to its cognitive content, but, secondly, a larger part of the impact can be attributed to the publication medium of a paper and other para-textual characteristics (this differentiation was proposed by Randić, 2009).
Compressing multiple scales of impact detection by Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy We show that a simple rank-transform of the resulting vector of the absolute deviation of cited references within RPYS analyses makes them amenable to comparative evaluation.
On the growth dynamics of citations of articles by some Nobel Prize winners The initial concave and convex curvatures of plots of cumulative citations L(t) of individual articles against citation time t can be explained satisfactorily using unified Avrami-Weibull Eq. (3), with the exponent q and the time constant Θ.
Which people use which scientific papers? An evaluation of data from F1000 and Mendeley This study's evaluation of the variously tagged F1000 papers provided interesting insights into the use of research papers by dif-ferent user groups. In the case of a key article in a field, or a particularly well written article that provides a good overview of a topic, then it will tend to be better received by people which are not particularly related to academic research. Since this specific view has revealed interesting insights into the use of research papers, it would be desirable for other social media platforms to process their data user-specifically.
Measuring science-based science linkage and non-science-based linkage of patents through non-patent references This study has met the aims set at the outset of this paper.
Modelling count response variables in informetric studies: Comparison among count, linear, and lognormal regression models Based on the findings of this study and those of a few other informetric studies that have applied count regression models, and the fact that most informetric response variables are over-dispersed, the negative binomial regression model in general seems to be the most appropriate of the three count regression models for modelling informetric response variables.
Evaluating university research: Same performance indicator, different rankings Measuring university research performance can be accomplished with two different methodologies. These lead to scores and ranking lists that are different.
The influence of time and discipline on the magnitude of correlations between citation counts and quality scores The results show that correlations between research quality and citation counts are unreliable when calculated for heterogeneous sets of articles, such as those with variable citation windows (e.g., from multiple years) or from multiple fields. In particular, low correlation coefficients could reflect the lack of an underlying correlation or the heterogeneity of the set of articles analysed. This seems to be particularly important for heterogeneous research areas that are often analysed together as a combined set, such as the humanities.
The dynamics of triads in aggregated journal-journal citation relations: Specialty developments at the above-journal level Our results give us some confidence that integration measured in the proposed way offers a useful heuristic for tracing substantive developments within the sciences at the specialty level.
China's global growth in social science research: Uncovering evidence from bibliometric analyses of SSCI publications (1978-2013) Our analyses reveal that Chinese social scientists are increasingly active in publishing in international journals. The distribution of research output is highly skewed at both regional and organizational levels. Hong Kong dominates China's SSCI publications, but its leading role is declining over time with the rise of Beijing and Shanghai. This provides both opportunity and challenge to China's social science development.
A systematic analysis of duplicate records in Scopus Thus, there is a need for rigorous quality control guidelines to govern database managers and editors to prevent the creation of duplicates. In conclusion, we strongly recommend that studies that evaluate scientific activity systematically confirm that duplicate records are not counted twice, even when records are obtained exclusively from one database. Indeed, a failure to do so could result in errors in author, institution, country, and journal productivity rankings and in the determination of citations.
An evaluation of collaborative research in a college of engineering Using self-reported data collected in a college of engineering and ERGMs, this study demonstrates how and to what extent the presence of a communication tie from one researcher to another increases the likelihood of forming a collaborative output tie in researchers' collaborative networks (e.g., network of joint publications, grant proposals, and patents) taking into account certain demographic attributes (i.e., gender, race, department affiliation, and spatial proximity).
An analysis of factors contributing to PubMed's growth PubMed contains only a part of the available titles in Biomedical and Life Sciences but it continues to expand. PubMed will have a key role as one of the most frequently used tools for retrieving biomedical data and its further development and improvement will contribute enormously to any such effort. A better assignment of publication types is required.
Improving similarity measures of relatedness proximity: Toward augmented concept maps The research model proposed in this work is an analytics framework that embraces and synthesizes unstructured textual data from web sources.
Contributory inequality alters assessment of academic output gap between comparable countries In this paper I have used data for articles and reviews in Science and Nature to document a recent narrowing of the top-level output gap between Denmark and Norway.
Predicting the long-term citation impact of recent publications We have proposed a model to predict a probability distribution for the future number of citations of a publication. The good fit of the model indicates that quantile regression is a suitable tool to predict the quantiles of the probability distribution of a publication's future number of citations. Importantly, our proposed model provides accurate predictions also for publications that were published later than the publications used for estimating the model parameters.
Gender disparity in Polish science by year (1975-2014) and by discipline Male researchers in Poland have higher production and impact than their female counterparts.
Rethinking the comparison of coauthorship credit allocation schemes The main finding is that there is no absolute winner scheme in approximating real-world empirical data.
Worldwide Research Productivity in the Field of Arthroscopy: A Bibliometric Analysis The number of publications on arthroscopy increased significantly from 1999 to 2013, with a more than 2-fold increase in volume.
Advancing research on comparative and international education in Asia: contribution of the Asia Pacific Education Review The primary finding from this study is that the comparative and international education journals reviewed do vary notably in the topics as well as the level of education addressed in the articles they publish.
Faculty salary at Korean universities: Does publication Matter? In this paper, we examined the effects of research publications on professors' salary in Korea.
Bringing the lab back in: Personnel composition and scientific output at the MIT Department of Biology Taken together, this study contributes to our understanding of knowledge work, as well as reinforcing the importance of a laboratory's personnel composition.
SiSOB data extraction and codification: A tool to analyze scientific careers The SiSOB data extraction and codification tool aims to provide a system for collecting and structuring information on scientific researchers from publicly accessible websites, and complementing them with CV information.
New linked data on research investments: Scientific workforce, productivity, and public value The near decade since Marburger's initial call for data and research on the science and innovation enterprise have produced real steps toward a large-scale, widely useful data infrastructure to study science and innovation.
Why do international research collaborations last? Virtuous circle of feedback loops, continuity and renewal This paper contributes to the studies of changing science policy and international research collaboration.
Collaborative research for academic knowledge creation: How team characteristics, motivation, and processes influence research impact The present research answers the question: How should we organize and manage a collaborative team to improve its research impact? The empirical results show that, along with most of the general qualitative and quantitative input factors, the hypothesized factors relating to collab- oration processes and research motivation play a signifi- cant role in improving research impact. These results provide meaningful and practical insights for policy-makers.
Openness determinants of national research funding programmes in EU27 Our results provide strong evidence on country-level deter-minants for open funding. More specifically, an inclination to quality and perform-ance supports the idea that stronger national research systems can better appropriate the results generated from open funds. Hence, optimal sequencing of national policies is crucial: opening-up of national funding systems is a reasonable follow-up policy once sufficient public investments secure a high quality domestic science base (e.g. investment in higher education institutions and public research organisa-tions).
Epistemic integration of the European Research Area: The shifting geography of the knowledge base of Finnish research, 1995-2010 As policy implications, we recommend clarifying the ERA's epistemic objectives and redefining its strategy of 'reducing fragmentation'.
Research collaboration in the social sciences: What factors are associated with disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaboration? This paper has investigated the research collaborations of social scientists.
Accessibility to editorial information in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery journals: The authors' point of view Based on our results, we conclude that OMFS JCR journals provide adequate information for authors about their editorial process in terms of path for the manuscript (flow chart), accessibility to the reviewers' assessment criteria, and level of requirement for publication (top rating).
Research and partnerships in studies on population genetics of Neotropical plants: A scientometric evaluation Our results demonstrated low levels of 'population genetics of Neotropical plants' publications, which indicate the need to accelerate and increase research funding in this area.
Do "altmetrics" correlate with citations? Extensive comparison of altmetric indicators with citations from a multidisciplinary perspective Our results confirm that altmetrics are only valid for the most recent publications and that their presence is increasing over time. From this study, it is also possible to conclude that the presence and density of social media altmetrics is still low across scientific publications, thus raising questions about the reliability of indicators based on them. More research is necessary in order to determine and validate these potential types of impact, probably combining both quantitative analysis with more qualitative approaches as suggested by other studies (Thelwall et al., 2013; Haustein et al., 2014; Zahedi et al., 2013).
Bias and effort in peer review This theory helps to explain the presence of bias in peer review.
Testing theories of preferential attachment in random networks of citations This investigation shows that both Price's and Simon's attachment rules fail as models of citation accumulation. Fits to the data were improved by narrowing by purifying the field, narrowing by restricting dates of publication, and narrowing to certain citation ranges; however, none were improved to the point of statistical significance. Price's attachment rule yields better results than Simon's rule in Biochemistry & Molecular Biology while it is the reverse in Mathematics and Economics.
Which of the world's institutions employ the most highly cited researchers? An analysis of the data from highlycited.com The evaluation of the list of highly cited researchers on the basis of institutions is an interesting alternative to the usual university rankings (e.g., such as the Leiden Ranking, leidenranking.com). The results for King Abdulaziz University illustrate that university rankings can be manipulated. To counteract attempts at manipulation, ARWU should consider only the primary institutions of highly cited researchers.
Matching Medline/PubMed data with Web of Science: A routine in R language The rich and controlled vocabulary of the MeSH classification of Medline/PubMed allows for rapid delineation of publication samples in medical areas at different levels of specificity. In this brief communication, we have proposed a novel routine in R language, namely, medlineR, that enables users to integrate, by using the WoS Medline interface, data from Medline/PubMed with the above-mentioned fields available in WoS. The code is indeed editable and adaptable to the specific requirements of the scientometric analysis that the user wants to undertake.
Psychology as a Science Within Comte's Hypothesized Hierarchy: Empirical Investigations and Conceptual Implications The new empirical analyses reported in this study strongly reinforce Comte's basic sketch of the scientific hierarchy as first established the data generating Figure 1 (Simonton, 2004).
Does Self-Citation Influence Quantitative Measures of Research Productivity Among Academic Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons? Self-citation among full-time academic OMSs does not substantially affect the b-index.
Publication Measures of Scholarly Productivity: Norms for Academic Pediatric Pulmonologists These data may serve as objective benchmarks of scholarly productivity for academic pediatric pulmonologists.
Google Scholar makes it hard - the complexity of organizing one's publications In the Google Scholar Merge Problem, the NP-completeness is accidental, and arises from the way the user interface is designed. Since the interface change in the middle of 2014, the problem is no longer intractable because there is now a button "show more" that allows a user to get more papers on the same page, eventually allowing all papers to be on a single page. It is open to determine whether the Google Scholar Merge Problem studied in this paper is still NP-complete if: • the page size is bounded by a constant, • the number of versions of any paper is bounded by a constant, or • the page start can be placed at any rank number, not just at multiples of the page size plus one.
Global Dental Research Productivity and Its Association With Human Development, Gross National Income, and Political Stability There appears to be a regional concentration of articles with just five countries contributing to over 50% of all articles. The human development and economic development of a country are linearly correlated with dental research productivity. Dental research productivity also increases with increasing political stability of a country.
Publication Metrics of Dental Journals - What is the Role of Self Citations in Determining the Impact Factor of Journals? Top ranking dental journals tend to have higher IFs due to higher EF and AIS rather than by self-citations.
A Discussion on Governmental Research Grants The following recommendations are suggested to improve the efficiency of science foundations: identify and reject unqualified research proposals, fund proposals that are different from existing research, award grants to the “lowest cost provider" (factor proposal cost into consideration), and set aside a certain proportion of grant funds for non-mainstream investment. A research grant does not equal research achievement; however, we can use the amount of money granted for each research project to compare efficiency among research grants. The SGER approach provides a way to support innovative research that may be rejected by the mainstream.
'Standing on the Shoulders of Giants': Recontextualization in Writing from Sources This paper has reported how an expert scientist writer, a Chinese professor of biochemistry, employs a range of recontextualization strategies in writing from sources, which has enabled him to avoid transgressive intertextuality. Such research will both inform pedagogical practices targeted at novices and inexperienced academic writers and contribute to the construction of a developmental model in the learning of source-based academic writing.
Scientists Admitting to Plagiarism: A Meta-analysis of Surveys "The rate at which scientists report knowing a colleague who committed plagiarism is higher than for data fabrication and falsification; (2) amongst surveys asking about the behaviours of colleagues, the rates of reported plagiarism are correlated to those of fabrication and falsification; (3) self admission rates for both plagiarism and fabrication and falsification have declined over the years, whilst non-self admission rates have not declined." "Despite high and unexplained heterogeneity, possible file-drawer effects, and limitations in the sample's representativeness, our analyses yielded three robust results." "Developing and testing reliable methodologies for surveys on misconduct should be considered a priority in the RCR agenda."
Recent Developments in China-US Cooperation in Science During the 2000s, the scientific relationship between China and the United States—as measured in coauthored papers—showed significant growth.
Epistemological, Artefactual and Interactional-Institutional Foundations of Social Impact of Academic Research This paper suggests that the social impact of academic research can be demonstrated by describing research activities in terms of their epistemological, artefactual and institutional-interactional dimensions: (1) the epistemological viewpoint concen-trates on an increased understanding of the relevant phenomena related to societal problems; (2) the artefactual viewpoint pays attention to the instruments, methods, products or services that are transferred from university to society; and (3) the institutional-interactional dimension concerns the form of collaboration networks and field-specific institutions through which researchers interact with societal actors.
The Arab world's contribution to solid waste literature: a bibliometric analysis Despite the expected increase in solid waste production from Arab world, research activity about solid waste is still low. Governments must invest more in solid waste research to avoid future unexpected problems. Finally, since solid waste is a multidisciplinary science, research teams in engineering, health, toxicology, environment, geology and others must be formulated to produce research in solid waste from different scientific aspects.
Spanish Scholarly Journals in WoS and Scopus: The Impact of Open Access By crossing both figures, we estimate that 48 per cent of all journals are open access (gratis and permission for self-archiving). It has also been shown that to obtain a detailed picture of the evolution of the sector it is not sufficient to use data from journal directories, which contain inaccuracies and are not updated with sufficient frequency. Given our interest in continuing to collect data on journals, future studies will closely follow the evolution of the sector in response to the two major challenges that are currently affecting it: internationalization and the impact of open access on the business model.
Retraction policies of top scientific journals ranked by impact factor The majority of journals in this sample had a retraction policy, and almost all of them would retract an article without the authors' permission. The most important finding of our study is that 3 times as many journals in our sample (65%) had a retraction policy compared to an earlier study in a similar group of journals (21%) [12]. We recommend that journals that do not have a retraction policy consider developing or adopting one.
The network effects of publishing in finance Our findings show that, amongst the top-3 journals (JF, JFE, and RFS), coauthor network tends to lower total citations counts while the colleague network increases the total citations counts of the published articles. In addition, we document that other finance journals do not exhibit any network relationship to article's future citations, which indicate that editors in other finance journals are less likely to leverage their connection in the publication process. From the interaction effects between network variables and specific journals (using JF as the anchor), we find: (1) RFS exhibits a positive and significant coauthor network effect relative to JF; (2) RFS shows a negative and significant colleague network effect relative to JF; and (3) JFE exhibits a negative and significant same journal network effects (relative to JF) on the authors that currently serving JFE.
Technology Resource, Distribution, and Development Characteristics of Global Influenza Virus Vaccine: A Patent Bibliometric Analysis With the worldwide competition increasing, all nations especially China should be looking to increase devotion, enhance capability and regard effectiveness of technological innovation.
The Interplay between Scientific Overlap and Cooperation and the Resulting Gain in Co-Authorship Interactions Overall, the current intuitive rational of researchers in the establishment of collaborative inter-actions is not necessarily the optimal strategy towards maximizing scientific quality. Since current collaboration patterns do not necessarily overlap with gaining optimal scientific quality, these findings should encourage scientists to reconsider current collabora-tion strategies.
The Effects of Research & Development Funding on Scientific Productivity: Academic Chemistry, 1990-2009 While we have documented the fact that funding goes to those institutions that are most productive, and that there appears to be a causal effect of funding on subsequent knowledge production, we have also documented an intriguing increase in scholarly output among academic chemists in the years we have selected for study. This suggests that technological change may have shifted the production function, increasing the federal government's return on investment. Resolving the sources of this increase will require further effort to refine measurements of the knowledge embodied in academic publications.
Determinants of international university rankings scores University mission and size are also significant predictors of ranking score. In our sample of top universities, productive inefficiency does not seem to play a big role. Research-oriented universities seem to be at an advantage in the ranking. This confirms the finding from our model that the mission of a university is an important determinant of the score, and it suggests that the 2007 THES ranking rewards research more than teaching.
The 100 most-cited articles on cardiovascular diseases from Mainland China This study provides a historical perspective on the scientific progress, and the trends in cardiovascular medicine in Mainland China. Our analysis provides a summary of the most influential studies on cardiovascular disease originating from Mainland China from 2004 to 2015, and highlights areas of research that require further investigation and development. In addition, Our analysis also provide an insight into the citation frequency of the top cited articles published in cardiovascular medicine to shed light on the quality of the work, discoveries, and the trends steering cardiology in Mainland China.
How library and information science faculty perceive and engage with open access Overall, these findings raise important questions for open access advocates about how to surmount the perceived structural constraints embodied in tenure and promotion processes around evaluation of scholarly output and how to attract those who have not previously published in open-access journals to this modality of scholarly publishing.
Two geographic information system-linked bibliometric indices to quantify the knowledge flow: A case of Qinghai-Tibet plateau research The two new indices, CFI and NFCI, were shown to be able to measure knowledge flow (as represented by citation behaviour) among different research units, and further they can enable geospatial displays when considering country affiliation information.
The Third French Alzheimer Plan: analysis of the influence of a national public health initiative on scientific research productivity and impact Our study provides evidence of a specific positive impact of the funding provided by the Third National Alzheimer Plan in nearly doubling the global academic scientific output and increasing by 2.3-fold the top 1% globally cited articles of France in AD research. Our bibliometric analyses provide objective and transparent information for policy makers on the relationship between research funding and academic output. We believe that bibliometric assessment and analysis, whatever its limits, should be mandatory at a time when many countries have launched specific initiatives to promote research in AD and dementia (exemplified by the recent Global Action Against Dementia summit).
A Comprehensive Analysis of Authorship in Radiology Journals Overall authorship for 49 radiology journals across 68 years has increased markedly with no demonstrated impact from ICMJE guidelines.
Trends in clinical reproductive medicine research: 10 years of growth Reproductive medicine research and subsequent clinical development have attained scientific growth and maturity. High-quality research is increasingly being published in high-impact journals. The increase in (inter)national collaborations seems to be key to the field's success.
'Predatory' open access: a longitudinal study of article volumes and market characteristics We found that the problems caused by predatory journals are rather limited and regional, and believe that the publishing volumes in such journals will cease growing in the near future. This should create better opportunities for researchers from countries where predatory publishing is currently popular, to get published in journals of higher quality, in particular since most journals have a policy to waive the APCs for authors from developing countries.
Academic productivity and contributions to the literature among spine surgery fellowship faculty The descriptive statistics presented can help surgeons benchmark their performance and that of their fellowship, compared with others in the field.
Assessing the quality of feedback in the peer-review process Research question one found the peer-review process employed for the conferences, book and journals produced generally consistent recommendations slightly more than two-thirds (68%) of the time. The overall tone gave authors some direction to improve their papers. This paper adds to our understanding of this interesting topic and acknowledges that further research and analysis is warranted.
Romanian scholarly productivity: recent history and recommendations Our results only partially support the view that scholarly productivity in Romania is poor. Romanian publication ratios in the fields of psychology, sociology, environmental sciences, linguistics, geology and medicine have been consistently below world rates for decades. However, Romanian publication ratios in agriculture and computer sciences have been near or above world rates for the entire period covered by these analyses. Romanian publication ratios in engineering and economics were below world rates at the beginning of the period covered by these analyses, but have exceeded world rates in recent years.
A bibliometric analysis of the Turkish software engineering research community To take a more active role in the global SE community, the Turkish SE community has to increase their outputs. This denotes the need to further diversification in SE research topics in Turkey. In general, there is a need to increase both the quantity and quality of the Turkish SE papers, in the global stage.
A comparative study of Ocean Engineering research between China and the world Ocean Engineering research in the world has been lasted for nearly half a century and 105 countries are involving in it. During this period, USA is always the leading country while China has been quickly developing in recent few years and ascended to the 2nd place in annual output by 2010. In order to enhance China's influence in the field of Ocean Engineering, China has to build closer cooperative relationship with USA, especially with the institutes that have abundant research strength.
Social networks in marketing research 2001-2014: a co-word analysis We also conclude that social network analysis has been mainly applied to study relationships, diffusion, influence, customer analysis, and enterprise management five subfields. Since mobile internet, intelligent devices, new media and digital technology are developing rapidly, social networks will be a powerful tool to study the related research fields. So in the future, social networks will be popular applied to study media effects, function mechanism of new technology/devices, and social influence of mobile internet.
Scientific publications in Vietnam as seen from Scopus during 1996-2013 Although the publication output has exponentially increased, the collaboration output contributed about 77 % of the total output. In collaboration with the top five countries, the percentage of Vietnamese corresponding authors was very low while study subjects are mainly from Vietnam. Although collaboration is the right way to develop the science of the country, Vietnamese researchers should be aware of their low contribution in these collaborations.
Scientometric mapping of computer science research in Mexico Overall, we have been able to answer all the important questions considered.
A comparative analysis of scientific publications in management journals by authors from Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Macau: 2003-2012 In conclusion, both the quantity and quality of papers published in the management fields by authors from the Mainland, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau, have greatly improved from 2003 to 2012.
Publications from Serbia in the Science Citation Index Expanded: a bibliometric analysis This paper presented a bibliometric analysis of 27,157 journals' articles published by at least one author from the Republic of Serbia in the period 2006–2013 and indexed in the Thomson Reuters SCI-EXPANDED database. The analysis showed that the number of articles indexed by SCI-EXPANDED has seen an increase in terms of Serbian articles that is considerably greater than the increase in number of all articles in SCI-EXPANDED. The significant number of articles did not influence the research conducted by researchers from other countries taking into account number of citations of those articles and the fact that they are published in Serbian journals with weak impact factor or journals which have been marked as predatory journals by some authors.
RETRACTED: The financial crisis research: a bibliometric analysis (Retracted article. See vol. 113, pg. 1827, 2017) This analysis provides an understanding of the state of Financial Crisis research and examines publication productivity at the individual and institutional level.
Scientometric dimensions of cryptographic research Findings reveal that research effort of JOC conforms to the growth of world's cryptographic research over a decade of time. The analysis tracked many other issues for intellectual developments of cryptographic research and to enable better research governance and monitoring academic endeavors as well. Invariably this study has revealed much information in multiple dimensions, which might be supportive to the scholars, academic administrators, decision makers, and library managers to formulate strategies by means of capacity building, resources allocation, fund allocation, and collection development in libraries for enhancement of cryptographic research.
Supply chain management: exploring the intellectual structure For researchers, this study illustrates the shift in the intellectual structure of SCM, indicating research priorities, such as sustainability in SCM, relationships among organisations, the bullwhip effect within the supply chain, and performance measurement in SCM. For practitioners, the results from this study imply that managers should expend effort formulating effective performance measurements in SCM and share information within the supply chain to mitigate the bullwhip effect.
Evaluating the performance of electromagnetic fields (EMF) research work (2003-2013) This paper provides both for the general public and academia an overview of EMF research performance that include publication trends across multi-disciplinary fields, and collaborative work over the authorship landscape including all countries/regions. This study reports a significant pattern as indicative performance of EMF publications, however, the findings should be treated with caution because of certain limitations. Notwithstanding, future study could include journals listed in the SCOPUS database, and a wider range of publication using Google Scholars.
Benchmarking bibliometrics in biomedical research: research performance of the University of Toronto's Faculty of Medicine, 2008-2012 In conclusion, this study benchmarks research performance using article-level bibliometrics for academic departments in the University of Toronto's Faculty of Medicine for scientific publications from 2008 to 2012.
Research trends of library management in LIS in India since 1950-2012 The present study shows that most of the doctoral thesis has been submitted in LIS discipline in the area of the problem in specific libraries' followers by ‘IT application'. There is tremendous lack of Ph.D thesis in the core facet area of LIS like ‘Library management' ‘cataloguing', ‘classification', 'indexing', 'Information analysis and con-solidation'. The Scholarly community, departmental experts should take initiative and give a serious thought of this issue to save a discipline.
Global trends in DEM-related research from 1994 to 2013: a bibliometric analysis The trends in global DEM-related research between 1994 and 2013 were identified through a bibliometric analysis. Therefore, international collaboration is anticipated to become the major form of collaborative articles in the future. This paper may shed light on the comprehensive and systematic pattern of DEM research and enable us to better understand the progress in this field.
The output of researchers in Morocco compared to some North African countries from 1996 to 2012, and its relationship to governmental major decisions on higher education and scientific research In conclusion, the decrease of the scientific output of Moroccan researchers during the early and mid-2000s appears to be related to the accumulation of several factors that had a negative impact on the scientific research in the country. In addition, the slow bureaucracy has also hampered scientific research and productivity.
Analysis of research papers on E-commerce (2000-2013): based on a text mining approach In this research, we classify E-commerce research into three categories and seven subnets. The three categories are technology, management and customer.
A bibliometric analysis of research papers related to the Mekong River Research in this area develop rapidly. Vietnam has most output due to multi-cooperation with other countries especially Japan. The focus mainly concentrates in environmental science, water resources, and geosciences, while five most frequently cited articles (TC2012 > 100) are all associated with these three fields (Table 7).
Trends and potential cautions in food web research from a bibliometric analysis Based on a bibliometrics analysis on food web research publications, we found that cooperation trends have become more and more obvious and extensive in this area, both among individual authors and countries.
Scientometric cognitive and evaluation on smart city related construction and building journals data The results indicate that all the factors have great significance and are related to the impact of a journal. It also provides guidance to both evaluators and the study groups which assess journals during the process of judging or selecting research outlets, and future perspective on how to improve the impact of a paper or a journal. It can be concluded, journal ranking has a strong correlation with sciento- metrics indictors and would be a relatively objective assessment regarding the impact of the journal.
A scientometric study of general relativity and quantum cosmology from 2000 to 2012 Europe and North America are the major places for GRQC studies.
International trade negotiation analysis: network and semantic knowledge infrastructure By employing a social network analysis technique, this study has investigated and decomposed the semantic and knowledge networks of the international trade domain.
Bibliometric analysis for the literature of traditional Chinese medicine in PubMed This study summarized the research of TCM in PubMed from 1995 to 2014.
Scientometric analysis of rabies research literature in India: 1950-2014 India is the world capital of rabies disease burden relatively the research productivity is very low.
Bibliometric analysis of research progress in membrane water treatment technology from 1985 to 2013 The numbers of published SCI papers and patents on membrane water treatment technology grew rapidly in recent years, indicating that researchers have paid increasing attentions to the application of membrane separation technologies in the field of water treatment. The research levels of the United States, Germany and France were in a leading position in this field. Although the number of SCI papers published by Japan was low, that of patents was in second place; meanwhile all of the top 10 patentees belonged to companies and enterprises in Japan, demonstrating the dominant position of Japan for the technology innovation in the field of membrane water treatment.
Study of international anticancer research trends via co-word and document co-citation visualization analysis These analyses will be valuable for the reader to grasp an overall picture of anticancer research and research trends during these years. Besides the above conclusions, we believe that our analysis will also provide useful information and references for researchers in this field.
The effect of technology on learning research trends: a bibliometric analysis over five decades This study shows the progression of traditional learning research and its fairly weak relation with technological developments.
Collaboration in medical research: a case study of India The impact of ICP shows that the publications produced with international collaboration get published in international journals easily. Hence, a positive relationship between HCP and ICP has been established. After going through the findings of this study, it has been observed that the medical professionals should be made aware of the impact of collaboration in their research, whether it is national/international author collaboration.
Analysis of the microbial risk assessment studies from 1973 to 2015: a bibliometric case study The results indicate that the number of annual article publications was increased by 14.72 % per year during the period from 1973 to 2014.
Fair Representation of Transportation Research Record Impacts Case Study on Journal Citation Reports' Impact Factor The following are recommendations based on observations and analyses of this study to increase the IF of the TRR in a fair and deserving manner.
A century of physics It demonstrates, for example, that our ability to define a field such as physics using sets of journals is long gone, and exposes the tribal nature of the different subdisciplines of physics: the smaller the subfield, the more self-referential it becomes.
The h-index in Academic Morphology There exists a significant relationship between h-index and academic rank, with h-index increasing with academic rank.
Comparison between Impact Factor, Eigenfactor Score, and SCImago Journal Rank Indicator in Anatomy and Morphology Journals IF is the main index used by researchers for ranking the anatomy and morphology journals, but several shortcomings should be taken into account when they are using this index alone. SJR and ES can be more accurate quality indexes in certain conditions. It is recommended considering all these indices when judging the quality of the anatomy and morphology journals.
Global research productivity of N-acetylcysteine use in paracetamol overdose: A bibliometric analysis (1976-2012) The amount of NAC-based research activity was low in some countries, and more effort is needed to bridge this gap and to promote better evaluation of NAC use worldwide. Our findings demonstrate that NAC use for paracetamol overdose remains a hot issue in scientific research and may have a larger audi-ence compared with other toxicological aspects. Our study encourages future research in detecting the biomar-kers such as adducts, microRNA and cyclophilin A to improve treatment and patients' outcomes.
Journal publishing models in the Czech Republic The good news for the advocates of open access is that nearly 60% of journals in the Czech Republic are published open access. If we concentrate on economic models of publishing and sources of funding for the journals, it can be stated that the attitude of Czech publishers is rather conservative. It seems that on a local level the expectations associated with open access have not been fulfilled and the difference between subscription-based journals and open access journals is not so sharp.
In competition with ISI: the perceptions of chief editors of Malaysian local journals The article concludes that the Malaysian Ministry of Higher Education should pay attention to national initiatives in countries such as India and Australia that recognize national journals and reward researchers for publishing in them.
Book editors in the social sciences and humanities: an analysis of publication and collaboration patterns of established researchers in Flanders Overall, the results thus both confirm and contradict the existing image of editors apparent in the scarce current literature.
Experiences with bilingual publishing: surveys of authors and editors It appears that publishing bilingually was the right decision for the journals surveyed.
Passage-Based Bibliographic Coupling: An Inter-Article Similarity Measure for Biomedical Articles PBC can thus be used to improve search engines in retrieving the highly related articles for any given article r, even when r is cited by very few (or even no) articles.
Examining the Impact of the National Institutes of Health Public Access Policy on the Citation Rates of Journal Articles Our analysis suggests that factors occurring between 2006 and 2009 produced a subse- quent boost in scholarly impact of PubMed Central. The 2008 Public Access Policy is likely to be one such factor, but others may have contributed as well (e.g., growing size and visibil- ity of PMC, increasing availability of full-text linkouts from PubMed, and indexing of PMC articles by Google Scholar).
If At First You Don't Succeed: The Fate of Manuscripts Rejected by Academic Emergency Medicine Nearly two-thirds of manuscripts declined by SAEM's journal are eventually published elsewhere, in a large number and wide variety of both EM and non-EM journals, in a median of 16.7 months.
Journal impact factors and month of publication The potentially significant relationship between month of publication and commonly used measures of journal quality (specifically a journal’s impact factor) adds to the growing body of evidence suggesting these metrics are noisy indicators of journal quality and an article’s potential quality, at best.
Citation Analysis of Student Dissertations and Faculty Publications in Reading and Educational Leadership at Oakland University Results from this study indicate that both students and faculty are citing increasingly older material in their bibliographies compared with material they cited before the emergence of web based services.
Are Serials Worth Their Weight in Knowledge? A Value Study The value of serial collections in academic libraries remains an ongoing discussion among teaching faculty and university librarians.
Citation Analysis of Masters' Theses and Doctoral Dissertations: Balancing Library Collections With Students' Research Information Needs The library at CPUT provides about 79% of the cited information resources. The study shows that more electronic resources are being utilized by postgraduate students and that journals are the most cited information resource held by the libraries.
Librarians' Contribution to Open Access Journal Publishing in Library and Information Science From the Perspective of Authorship The results show that librarians are the most prevalent among six groups of authors, which is consistent with several previous studies that have investigated traditional subscription-based journals (Apolinario et al., 2014; Chapman & Pike, 1993; Watson, 1985; Wiberley et al., 2006). Librarians were confirmed to be the primary authors of OA articles on LIS. They collaborate mostly with other librarians; however, they collaborate increasingly with researchers. We believe that the increasing trends in librarian authorship and librarian-researcher collaboration can positively support OA publishing because the interaction between librarians and researchers has intensified. It is unclear whether research collaboration between librarians and researchers improves the visibility or impact of OA journals.
Citation Analysis of MA Theses and Ph.D. Dissertations in Sociology and Anthropology: An Assessment of Library Resource Usage M.A. thesis and Ph.D. dissertation bibliographies can be used to show active collection usage of the graduate students’ research and to portray the adequacy of the library collection in supporting that research.
Bibliometric Analysis of Publishing Trends in Fiber Crops in Google Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science The aim of this study was to give a perspective to this field of research and to investigate possible emerging trends.
A Longitudinal Analysis of Publications on Maternal Mortality In line with the focus of the fifth Millennium Development Goal on reducing maternal mortality, during the past 20 years, there has been a steady increase in the amount of attention paid to maternal mortality in the medical literature. This is largely driven by an increase, mainly in recent years, in public health research on maternal mortality. In order to reduce maternal mortality worldwide, research is of eminent importance to understand its multi-causal reasons.
Understanding the selection processes of public research projects in agriculture: The role of scientific merit "Our results on selection and funding of agricultural research activities of the ERR support the notion that scientific merit is a prime factor explaining selection and funding amount of agricul-tural research proposals."
A method for measuring individual research productivity in hospitals: development and feasibility We develop a simple method for measuring research performance, which could be rapidly implemented in health care institutions.
Colil: a database and search service for citation contexts in the life sciences domain By utilizing Colil, researchers can easily refer to a set of citation contexts and relevant papers based on co-citations for a target paper. Colil helps researchers to comprehend life sciences papers in a research area more efficiently and makes their biological research more efficient.
A New Approach to the Evaluation of Countries' Educational Structure and Development: The European Study Our main conclusion is that the Education index does not give a sufficiently precise insight into the educational structure and development of countries, and we think that for deeper analysis, the I-distance evaluation and ranking offers a more comprehensive and objective method for the calculation of synthetic values based on a number of different parameters.
The most-cited articles in dental, oral, and maxillofacial traumatology during 64 years The list of most-cited articles in the field of dental, oral, and maxillofacial traumatology gives a good scientometric picture of trauma research in the world.
European Financial Management Association (EFMA) Annual Meetings: a Retrospective Evaluation We conclude that the research papers presented at the EFMA meetings are to a large extend in accord with the founding objectives of EFMA in that they have a strong focus on European financial topics with most papers written by European authors.
Ebola and Its Global Research Architecture-Need for an Improvement We conclude that the field of Ebola research is constantly progressing, and the research landscape is influenced by economical and infrastructural factors as well as historical relations between countries and outbreak events.
Eye neoplasms research: a bibliometric analysis from 1966 to 2012 This bibliometric study provides data contributing to a better understanding of the eye neoplasm research field. These results suggest lower economic efficiency in developed countries in producing articles related to eye neoplasms.
Essential tensions in interdisciplinary scholarship: navigating challenges in affect, epistemologies, and structure in environment-society research centers Using the essential tensions framework highlighted the ways in which tensions that are known to be present in scientific research—epistemic, structural, and affective—are manifest in interdisciplinary collaborative research.
Novel citation-based search method for scientific literature: application to meta-analyses Citation searching appears to be an efficient and reasonably accurate method for finding articles similar to one or more articles of interest for meta-analysis and reviews.
Authorship in Radiation Oncology: Proliferation Trends Over 30 Years The mean number of authors per publication has more than doubled over the last 30 years in the radiation oncology literature. Explicit documentation of author contributions could help ensure that scientific work is credited according to accepted standards.
Mining full-text journal articles to assess obliteration by incorporation: Herbert A. Simon's concepts of bounded rationality and satisficing in economics, management, and psychology OBI research can benefit from full-text searching; the main tradeoff is more detailed and nuanced evidence con- cerning OBI existence and trends versus increased noise in the retrieval.
The VQR, Italy's second national research assessment: Methodological failures and ranking distortions "Our analyses show that that there are substantial weaknesses in the VQR methodology and scoring criteria, as applied to the evaluation of products in the hard sciences."
Growth rates of modern science: A bibliometric analysis based on the number of publications and cited references In this study we looked at the rate at which science has grown in terms of number of publications and cited references since the mid-1600s.
Testing for the fairness and predictive validity of research funding decisions: A multilevel multiple imputation for missing data approach using ex-ante and ex-post peer evaluation data from the Austrian science fund With a validity coefficient for the imputed data of .49, our findings on validity indicate that FWF's decision-making procedures are indeed capable of selecting the best research proposals for funding.
Imperfect referees: Reducing the impact of multiple biases in peer review First, self-stated confidence is consistently effective across the spectrum from conference fitness to impact-based bias reduction, while factual authority is more reliable in the conference fitness-based bias reduction scenario than in the reviewers' self-reported confidence, and these two factors complement each other and lead to the greatest bias reduc-tion when integrated.
Research dynamics, impact, and dissemination: A topic-level analysis "This study highlighted the use of topics in organizing scientific literature and examining research popularity, impact, and dynamics, finding that topics on online technologies and informetrics have gained popularity, while others like cataloging have declined."
A variant of the h-index to measure recent performance Consequently, the hr-index allows one to distinguish currently still high-performing from less-successful researchers in terms of the impact of their recent work. Nevertheless, with hr, I have studied a variant, which, in my view, is at least somewhat more useful than the original h-index for the evaluation of the recent performance of a scientist.
A new index to use in conjunction with the h-index to account for an author's relative contribution to publications with high impact In summary, I define the AP-index of an author as the mean authorship position across that person's high-impact publications (those that factor into the h-index), with senior and corresponding authors given as much credit as the first author.
Some variations on the standard theoretical models for the h-index: A comparative analysis In summary, through an empirical statistical analysis, alternative formulations based on the three standard mathematical models for the h-index may result in improved model fit. Specifically, variations related to distribution assumptions for the theoretical models and to the parameters associated with these models in certain instances resulted in better predictions.
Scientific research related to calcium channel blockers poisoning: Bibliometric analysis in Scopus, 1968-2012 Scientific production on CCBs poisoning is increasing; nonetheless, the international collabora- tion is still rare. The amount of CCBs-based research activity was low or not available in most countries. More regional epidemiological studies are required to bridge the gap in CCBs-based research and to promote better evaluation of CCBs poisoning worldwide.
Comparative analysis of quantity and quality of biomedical publications in Gulf Cooperation Council countries from 2011-2013 In conclusion, all 6 GCC countries are consistently producing more number of publications over time. However, the quality of publications remains similar for the individual countries over time and needs to be improved by publishing in good quality journals with high IF.
The Irish contribution to the plastic surgery literature: 21 years of publications The number of publications per year continues to increase along with authorship numbers. To prevent this, each unit must actively support and encourage research activity with their trainees. This would stimulate surgical trainees to involve themselves in research at an earlier stage and this would ultimately lead to a more academic culture in the future.
Scientometric mapping of research on 'Big Data' We have successfully performed an analytical mapping of research on ‘Big Data' during the last 5-year period. Overall, we have presented a comprehensive analysis and a detailed characterization of research on emerging area of 'Big Data', which is very informative, useful and first of its kind on the theme. We have presented analytical outcomes for year-wise growth of research output, country-wise output, country-level international collaboration patterns and authorship type and collaboration patterns.
Measuring the influence and impact of competitiveness research: a Web of Science approach The findings of the study indicates that firm level is the most common level of analysis of competitiveness, next followed by industry, nation, and region levels. This citation analysis provides useful information about scientific achievement and development of competitiveness research over the past decades. The results help competitiveness researchers to better plan their studies, improve the impact of their research works, and make decisions about what topic to select and in which journal to publish their research findings.
Growth trend of scientific literature on genetic improvement through the database Scopus It was found that even plant improvement with the largest quantity of publications over 2003-2013, the cattle had higher concentration of publications among the species.
A comparative analysis of publication portfolios of selected economies When publication productivities of EU member states are put together, EU takes the absolute lead in either productivity or Expected General Impact (EGI), and USA, China and Japan follow in sequence.
Characteristics of international collaboration in sport sciences publications and its influence on citation impact This analysis confirmed that the international collaboration has also strongly intensified in sport sciences in the last decade. The growth rate of international co-authored publications exceeds that of domestic ones. It is very meaningful to investigate the underlying motivation behind collaboration, especially social factors.
A bibliometric analysis of industrial wastewater research: current trends and future prospects Based on 24,447 industrial wastewater treatment articles from SCIE, this bibliometric study provided an overview of research in industrial wastewater treatment and identified some significant points in this field throughout the investigation period.
A quantitative examination of the intellectual profile and evolution of information security from 1965 to 2015 This study reduces the complexity of the specialty to controllable terms, supplies objective data for science policy making, identifies the salient bibliographic units, and uncovers growth patterns.
A scientometric analysis of mobile technology publications We can conclude that the purpose of this study is to analyze the number of contributions made by the researchers in the field of mobile technology published on Web of Science database during 2000–2013.
Bibliometric study of the relationship between business model and air transport This paper proposes to undertake a bibliometric study on the topic of air transport and business models in order to collaborate to the construction of the knowledge of academic production in these areas and their relationship. The analyses carried out also enabled mapping the scientific production on the themes of air transport and business models and showed substantial and steady growth in the number of publications over the past 5 years, due to the growing attention from various research centers.
Information technology management domain: emerging themes and keyword analysis The study sheds light on the emerging and fading themes in the domain.
National versus international growth of medical research of India: a case study Over all, medical research is growing consistently as is evident from the consistent yearly growth of literature during 2003–2012. International collaboration has grown four times during 2003–2012. Top 5 favorite countries of India for medical research collaboration are USA, UK, Canada, Australia and Germany.
Analysis of the Czech and Hungarian physiology publications 1994-2011 In conclusion, the Czech physiology field is quickly growing and catching up with the world average in respect of the publication production. However, publications of both countries are lagging behind the field standards in citation impact. The analysis also indicates that low citation impact of the Czech and Hungarian publications is not due to the specific selection of less-cited research topics by the domestic researchers.
Publications in dance field in Arts & Humanities Citation Index: a bibliometric analysis Dance performance review, not article, was the most used document type. Publications in dance field in Arts & Humanities Citation Index, were much more independent, fewer collaborations, lower citations, and more document types, compared to publications in SSCI and SCI-EXPANDED database. Ballet was the most popular research topic in the dance field. "Body" and "education" might become leading topics in the future.
Chinese interpreting studies: structural determinants of MA students' career choices As CIS continues to grow and mature, the factors governing the choices students make between academic and professional careers are becoming ever more complex.
A bibliometric assessment of scientific productivity and international collaboration of the Islamic World in science and technology (S&T) areas In Islamic world Turkey is clearly leading in terms of publication output, Iran takes 2nd rank in terms of publications, Malaysia, Egypt, and Pakistan takes 3rd, 4th and 5th rank respectively in terms of number of publication. However, it is extremely important for the Islamic World to increase their international collaboration with outside world in order to welcome new ideas into their research. The Islamic World must draw out long-term and short term plans to become more active and competitive in scientific research in the World.
The research trends forecasted by bibliometric methodology: a case study in e-commerce from 1996 to July 2015 EC is one of fast growing research topics in recently years, the trend forecast of this research field by each kind of literature characteristic and author productivity distribution are in growing period.
Ranking of medical institutes of India for quality and quantity: a case study Twelve medical institutes out of the top 50 institutes considered for the study contributed above average research publications in the total contribution of medical research and rest of the medical institutes have contributed below average research publications. Top ten medical institutes have contributed both quantity as well as quality, as these medical institutes remain within top ten institutes for TP and h-Index. Out of rest medical institutes, some medical institutes are not good in production of research yet are better in quality than the institutes which are good at quantity (TP).
Middle East: research productivity and performance across nations Studying the research performances at national levels “is an important measure to evaluate the development of scientific progress in a certain time framework."
Research characteristics and status on social media in China: A bibliometric and co-word analysis We identified some clear and reasonable results about social media research in China. Research topics in Cluster 1 are found to be at the core of social media field in China and tend to be mature. Topics in Cluster 2, 3 and 6 have vast space for further development and will become new research trends in the future.
Tree responses, tolerance and acclimation to stress: Does current research depend on the cultivation status of studied species? Our analyses showed a clear, statistically highly significant, difference in all of the patterns analysed.
A bibliometric analysis of research on Central Asia during 1990-2014 The findings of this study would help researchers improve the performance. Nevertheless, this bibliometric study utilized indispensable research tool to get a global overview of the current progress and trends in Central Asia research field. In spite of the limitation due to the scope of the retrieved bibliographic material, this paper provided a good starting point to understand the evolution of research in the field and might serve as a potential basis for future research.
Economics in Latin America: a bibliometric analysis This study has provided a general overview of academic research in economics in Latin America between 1994 and 2013. The results indicate that these countries are growing strongly although they still need to improve a lot. Analyzing Latin America as an individual region, we see that his publication volume is much lower than North America and Europe but it is at a similar level than Japan and China. Therefore, this is a positive indication that this region is an emerging one which is growing a lot.
Ranking the research productivity of business and management institutions in Asia-Pacific region: empirical research in leading ABS journals In this paper, a new JRAP index is proposed, and the research productivity of business and management institutions in Asia-Pacific region from 2000 to 2014 are measured based on it.
Mapping the intellectual structure of the Internet of Things (IoT) field (2000-2014): a co-word analysis By going through the process in this way, this research has led to a clear explanation of the intellectual structure of the IoT research field. It gets the two main conclusions. There are three big groups of IoT research field. And if dividing the research domains of this field in detail, they are divided into the seven clusters of ‘Security', 'Middleware', 'RFID', 'Internet', 'Cloud computing', 'Wireless sensor networks' and ‘6LoWPAN'.
A bibliometric overview of the Journal of Business Research between 1973 and 2014 This study gives a general overview of the studies appearing in JBR by using bibliometric indicators and the WoS.
Acceptance rates for manuscripts submitted to veterinary peer-reviewed journals in 2012 With so few manuscripts accepted without revision, prospective authors must expect to expend time and effort revising and resubmitting their manuscripts for publication. The knowledge that less than half submitted manuscripts are accepted might help stimulate prospective authors to try to submit better quality manuscripts.
Telemedicine - a scientometric and density equalizing analysis In summary it can be concluded that the data shows clearly a strong increase in research productivity.
A bibliometric analysis of cancer research in South Africa: study protocol This study will also highlight strengths, weak-nesses and opportunities in areas such as the quality and type of research being conducted and could be used to guide the allocation of research budgets.
Scholarly Productivity and National Institutes of Health Funding of Foundation for Anesthesia Education and Research Grant Recipients Insights from a Bibliometric Analysis Most FAER alumni remain in academic anesthesiology and have established a consistent record of scholarly output that appears to exceed reported productivity for average faculty members identified in previous studies.
The Multidisciplinary Translational Team (MTT) Model for Training and Development of Translational Research Investigators We conclude that the MTT model provides a unique training environment for translational and team-based learning activities, for investigators at early stages of career development.
Evolution of Multidisciplinary Translational Teams (MTTs): Insights for Accelerating Translational Innovations "Well-managed MTTs demonstrate objective productivity and facilitate innovation."
Chemical bibliographic databases: the influence of term indexing policies on topic searches Topic searches in chemical information systems are expected to return precise answers and we attempted to show in the first section of this paper how it can be challenging to query the web interfaces of Scifinder, Scopus and WoS using the most suitable syntax.
Trend Toward an Increase in Authorship for Leading Radiology Journals The number of authors significantly and consistently increased in two leading radiology journals over the past 2 decades.
Promoting Open Scholarship in Africa: Benefits and Best Library Practices Open scholarship’s three pillars—namely, open source software, OA, and open education resources—has made an enormous contribution to ad-dressing the issue of improved access to scholarly literature. The improved visibility, discoverability, and accessibility of African scholarly content will stem the soft brain drain. The capacity that OA of-fers in sharing African scholarly content via OA journals and institutional repositories will contribute to converting the drain into a brain gain.
Trends in Determinants of Entry into the Academic Career: The Case of South Korea, 1980-2010 This discrete-time event history analysis of transitions to the role of assistant professor for a large sample of Korean scholars who earned doctorates over the past three decades yielded results that are relatively consistent with past studies: both particularistic and universalistic elements can strongly affect subsequent career success.
Excellence and growth dynamics: A comparative study of the Matthew effect The data indicate a modified Matthew effect with ceilings and limits avoiding excessive accumulation of resources. Even considering these examples of limited cumulative effects, the CoE schemes have been highly successful. The present study identifies key input and output indicators for studying the impact of CoE grants, most of which are adaptable to larger, quantitative studies.
International research visits and careers: An analysis of bioscience academics in Japan This paper investigated the effect of international research visits on academic career progression in terms of the length of time until promotion.
How incentives trickle down: Local use of a national bibliometric indicator system This paper has explored how PRFS affect local management practices within higher education institutions. However, as we have shown in this paper, even in this case incentives trickle down to the individual level through local management practices in various ways, not least due to the allure and the anxiety that the availability of a quantitative performance measure creates. Explicit and open discussions on the ways in which the indicator is used at all levels are required if uncertainty is to be reduced and if unintended effects are to be minimized.
Learning and Instruction Research in the Asia-Pacific Region from 2002 to 2011: Examining Trends, Authors, and Institutions Learning and instruction research in the AP region has been increasing.
Accelerating scientific publication in biology We may be approaching a breaking point in the publication process in the life sciences. The analysis of graduate students presented here suggests that the average time to first-author publication has ratcheted upwards and is now approaching the length of PhD training. Through thoughtful discussion, engagement, and action, our system of scientific communication can be guided to meet the current needs, challenges, and exciting opportunities in the life sciences.
Publishing Ethics and Predatory Practices: A Dilemma for All Stakeholders of Science Communication All stakeholders of science communication should be aware of multiple facets of unethical practices and publish well-checked and evidence-based articles.
Pediatric burns research: A history or an evolution? Pediatric burns research has evolved from an associated, dispersed entity into a consolidated sub-specialty that has been successfully integrated into mainstream burns journals.
How automated feedback through text mining changes plagiaristic behavior in online assignments The reduced numbers of plagiarised posts and the increased number of students who did not commit plagiarism show that the feedback had a positive effect on the student's plagiaristic behaviour.
Kinesiology Faculty Citations Across Academic Rank The study confirmed the logical progression of significant increases in total citations to kinesiology scholars' research with advancements in academic rank.
Exploring Promising Research Frontiers Based on Knowledge Maps in the Solar Cell Technology Field The present research proposes a methodology for identifying promising research frontiers and their keywords by generating knowledge maps based on scientific documents such as patents and academic articles. The proposed method and results can be utilized in various ways since the method is based on the patents and scientific papers reflecting both industrial and academic perspectives.
Globalization in Urology: A Bibliographical Analysis of Cross-Continent Publication between 2002 and 2012 Cross-continental publication significantly increased during the period from 2002 to 2012.
The incidence and role of negative citations in science Our findings suggest that negative citations may indeed play a special role in science.
How peer-review constrains cognition: on the frontline in the knowledge sector Ultimately, social technology aids in shaping a body of coherent work -an aggregate of symbolizations that spreads across a meshwork of texts and communities.
International Stays Abroad, Collaborations and the Return of Spanish Researchers We also find that public financial support is crucial for explaining and facilitating the return of Spanish researchers from abroad.
Mobility of the Highly SkilledTowards a Non-racial South Africa South Africa is far from alone in confronting the subtleties of managing the moths, but its racial legacy and redress imperatives present as difficult choices. This future targets of the Ten Year Plan and NDP are unlikely to be met, the more so the level of 1.5 FTE researchers per 1,000 employed recorded for 2011–2012. The odds are thus negatively stacked: the innovation system will continue to be starved of foreign staff inputs, yet be 'open' for collaboration. The door is open, but remain outside if you please.
Return Migration of Highly Skilled Scientists and Engineers to Morocco: Return or Circulation? After the migration wave of unskilled workers starting in the 1960s, the qualifica-tion level of the emigrating Moroccans rose steadily in the 1990s, and especially since the year 2000. At present, an estimated 20 per cent of the highly qualified Moroccans live abroad. The international mobility of the interviewees was a constant but not all thought that Morocco would be their final landing place. Emigrating again was not excluded and some of them have already considered this possibility for professional, eco-nomic, family and other reasons. Last, they are the forerunners in a new type of mobility system that will contribute, (together with the reform measures that Morocco will have to adopt) to making the Moroccan national research system attract Moroccan and foreign scientists for all or part of their professional career.
Trends in Authorship Patterns in High-Impact Radiology Publications, 1980-2013 Our study demonstrates that the average number of authors per publication dramatically increased from 1980 to 2013 in three major radiology journals: Radiology, AJR, and European Radiology.
Comparing research investment to United Kingdom institutions and published outputs for tuberculosis, HIV and malaria: a systematic analysis across 1997-2013 When comparing total publications and citations with research investment to United Kingdom institutions, tuberculosis research appears to perform best in terms of efficiency. There were more public health-related publications and citations for HIV and tuberculosis than other types of science. These findings demonstrate the diversity of research funding and outputs, and provide new evidence to inform research investment strategies for policymakers, funders, academic institutions, and healthcare organizations.
An analysis of national collaboration with Spanish researchers abroad in the health sciences Based on our results, we conclude that the national col-laboration with Spanish health science researchers abroad is weak, which means that good practices to both benefit from the scientific knowledge potential and improve the likelihood of health science researchers returning from abroad are not put into practice. To achieve this, it is recommended to capitalise on the will-ingness of the host countries to collaborate at the inter-national level and to further improve the promotion of collaboration through Sistema Nacional de Salud agents.
The changing functions of citation: from knowledge networking to academic cash-value As I have argued and tried to document here, the behaviours rewarded by a preoccupation with impact factors sometimes support, often have nothing to do with, and frequently work against actually promoting academic quality. In worst cases, these behaviours could be seen to constitute scholarly malpractice, if not even fraud. At an institutional and professional level, I believe, what is needed is a code of ethics, especially for journal editors and publishers, that identifies and discourages the even well-intended behaviours that drive editorial decisions based on promoting impact factors.
Research output on Lavender, 2008-2012 While growth of the literature in this field has not been consistent, continued research interest in Lavender has been revealed in by this study. Research activity is apparent in a wide range of countries but there is potential for greater international collaboration. While the focus has been on a limited number of species of lavender, the large number of available species that have received limited research interest could provide a focus for research.
Global methaemoglobinaemia research output (1940-2013): a bibliometric analysis This bibliometric analysis provides data contributing to a better understanding of the methaemoglobinaemia research field. The number of publications on meth-aemoglobinaemia increased significantly after 2000. The USA was the most productive country as meas-ured by total publications.
Mapping Global Research on International Higher Education One notable finding from our study was that the contemporary research in international higher education is not dominated solely by the North America, Europe and Australia.
The Distribution of the Asymptotic Number of Citations to Sets of Publications by a Researcher or from an Academic Department Are Consistent with a Discrete Lognormal Model Our results show that the expected citability of scientific publications published by (i) the researchers in a department, (ii) a given scientific journal, or (iii) a single researcher can be set on the single scale defined by μ.
An assessment of the first "scientific habilitation" for university appointments in Italy The analyses conducted reveal very clearly that for candidates already on staff as assistant or associate professor, and aspiring to career progression, it is sufficient to have a lower scientific performance than that of the candidates external to the academia, in order to have the same probability of success.
Is Double-Blinded Peer Review Necessary? The Effect of Blinding on Review Quality Double-blinding adds considerable work for authors and editorial staff and has no positive effect on review quality. Furthermore, the authors' results revealed no publication bias based on author identity at PRS. We further conclude that double-blinding is not necessary to prevent publication bias in PRS.
Using the comprehensive patent citation network (CPC) to evaluate patent value In this paper, four single patent citation networks—direct citation, indirect citation, coupling and co-citation networks—were combined, filtered and recomposed by relational algebra, and then a method based on the comprehensive patent citation (CPC) network for patent evaluation was proposed. According to these descriptive statistics, we find that the approach of comprehensive patent citation can go well beyond simple patent counts and traditional citation analysis as a means to reveal information on the complex, interrelated and cumulative processes of patent technological value, pointing to the specific citation based information reflect different aspects of patent value, and single citation analyses are insufficient for revealing the patent value.
Characteristics of gender studies publications: a bibliometric analysis based on a Swedish population database The present study has, for the first time, provided a comprehensive empirical description of gender studies publications from Sweden. The results confirmed the hypotheses that Swedish gender studies publications have been growing faster than has research in general both in Sweden and internationally, and that Swedish gender studies publications constitute a larger proportion of the total national production of research publications compared to the median proportion of other countries. The results also showed that both the Swedish and international gender studies articles were less cited, and that the journals in which the gender studies were published had lower IFs than articles and journals concerned with biological sex rather than gender as a social construction.
Can technology life-cycles be indicated by diversity in patent classifications? The crucial role of variety The cyclical patterns in the Rao–Stirling diversity of nine technologically specific sets of patents were exclusively due to increases and decreases in the variety, and not in the disparity.
Bibliographic coupling and hierarchical clustering for the validation and improvement of subject-classification schemes In all, the results have been found to provide a well-balanced hierarchical system of 6-14-24 clusters supported by the dendrogram, silhouette values and the mapped structure.
A temporal analysis of institutional repository research Through the visualization and temporal analysis, information was gained regarding the history, development, and future studies within institutional repositories.
Multi-view clustering with exemplars for scientific mapping In this paper, a novel multi-view clustering method based on affinity propagation (AP) is used to identify clusters from the WoS journal data sets and tends to solve the subject classification problem. Experiments show that our method outperforms other relevant clustering algorithms based on numerical evaluation and provides meaningful exemplar journals for scientific mapping as well.
Knowledge network centrality, formal rank and research performance: evidence for curvilinear and interaction effects Our results reveal the curvilinear (inverted U-shaped) association of direct and distant co-authorship ties (degree centrality) with research performance with formal rank having a positive moderating role for lower ranked faculty.
Open access and sources of full-text articles in Google Scholar in different subject fields Returning to the objectives of the study, the findings of the study showed that 61.1 % of the articles were available freely, of which 80.8 % were publisher version and another 14.4 % were Green OA (preprints).
Interfield comparison of academic output by using department level data Our contribution is modest. It is to give a sense of how much the differences can be and how prevalent they are. We believe that not much can be done within a university about the interfield differ-ences. A field-blind measure should replace the Journal Impact Factors as the standard measure.
A flexible bibliometric approach for the assessment of professorial appointments This study shows the benefits but also the limitations of bibliometrics as an evaluative method.
Sectoral collaboration networks for cardiovascular medical device development in South Africa In the South African CMD network, the greatest inter-sector collaboration was between the healthcare and the university sector; nodes within these sectors were also found to be the most influential and collab-orative.
Comparison of bibliometric measures for assessing relative importance of researchers In conclusion, if indices use the same amount of information, or speaking in statistical terms, if the same variables are used to derive the indices, the agreement between these indices will be good, and when different variables are used to derive the indices, then the ranking obtained by these indices can disagree if there is some variability in the studied sample in terms of this variable. Our study also confirms that any modification of the h-index will systematically disregard scientists with a small number of highly cited papers when compared with TCA or NCA, hence we would prefer to use NCA instead of hna-index in the ranking process anyway, however this view is to some extent subjective.
Intriguing trends in nuclear physics authorship These findings suggest that article authorship is a very complex phenomenon, and presently-observed increase or “inflation" in authorship could be explained by the adaptation to the changing research environment, in addition to the evolving authorship rules that progressed over the years from very strict to lenient.
The structure and dynamics of networks of scientific collaborations in Northern Africa These results add to the previous literature in the following ways. First of all, they complement the evidence reported by Adams et al. (2014) and indicate that, although some degree of collaboration among North African countries exists, the degree of regional scientific integration is pretty low. Again in terms of policy implications, it follows that any policy aimed at sustaining scientific production within the region should involve Egypt in one way or another.
The bibliometric analysis of scholarly production: How great is the impact? Our findings show clearly how a number of countries have dominated the field of bibliometric analysis and still partially do. The present work demonstrates how bibliometric analysis is gradually becoming accepted as a useful tool for the professional community and not just an aca-demic tool for bibliometricians. It points towards a self-perpetuating process of giving and taking of references in the field of bibliometric analysis.
Changing publication and citation patterns in political science in Germany All in all, there are two main networks of academic communication in the publication pattern of German political scientists.
Revealing the online network between university and industry: the case of Turkey The indicators obtained (both for web presence and web visibility) indicate significant differences between the group of academic institutions and those related to companies within the web space of Turkey.
Editorial delay and its relation to subsequent citations: the journals Nature, Science and Cell That said we think that at least for these highly visible multidisciplinary journals (including Cell) there is a clear, although statistically weak, tendency for an inverse relation between editorial delays and number of received citations. This makes intuitively sense as, indeed, one expects that in many cases excellent articles are easily recognized by experts. Anyway, we do not think that a relation as suggested here for Nature and Science is valid for most ‘normal' journals, but we leave this for further investigation.
Academic publishing and collaboration between China and Germany in physics In general, both China and Germany get benefits from collaboration, which has been proved by the growing number of co-authored publications.
Contribution of the institutional repositories of the Chinese Academy of Sciences to the webometric indicators of their home institutions IRs can improve the web presence and visibility of their home institutions, while OA IRs offer more benefits to their home institutions.
Data-driven journal meta-ranking in business and management Producing a reliable, widely-approved journal ranking is a non-trivial task, mainly due to the inherent difficulty of selecting a proper set of base indices and combination technique (i.e., meta-index) among the existing ones.
Are there gender differences among researchers from industrial/organizational psychology? Overall, the results of this study show that there are indeed several gender differences. These differences confirm concerns (e.g., smaller number of publications authored by women) but also question them (e.g., longer publication career disruptions among men) and point out their complexity. If female authors are still underrepresented, at least with regard to the number of publications, it seems at least questionable whether the field is maximizing its human intellectual capital.
Modeling knowledge diffusion in scientific innovation networks: an institutional comparison between China and US with illustration for nanotechnology This empirical study showed that the structural holes measures and degree centrality best explained the knowledge diffusion mechanism in all six large institutions. Knowledge diffusion in the nanotechnology field was mainly achieved through parallel duplication within groups and recombination of diverse knowledge across different groups. Finally, this paper provide significant practical implications. Nanotechnology is an increasingly global and competitive research landscape.
Evaluation of the highly-cited researchers' database for a country: proposals for meaningful analyses on the example of Germany As the evaluations in this study show, the data from TR can, on the one hand, be used to investigate the distribution of research excellence in a country.
A systematic method to create search strategies for emerging technologies based on the Web of Science: illustrated for 'Big Data' In the paper, we propose a four-stage search strategy method that considers core lexical query, expanded lexical query, specialized journal search, and cited reference analysis. Therefore, we suggest further exploration of suitable threshold values to use in tuning lexical queries. We suggest that this provides a model approach to be adapted to help think through generation and assessment of other emerging technology searches.
Gender and the h index in psychology The finding of a gender effect in the h index does not imply that the metric is in itself flawed. The problem we think lies in an uncritical adoption of a metric without considering the social context in which science operates. Acknowledging the limitations of the h index is one way that we might help reduce the gender gap in academic achievement and pay at the highest ranks and address the problem of equity in evaluations, promotions, and awards for male and female faculty.
Opening doors to basic-clinical collaboration and translational research will improve researchers' performance Basic-clinical research collaboration and involvement in translational research are somewhat beneficial for basic scientists incorporated to do research at public hospitals: they increase researchers' performance, by garnering them additional opportunities as team members of funded research projects, and improving publication in international impact journals. Our results challenge the arguments by some authors that translational projects have more difficulties than basic proposals to be granted by funding agencies and to be published in high-impact journals. Opening doors to basic-clinical collaboration and translational research will improve not only individual, but institutional research performance.
Evolution of research subjects in library and information science based on keyword, bibliographical coupling, and co-citation analyses This study identified “bibliometrics" as the most essential research subject in LIS between 1995 and 2014. In addition, “bibliometrics” exhibited increasing influence, although its percentage in 2010–2014 was lower than that in 2005–2009. The similarities and differences in the findings obtained using the three methods enable creating a more comprehensive map of the structure of LIS than do the finding obtained using a single method.
Mathematical properties of weighted impact factors based on measures of prestige of the citing journals We have introduced a general model for measuring the impact of scientific datasets, papers and journals, that we identify with an abstract version of the already used weighted factors for the measuring of the impact based on the average number of citations. We have shown that our abstract model can be adapted to provide a formal support for the definition of citation indexes for data sets, giving for example new tools for measuring the impact of repositories of open data. Our theoretical results imply that the general tendency of the final orderings of the corresponding lists provided by these new indexes —in which IF2 is used for defining the new weight—will be similar to the ordering given by IF2. However, the big dispersion of the data does not allow to state that the ordering will be exactly the same in our four cases.
Methodi Ordinatio: a proposed methodology to select and rank relevant scientific papers encompassing the impact factor, number of citation, and year of publication The methodology offers a solution to rank the papers effectively.
Participations to European Framework Programs of higher education institutions and their association with organizational characteristics Our results confirm the hypothesis that the number of participations to EU-FP is strongly associated with organizational characteristics, particularly with HEI size and reputation. In policy terms, the interpretation of these findings is somewhat ambiguous. Despite its value, our analysis has two limitations, which open important avenues for further research.
Is there any feedback effect between academic research publication and research collaboration? Evidence from an Australian university Based on a system of simultaneous equations model, this study found that research collaboration and research publication were indeed jointly determined and both significantly and positively affected each other.
Can intellectual processes in the sciences also be simulated? The anticipation and visualization of possible future states The simulations in this study are technically a first step and mainly meant to demonstrate a possible direction for further research.
Do Nobel laureates change their patterns of collaboration following prize reception? "Our results do in fact demonstrate a decreasing trend of new coauthors joining a Nobelist's post award collaboration network."
CiteULike bookmarks are correlated to citations at journal and author levels in library and information science "Given the correlation between the citation- and bookmark-based indicators at author and journal levels, bookmarking data can be used as a complement to, but not a substitute for, the traditional indicators to get to a more inclusive evaluation of journals and authors."
Choosing experiments to accelerate collective discovery Our paper provides a quantitative method for inferring research strategies from data, examining their consequences, and discovering more efficient alternatives.
A Summary Evaluation of the Top-Five Brazilian Psychology Journals by Native English-Language Scholars The present study established a direct relationship between the translational integrity of EDN summary materials and their overall impression with native English-language scholars.
Business and Management Studies in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework It seems clear that the quality of research in UK Business and Management Studies has risen since RAE 2008, and colleagues in UK Business and Management Schools are due hearty congratulations for this.
Worldwide trends in research on the San Andreas Fault System The paper has presented an overview of the global research on the San Andreas Fault System during the 1991–2013 period based on the Thomson Reuters' Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED) and the Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI) accessed via the Web of Science Core Collection.
Mandatory and Self-citation; Types, Reasons, Their Benefits and Disadvantages In the current paper, the unethical issue of mandatory citation and description of all its types are investigated.
Selection committees for academic recruitment: does gender matter? These results suggest that compared to their male colleagues, the female professors called to evaluate competitions give more importance to merit.
Assessment of research strengths using co-citation analysis: The case of Thailand national research universities Monitoring research performance has always been a major concern of policymakers and university administrators for planning, resource allocation, and research funding for organizational and national competitiveness.
ASIRPA: A comprehensive theory-based approach to assessing the societal impacts of a research organization Methodologies to evaluate the societal impact of research are currently being renewed. Values attached to agricultural research are also evolving: the focus on productivity has been complemented by social concerns about the environment, food and society, and global issues.
Impact of National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute-Supported Cardiovascular Epidemiology Research, 1998 to 2012 This analysis indicates that, based on citation analysis, at least one quarter of the high-impact cardiovascular epidemiology research papers of the last 15 years were supported, at least in part, by NHLBI. The proportion of high-impact epidemiology research supported by the NHLBI is greater than budgetary data would suggest. These findings will inform future directions for NHLBI-supported epidemiology research and provide a baseline for future analyses to judge the comparative effects of any change in funding priorities at the NHLBI.
Bibliometric analysis of the top 50 cited respiratory articles This study has provided a comprehensive list of the top 50 citation classics pertaining to the respiratory field of medicine. A periodic evaluation of the top cited articles is important as it helps identify the quality of work and the discoveries steering the field of respiratory medicine. It also helps researchers pinpoint the topics that have been studied vastly and highlight others which have not been given due consideration.
Systematic Methodology for Excavating Sleeping Beauty Publications and Their Princes from Medical and Biological Engineering Studies This study designed and implemented an IAF to identify sleeping beauties and their princes.
All That Is Solid: Bench-Building at the Frontiers of Two Experimental Sciences This suggests an alternative conception of the natural/social divide, in which the natural sciences are defined by dynamic material evolution while the social sciences remain relatively stable.
The influence of co-authorship on article impact in OR/MS/OM and the exchange of knowledge with Finance in the twenty-first century Overall, our findings from exploring the second research question indicate an asymmetrical exchange of knowledge between OR/MS/OM and Finance, where the latter discipline is less likely to borrow from the former, i.e. there is a surplus balance of trade for Finance.
Anatomy of funded research in science "Our results reveal how collaboration networks organize in response to external driving forces, which can have major ramifications on future research strat-egy and government policy."
Authorship Inflation in Medical Publications Our findings suggest that credited authorship has grown significantly and likely reflects inflationary growth rather than growth warranted due to increasing research complexity.
Patent overlay maps: Spain and the Basque Country If the region of the Basque Country is analysed, the distribution by sector of the inventive activity is similar to Spain, but the specific weight of some sectors is very different, for example: ‘drugs, med chem’ is seen as a more important sector in Spain but less so in the Basque Country, which also occurs with ‘machine tools’ and ‘metals’ but not in the opposite way. If the technological origins of the cited patents by the Spanish patents in the 'biologics' area (Figure 3) are compared and the same is done with the Basque Country patents (Figure 4), it can be seen that the sub-sectors ‘condiments, soup’; ‘oral medicine’; and ‘horticulture’ have not been cited in the case of the Basque Country patents in contrast with Spanish patents. They belong to different sectors and can be used as possible sources of knowledge for future research on patents related to the ‘biologics’ sector in the Basque Country.
Supporting Scholars: An Analysis of Academic Library Websites' Documentation on Metrics and Impact In light of these results, we conclude that librarians are providing support for their institutions' faculty through curated online resources, providing faculty with a number of tools and metrics with which to appropriately demonstrate the extent of their impact.
Commensuration Bias in Peer Review In this article, I located commensuration practices in peer review as a locus for a new kind of peer review bias, namely, commensu-ration bias.
Fame and the fortune of academic economists: How the market rewards influential research in economics Influential publications are highly rewarded in academic economics.
A bibliometric analysis of scientific trends in phytoplankton research Although phytoplankton publications showed a linear increasing trend during the last 20 years, their contributions to total scientific articles remained a steady level.
Academic impact rankings of neurosurgical units in the UK and Ireland, as assessed with the h-index The h-index is useful for ranking neurosurgical departments according to their historical or recent publication output.
Which Peers Matter? The Relative Impacts of Collaborators, Colleagues, and Competitors In sum, our study synthesizes the diverse set of results found in the literature and advances a plausible explanation: the relative importance of human capital spillovers depends on the nature of the space where the supply shock occurs and on the quality of the individuals in question.
Retractions This paper constitutes the first investigation of the effect of “false science” on the direction of scientific progress.
Comparison of self-citation by peer reviewers in a journal with single-blind peer review versus a journal with open peer review Blind and open peer review methodologies have distinct advantages and disadvantages. The present study found that, in reasonably similar journals that use single-blind and open review, there were no substantive differences in the pattern of peer reviewer self-citations. The main findings of this study were that there were no significant or substantive differences between a journal that uses single-blind review, the Journal of Psychosomatic Research, and a generally similar journal that uses open review, BMC Psychiatry, in (1) the proportion of all citations made by peer reviewers that were self-citations, and (2) the proportion of self-citations that included a rationale.
Computer science in Eastern Europe 1989-2014: a bibliometric study Based on the key results we achieved, we may conclude that the most productive Eastern European countries in computer science are Poland, Russia, Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, and Slovenia. However, the publications of Hungary and Slovenia have the most impact in terms of citations per paper. And, in addition, despite similar patterns in publication, collaboration, and citation behaviour of Eastern European countries, there is a visible East-West divide in this region with respect to the citations per paper in the individual computer science categories, with the western part nations' papers being generally more frequently cited.
The role of arXiv, RePEc, SSRN and PMC in formal scholarly communication The increasing number of citations to all of the SRs forms useful evidence that they all continue to be an important part of the scholarly infrastructure, despite publishers' apparent preferences for IRs. The evidence of substantial use of each SR outside of its disciplinary area is valuable evidence of the utility of SRs for supporting this kind of wider uptake. For future work, the WEBSITE reference search facility from Scopus can also be applied to other types of web site, also following up previous studies of investigated web pages (Kousha and Thelwall, 2014b) and YouTube (Kousha et al., 2012).
Online accesses to medical research articles on publication predicted citations up to 15 years later "Early interest in a medical research article, reflected by online accesses within a week of publication, predicts citations up to 15 years later."
Driving Success over the Past 50 Years-The Faculty in Academic Veterinary Medicine This recognition of the faculty reflects their importance not only to our schools and our students but also to the profession and the public.
Anatomy of success: 100 most cited articles in diabetes research Our analysis provides an insight on the citation frequency of top cited articles published in diabetes to help recognize the quality of the works, discoveries and the trends steering the study of diabetes.
Analysis of the 50 most cited papers in craniofacial surgery This extensive examination of the craniofacial literature highlights the important part that Craniofacial Surgery takes in the field of plastic surgery. Many of the articles display characteristics that are similar and would warrant their inclusions as important documents. One very common way in which they are similar is the lack of level 1 evidence among the reports. This is a deficiency that deserves more attention with future craniofacial studies.
Ownership and pricing of information: A model and application to open access We have proposed a model that captures a simple externality effect in the use of information goods: when a person uses an information source, they contribute a way to help subsequent generations to understand the original source.
Productivity of US LIS and ischool faculty Understanding of the scholarly activities of the faculty and institu- tions is still vital to gaining knowledge of behaviors of both individuals and schools, and, as such, remains important. It may be of special note that the results presented in this study offer the most comprehensive snapshot of the present state of productivity and influence as measured by publications and citations.
Deterring Cheating in Online Environments We found that displaying a pretask warning that focused users on potential negative outcomes of dishonesty deterred cheating in the context of both an online exam and a Mechanical Turk task, typically reducing the rate of cheating by about 50% from the baseline. Our results indicate that pretask warnings may be an effective and easy-to-implement alternative to honor codes in two distinct online contexts. Providers of online courses and crowdsourcing platforms should take these findings into account as they design terms of service, user agreements, and honor codes for online use.
Uncovering published authors' text-borrowing practices: Paraphrasing strategies, sources, and self-plagiarism The results will benefit both researchers and students' awareness of what constitutes the "norm" in their specific fields.
A methodology to compute the territorial productivity of scientists: The case of Italy The proposed analysis simultaneously reveals: (i) for each territory, the fields of research where the productivity is highest or lowest and (ii) for each scientific field, which are the territories with the highest or lowest productivity.
Is the expertise of evaluation panels congruent with the research interests of the research groups: A quantitative approach based on barycenters We have explored not only overlap of expertise between research groups and an expert panel but also applied the barycenter method to calculate the distances between groups and panel (members).
Unravelling the performance of individual scholars: Use of Canonical Biplot analysis to explore the performance of scientists by academic rank and scientific field In summary, the approach set forth in this paper concerning the study of research performance at the individual level by means of a Canonical Biplot analysis enables us to examine a large set of indicators and to explore the underlying matrix structure. In view of all the foregoing, we conclude that the Canonical Biplot analysis is a strong exploratory tool with high potential in order to make headway in the unravelling of the intricate structure of relationships between research performance indicators and the individual characteristics of researchers.
Attention decay in science We have studied how attention towards scientific publications diminishes over time, due to the obsolescence of knowledge.
The relationship between the number of authors of a publication, its citations and the impact factor of the publishing journal: Evidence from Italy The results confirm world-level evidence, showing a consistent and significant linear growth in the citability of a publication with number of co-authors, in almost all subject categories. Moreover, our results partly disavow the positive association between number of authors and prestige of the journal, as measured by its impact factor: in many subject categories the relation between number of co-authors and prestige of the hosting journal is not significant, and in some cases is negative. Whatever is the fundamental determinant, the analyses show that the correlation to increasing authors is very strong for citations, but less so in terms of the impact for the publishing journal (IF).
On a formula for the h-index This paper has proposed a formula for the h-index which can be easily computed from three simple bibliometric indicators, namely N, C and CMAX.
Author ranking based on personalized Page Rank The results revealed that the best overall method for author evaluation (5a7p1j) possesses the following characteristics: uses PageRank, rather than non-iterative approaches (in-degree, publication count, h-index), evaluates a publication network with author self-citations removed, rather than an author network.
Quality versus quantity in scientific impact The procedure is flexible enough to allow for the evaluation of, and fair comparison among, arbitrary collections of papers - scholar publication records, journals, and institutions; in fact, it extends a similar technique that was previously applied to the ranking of research units and countries in specific disciplines (Crespo, Ortuño-Ortí, & Ruiz-Castillo, 2012).
How to become an important player in scientific collaboration networks? Our results suggest that the past productivity of the researchers in terms of both quantity and quality of the publications along with the average amount of funding available are crucial factors in achieving higher betweenness centrality.
Early career grants, performance, and careers: A study on predictive validity of grant decisions These results suggest that the panel decisions indeed have no predictive validity as far as scholarly performance is concerned.
Further axiomatizations of Egghe's g-index Thus, each of our Propositions 2-4 is independent from the characterization of the g-index in Woeginger (2008a).
National research impact indicators from Mendeley readers The evidence shows that international research impact calculations using Mendeley data may be slightly more stable for recent years than are calculations based upon citation counts, although the difference is not large (Fig. 1 vs. Fig. 2) and so the evidence is weak. The results suggest, but do not prove, that Mendeley readership data can reveal trends about a year earlier than can citation counts, as evidenced by the earlier overtaking of the UK and USA by Italy and of the USA by the UK in the readership data. The pattern shown in apparently the most accurate graph (Fig. 10), would probably not be reflected in a similar exercise for the whole of Scopus because of the differences in coverage.
Field-normalized citation impact indicators and the choice of an appropriate counting method We therefore recommend the use of fractional counting in bibliometric studies that require field normalization, especially in studies at the level of countries and research organizations.
More precise methods for national research citation impact comparisons In conclusion, although the geometric mean national citation impact estimators method is recommended for future international citation impact comparisons between fields, its values are not likely to be precise enough to distinguish between countries for individual subjects unless they have widely differing citation impacts within the subject.
Interpolated sub-impact factor (SIF) sequences for journal rankings In order to avoid possible unwanted effects it is better to use the interpolated version instead of the original, discrete version, avoiding fluctuating SIF-sequences. Although we think that a new indicator may bring a new perspective, we admit that we were also seduced by its nice mathematical properties.
Ranking research institutions by the number of highly-cited articles per scientist Productivity is the quintessential indicator of efficiency in any production system. Through this indicator it is possible to identify which organizations, under parity in labor force, produce more (or less) highly cited results. Further extensions of the research could include the analysis of the correlation between rankings by P_HCAs with those by the concentration of top scientists, as well as those by research productivity (FSS).
Funnel plots for visualizing uncertainty in the research performance of institutions Uncertainty is embedded in any measurement process, and research performance measures offer no exception. Accounting for uncertainty is therefore obligatory, to establish whether the performance of an institution or research unit is truly outstanding or simply the result of random fluctuations. In this work we have presented the funnel plot methodology as a tool to measure and visualize uncertainty, and have applied it to the case of performance measurement for Italian universities.
Quantifying the cognitive extent of science Our findings provide a new perspective on the role of small teams and individual researchers in expanding the cognitive boundaries of science.
Multiplicative versus fractional counting methods for co-authored publications. The case of the 500 universities in the Leiden Ranking In brief, full counting is incompatible with evaluating research units using additively decomposable citation impact indicators. Consequently, in our view, full counting should not be used in practice. Finally, given the strong limitations of the fractional and the multiplicative counting methods analyzed in this paper, we must conclude that the issue of assigning responsibility in a fair way to co-authored publications is far from being closed.
On the stability of citation-based journal rankings Despite some disadvantages of journal rankings, it is hard to believe that scientific community will cease using them in making decisions, comparisons, and evaluations.
Gender differences in scientific performance: A bibliometric matching analysis of Danish health sciences Graduates Our study shows that the average total number of publication is slightly higher for men than for women. Excluding the "other" group of publications from the analyses reveals that there is practically no difference (with exception of year one) between men and women in terms of published articles. We find it remarkable that the difference in productivity is not greater.
Towards an early-stage identification of emerging topics in science-The usability of bibliometric characteristics We tested various features of scientific publications in order to identify a set of early-stage indicators for emerging topics.
Are top-cited papers more interdisciplinary? From these results we can then infer that IDR plays a more important role in the high percentile rank classes of citations than in the low percentile rank classes.
An overview of animal science research 1945-2011 through science mapping analysis Genomics-related studies are attracting a great part of the interest of the AS research groups.
OR Forum-Tenure Analytics: Models for Predicting Research Impact Using a bibliometric database of OR papers, we established that a scholar's publications early in their career can be used to predict later-career success and that these predictions could yield statistically significant improvements in the future publication metrics of scholars tenured by top OR programs.
A Scopus-Based Analysis of Publication Activity in Kazakhstan from 2010 to 2015: Positive Trends, Concerns, and Possible Solutions The global solution to the discussed problems may be achieved by educating researchers, authors, reviewers, and editors.
The determinants of academic career advancement: Evidence from Italy From the analyses, it emerges that the fundamental determinant of a candidate's success is not his or her scientific merit, but rather the number of years of service at the same university as the president of the committee.
On the relationship between gender disparities in scholarly communication and country-level development indicators The results of this study will inform policy development aimed at reducing gender disparities in science.
Citation Patterns of Engineering, Statistics, and Computer Science Researchers: An Internal and External Citation Analysis across Multiple Engineering Subfields In short, internal and external citation analyses tell very different stories. With results from both internal and external citation analysis, it was possible to determine averages for the appropriate age and format of a given subject collection, developing a more nuanced serial/monograph ratio than most other studies can provide. Moving forward, librarians (particularly those who enjoy membership in consortia) should implement the approach tested here, collaborating on external citation studies using standardized methodologies and a range of source materials.
Factors associated with the Journal Impact Factor (JIF) for Urology and Nephrology Journals The JIF appears to be closely associated with the number of citable articles published. A change in the formula for calculating JIF to include all types of published articles in the denominator would result in a more accurate representation.
Identifying the topology of the K-pop video community on YouTube: A combined Co-comment analysis approach In this paper we proposed a new approach to identifying the topological structure of collection of K-pop videos on YouTube by adapting the traditional ACA methodology.
A lead-lag analysis of the topic evolution patterns for preprints and publications This study analyzed the topic evolution patterns for pre-prints and traditionally published articles in the area of astrophysics. Both arXiv and WoS share similar topics in astrophysics but have diverse evolution trends. This work clearly demonstrates that open access pre-prints will have a stronger growth tendency as compared to traditional printed publications.
Conferences versus journals in computer science Based on the data analyzed in this study, the overall answer to the first question was yes, CS publication practices are very different from other academics.
Coauthorship networks: A directed network approach considering the order and number of coauthors In this paper, we applied the directed, weighted, and self-looped network model of coauthorship credit allocation proposed by Kim and Diesner (2014) to an analysis of a coauthorship network.
A comparison between the g-index and the h-index based on concentration Given the number of citations C for n articles, the h-index is very high (in comparison to its maximum) when these citations are equally distributed among the first m articles.
How well does a university perform in comparison with its peers? The use of odds, and odds ratios, for the comparison of institutional citation impact using the Leiden Rankings Odds and odds ratios can be used to measure the performance difference between a selected university and competing institutions, or the average of selected competitors, in a relatively simple but clear way.
Using Co-authorship Networks to Map and Analyse Global Neglected Tropical Disease Research with an Affiliation to Germany The first systematic assessment of the German health and medical research landscape for NTD using authorship networks based on bibliometric metadata demonstrated not only the potential of social network analysis as a tool to apply to the R&D field, but it also revealed valuable findings when used to assess German research capacities in selected NTDs.
The fate of triaged and rejected manuscripts The results of our analyses seem reassuring. Overall, none of the papers submitted to NDT in the calendar year 2012 that were rejected at triage or rejected after regular peer review by NDT were high-quality, incisive studies, and the opinion of the expert assessors external to the NDT board substantially confirmed the evaluation made by the NDT editors and reviewers.
Nano/micro-electro mechanical systems: a patent view In spite of its limitations, several interesting findings from this study are worth noting. We find that associated with the expanding global market and technology advancement of MEMS, an increasing number of MEMS patents are being filed around the globe.
Self-Archiving with Ease in an Institutional Repository: Microinteractions and the User Experience Focusing on the details of the self-archiving process in our IR provided extremely rich qualitative data for improving the user interface, while analyzing the structure of the microinteraction, following Saffer's model, was also a valuable exercise in thinking about user needs and software design from a different perspective from standard usability studies.
Towards a simple mathematical theory of citation distributions It is shown that in a sufficiently "smooth” SCS a power-law tail of the static CD can appear.
The Student-Authored Biomedical Publications at Alfaisal University, Saudi Arabia: a 6-year descriptive analysis Students demonstrated positive attitudes towards publishing and significantly contributed to the institution’s pool of research publications. An improvement to this study would be to extensively assess how students’ demographics (for example, gender and academic year), personal traits, cumulative grade point average (cGPA), future medical specialty, and previous research experiences influence the publishing practices of medical students. Future studies include: Alfaisal University-College of Medicine students’ perceived attitudes and barriers towards oral/poster presentations in scientific meetings.
Does a research article's country of origin affect perception of its quality and relevance? A national trial of US public health researchers All things being equal, in one of the four abstracts, the respondents were influenced by a high-income source in their rating of research abstracts.
Characteristics and analysis of scientific articles submitted to the European Annals of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Diseases These results document the excessive flaw rate still to be found in manuscripts and demonstrate the continuing need for authors to master and implement the rules of scientific medical writing. The present study highlights a percentage that is still too high of authors who are insufficiently aware of and/or fail to fully adhere to the basic rules of medical writing for scientific articles.
Citation classics published in Knowledge Management journals. Part II: studying research trends and discovering the Google Scholar Effect First, it was observed that most KM citation classics exhibit a bimodal peak of citations distribution, which should not be theoretically expected. Second, all research topics have been growing, which, again, contradicts theory. Thus, based on findings, it is concluded that the Google Scholar Effect is playing an increasingly relevant role in measuring scholarly impact and is increasingly influential in determining how KM researchers cite citation classic articles.
A hybrid indicator for journal ranking An example from the field of Health Care Sciences and Services The new, comprehensive citation impact analysis of the 85 HCSS journals shows that the SA index can help researchers to find journals with both high JIFs and high h-indices more easily, thereby harvesting references for paper submissions and research directions.
Calculating Web impact factor for university websites of Pakistan WIF is becoming a more reliable indicator worldwide to measure the scientific utility of websites. This study concludes that WIF, being a quality indicator, helps in measuring the utility of a website, rather than measuring its overall impact on the Web. However, website evaluation methods, using webometrics tools, require a multidimensional approach and should never be confined to link analysis only.
The validity of Bradford's Law in academic electronic mailing lists The results have shown that each of the four categories selected (documentation, education, medicine and life sciences) fits both the verbal statement of the law of scattering of the scientific literature as originally enunciated by Bradford and its graphical representation.
Scholarly communication trends in the digital age Informal scholarly publishing and dissemination, a grounded theory approach The data denoted that there is a tendency among researchers to use informal channels as a platform to publish their findings or to contribute to scholarly discussions. However, this trend is faced with numerous obstacles, such as scholarly recognition and the traditional scholarly communication model. Scholars believe that the current scholarly communication model cannot continue in the way it has, and there is a need to develop, improve and accept new forms of scholarly publishing.
A webometric analysis of major keywords and expressions in biochemistry using LexiURL Searcher It is obvious that to link Web sites from a specialized domain could help their users to better process information. Also, the existence of proper links – especially out links – to topic-related Web sites leads users to a network of related Web sites and contents that in turn increases the percentage and rate of clicking by the users. This also improves the ranking of the Web site in the ranking of search engines, thereby increasing their visibility.
Worldwide productivity in the field of foot and ankle research from 2009-2013: a bibliometric analysis of highly cited journals This study demonstrates that the United States is the most productive country in the field of foot and ankle research. However, Australia, some smaller European and Asian countries might be more productive relative to their population size and GDP. Based on these large number of high-quality studies, policy makers and healthcare practitioners could inform successful interventions and may further improve clinical practice [11].
Proximity at a distance: the role of institutional and geographical proximities in Vancouver's infection and immunity research collaborations Both proximity concepts – geographical and institutional – were supported; co-authorship rates for institutionally hybrid authors were between author pairs sharing all and no affiliations, reinforcing the concept that hybrid authors are both institutionally near and far.
Open Access Publishing, academic research and scholarly communication Removing barriers to access to what is published is clearly a good thing. But the most important barriers are created by poorly written scholarship, and the battle to remove those barriers needs to be a battle to increase, not decrease, the input of editors and referees.
The quandary between communication and certification Individual academics' views on Open Access and open scholarship This research explored individual academics' attitudes, concerns and participation in the development of OA and open scholarship through in-depth interviews and revisited some open principles and designs.
Barriers to Open Access uptake for researchers in Africa Africa continues to lag behind in the global OA movement, although there are emerging successes: Egypt with its impressive number of OA journals and South Africa boasting the largest number of repositories.
Analysis of research collaboration between universities and private companies in Spain based on joint scientific publications Companies' output was observed to decline across the period studied and their academic articles appeared to be less visible than the papers published by other institutions.
Dynamics of a Global Zoonotic Research Network Over 33 Years (1980-2012) Our findings indicate that zoonotic research scientists in different fields (human or animal health, social science, earth and environmental sciences, engineering) have been actively collaborating with each other over the past 11 years. Overall, the affiliation network grew in terms of collaborative research among different fields of study such that more than two-thirds of all possible collaboration links between disciplines have already been formed.
On the factory floor of the knowledge production plant: editors' perspectives on publishing in academic journals The pilot study reported here set out to shed light on the views of journal editors in the fields of journalism and journalism studies in respect of their role, and towards some of the more contentious issues affecting this role.
How Connected are the ACM SIG Communities? This work analyzes the structure of the communities formed by the flagship conferences of ACM SIGs.
Research Trends in the Neuropsychiatry Literature Since the New Millennium This study confirms that neuropsychiatry is a quintessentially clinical discipline with a continuing focus on phenomenological aspects, possibly reflecting the centrality of clinical observations to the diagnostic process.
The advantage of short paper titles Our analysis suggests that papers with shorter titles do receive greater numbers of citations.
An Evaluation of the Neuroscience Journals in a Large Urban Public University Over 30 years after Garfield's publication, this study proved to be useful in examining neuroscience journal collections in the large urban public research university.
Open Access Institutional Repositories in Nigeria Academic Libraries: Advocacy and Issues in Scholarly Communication Open-access IRs remain very important in scholarly commu-nication in Nigeria and the world over.
An assessment of accounting journal quality based on departmental lists This resulting ranking provides insights into the practical applications of accounting journal quality.
Awareness of "predatory" open-access journals among prospective veterinary and medical authors attending scientific writing workshops Based on our survey results, many or most prospective authors in this cohort, consisting largely of trainees, were unaware of predatory journals or of potential differences among journal models that may be important when selecting a journal for publication.
The accuracy of references in five sport science journals Although not exempt from mistakes, sport science journals showed reassuring results if compared with other medical specialties.
From a word to a world: the current situation in the interdisciplinary field of synthetic biology We believe that the innovative domain of synthetic biology may become a bigger interdisciplinary domain than nanoscience and nanotechnology. In terms of countries and institutes, the USA is still leading the field, but Mainland China is a strong and upcoming second. We hope that this informetric study brings a new perspective to the study of synthetic biology.
Global Myeloma Research Clusters, Output, and Citations: A Bibliometric Mapping and Clustering Analysis Multiple myeloma research output has increased substantially in the past decade. The fragmented European myeloma research activities based on national or regional groups are progressing, but they require a broad range of targeted research investments to improve multiple myeloma health care.
Plagiarism in South African management journals Our results indicate that there was extensive plagiarism in 19 South African management journals during the period under review, confirming the findings of other studies.2,10-13
Cardiovascular Research Publications from Latin America between 1999 and 2008. A Bibliometric Study Although the number of cardiovascular publications of Latin America increased from 1999 to 2008, trends on citation indices suggest they may have had a relatively low impact on the research field, stressing the importance of considering quality and dissemination on local research policies.
Why publish in English versus Spanish?: Towards a framework for the study of researchers' motivations This study presents a motivation framework for the study of researchers' language choices for scientific publication purposes.
The Evolution of Your Success Lies at the Centre of Your Co-Authorship Network The main focus of this work is on analysing the importance of collaborations in academic success over time, by considering success as the volume of publications and cites to these publications.
A bibliometric analysis of orthopedic publications originating from Turkey With the newly established universities, as well as training and research clinics, the approach of increasing number of orthopedics and traumatology clinics and specialists to scientific activi-ties would be more fruitful in the light of these data.
On the Relation between the Small World Structure and Scientific Activities Our results show that the examined network exhibits significant small world properties by having very high clustering coefficient in comparison with the random networks of the equal size while the path lengths are almost the same. In general, knowing the structure of the collaboration network and its relation with the performance measures may help the decision makers to set better strategies in supporting collaborative activities. Future work can address this limitation by using other databases with more number of observations.
Disease Specific Productivity of American Cancer Hospitals Research productivity varies considerably among the sample.
On Disciplinary Fragmentation and Scientific Progress We found that fragmentation hampered progress, but there was no effect in the opposite causal direction.
Integration of SHERPA/RoMEO in institutional digital repositories to address the uncertainty of copyright The software application, which has been developed with low cost, would be very useful to other universities that face obstacles in populating institutional digital repositories due to copyright concerns.
Do first rate scientists work at first rate organizations? We studied the question if first rate scientists work at first rate organizations and found that the answer is positive, at least to a large extent.
Menage a Quoi? Optimal Number of Peer Reviewers Results support aggressive high- and low-end stratification or triaging of applications for subsequent stages of review, with the proportion and set of mid-range submissions to be retained for further consideration being dependent on overall success rate. Five reviewers per application represents a practical trade-off, in terms of balancing increased decision consistency against incremental cost, as well as minimizing large random effects in decision outcomes and improving efficiency of the decision making process.
Can scientific journals be classified based on their 'citation profiles'? Such a classification may help authors to find the appropriate biomedical journal for publication, may make journal comparisons more rational, and may even help planners to better track the consequences of their policies on biomedical research.
INTERNATIONALLY ACTIVE, VISIBLE, HIGH IMPACT, AND EMINENT ROMANIAN PSYCHOLOGISTS. A QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS Romanian psychology is somehow on safe grounds.
Research productivity of agricultural scientists: Evidences from high performing and low performing institutes As indicated by findings of the study, the research productivity scenario prevailing among the agricultural scientists did not produce a very rosy picture.
The international contribution to occupational health research This study shows that the USA produces the largest number of occupational health research papers, followed by the UK.
Modelling Academics as Agents: An Implementation of an Agent-Based Strategic Publication Model The agent-based strategic publication model presented in this paper is based on the hypothetical conceptual model proposed by Mölders et al. (2011), and implemented in NetLogo (Wilensky 1999).
Innovation Suppression and Clique Evolution in Peer-Review-Based, Competitive Research Funding Systems: An Agent-Based Model The results of the model suggest that both phenomena can be quite robust and require careful monitoring of the system to combat their negative effects. Some mitigating measures are simulated and discussed.
Availability and accessibility in an open access institutional repository: a case study "Overall, the results confirm the contribution of the institutional repository in making papers available and accessible."
Diabetes research in Middle East countries; a scientometrics study from 1990 to 2012 Ascending trend of diabetes research outputs in Middle East countries is appreciated but encouraging to strategic planning for maintaining this trend, and more collaboration between researchers is needed to regional health promotion. This study provides a scientometrics analysis about diabetes research in Middle East region and collaboration analysis among this region's countries. We suggest regional diabetes network and we hope making confident evidence in this regards.
Mobility and International Collaboration: Case of the Mexican Scientific Diaspora This seems to be the case of the Mexican diaspora studied in the present paper. We have presented quantitative evidence that supports the hypothesis that mobility of Mexican researchers had a strong impact on their production and extent of their scientific collaboration (Tables 11 and 12).
Bibliometric profile of neurogenic bladder in the literature: a 20-year bibliometric analysis The major findings of the present bibliometric study are as follows.
The Oligopoly of Academic Publishers in the Digital Era On the whole, our results show that the top commercial publishers have benefited from the dig-ital era, as it led to a dramatic increase in the share of scientific literature they published. It has also led to a greater dependence by the scientific community on these publishers. Thus, it is up to the scientific community to change the system in a similar fashion and in parallel to the open access and open science movements.
Have the "mega-journals" reached the limits to growth? The mega-journal as a type of scholarly journal has emerged rapidly, as demonstrated by the growth in publication volumes reported in Table 3.
Research groups: How big should they be? Our analyses support a funding model in which productivity is maximised by having many small groups rather concentrating resources into a few large ones. However, it should be appreciated that recruiting more PIs is likely to reduce the average quality of PIs. Our results are consistent with several previous studies in which productivity has shown a diminishing returns relationship with research group size for scientists in Germany, France and Mexico (Brandt & Schubert, 2013; Carayol & Matt, 2004; Diaz-Frances, Ruiz-Velasco & Jimenez, 1995); a similar pattern is also evident between measures of productivity and research grant income (Fortin & Currie, 2013; Wadman, 2010).
External Impact of Arts Management Research: An Extended Analysis Our results indicate that the influence is slight, increasing at a slow and irregular pace, as the arts management field matures and its journals become established.
Misconduct Policies, Academic Culture and Career Stage, Not Gender or Pressures to Publish, Affect Scientific Integrity Albeit observational, our results clearly contradict some, and support other beliefs about which factors are threatening most severely scientific integrity (Table 1), and thus bear multiple theo- retical and practical implications.
What Have Economists Been Doing for the Last 50 Years? A Text Analysis of Published Academic Research from 1960-2010 A few conclusions can be drawn. First, that Microeconomics dominates the research attention in the economics profession, and by a significant margin.
From Research to Practice: Which Research Strategy Contributes More to Clinical Excellence? Comparing High-Volume versus High-Quality Biomedical Research Our results imply that incentives should be directed at scientists, physicians, or academic departments that yield research publications of high impact. Our research may have far-reaching policy implications for the creation of incentive schemes aimed at scientists, the public funding of academic research, and policy making at the government and regulatory levels. Our findings may help persuade health policymakers, hospital managers, and physicians to consider a shift in the current approach by designing and providing the necessary incentives for physicians to use their scarce time in the most valuable way, that is to say by carrying out high-quality research, even at the expense of lower volume.
Exploring the attitudes of medical faculty members and students in Pakistan towards plagiarism: a cross sectional survey The general attitudes of Pakistani medical faculty members and medical students as assessed by ATP were positive.
Are the Most Highly Cited Articles the Ones that are the Most Downloaded? A Bibliometric Study of IRRODL The results show a significant and positive relationship between the total number of citations and the number of views received by articles published in the journal, indicating the impact of the journal extends beyond active publishers to practitioner consumers.
GEODETSKI VESTNIK AND ITS PATH TO BETTER INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION Institutional repositories and bibliographic databases nowadays provide an important interface for the researchers. By inclusion of articles in such databases, the international recognition of journals is increased. The efforts of the Geodetski vestnik editorial board for its higher visibility and recognition at the national and international levels have brought good results.
Determining the Drivers of Academic Success in Surgery: An Analysis of 3,850 Faculty Departmental academic productivity as defined by citations and NIH funding is highly driven by sections or divisions of research, general and transplantation surgery. MCF, regardless of subspecialty, contribute disproportionally to major grants and publications. Approaches that attract, develop, and retain funded MCF may be associated with dramatic increases in total departmental citations and NIH-funding.
Research Integrity and Research Ethics in Professional Codes of Ethics: Survey of Terminology Used by Professional Organizations across Research Disciplines Our survey demonstrated that the important terms (concepts) concerning the broad field of research integrity and ethics are not in the focus of professional communities, despite high prevalence of research misconduct and violations of responsible conduct of research [2-4].
Doubles Its "World-Leading" Research in Life Sciences and Medicine in Six Years: Testing the Claim? There is a wide discrepancy between bibliometric indices and peer-review panel judgements between the RAE 2008 and REF 2014. It is possible that the changes in the funding regime between 2008 and 2014 that significantly increased the financial premium for 4* articles may have influenced research quality evaluation. For the advancement of science and health, evaluation of research quality requires consistency and validity – the discrepancy noted here calls for a closer examination of mass peer-review methods like the REF. To conclude, the recent REF results suggest a doubling in the “world leading” quality of UK life sciences. We do not find support for this claim in bibliometric indicators of papers submitted to the REF or in UK Medical and Life Sciences output more generally.
Type 2 Diabetes Research Yield, 1951-2012: Bibliometrics Analysis and Density-Equalizing Mapping "There is a rapidly growing volume of research in T2DM in parallel with the increasing prevalence of this condition globally."
Dispersed publication of editorial research The publication of papers on editorial re- search seems to be dispersed.
Authorship issues in multi-centre clinical trials: the importance of making an authorship contract Multi-centre clinical trials can involve up to hundreds of contributors of whom some will eventually co-author the final publication.
How to Receive More Funding for Your Research? Get Connected to the Right People! In fact, our results show that in the quest for the research money it is more important how researchers build their collaboration network than what publications they produce and whether they are cited.
Comparison of Opinion Referendum of Medical and Dental Postgraduates Towards Plagiarism in Bhopal - Central India Overall plagiarism was favored more by dental students as compared to medical students.
A scientometric analysis of international collaboration and growth of literature at the macro level Two new relative indices, Relative International Collaboration Rate (RICR) and Relative Growth Index (RGI) have been introduced in this study. It is believed that the indicators illustrated in this study could be useful to the general scientometrics and bibliometrics community for research assessment on international collaboration at the macro level.
Trust and authority in the periphery of world scholarly communication: A Malaysian focus group study The study has shown similar views, perception and behaviours of authors in respect to scholarly channels and resource they trust to read and to cite. Peer-reviewed journals are still the central to the authors, however they seem to have more freedom in relation to journals they read and cite, compared to publish. New forms of communication channels such as social media or new journal models are not much used in formal scholarly communication.
Twenty years of Czech science: A bibliometric analysis This study has filled in this gap and bibliometrically investigated the Czech' research performance and trends during the past two decades. In our future work, we would like to concentrate on the citation analysis of Czech publications indexed in the Science Citation Index Expanded in 1993 – 2012, and on the analysis of science in Slovakia in the first twenty years of its independence.
SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS IN PUBLIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH JOURNALS BY AUTHORS FROM CHINA, JAPAN AND KOREA IN EAST ASIA: A 10-YEAR LITERATURE SURVEY FROM 2003 TO 2012 From 2003 to 2012, both the quality and number of papers from China published in public, environmental and occupational health journals have greatly improved. China exceeded Japan and Korea in the number, accumulated impact factor, total citation times and the average number of references, while Korea had the highest average impact factor. Japan had the highest journal impact factor among the most popular journals, and the highest average citation number per document.
Bibliometric Study and Methodological Quality Indicators of the Journal Porta Linguarum During Six-Year Period 2008-2013 The results obtained show that, it was a journal in which quantitative papers predominate along with theoretical works.
An Analysis of Peer-Reviewed Scores and Impact Factors with Different Citation Time Windows: A Case Study of 28 Ophthalmologic Journals In this study, we used peer-reviewed journal rankings obtained through a survey as a gold standard to investigate the journal evaluation results of impact factors with different citation time windows.
The Pagerank-Index: Going beyond Citation Counts in Quantifying Scientific Impact of Researchers We showed that, compared to h-index, the pagerank-index is robust to authors deliberately self-citing or 'group citing', including creating sub-standard papers for this express purpose; authors working in large groups which, intentionally or otherwise, helps increase their citation counts in ways disproportionate to their effort; and authors focusing on quantity of papers rather than quality, which, again intentionally or otherwise, helps to increase their citation counts disproportionately.
Lessons Learned: The Complexity of Accurate Identification of in-Text Citations This research focuses on the exploration of in-text citation frequencies in the text of scientific documents. In this paper, we have provided detailed in-text citation analysis on 16,000 citations of an online journal, reported different pattern of citations tags and its in-text citations and presented some interesting real problems that a researcher may confront while exploiting in-text citations. The frequent errors were due to wrong allotment, mathematical ambiguities, commonality in content and string variations.
Too much of a good thing? An observational study of prolific authors Institutions and funders should be alert to unfeasibly prolific authors when measuring and creating incentives for researcher productivity.
Inconsistent year-to-year fluctuations limit the conclusiveness of global higher education rankings for university management "We conclude that the observed fluctuations in the THE do not correspond to actual university performance and ranking results are thus of limited conclusiveness for the university management of universities below a rank of 50."
Scientometric profile of organic chemistry research in India during 2004-2013 Based on the above scientometric analysis of organic chemistry and its sub-disciplines we can conclude the fol-lowing: Highest number of papers were published in the sub-discipline of aliphatic compounds and it was also the sub-discipline of highest impact in terms of CPP and RCI. Based on the distribution of published papers in journals by country, their impact factor as well as the pattern of citations of papers, it can be inferred that the research papers published in organic chemistry and its sub-disciplines form a part of the mainstream science.
Classifying Research Articles in Multidisciplinary Sciences Journals into Subject Categories This study shows the possibility of more precise determination of subject categories of articles in multidisciplinary sciences journals indexed by a documentation database (such as WoS) according to information from the references.
Author Credit for Transdisciplinary Collaboration The definitions of t_credit and t_index provide a fair and effective way for research organizations to assign credit to authors of transdisciplinary publications.
Bibliometric analysis of Web of Science-indexed papers on concrete segmental bridges An increasing trend is observed in the number of papers published from 1968 (year of the first paper) through 2013.
Should I Stay or Should I Go? Alternative Infrastructures in Scholarly Publishing This article describes several examples of exit, voice, and loyalty in response to the scholarly publishing infrastructure that, over three and a half centuries has expanded and monopolized.
Rapid Scientific Promotion of Scientific Productions in Stem Cells According to The indexed Papers in The ISI (web of knowledge) These results show that a small number of researchers have published the majority of papers in the stem cell field. International participation in this field of research unacceptably low. Iranian scientific outputs from stem cell research should not be limited to only a few specific journals.
Research performance evaluation of leading higher education institutions in Malaysia The present study confirms the generally accepted notion that UM and USM are the leading public universi-ties.
Virtual and Peer Reviews of Grant Applications at the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality "Based on our analysis of this study, we conclude that VR can be used successfully, having been implemented in six review sessions with up to 34 applications reviewed per session; SEP reviewers are more receptive to virtual review than SS reviewers; the VR process is a replicable and low-cost method of review; solving technical problems related to this new technology may improve its attractiveness and uniformly decrease the cost of the review process; and there are advantages to serving as a reviewer."
The scholarly impact of doctoral research conducted in the field of education in South Africa On all counts, the scholarly impact of South African doctoral research is low.
Worldwide research productivity in the field of endocrinology and metabolism - a bibliometric analysis The majority of endocrinology and metabolism articles were published by authors from high-income countries with few from low-income countries. The United States was the most productive country. However, when population size and GDP were considered, some European countries were ranked higher.
The role of trust and authority in the citation behaviour of researchers This study provides us with some nuanced and detailed data about the role of trust and authority in why and how researchers choose to cite work in their publications. In nearly all cases they cite a work because they regard it as an authoritative and trustworthy source which provides a context or building block to their own research. As such the dichotomy between the normative and social context theories of citation behaviour would not seem to hold in the face of the evidence collected in these interviews.
A Scientometric Analysis of Public Transport Research In this study, we conducted a scientometric analysis of public transport research based on a large bibliographic data basis of respective contributions, published in the period from 2009 to 2013.
ADOPTION OF ICTS BY COMMUNICATION RESEARCHERS FOR SCIENTIFIC DIFFUSION AND DATA ANALYSIS The goal of this study was to describe the actual use of ICTs by communication and media researchers. Our results provide support to the finding that performance expectancy predicts actual use of ICT (Venkatesh et al., 2003; Venkatesh, Thong; Xu, 2012). In terms of practical implications, our study suggests that sensitization campaigns might be appropriated to increase performance expectancies among researchers, informing the benefits of ICT use in research.
RANKING INSTITUTIONS WITHIN A UNIVERSITY BASED ON THEIR SCIENTIFIC PERFORMANCE: A PERCENTILE-BASED APPROACH The main benefit of the proposed framework is its capability to rank institutions based on their scientific performance and to point out the leaders and those who cannot easily follow their results.
EVALUATION OF SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION IN MEXICAN STATE PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES (2007-2011) USING PRINCIPAL COMPONENT ANALYSIS The results of this study allowed the demonstration of the PCA applicability (regularly used in economics and sociology) in the measurement of universities' scientific production competitiveness, both in short periods (one year) and in long periods (this time five years), with the advantage that it may be used with any kind of educational institution, regardless of the characteristics of the criteria included, whenever there are systematic data available (in the case of Mexico, it was only possible to apply to the PCA to two types of universities: state public universities and federal public universities).
Dormitory of Physical and Engineering Sciences: Sleeping Beauties May Be Sleeping Innovations In this paper we investigated important properties and the cognitive environment of Sleeping Beauties. We found that about half of the SBs are application-oriented and thus are potential Sleeping Innovations.
A theoretical model of scientific impact based on citations According to Eq. (8), the scientific impact of a paper depends on the number of papers citing it, the scientific impact of the citing papers, and the role it plays in the citing papers.
Application of h and h-type indices at meso level: A case of Malaysian engineering research Among the studied h-type indices, the revised development was found comparatively more meaningful with a less statistical error. The present study addresses the application of a selected set of h-type indices along with the original h-index, proposed revision, the traditional activity and impact metrics at meso level with a unit of analysis of Malaysian Engineering Research. The composite index h-cpp which combines h-index as a quantity and CPP as an impact of the 'productive core' of research productivity addresses the reservation of a good indicator, fairly justified citation distribution issues by incorporating the underpinning of h-index and may feasible for RPE purpose among the most noted h-type indices.
A Spatiotemporal Analysis of Brazilian Science from the Perspective of Researchers' Career Trajectories In this work we analyzed spatiotemporal aspects of a group of Brazilian researchers among the top research groups in the country.
Chinese Interpreting Studies: a data-driven analysis of a dynamic field of enquiry The authors hope that this scientometric survey has demonstrated the merits of blending quantitative with qualitative analysis to paint a panorama of Chinese Interpreting Studies.
Interdisciplinary, interinstitutional and international collaboration of family medicine researchers in Taiwan We found a high degree of interdisciplinary and interinstitutional collaboration of family medicine researches in Taiwan. However, the collaboration of family medicine researchers in Taiwan with family medicine colleagues of other domestic or foreign institutions was insufficient. The future direction of family medicine studies could focus on the promotion of communication among family medicine researchers.
Journal Impact Factor Shapes Scientists' Reward Signal in the Prospect of Publication The implications of this behavioral adaptation within the ecological niche of the scientist's habitat remain unknown, but may also have effects which were not intended by the community.
The "Research Audit" Model: A Prototype for Data-Driven Discovery of Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Discovery of major research themes or areas of concentration not only will drive collection development and outreach programming, but also will foster an understanding of connections and provide insight into how researchers come together to tackle common problems. The fully implemented research audit database holds promise to reveal all of this and more.
Correlation between Self-Citation and Impact Factor in Iranian English Medical Journals in WoS and ISC: A Comparative Approach The impact of Author's self-citation in the Impact Factor of WoS was higher than the ISC. The authors of articles published in journals indexed by WoS have gained more self-citations than authors having articles published in ISC. Therefore, we can conclude that journals in WoS may be indexed in this database with the help of author self-citation.
Internationalization: Towards New Horizons It was concluded that, despite publication in international media being a relevant indicator, it does not definitively indicate participation in international knowledge production. The demand, on behalf of students and researchers, for the qualification that is provided in the country would be the most accurate indicator of internationalization. Despite the efforts already made toward effective internationalization, there remains the important and urgent step: to make the National Postgraduate System a reference point in the international community.
Pathways to Internationalize Brazilian Journals of Psychology To maintain an equilibrium between language and prestige of the journals, the best and, we think, unique way is to make the journals bilingual and as such to progressively internationalize the editorial board and authors' affiliation.
Psychological Research Collaboration and Visibility in Iberoamerica Finally, we can conclude that in the field of psychology there is a tendency for international cooperation and, in the case of Iberoamerican psychology, there is variability by local dynamics.
An Analysis of the Status of Journals and Research in Psychology from Latin America In closing, our findings suggest that in psychology and its related fields, over the last decade there has been a considerable increase (> 800%) in the quantity of scholarly publications published by Latin American authors. Our findings also note that of the Latin American countries we examined (all Western Hemispheric countries south of the US), Brazil is the leading producer (50%) of PsycINFO-covered journals. In sum, our findings indicate that in spite of the uphill climb faced by many Latin American authors and journals, due in no small part to non-native-English writing and publication format, the publication output from Latin America has been steadily increasing, and the present shows no slowing of this trend.
Bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Pakistan Medical Association form 2009 to 2013 The number of papers published in Journal of Pakistan Medical Association per issue increased from 2009 to 2013 and the main region in terms of contribution was Sindh. Results confirm that this journal can surely increase its impact factor and influence the research circle in the future.
FAIRNESS IN THE INSTITUTIONAL VALUATION OF BUSINESS JOURNALS We conclude from this analysis that rankings based on school-list WAP scores exhibit acceptable validity.
Accounting for gender research performance differences in ranking universities Differently from our previous study on individual scientists rankings39, the results here show a very strong correlation (never below 0.96) between the two ranking lists: the one that did not distinguish by gender and the one that did.
Combining Citation Studies and Usage Statistics to Build a Stronger Collection "Combining an analysis of usage statistics with citation analysis provides a more strategic way to look at a Big Deal package."
Publication trend in the Indian Journal of Orthopaedics What is published and why? Trend in publication with the IJO has changed over years with more articles being published in arthroplasty and Spine surgery.
The BiPublishers ranking: Main results and methodological problems when constructing rankings of academic publishers In order to analyse the validity of our results as well as to explore other data sets, we expect to include in the future other data sources (i.e., Scopus) as well as develop and include new bibliometric indicators that can better capture other characteristics of publishers.
TEAMING UP OR WRITING ALONE AUTHORSHIP STRATEGIES IN LEADING POLISH ECONOMIC JOURNALS The number of articles written in collaboration is steadily increasing.
Virology research in a Latin American developing country: a bibliometric analysis of virology in Colombia (2000-2013) This work has revealed a progressive increase in the scientific productivity, visibility, and impact of published research on the subject of virology in Colombia. This is due to the growing presence of publications in foreign journals and increasing international collaboration with developed countries, both of which have allowed better publications in quality journals and better visibility of the virology studies carried out in Colombia.
IMPACT OF BRUNAUER EMMETT TELLER ISOTHERM ON RESEARCH IN SCIENCE CITATION INDEX EXPANDED The original article for BET isotherm has been cited by 20,108 authors from 3,984 institutions in 102 countries.
The Representation of Ethics and Knowledge Organization in the WoS and LISTA Databases Many of the problems in the perception of "knowledge organization" and "ethics" through common generalist databases such as the WoS and LISTA seem to be rooted in indexing and retrieval problems. To overcome these problems, some more specific databases, covering a wider range of materials, and maintained by international experts in the field (such as the Knowledge Organization Literature database) seem to be a good re-source for the research initiation in specialized topics.
Evolution of Cooperation Patterns in Psoriasis Research: Co-Authorship Network Analysis of Papers in Medline (1942-2013) "Our study reveals the existence of a growing research community in which collaboration is increasingly important."
Ageing of Edges in Collaboration Networks and its Effect on Author Rankings In this short paper, we showed that the ageing of edges and their weights in the collaboration networks of authors, might add some useful information to the process of assessing the importance of individual authors. We demonstrated this approach on the same data set and methodology used by [2] and showed that edge ageing improved the ranking of researchers when Codd Award winners were used as a reference set of outstanding scholars but did not make the ranking better when Turing Award winners were used. We think examining the influence of the ageing of edges, in collaborative networks, on the ranking of authors is worth of further research.
Survey of h-index for neurosurgeons in Saudi Arabia Application of the h-index to KSA neurosurgeons revealed a significant correlation with the duration after certification and with certain centers. Evaluation of the h-index should be included in the consideration for academic positions in KSA. Saudi neurosurgeons should be encouraged to publish in journals with high impact factor.
Evolution of the Little Dragons' Science Network with the Rise of China: A Bibliometric Analysis The author's bibliometric evidence reveals that in the ISRC networks of the three LDs, China has commonly, although in different degrees, enhanced its position and influence from 2002 to 2012 when President Hu attached great importance to science. Singapore may be in a better position to bridge the Western and Chinese knowledge sources and exploit new opportunities that emerge around this boundary. However, the findings and implications of the study should be handled with caution because this study is, by nature, an early-stage exploration that relies on the bibliometric analyses on SCIE journal articles only.
Digital Presence of Norwegian Scholars on Academic Network Sites-Where and Who Are They? We find that academic network sites have indeed become a part of the researchers' professional life. We investigated available metrics and find traditional bibliometric indicators strongly correlated. However, there seems to be less agreement between bibliometric and social activity indicators. Even though this study is limited to the University of Bergen, we believe our results to be universal, confirming a growing attendance on digital arenas, being worth monitoring.
Co-authorship, Homophily, and Scholarly Influence in Information Systems Research In summary, we found support for the hypothesis related to co-authorship in IS research. Our study helps us understand the process of conducting IS research from a relational perspective as DeSanctis (2003) originally conceived. Our study provides an opportunity for IS researchers to better understand the state of our field both in terms of where we have been in the past and how the process of doing our work continues to change over time.
SCHOLARLY PUBLISHERS' INDICATORS: PRESTIGE, SPECIALIZATION, AND REVIEW SYSTEMS OF SCHOLARLY BOOK PUBLISHERS SPI was developed for two reasons: to provide information and indicators for the scientific assessment of publishers and as a tool for authors, libraries, and scholarly publishers. In the future the system will become more comple-te and rich with information through the continuous work carried out at ILIA; we expect the continued support and collaboration of book publishers and publishers associations such as UNE (the Union of Spanish University Presses), AEM (Association of Publishers from Madrid), Eulac (Association of Latin American and the Caribean University Presses), and the FGEE (Federation of Publishers' Guilds of Spain).
The Citation Impact of German Sociology Journals: Some Problems with the Use of Scientometric Indicators in Journal and Research Evaluations However, the IFs do not provide a valid measure of impact in fields which have no research front, such as sociology.
Extracurricular scientific production among medical students has increased in the past decade Overall, the number of medical students who engage in extracurricular research follows an increasing trend, and more than two-thirds of these students publish a peer-reviewed paper within three years.
Publication rate and PhD enrolment following a medical pre-graduate research programme Fast completion of the PGRP and early en-rolment in the programme were associated with scientific publishing and PhD recruitment. The publication rate has remained stable over time. Our study demonstrates that even though the number of research students has increased over the past dec-ades, more than half of the students still publish scien-tific articles after their PGRP, and a significant portion continue their research career in the context of a PhD. Gender-specific issues already play a role in recruitment at the pre-graduate level.
Scientific misconduct encountered by APAME journals: an online survey Notwithstanding the limitations of the survey and the response rate, a few insights have been gained: (1) the need for strengthening the ethical culture of researchers/authors and reviewers, (2) anti-plagiarism software can improve plagiarism detection by about 15%, and (3) the need for technical support to detect plagiarism, duplicate publication and image manipulation. Should Editors and networks such APAME venture outside their journals to develop more reasonable measures of good scholarship and research?
"REV INT MED CIENC AC". A BIBLIOMETRIC APPROACH TO THE 2000-2011 PERIOD We can conclude that it is one of the best magazines in Spanish dealing with sports sciences and that the articles published in this primary source enjoy excellent visibility. Likewise, in light of the results, possible improvement actions are suggested: increasing the amount of articles per number, increasing the percentage of women and the internationality of the members of the different Boards of the magazine, and offering the possibility that researchers that do not speak Spanish may publish their articles in English only.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Pharmacy/Pharmacology Research in Pakistan It is clear from the present study, that the volume and quality of research in pharmacology and pharmacy presents a positive trend in Pakistan from 2001 onwards, as measured by the number of articles published in ISI-indexed journals and citations. Our analysis showed that the research output from Pakistan in the field of pharmacology/pharmacy lags behind when compared that in the developed countries but when compared with top 100 publishing Asian countries in the field of pharmacology/pharmacy, pakistan occupies 13th position.
The focus factor: a dynamic measure of journal specialisation The focus factor successfully measures journal specialisation over time.
THE TOP 101 CITED ARTICLES IN ENVIRONMENTAL CLEAN-UP: OIL SPILL REMEDIATION This study might be considered as the first report on the scientific papers in oil spill remediation. The findings represent that studies written in English mainly focused on remediation field and published in ISI journals are the most likely papers to be cited in this field. The results imply that the rate of citation does not necessarily determine the importance or impact of a specific publication.
Bibliometry of Panama publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: publication type, language, fields, authors and institutions The fact that most citations occur four years after publication, i.e. two years after the SCI-EXPANDED stops counting to produce the Impact Factor, shows that the Impact Factor as currently measured is not appropriate to know the impact of tropical research. Our results only apply to the literature in the SCI-EXPANDED. Panama has nearly 100 scientific journals that are not taken into account by the SCI-EXPANDED. Thus the full productivity of authors and institutions, and their impact, remain to be studied, but our data represent a valid baseline for future research.
Quantifying the Consistency of Scientific Databases Our findings are to be understood as an "advice" to researchers in bibliometrics about the suitability of various network paradigms in relation to the database of their interest.
For 481 biomedical open access journals, articles are not searchable in the Directory of Open Access Journals nor in conventional biomedical databases DOAJ is the most complete registry of biomedical OA journals compared with five conventional biomedical databases. However, DOAJ only indexes articles for half of the biomedical journals listed, making it an incomplete source for biomedical research papers in general. The conventional biomedical databases each lack around 50% of relevant biomedical OA journals and their inclusion of the OA journals listed in DOAJ is sparse and unevenly distributed among the databases.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Publications on Pluripotent Stem Cell Research The comprehensive analysis of highly cited articles in the stem cell field could identify milestones and important contributors, giving a historic perspective on scientific progress. Studies on induced pluripotent stem cells and embryonic stem cells have been found to be the most popular research focus in recent years in pluripotent stem cell research.
Measuring technological performance of assignees using trace metrics in three fields According to our empirical study of assignees from three different fields, assignee traces have proven to be effective and reliable indicators for capturing the total technological performance, and providing detailed information about the assignees' technology structure at the same time.
Three-dimensional visualization and animation of emerging patterns by the process of self-organization in collaboration networks A visible 3-D graph image is the emerging pattern at the macro level of a large co-authorship network by the process of self-organization.
Robustness of personal rankings: the Handelsblatt example Further research as well as the discussion in the academic community should clarify whether these correlations verify the robustness of the ranking or manifest the opposite.
Questionable University-sponsored supplements in high-impact journals The author of this article supports The Lancet position not to publish supplements based on their belief that “publishing supplements is a perilous business”.
Incentives and More: Four Aspects that Every Innovation in Scholarly Communication Needs To Consider—Answer to “Kingsley/Kennan: Open access: The whipping Boy for Problems in Scholarly publishing” In summary, we start our response by pointing out that gold OA has indeed created a system that incentivizes for-profit gold OA publishers to take shortcuts when it comes to conducting thorough peer review.
Shades of grey: Two forms of grey literature important for reviews in conservation The two distinct forms of grey literature described herein require different techniques to obtain, and yet to date they have been included in reviews using a generalist approach, which threatens efficacy and rigour of grey literature searches.
Assessing China’s salt lake resources R&amp;D based on bibliometrics analysis Based on the quantity of assignees and the number of patents issued, China lags far behind the USA and Japan.
Generating Digital Reputation Index: A Case Study We believe the research will be a guidance for the research studies in the digital reputation index, since it is one of the first index creation methodology on digital reputation studies and data source has a great variety, volume and velocity as the big data.
Productivity in academia In conclusion, the findings demonstrate that productivity in output measures can be adopted as a basis for directly or indirectly explaining productivity of academia with regard to the outcome measures.
Distribution of women and men among highly cited scientists Our results on the unequal distribution of men and women among the highly cited scientists support statements like that of Sugimoto, Ni, and Larivière (2015) that "gender disparities in science remain, despite more than a decade of policies aimed at achieving gender parity."
Analysis of Scholarly Communication Activities in Buddhism and Buddhist Studies The results of this study are useful for understanding the overall academic production on Buddhism and Buddhist studies in the period from 1993 to 2011. In summary, the results provide a current Thomson Reuters' WoS database view of the publication activity in Buddhism and Buddhist studies but, when taken together, the findings also suggest that both multi- and interdisciplinary approaches are needed to study the overall behavior of this complex of social and cultural systems including the information flow through the non-English Asian channels of scholarly knowledge. In the end, it is pertinent to point out that the scope of this analysis of scholarly communication activities in Buddhism and Buddhist studies is not conclusive or complete; on the contrary, it forms a preliminary basis for further quantitative and qualitative studies and is left open to other contributions on this extremely complex topic.
Relationship amongst ResearchGate altmetric indicators and Scopus bibliometric indicators Most of the RG altmetric indicators correlated strongly with the established Scopus bibliometric indicators. It is suggested that the RG metrics should be used along with traditional metrics till the uptake of RG becomes really high.
Serials use in post graduates’ dissertations of pharmaceutical sciences: collection building by citation analysis The study shows that there is a massive impact of consortia and open-access articles in the citations of PG dissertations. It is obvious that users cite the available in-house resources more than the non-subscribed resources. Librarians should take care while selecting the journals for the working institutions.
<i>Nature</i>'s top 100 revisited The great difference between both lists underlines the necessity to use normalized indica-tors as it is the norm in professional bibliometrics.
Modelling citation networks Our aim has been to find what processes are sufficient to produce the long-tailed citation distribution for papers published in a given year against year which, when rescaled by the average citation count in that year, is large and constant ≈1.8 for different years.
Research productivity of library scholars There were 18,371 articles published in 40 core LIS research journals during the period 2003-2012 according to the Web of Science. The Journal of Academic Librarianship has received the highest number of citations (1,401) and the greatestcentrality (0.21) among all LIS core journals. The present study could be helpful for library professionals, subject specialists and policy makers.
Using the wayback machine to mine websites in the social sciences: A methodological resource In this paper, we conveyed the utility of webscraping and analysis in the context of one specific research domain of interest, small innovative firms in green goods industries.
The Scientific Articles on Art Criticism The findings represent that the articles written in English established mostly on art criticism and published in ISI journals are the most probable articles to be cited in the art field.
Management research worldwide: extent and determinants (1996-2010) This study tried to map scientific research in MOS worldwide, bringing new evidence about its distribution and determinants. The descriptive analysis has shown that the US share of total authorships has declined over the past years. The results also demonstrate that both the countries' level of economic development and their economies' size have a positive and statistically significant effect on published output.
Collaborating with People Like Me: Ethnic Coauthorship within the United States Our analysis shows that homophily is a substantive phenomenon in coauthorship in scientific papers and thus in the make-up of the research teams that produce the papers. It also shows that homophily is associated with papers with lower impact factors and fewer citations and that while part of this effect is traceable to the weaker prior publication performance of the authors of papers with greater homophily, a substantive negative relation between homophily and paper outcomes still remains. A reasonable interpretation of the pattern for homophily, addresses, and references is that greater diversity and breadth of knowledge of a research team contributes to the quality of the scientific papers that the team produces.
Analysis of research scholarship for academic staff at US ABET accredited mining engineering schools by publications, citations and<i>h</i>-index Publications, citations and the h-index are key indicators of scholarly productivity for academics. The number of publications and citations increases with increasing level/rank.
The evaluation of the individual impact factor of researchers and research centres using the RC algorithm The RC Algorithm, both in its individual form (RCγ) and its group form (RCG), provides an interesting procedure to express the personal impact of individual publications, 2 or a group of them, through figures, covering many qualitative values of their scientific production. It also provides a procedure to classify research centres of different types based on the impact (FRCγG) made by their results amongst researchers of the same field. This allows for the introduction of rational elements for decision making when hiring researchers, when funding researchers and institutions, and when distributing budgets, public or private, amongst the different research centres.
The impact factor: a case study of medical journals From the results of the study it appears that each of the journals is gradually increasing the amount of reviews it is publishing. Specialist journals overall do not fare well in the rankings. The general medical journals are visible to all, publish material of interest to all and will therefore be a probable reference to an article on any subject.
A proposal for an ‘equal peer-review’ statement Overall, the option of double-blind peer review is good but is not enough because an important part of the peer-review process is not blinded.
An Exploration of Indexed and Non-Indexed Open Access Journals: Identifying Metadata Coding Variations Findings from this study also provided evidence that some non-indexed OA journals were coded in such a way that could have impeded their discovery. The study suggests to librarians the presence of less visible empirical literature on the web and to smaller, independent academic publishers, the need to apply better quality metadata and optimization strategies to their open access journal content. Greater visibility of non-indexed journals may increase the prospects of being incorporated into integrated library collections and use by academic communities.
Using Scopus to Study Researchers’ Citing Behavior for Local Collection Decisions: A Focus on Psychology The results of the study provide rich indicative data for collection manage-ment.
Ranking Romanian academic departments in three fields of study using the<i>g</i>-index The alternative results based on the (successive) department g-index show a substantial degree of compatibility with the official ones: four fifths of the departments in the data-set are either placed in the same ranking class as they were in the official evaluation or shift their position only incrementally, moving upward or downward with a single class. Given the fact that the alternative rankings are based solely on the g-index indicator it is remarkable that it can produce results with a high degree of consistency compared to the official process that used several dozen indicators. Nonetheless, it must be noted that similar to other bibliometric indices it is limited to assessing research only with regard to knowledge production and dissemination in the form of specific outputs.
An updated h-index measures both the primary and total scientific output of a researcher In conclusion, we describe a useful and simpler strategy of evaluating researchers scientific output based on the calculation of the h-index for both the primary and total research output. This strategy can be applied in all fields of research where the first and last authors are the most important authors within published articles, including biomedical research.
Grey literature – grey sources? Nuancing the view on professional documentation This quantitative analysis reveals characteristics that support a refined understanding of archaeological reports, especially of the source use patterns.
Validating Peer Review in Criminal Justice Evaluation Research: Evidence from CrimeSolutions.gov The main model (Model 6, Table 3) explained a paltry five percent of the variation in publication quality. Interpreting this finding in the most extreme light, then, flipping a coin provides a researcher with far better odds of publishing a CCJ policy evaluation in a reputable peer-reviewed journal than do a study’s scientific qualities (consistent with Rothwell & Martyn, 2000). It is time to begin a dialog.
Editor and reviewer gender influence the peer review process but not peer review outcomes at an ecology journal Editor gender, seniority and geographic location affect who is invited to review for Functional Ecology, and how invitees respond to review invitations, but not the final outcome of the peer review process.
Diagnosing “Collaborative Culture” Of Biomedical Science in South Korea: Misoriented Knowledge, Competition, and Failing Collaboration Throughout this article, we argue that the failure of collaboration can also lead to failure in scientific performance, even the most tragic form of misconduct, especially when the engaged actors have misguided perceptions and attitudes regarding knowledge production and academic competition.
Optimization of the subject directory in a government agriculture department web portal "This study optimized the online subject directory of a public agriculture department portal using social network analysis. It achieved satisfactory results."
Predatory Journals in Library Databases: How Much Should We Worry? Despite the limitations of this study, we believe we have uncovered a significant presence of predatory content in library subscription databases, which may already have had a deleterious effect on student research. The results may also serve as a call to librarians to be vigilant in identifying predatory content as it relates to library instruction, collection development, electronic journal management, interlibrary loan, and vendor negotiations. Future research that looks at the impact predatory publishers have on student research and information literacy would provide a stronger knowledge base for library/information literacy instruction.
Accounting for universities’ impact: using augmented data to measure academic engagement and commercialization by academic scientists Overall, we demonstrated that the volume of impact-relevant activities by academics is considerably higher if one connects university records with external data and conducts a complementary survey, rather than relying on university-held records only.
Gender differences in patterns of authorship do not affect peer review outcomes at an ecology journal However, consistent with a growing body of literature indicating that peer review underlying the scholarly publishing process is largely gender-neutral, outcomes of edito- rial and peer review at Functional Ecology were not influenced by author gender.
Increase in citations received by India from collaborating countries Scientific collaboration, but particularly international scientific collaboration, leads to high levels of impact and to a large amount of citations.
Foreword to the “Case Studies in Scientometrics” special issues Impact considerations, therefore, do not justify the restriction of case studies in the journal Scientometrics. Until then, as a workaround, two special issues are devoted exclusively for case studies. Depending on the success of this experiment (both in qualitative and quantitative terms), such issues might follow also in the future.
Interrater reliability and convergent validity of <scp>F</scp>1000<scp>P</scp>rime peer review Overall, the present study agrees with most studies on journal peer review in showing slight agreement between faculty members but a convergent validity between recommendation scores in F1000Prime peer review and citation impact.
On the Confusion of Quality with Impact: A Note on Pyke's M-Index I would like to emphasize that the reason why citation-based metrics can hardly be used fairly in the evaluation of taxonomists is that the quality has nothing to do with popularity.
Different personal propensities among scientists relate to deeper vs. broader knowledge contributions Thus, this research distinguishes depth and breadth of published knowledge contributions, and provides new insights into how scientists’ personal dispositions influence research processes and products.
Writing Your Way into High Impact Factor Journals Our results provide insight for academics entering the publishing arena. Many of us have been taught some of these “tricks”, and our analysis shows that some do have merit. We believe it is valuable for young researchers to do all they can to stack the deck in their favor.
Publishing and impact criteria, and their bearing on Translation Studies: In search of comparability We have shown that peer review does not guarantee the quality of research, and that journal indexing is not a good way of separating high-quality journals and articles from the rest; at least not in a relatively small humanities discipline such as translation studies. By using ad hoc comparable groups we have also shown that impact in the form of citations is not directly related to the intrinsic quality of a publication. In our opinion it is high time to launch a collective process of reflection within TS on whether factors such as the language or the subject matter of research should be so decisive in the assessment of research.
Gifts, donations, and loose coupling: responses to changes in academic entrepreneurship among bioscientists in Japan The introduction of the new, US-inspired structure of academic entrepreneurship to Japan did not proceed as expected.
Status and Analysis of Scientific Journals Indexed in SCI, SCI-E and SSCI Citation Databases from Romania and Serbia This study reveals that after orientation to a market economy, countries from Eastern Europe geographical area have similar approaches for the valorisation of research, which is much more oriented to indexing in relevant scientific databases in order to increase international visibility. For the moment a saturation limit has been reached for the number of indexed scientific journals in SCI, SCI-E and SSCI citation databases, for both countries Romania and Serbia. The management structures have to elaborate new strategies for attracting valuable research articles published in scientific journals in order to increase their number and impact factor.
Usage of e-journals in French business schools Our study provided empirical evidence for usage of digital resources in business schools. As expected, the usage appears to be relatively intensive, especially when compared to usage statistics from universities in the same fields. Our recommendation for the business schools would be that to increase usage and efficiency of subscribed digital resources, they should improve promotion and communication on these resources, facilitate access through portals, gateways and discovery tools and monitor usage statistics and metrics.
“Platinum H”: Refining the H-Index to More Realistically Assess Career Trajectory and Scientific Publications In proposing any kind of revised metric for EOH and elsewhere, a key consideration is that it be appropriate and (at least scientifically) acceptable for those among whom it is being applied.
Asian researchers at the CHI conference Asia is a rapidly growing region in HCI research, and the results indicate that there is room for more growth. We hope many Asian researchers contribute to the CHI 2015 conference. Likewise, we expect that even more Asian researchers will actively participate the next time the CHI conference is held in Asia.
A Re-Examination of Fortune 500 Homepage Design Practices "The findings are useful for those wanting to know the state of homepage design in 2013, whether as current practitioners or researchers."
Citation Rate of Highly-Cited Papers in 100 Kinesiology-Related Journals The citation rate of the highly cited articles and the bibliometric variables of these 100 Kinesiology journals showed large variability.
Capturing Citation Activity in Three Health Sciences Departments: A Comparison Study of Scopus and Web of Science Attempts to accurately gauge research output and impact from author searches in Scopus and Web of Science will require many hours of human intervention to get a complete, accurate picture of citation activity. This preliminary study showed that author profiles in these tools are problematic, with name ambiguity causing the bulk of problems, and will require institutions and researchers manually to assess and correct author profiles reported by these databases to ensure accurate measurements of research impact. This study has several implications for health sciences librarians. First, health sciences librarians need to educate faculty and administrators about the limitations of these tools.
Online-to-print Lags and Baseline Number of Citations in 5 Science Citation Index Journals Related to Liver Diseases (2013–2014) Online-to-print lags are frequently observed in 5 SCI journals related to liver diseases.
Authorship Proliferation in Hand Surgery Research: How Many Hand Surgeons Does it Take to Write a Research Article? First- ly, we believe, authors must uphold a personal responsibility in order to maintain their ethical probity regarding contributions to research, in line with scientific codes of conduct and ICMJE guidelines.
Bradford’s zone to LIS publications published in collection building journal from 2009-2012: a citation study The study highlights the information materials available and used by researchers in the field of LIS, and those that need to be added for a healthy collection.Collection Building is the highly preferred journal for communication by LIS professionals.
Organic Products in Mexico and South Korea on Twitter In both cases, the findings support Twitter as a useful tool for Word-of-Mouth Communication on the online environment, among product consumers, and between consumers and enterprises.
Publication outcomes of the abstracts presented at the 2011 European Congress on Osteoporosis, Osteoarthritis and Musculo-Skeletal Diseases (ECCEO-IOF11) These results indicate a high research productiv-ity and an appropriate selection of oral communication by the Scientific Advisory Committee of ESCEO-IOF.
The open access dilemma: how can costs be financed? Solutions to open access in Latin America are not easy, because the journal market, as mentioned, is small; but a possible solution would be to adopt the strategy of the international music and film entertainment industry, that has managed the ups and downs of surviving in the Internet, where suppliers like iTunes, Amazon and Netflix make it easy to pay for their services with prices that are low and affordable to most middle-class customers.
Emerging new methods of peer review in scholarly journals New models, which seem particularly attractive to manuscript authors, are acceptance of any scientifically valid articles as practiced in 'megajournals'. and increased transparency about how the peer-review process in a particular journal works.
Into the gray: a modified approach to citation analysis to better understand research impact The modified citation analysis approach appears well suited to report how new research evidence is taken up, interpreted, and used in published material, a quality that is valuable to those attempting to assess the effectiveness of knowledge translation strategies [3, 33].
Looking for Links: How Faculty Research Productivity Correlates with Library Investment and Why Electronic Library Materials Matter Most The studies described here each provide empirical evidence that scholarly research productivity increases at U.S. doctoral institutions as they invest more in their libraries.
Research productivity and academics’ conceptions of research This study has discussed the relationship between researcher productivity and identification as a researcher and suggested that this is not straightforward. It has identified three relatively distinct conceptions of research and suggested that highly productive researchers tend to have a view of research with an emphasis on the career of the researcher where research is viewed as a social phenomenon with publications, presentations and research grants traded in academic networks.
Comment: A well-connected world Collaboration among Asian, European and US research organizations, recognized as the leaders in many fields, explains why international networks – captured here in the Nature Index – also deliver often-cited research output. Research-intensive institutions access and gain from networks that produce leading edge research. A key policy question is whether these national giants should also be funded to reach out to work with institutions in emerging economies that certainly need knowledge, insight and financial resources to contribute to solutions to common global challenges.
Research Performance Measures and the Moderating Role of Faculty Characteristics in Epidemiology In summary, our study indicated that improving research performance measures is associated with academic ranking and scientific age of Iranian epidemiologists.
Open access repositories in the Asia–Oceania region The authors have collated the overall experiences of each institution in open access publishing and repository development. They have highlighted the successes and failures that each has experienced and formulated a set of guidelines that may help those embarking on establishing an open access repository.
Open Access Article Processing Charges: DOAJ Survey May 2014 This study found the article processing approach to funding open access to be a business sector very much in a volatile state likely reflecting its relatively early development. Given the volatility of this sector and the potential to find better and most cost-effective ways of publishing, budgeting and support for this sector should probably be considered as tentative and somewhat experimental for the short term. The data from this research is intended to form the basis of backwards and forwards longitudinal studies to examine trends in article processing charges.
Practical aspects of implementation of institutional repositories in Africa with reference to the University of Nairobi Based on the results of this study, it can be concluded that, the idea of IRs was taken up with interest by many institutions of higher learning, but it was not well followed through after the initial phase of activity as shown by research. As a result, repositories are growing slowly and there is slow rate of integration and use.
Landscapes of Research: Perceptions of Open Access (OA) Publishing in the Arts and Humanities This small survey of ECU faculty researchers on the whole indicated limited knowledge about open access practices and outlets, but great support for the philosophy, tenets, and ethos of the OA movement. However, more education around OA is required in order to foster engagement with OA publication in the fields represented within the faculty, particularly the creative arts, humanities, and social sciences. We argue that OA publishing will continue to transform scholarship within the arts and humanities, especially through the role of institutional repositories.
A Quantitative Analysis of Research Output of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India This article has highlighted the research contribution of the faculty members of JNU as indexed by the WoS. It has shown that there were 5,007 publications during the last four decades covering the period of 1971-2011. Further, research needs to be done by collecting data from the Indian Citation Index (ICI) and books published by the re-searchers in order to get an accurate and consolidated picture of the research output of the university.
For what it’s worth – the open peer review landscape The debate on which is the best way forward for open peer review will continue as will other topics that look at the measurement of research. There appears to be no single solution, with at present a collection of websites and tools, sometimes operating in silos and all offering to improve the quality of published research. The key to improving this process is more active participation by researchers, reviewers and editors in the discussion of how to negate the various problems related to traditional peer review.
Research growth in LIS during last decade: a study The research output in the field of LIS during the period of study has recorded a significant growth. It is necessary to strengthen the very fundamentals of LIS services, research and other activities in the countries which are lesser known for such a kind of support in their respective continents. North America, Europe and Asia are the continents which have made significant contribution to LIS research during the last decade, but this does not satisfy the LIS research requirements and demand at a global level.
Tradition and Innovation in Scientists’ Research Strategies Taken together, our results provide strong quantitative evidence that scientists' choice of research problem is indeed shaped by their strategic negotiation of an essential tension between productive tradition and risky inno- vation (Kuhn [1959] 1977).
Perceptions of Open Access Publishing by Faculty at Pondicherry University: A Survey The study of our survey on faculty of Pondicherry University draws us to conclude that awareness of OA publishing is increasing. However, due to OA reputation and prestige, authors are not convinced to publish in OA journals. Hence, there is a need to educate and persuasion faculty on OA benefits and research in order to overcome author's perception and attitude toward OA journal. Finally, one of the factors that predatory publishing flourish today is the consequence of "publish or perish” culture, a policy mandate adopted by University Grant Commission for the appointment and promotion of teachers and other academic staff in universities and colleges (UGC, 2010).
Document supply of grey literature and open access: ten years later Transition is over, and choices have been made. Ten years later, the survey reveals a shattered landscape, with two national libraries, two service providers in the national digital research infrastructures and an integrated research, computer and STI centre, each institution pursuing a strategy that responds to its special environment. Except perhaps for the TIB Hannover, the declining importance of grey literature points towards the changing role of these institutions mentioned above. But, this will no longer be a document supply.
The Extent and Consequences of P-Hacking in Science Our study provides two lines of empirical evidence that p-hacking is widespread in the scientif- ic literature.
Barriers to Open Access Publishing: Views from the Library Literature This study adds to the dialog of barriers to gold open access by exploring the voice of the LIS community and illustrating changes in interest over time.
The role of institutional repositories in developing the communication of scholarly research The research undertaken during this study has demonstrated that the question of how scholarly communication can be improved through the role of the institutional repository and green open access is still open. However, policies and practices are emerging to change the role of the institutional repository, which have the potential to be significant to how scholarly research is collated, shared, managed and measured. The issues that continue to stall progress are, broadly, faculty understanding and engagement, publisher policies and practices, complexity in the management of the processes and perceived value by institutions and users.
Considering Non-Open Access Publication Charges in the “Total Cost of Publication” Finally, a provisional estimate for other publication charges suggests they represent around 2% of subscription costs.
Collaboration patterns and patenting: Exploring gender distinctions The findings are discussed along with the limitations and policy implications at the end. Regardless of these limitations, this study generates new knowl-edge in the broad research area of gender inequalities in science and sheds light on possible policy intervention. Instead, an appropriate recom-mendation could be two-step action: First, support the gender studies of science so as to accumulate knowledge about scientists’ attitudes, perceptions, and actual behaviors regarding academic patenting and other forms of academic entrepreneurship; second, ground policy agendas, formation, and implementation firmly on the knowledge base and develop an integrative policy framework.
Mapping the Topic Landscape of <scp><i>JPIM</i></scp>, 1984–2013: In Search of Hidden Structures and Development Trajectories Six key findings of this study appear particularly noteworthy in that they appear to contribute strongly to our understanding of the hidden structures and development trajectories of JPIM and arguably the field of product innovation management as a whole.
Scientific production and bibliometric impact of a representative group of Spanish internists with established research careers Conclusions: The h-index is the factor that had the best adjustment and least variability and could therefore help predict the future scientific output and impact of internists.
Journal publication success of German business researchers: does gender composition and internationality of the author team matter? Predominantly, male and international author teams have significantly higher journal publication success, and this relationship is even stronger the more exclusive the ranking gets.
Information wants someone else to pay for it: Laws of information economics and scholarly publishing The central challenge is to create a range of new forms of publication that effectively promote both market and collaborative ecosystems.
International Scientific Publication in ISI Journals: Chances and Obstacles The main aim of the present study was to shed light on the importance of publishing in ISI journals for faculty members and other researchers. Results showed that all participant groups in the present study believed that publication in ISI journals is very important as it develops to a large extent their research skills and knowledge of globally recognized journals in their areas of specialty. Moreover, the study revealed the most important obstacles that hinder the researchers' efforts to publish in such journals, like for example their English language proficiency and accuracy. Researchers' experience was also a critical factor in their success to publish in ISI journal.
The probability of publishing in first-quartile journals To conclude, the expectation that 25 % of a researcher's publications are published in first-quartile journals is valid under the following two conditions: (1) All journals covered in Web of Science publish the same or similar number of publications; (2) All publications of the researcher are published in different journals.
The Changing Nature of Scientific Sharing and Withholding in Academic Life Sciences Research The results show a dramatic shift in sharing mechanisms, away from a peer-to-peer sharing model toward one based on central repositories. This may increase efficiency, but collaborations may suffer if personal communication among scientists is deemphasized.
Ranking and mappping of universities and research-focused institutions worldwide: The third release of excellencemapping.net The third, substantially enhanced version of the web application visualizes institutional performance as ranking lists and on custom tile-based maps.
The Role of Google Scholar in Evidence Reviews and Its Applicability to Grey Literature Searching We have provided evidence that Google Scholar is a powerful tool for finding specific literature, but that it cannot be a replacement for traditional academic citation databases, nor can it replace hand-searching for grey literature. In summary, we find Google Scholar to be a useful supplement in searches for evidence, particularly grey literature so long as its limitations are recognised.
New scientometric indicator for the qualitative evaluation of scientific production The indicator is an improvement of the H_index.
Macular disease research in the United Kingdom 2011–2014: a bibliometric analysis of outputs, performance and coverage In terms of publications and citations as a measure of scientific quality, the UK has done well in macular disease research. The UK is one of the leading countries in macular research. However the distribution of past research topics does not match the priorities set by the SLV-PSP in 2013, and future funding may encourage a different pattern of research.
PageRank as a method to rank biomedical literature by importance "PageRank can be trivially computed on commodity cluster hardware and is linearly correlated with citation count."
Network analysis of photovoltaic-related Science Citation Index papers in Korea Research on dye-sensitized solar cells and organic solar cells was dominant in the PV field, and the drastic increase in “Other PV” papers reflects the spread of multidisciplinary research and convergence technologies. Countries with more diverse collaborations, such as USA and Germany, tend to publish more papers; Korea is actively collaborating with the USA, Asian countries such as China and Japan, and European countries such as Germany, the UK, and Switzerland. Three suggestions for improving the performance of PV are considered: (1) The range of networks in Korea needs to be diversified for the improvement of the quality of research output and diffusion of knowledge into developing countries.
Researchers’ Mobility, Productivity and Impact: Case of Top Producing Authors in Seven Disciplines When examining the top 100 performing researchers in the seven disciplines studied in this paper, mobility between at least two affiliations increases both output and impact. In most disciplines an increase in output and impact are tracked in affiliation mobility within one country. Country mobility does not seem to have a significant impact except in specific disciplines such as Arts & Humanities, Business and Environmental Geology.
Citation‐Capture Rates for Economics Journals: Do they Differ from Other Disciplines and Does it Matter? In conclusion it is clear that the use of short-term citation counting for purposes of generating JRS, based directly or indirectly on journal impact factors, introduces a bias in favour of the sciences over the social sciences and, more specifically, economics.
A Novel Framework for Medical Web Information Foraging Using Hybrid ACO and Tabu Search In this work, we proposed a general framework for Web information foraging using multi-agent system based on ant colony behavior.
Biomechanics Scholar Citations across Academic Ranks percentile rank citation data from this study may be useful to supplement peer-evaluation of biomechanics schol-ar’s Google Scholar publication records, particularly if the number of co-authors contributing their citations is taken into ac-count.
How does citing behavior for a scientific article change over time? A preliminary study This study is to find the changes of citing behaviors over time. Findings reveal that the citing behaviors did change over time shown by citation indexes: mention, length, location, and the number of the citation co-occurrences. Observations of this study may be used to build single article assessing system to evaluate the age or the real-time influence of the target article with more efforts and help users, especially the novices to read and use the scientific articles.
Bracing for impact: The role of information science in supporting societal research impact Information science researchers and practitioners are well placed to lead new developments in these areas. The long and rich history of informetrics for research measurement can, potentially, be extended to include societal impact outcomes. Academic librarians and information science researchers can be proactive in their support and analysis of research trends in this area, to ensure that researchers and institutions are well-informed and well-prepared to engage with their communities in appropriate and productive ways.
What Do Diploma Theses Unveil about Academic Public Policy in the Czech Republic? We conclude that there are two traditions of academic public policy in the Czech Republic, which enriches previous findings in the area and makes them more accurate.
The surprising persistence of Biglan's classification scheme This result is surprising.
Access to research inputs: open science versus the entrepreneurial university Using a comprehensive and cross-discipline dataset on German academics, we provide evidence that industry sponsorship relates to increased denial of requests for research results and materials while extramural funding in general is related to scientists experiencing denial of access themselves.
Scientometric observations of Authorship Trends and Collaborative Research on DESIDOC Journal of Library and Information Technology It shows that the highest number of contributions were multi authored papers. It is found that that the degree of collaboration ranges from 0.36 to 0.77 and the average degree of collaboration is 0.59 during the period of study. The maximum numbers of articles were contributed by Indian authors and foreign countries contributed only few numbers of articles.
The Webometrics Analysis of Market Share and Network Attention of Operation Systems for Personal Computers - Based on the Baidu Index as a Web Metrics Research Our findings empirically test that the network attention and market share of operating system have correlations, and based on the difference between positive correlation and negative correlation, we provide referential suggestions to the technology innovation and development of the operating system.
A network perspective of academiaindustry nanotechnology collaboration: A comparison of Canada and the United States Nanotechnology is a newly-emerged and fast-growing multidisciplinary field of study that has an influential role in almost every aspect of the economy.
Scientometric Analysis of Library and Information Science Journals 2003–2012 Using Web of Science Current study comprises of comprehensive quantitative analysis of LIS publications during 2003-2012; highlighting the subject growth, gaps, and trends. Addressing these trends, it has been emerged that the researcher in LIS domain preferred to do their research independently rather than in a group preferring single authorship pattern, being the more prioritized among researchers as compared to multiple authorship patterns. It is suggested that the methodology used in current study can be used for other fields of research; it will enhance the existing body of knowledge about the global state of research among other domains, too.
Citations in introduction and literature review sections should not count for quality Elucidatory expositions on the purposes of the introduction and literature review sections in academic writings have been made.
The relation between Wikipedia's size and scientific publication in a country The result indicates that there is a high correlation between these two variables; this can be interpreted that the size of Wikipedia in one language can indicate the scientific power of that country. Then, we estimated that the linear relation between these two variables in selective countries, the result shows that more Wikipedia's pages lead to more documents in each country. Since the coefficient of determination is comparatively high the validity of model increase and we can confirm the accuracy of model strongly.
Peer Review and Research Impact Our study has several implications. At the broadest level, our hypotheses and findings suggest that, all else being equal, the greater the number of revisions to reach the final accep- tance stage, the lower its impact. Our results shed light on how the institution of peer review affects this relatively new but important performance metric. From a practical perspective, our findings provide critical insights to various stakeholders, including authors, editors, and members of tenure committees at research universities.
What flavors are different types of scholarly articles? An investigation of PLOS publications Scholarly impact could be better interpreted when article types are taken into consideration. Moreover, the correlations between citations, views, saves, and shares also demonstrate the need to consider article types when assessing the validity of altmetrics. Following this study, we are conducting more research into the interpretation of scientists' information behaviors associated with scholarly publications, as well as a deeper exploration of the meaning of altmetrics measures.
The missing metric: quantifying contributions of reviewers Ultimately, implementing the R-index will give reviewers citeable academic recognition for their time and expertise, permit hiring and tenure committees to assess their faculty based on a wider truth of academic productivity, and increase transparency in the scientific community.
Non-Scientist Sources Lend Balance, but Create Bias Overall, N.C. newspaper coverage of sea-level rise tended to reflect the na-tional media trend of emphasizing the scientific consensus that climate change and sea-level rise, are real.
Proof that peer review picks promising proposals Li and Agha ... find clear benefits of peer evaluations, particularly for distinguishing high-impact potential among the most com- petitive applications.
Analyzing Scientific Activities of the Top Ten Canadian Universities Our preliminary results suggest that there is a positive relation between level of fund-ing and the productivity of the funded researchers affiliated with the top Ten Canadian universities.
Does author affiliation reputation affect uncitedness? The hypothesis can be accepted in our study as long as ideal rankings match with subjects well.
Moral hazard and adverse selection in research funding: Centres of excellence in Norway and Sweden This paper shows that apparently similar governance instruments are adapted to, and given different roles in, different national research systems.
Quality Assessment of Studies Published in Open Acces and Subscription Journals The studies published in OA journals in the field of oncology approach the same methodological quality and quality of reporting as studies published in non-OA journals.
Prevalence and Impact of Self-Citation in Academic Plastic Surgery The practice of self-citation is prevalent among plastic surgeon investigators, but its impact on the h-index is negligible for most authors. This finding suggests committees may disregard this factor for promotion. With more publications, researchers can increase h-indices via self-citation, but at a high threshold of published articles.
Examining the Validity of Impact Factors for Journals in the History and Philosophy of Science Category of Science Citation Index This article indicates that the IF does not reflect the importance and reputation of journals in the HSP category. Therefore, it is misleading to use the IF as a measurement tool to evaluate the academic works of a faculty member in the field of HSP. The citation counts reflect, at least, a journal's acceptability and visibility among peers in the field.
Web Citation Trends in Indian LIS Journals: A Citation Analysis This study analyzed the web citations cited in the articles published in the selected three LIS scholarly journals published during 2001 to 2010. The increase in the number of web citations in journal articles shows that they are the first choices of Indian LIS research community. The URLs of the cited web resources in Indian LIS journals were found densely concentrated at the URL path depth of 0, 2 and 3.
Which VIVO harvester queries best populate the VIVO database with accurate faculty member publications? Collaborative efforts by experts in IT, database searching, and informatics optimizes the query design of VIVO Harvester for retrieving accurate citations in PubMed compared to an IT-only design (Eldredge et al., 2015).
A Replication of “Political Influence behind the Veil of Peer Review” (<i>Journal of Law and Economics</i> 2009) My reexamination of the Hegde and Mowery (2008a, 2008b) and Hegde (2009) papers highlights three problems that can undermine the results obtained.
An aggregated index for assessment of the scientific output of researchers Experimental results on two citation data demonstrate that the weighted index may serve as a supplement to h-index and its variants to better draw the evaluation results.
Is Assignment of Financial Value Stimulating French Researchers of Paris Academic Hospitals to Publish in International Journals? Results of the Diazepam Survey Although impact factor remains decisive in choice of journal, French researchers do not publish to earn SIGAPS points, possibly because the financial value is not currently clearly allocated back to researchers.
Email solicitation for scholarly work – a single researcher’s perspective Potential authors should carefully investigate OA journals prior to choosing journals wherein to submit their work.
Publicize or Perish! A Guide to Social Media Promotion of Scientific Articles Public appetite for science news is healthy and growing and may ultimately serve to support high-quality translational research with real-world application.
HOW TO EVALUATE SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION The analysis of scientific merit should not be based on only in bibliometric measure, but in the association of various parameters. The impact factor and the H index is mainly based on the number of citations of scientific papers, and this parameter, although important, should not be used alone, nor overvalued in the evaluation of teaching merit.
Sweet Spots for Manuscripts: Visualizing the Quality of Scientific Production The main practical implications of this approach can be summarized in four points.
Quantitative exploration into the diffusion process of creative ideas in economics: Nobel prize laureates In the present study, we aimed to answer the motivational question, "How have the laureates' creative ideas in economic sciences been created and diffused into successive literature?” Toward that end, we investigated the intellectual landscapes, thematic patterns, and emerging trends of the domain in a scientometric manner. In the future, we plan to apply our approach to comprehensive studies that cover a various type of publication materials and other Nobel Prize domains.
Tracking the knowledge economy
A study of current practices in open access publishing in OMFS research This study shows OA publication is widespread in OMFS research. It demonstrates that, contrary to potential misgivings, journals offering OA are no different in terms of impact factor, total citations, self-citation numbers and level of published evidence.
Investigating Status Effects in University Technology Commercialization This study relied on two random experiments to demonstrate the causal effect of inventor status on technology licensing officers' views of the commercial value of university inventions. Our results show that the status of the inventors who disclose university inventions influences technology licensing officers' evaluations of these inventions. Overall, our results suggest the need for future research that can determine whether the effects of status on evaluators' perceptions of value are efficient or a source of bias.
The data sharing advantage in astrophysics Our simple study indicates a clear tendency for papers with links to data to receive more citations per year on average, than papers that do not link to data.
Research Performance of Marketing Academics and Departments: An International Comparison These results provide some insight into the relative research performance of marketing scholars in the top 500 research univer-sities in Australia, New Zealand, USA, UK and Canada and in ANZ universities in general. These kinds of data can and should inform government assess-ments of universities and can also aid universities and academics in judging their research performance. We will report on the results from other countries in a subsequent publication.
Grant Peer Review Scrutinized "It is very reassuring that the peer review system does actually show some sort of a signal,” Berg says. Even though this paper doesn't explain everything, Lauer says it is an important step in applying science to how research is funded by the federal government.
Ranking scientists The merit of a researcher is determined by his or her strongest results, not by the number of publications.
Measuring scholarly use of government information: An altmetrics analysis of federal statistics Drawing on a dataset containing articles aggregated via Altmetric Explorer, a querying interface provided by Altmetric LLP, content analysis was used to 1) determine the distribution of federal statistics incorporated in scholarly studies, and 2) qualitatively understand the particular ways in which studies incorporated federal statistics.
Examining the Predictive Validity of NIH Peer Review Scores Therefore, retrospective analyses of the correlation between per- centile scores from peer review and bibliometric indices of the publications resulting from funded grant applications are not valid tests of the predictive validity of peer review at the NIH.
The dental specialties related articles published in Medical Journal Armed Forces India from 2000 to 2014 over a 15-year period To conclude, an equal distribution of articles related to clinical dentistry and nonclinical dentistry is maintained for the MJAFI from 2000 to 2014 over a 15-year period. It is anticipated that this study will apprise the editorial board as to the range of articles being published in the field of dental sciences and also guide them to select articles for publication on priority. In future, the editorial board can select topics based on merit rather than specialty.
The lost paradise, the original sin, and the Dodo bird: a scientometrics Sapere Aude manifesto as a reply to the Leiden manifesto on scientometrics The Leiden manifesto seems to target more the science evaluation process in general, rather than scientometrics (i.e., bibliometrics). Therefore, the only recommendation of the Sapere Aude manifesto is: Use scientometrics properly, and the “truth” will be revealed in any scientific field!
Investigation into Growth of Iranian Journals in Scopus Database during 2000-2012 The findings of the study have shown a positive increase in Iranian journals indexing in Scopus database during the years 2000-2012 and has increased from 8 in 2000 to 113 in 2012; this has shown an annual growth of 23%. Therefore we can conclude that the qualitative and quantitative growth of scientific Iranian journals in different fields and their indexing in valid scientific database have been the result of proper and trueprinciples of science and policy planners and administrators in the country and continuing on this path leads to prosperity and the institutionalization of science in the country. Finally we propose that scientific journal managers and administrators pay special attention to the principles and frameworks for scientific journals indexing by scientific database in order that a quantitative growth to be observed in Iranian journals indexing quantitatively.
Library and Information Science Research Output: A study based on Web of Science Analysis of the data shows inconsistent of the growth of LIS literature during the period of 38 years. However, the overall trend of the period is highly fluctuating but in the increasing order. The study certainly be useful to subject experts, analysts, scholars and policy makers for drafting effective policies on the basis of inferences drawn in this paper.
Is there bias in editorial choice? Yes Thus, the answer to the initial question; “is there a fame bias in editorial choice?" is clearly Yes.
Journal Impact Factor Strongly Correlates with the Citedness of the Median Journal Paper Our finding of very high correlation of IF values and the median citation rates, we be- lieve, provides convincing evidence that, in general, IF values are not due to a few highly cited papers but rather characterizes the majority of the journal's papers. The IF, however, is an indication of the standing of the journal, its prestige or authority.
Validation of the CoRE Questionnaire for a Medical Journal Peer Review We conclude that using the CoRE questionnaire will help reduce peer reviewer disagreement.
Meritocracy Voting: Measuring the Unmeasurable The goal of 'measuring merit' is undoubtedly elusive.
Robust Ranking of Journal Quality: An Application to Economics It was shown that emphasizing the 2YIF of a journal, which partly answers the question as to When published articles are cited, to the exclusion of other informative RAMs, which answer Where and How (frequently) published articles are cited, could lead to a distorted evaluation of journal quality, impact, and influence relative to the harmonic mean of the ranks of RAMs across distinct classes that include impact factor, mean citations and non-citations, journal policy, number of high quality articles, and journal influence and article influence. The detailed RAMs provided in Tables 1 and 4 for the 299 leading journals in economics permit robust rankings analyses of various subdisciplines. Although Chang et al. (2011c) have analyzed the leading journals in econometrics and statistics, a detailed analysis of the ranking of journals in various subdisciplines in economics is a topic for future research.
Pitfalls in aggregating performance measures in higher education For this reason, measuring scores against the best performing institutions or countries is preferred to transforming data using standardisation techniques such as z-transforms.
Producing information: communication and collaboration in the South African scientific community The study revealed linkages among the three key components of South African science, namely productivity, collaboration and connectivity. As the linkage between collaboration, connectivity and productivity is clear in the study, efforts should be aimed at strengthening the links for its development. South Africa has to go further in providing a faster and cheaper communication infrastructure to facilitate the growth of science in the country.
Impact in the REF: issues and obstacles Despite the plethora of conceptual and practical objections, impact as a measure of assessment in the REF is unlikely to disappear (Watermeyer 2014). Despite an abundance of ideological dissonance and numerous reported structural flaws in the contexts of impact implementation and reportage, academics are thus forced to proactively respond, ostensibly in the manner of the two following accounts: 'There is no alternative but to engage as constructively as we can with the REF. The overall impact of 'impact' on the academic community is thus too soon to calculate.
Dishonest Academic Conduct: From the Perspective of the Utility Function In real life, scholars pursue maximal utility to decide whether to practice dishonest academic conduct.
Output distributions and topic maps of safety related journals The main contribution that this paper makes is to visualize the clustering of the research topics within and between the six journals.
Hypoallometric scaling in international collaborations Given the constrained growth of international relationships, our findings advocate a greater emphasis on the qualitative aspects of collaborations, such as with whom partnerships are forged, particularly when assessing research and policy outcomes.
Scientific production in Mexican universities: Rates and expectations toward competitiveness There have been a number of relevant studies and findings on the assessment of scientific production in Mexican universities.
Understanding the Changing Structure of Scientific Inquiry We report evidence that the collapse of the Soviet Union led to a disproportionate increase in collaboration among non-Soviet mathematicians in the subfields that the Soviets were strongest. We interpret this as consistent with the knowledge frontier explanation but not the other explanations for the widely documented increase in team size.
Can we predict citation counts of environmental modelling papers? Fourteen bibliographic and categorical variables predict less than 30% of the variability in citation counts Although the impact of all of these quantifiable factors together is relatively small and the relationships identified are correlative, not necessarily causative, some general recommendations can be made if authors wish to maximise the number of citations each of their papers receives.
A randomized trial of fellowships for early career researchers finds a high reliability in funding decisions There was a comparatively high level of agreement when compared with other types of funding schemes.
A biclustering approach to university performances: an Italian case study Thus, performance measurement on effectiveness and efficiency of academic activity is not simply a ranking list of different institutions; rather, it is a multi-dimensional framework able to capture the multi-output data structure.
Co-authorship networks and scientific performance: an empirical analysis using the generalized extreme value distribution To conclude, collaboration positively affects performance but with different patterns with respect to the source used to derive co-authorship networks and its measures. In particular, for each subfield we observe the following results: • In Statistics subfield, having many ‘short paths' (high closeness centrality) even outside their own field (high E–I index effect), working in open environment (negative clustering coefficient effect), and occupying a central position in the co-authorship networks (in terms of closeness) appear as the key factors associated with high (and very high) performance in all the sources.
The effect of collaborative relationship between medical doctors and engineers on the productivity of developing medical devices In this paper, by interviewing medical doctors and engineers involved in R&D of artificial retina, we found that medical doctors and engineers perceive that CME is one of the keys to the success in developing medical devices, but that the good CME is difficult to maintain.
The Quality of Business Ethics Journals: An Assessment Based on Application The results of this study are pragmatic in that the journal evaluation data employed metrics actually used by business schools to determine the quality of business ethics journals. These findings also provide additional impetus for the recognition of business ethics as a distinct business discipline and business ethics research as a unique field of scholarly endeavor. Accordingly, the BEC journal list provided by this study and enumerated in Tables 4 and 5 may be an appropriate adoption of business schools that utilize such lists.
Externalities and article citations: experience of a national public health journal (Gaceta Sanitaria) Certain externalities such as number of articles published by the corresponding author and being selected for a press release seem to influence the number of citations in national journals.
Collaboration strategies for publishing articles in international journals - A study of Polish scientists in economics This study investigates the correlations of different co-authorship strategies with the quantity and quality of articles for Polish authors publishing in international journals in the field of economics. The brokerage strategy seems to be particularly important for the quality of papers in international journals, as it may help in accessing new ideas, skills, and expertise. Furthermore, combining the brokerage and bonding strategy is, as expected, positively correlated with the quantity and quality of performance.
Social network and content analysis of the North American Carbon Program as a scientific community of practice The NACP has successfully fostered a community of practice, and is working toward increasing the inclusion of societal factors into its research. The organization can improve its engage-ment with the international community, and its consideration of economics in its research.
Knowledge creation in collaboration networks: Effects of tie configuration This paper investigated the relationship between egocentric collaboration networks and knowledge creation at the individual level. An inverted U-shaped relationship was found between network average tie strength and knowledge creation. This paper also has implications for science funding and research management.
Research assessment in the UK and Italy: Costly and difficult, but probably worth it (at least for a while) European university funding systems have experienced significant changes in the last 30 years. In all countries, non-government funding sources and performance-based competitive allocation systems have increased.
The intellectual structure of research in hospitality management: A literature review using bibliometric methods of the journal International Journal of Hospitality Management The research developed here is placed within the field which aims to analyze the cognitive structure of a discipline, sub-discipline or scientific field and uses bibliometric methods and social networks analysis (SNA) to achieve that aim.
Rotavirus - Global research density equalizing mapping and gender analysis Overall, the USA was the top ranked nation regarding Retovirus-related scientific output.
Research Gate: An effective altmetric indicator for active researchers? This research provides empirical evidence that demonstrates that the ResearchGate score can be an effective indicator for measuring individual researcher performance.
Publishing Trends in Library and Information Sciences Across European Countries and Institutions The relevance of this study lies in the comparison afforded of the finest knowledge in this subject area.
A statistical approach to calibrating the scores of biased reviewers of scientific papers This paper shows that the classical (or naive) procedure of ranking scientific papers based on average scores can be greatly improved by little additional effort.
Development of obstetrical and gynecological journals, 2007 to 2013: a trend analysis The overall mean IF for obstetrical and gynecological journals increased over the analyzed time period. The IF remains the standard measure to compare scientific journals. It correlates well with two major alternative measures of scientific impact, the ES and especially the AIS.
Knee Society Award Papers Are Highly Cited Works The selection process for The Knee Society scientific awards identifies potentially influential papers that are likely to be highly cited in future research articles about the knee. The selection process for Knee Society Award Papers appears to identify papers that are potentially influential in the field of knee surgery and are likely to be highly cited in future published articles. As such, these award papers deserve special attention from the readership.
Trends and topics in eye disease research in PubMed from 2010 to 2014 Due to the large number of articles included and the numerous parameters analyzed, this study provides a wide view of scientific productivity related to eye diseases during the period 2010–2014 and allows us to better understand this field.
Bibliometric analysis of output and impact based on CRIS data: a case study on the registered output of a Dutch university This study, which starts from the perspective of the output of a Dutch university as a whole and the constituting domains (five in total), clearly indicates the possibilities and limitations of the bibliometric methodology as it is right now. The study has made very clear that a sole dependence on bibliometric techniques as can be applied with ease in the medical, life and natural sciences, and with some effort in the engineering sciences, mathematics, statistics and some social sciences (economics, psychology, management science), do not work properly in the other social sciences, the humanities and law research. The publication culture is clearly focused on different sources of scientific communication, sources that are not processed for the Web of Science (or Scopus, for that matter), such as books, book chapters, cases, and still, to a large extent, journals that are not processed for the WoS or Scopus.
The emerging dynamic structure of national innovation studies: a bibliometric analysis It has been shown that over time several seminal contributions in the new field of national innovation studies have been made from a small number of leading academic institutions and published in special academic journals.
A graphical article-level metric for intuitive comparison of large-scale literatures In this work, we proposed a 2-dimensional gALM, which captures the impact and popularity of papers from scientific and social aspects thus providing an intuitive comparison of large-scale papers. This study and the Web server provide novel interactive visualization tools that meet immediate challenges of academic researchers. Therefore, in our future work, we plan to employ some advanced machine learning techniques, such as Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) (Lee and Seung 1999; Xu et al. 2003), Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) (Blei et al. 2003), etc., to provide more intelligent and interactive way to discover papers and hot topics with the help of our gALM.
Comprehensive indicator comparisons intelligible to non-experts: the case of two SNIP versions The framework for indicator comparisons proposed and explored in this article provides a comprehensive overview of the main differences and similarities of two indicators. As regards the comparison between the original and the modified SNIP, the conclusion is that none of the two indicators is superior to the other. In practical applications using SNIP as a rough indicator of journal impact, it will not make much difference whether one uses the original or the modified SNIP version, except probably in social sciences & humanities, engineering and computer science, and mathematics, subject fields in which many sources were not included in the calculation of the modified SNIP.
Orientations and outcome of interdisciplinary research: the case of research behaviour in translational medical science The implication of this particular finding is threefold. First, the most important results (as indicated by citations) of translational research grow out of combinations stretching the broadest cognitive distance to include researchers from both NAT and hospitals.
Central journals and authors in communication using a publication network The results for the central most journals mirror the findings of other network analysis research relying on various citation data.
Lung cancer researchers, 2008-2013: their sex and ethnicity This paper provides a method whereby the researchers in a given scientific subject area can be characterised by their ethnicity or national background and their sex. Methods such as the one described here will enable progress to be monitored and allow good practice in countries in the vanguard to be seen and then adopted more widely. The methods developed in this study could show whether an ethnically more diverse body of researchers in a country is correlated with higher impact research, and this is a study that we plan to initiate in the future.
Gender bias in academic recruitment Our results show that, among candidates affected by negative bias, the incidence of female candidates is lower than that of male candidates. No gender differences occur among candidates who benefitted from positive bias. The results of the statistical analysis show that for the male candidates, the number of the candidate's career years in the same university as the committee members and the agreement between the gender of the applicant and that of the committee president assume greater weights in the judgment of competition outcomes than they do for the female applicants.
Gender differences in research performance and its impact on careers: a longitudinal case study performance data do explain to a certain extent why male careers in our sample develop much faster than female researchers' careers; but controlling for performance differences, we find that gender is an important determinant too. Consequently, the process of hiring academic staff still remains biased.
The stability of co-authorship structures Findings about the structure of co-authorship networks proposed by previous research studies (Ferligoj and Kronegger 2009; Kronegger et al. 2011) were confirmed. Each analysed scientific discipline has a multi-core-semi-periphery-periphery structure.
The journal coverage of Web of Science and Scopus: a comparative analysis Our analysis shows that the journal coverage of WoS in Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities is still quite low and that these disciplines are underrepresented as compared to their share in Ulrich.
Computing a journal meta-ranking using paired comparisons and adaptive lasso estimators We use the ranking lasso method proposed by Masarotto and Varin (2012) together with the Bradley-Terry model for paired comparison data in order to aggregate existing journal rankings and to estimate journal quality scores which are subsequently used for deriving a journal meta-ranking.
Measuring the impact of scholarly journals in the humanities field We conclude that the 'selectivity of journals in their choice of papers for publication', and the ‘journal diffusion are sensitive and useful indicators, which can be used in conjunction with the classical impact indicators already available in order to evaluate the role of the journals.
Relationships between consumption, publication and impact in French universities in a value perspective: a bibliometric analysis The study concludes by showing strong correlations, which nevertheless do not lead to clear causal relations.
Scientometric analysis and dimensions on international business literature This paper has highlighted the 10 year period under study, quantitative growth of research papers was found to be inconsistent and have many ups and downs reflected during 2004–2013 studied through WoS—SSCI database. The overall trend during the period is in increasing order by approximately 17 %. The paper has carried out an evaluation of publications on “international business” of a decade and some of important findings have been highlighted under conclusion.
The emergent dynamics of a technological research topic: the case of graphene The article presented the developments of an emerging technological research topic, using the example of graphene.
Quantifying the quality of peer reviewers through Zipf's law This "Conclusion" section, beside summarizing our findings and their possible limits, allows us to offer a few suggestions for further research lines.
The Dynamic evolution of core documents: an experimental study based on h-related literature (2005-2013) The two applied methods proved robust and representative. The evolution of the core-document network represents the general tendency of shifts in topic, authors and application in an adequate manner. This gives also evidence that Hirsch-type indices have become a tool that is used also outside the informetric community.
Decreasing diversity in Japanese science, evidence from in-depth analyses of science maps We also demonstrated that the Sci-GEO chart well represented the funding characteristics and strategy of two major competitive funding agencies in Japan, and the chart provides policymakers and government officials with baseline information for the planning of science and technology policy. Overall, we found that the indicators obtained by science maps and the Sci-GEO chart provide policymakers and government officials with common baseline information for policy discussions and help to organise and develop their ideas on the current situation of science and technology in Japan.
Evaluation of the quality of scientific performance of the selected countries of Southeast Europe The proposed method based on the defined procedure of SPQL level calculation seems to be promising and it certainly needs some further confirmation and adjustment of the application conditions in order to provide more reliable and less uncertain results.
The structure and comparative advantages of China's scientific research: quantitative and qualitative perspectives China has witnessed an impressive growth in S&T in the past decade. The sharp increase in the number of English-language publications and the decrease in Chinese-language publications indicate the rising visibility of research output from China. Hence future research is encouraged to test this hypothesis and evaluate Chinese science based on both citations (which Chinese researchers produced) and journal impact factors (where Chinese researchers published).
High time for a common plagiarism detection system This would greatly benefit the scientific community and science in general.
Fractional authorship in nuclear physics A complementary criterion of fractional authorship helps to remedy this issue and improves the metrics.
Social Network Analysis of 50 Years of International Collaboration in the Research of Educational Technology This work investigates international collaboration in the research of educational technology over the past 50 years.
The research of water use in Spain Public resources are more focused on the study of water quality than the study of irrigation and its use in agriculture.
Highly-cited papers in software engineering: The top-100 It is concluded that it is important to identify the highly-cited SE papers and also to characterize the overall citation landscape in the SE field. We hope that this paper will encourage further discussions in the SE community towards further analysis and formal characterization of the highly-cited SE papers.
Hirsch Index Value and Variability Related to General Surgery in a UK Deanery h-Index is a valid GS research productivity metric with over half of consultants performing at levels equivalent to social science Senior Lecturers. The findings of this study suggest that the use of the h-index provides a more robust measure of a surgeon's academic profile than tradi-tional bibliometrics. It is evident that the level of published scholarly activity among General Surgeons is high, with h-indices equivalent to or above that of a Social Sciences Senior Lecturer (2.29) and Professor (4.97) in 57% and 40% of consultants.
The invariant distribution of references in scientific articles These results provide insight into the different roles citations have in the scholarly communi- cation process.
Updating the SCImago journal and country rank classification: A new approach using Ward's clustering and alternative combination of citation measures This novel proposal has emerged as a solid method to refine and update the SJR journal classification system for several reasons, as follows.
When are readership counts as useful as citation counts? Scopus versus Mendeley for LIS journals The results suggest that LIS articles tend to attract more Mendeley readers than citations initially but that the situation reverses after about 7 years.
A new approach to the QS university ranking using the composite I-distance indicator: Uncertainty and sensitivity analyses It leads to the improved stability and reduced uncertainty of the QS ranking system.
Tweets as impact indicators: Examining the implications of automated "bot" accounts on Twitter The fact that the automated accounts identified in this study account for 9% of tweets to 2012 arXiv submissions subsequently published in journals indexed in WoS is alarm-ing, given the growing trend by scholars (Piwowar & Priem, 2013) and funding agencies to utilize social media metrics as indicators of societal impact. Future research should seek to quantify the number of tweets to scientific articles distributed by human, cyborg, and bot accounts. Although this work has focused exclusively on a single social media platform and preprint repository, it should illustrate the potential of gaming on social media platforms to systematically bias the evaluation of science.
Statistical modelling of citation exchange between statistics journals Explicit statistical modelling of citation data has two important merits: first, transparency, since model assumptions need to be clearly stated and can be assessed through standard diagnostic tools; secondly, the evaluation and reporting of uncertainty in statistical models can be based on well-established methods. Our analyses conclude that many of the apparent differences between estimated export scores are insignificant, and thus differences in journal ranks are often not reliable. The clear difficulty of discriminating between journals on the basis of citation data is further evidence that the use of journal rankings for evaluation of individual researchers will often—and perhaps always—be inappropriate.
Associations between resident physicians' publications and clinical performance during residency training This study showed that numbers of journal publications by residents were positively associated with their clinical performance assessment scores during residency train-ing.
What Knowledge of Responsible Conduct of Research Do Undergraduates Bring to Their Undergraduate Research Experiences? In this study we have shown that participation in research ethics training workshops appears to be an effective mechanism for providing undergraduates with much-needed content knowledge concerning research ethics as evidenced by students’ ability to define key research ethics terms.
A New Method for Identifying Recombinations of Existing Knowledge Associated with High-Impact Innovation Our results show that the propensity for high impact work is sharply elevated when combinations of prior work are anchored in substantial conventionality, while mixing in a left tail of combinations that are rarely seen together.
Pancreatitis: Global Research Activities and Gender Imbalances A Scientometric Approach Using Density-Equalizing Mapping For the benefit of scientific progress, more countries with considerable numbers of patients should contribute to international collaborations and female researchers should be encouraged and supported.
Pediatric Academic Productivity: Pediatric Benchmarks for the h- and g-Indices Mean h-indices increased with academic rank and were not significantly different across the pediatric specialties.
Evaluation by Citation: Trends in Publication Behavior, Evaluation Criteria, and the Strive for High Impact Publications Given the predicted behavior is followed in most of the cases, and there is a realistic case for why these changes occurred, it is not unreasonable to link the observed changes in publication behavior to a change in evaluation criteria, which is also not out-of-line with what commonsense would predict. These findings combined with those of other researchers, for instance the link between high impact publications and hot topics (Moustafa 2014), lead to the conclusion that evaluation criteria act as switchmen, determining the tracks along which scholarly work is pushed by the dynamic of interests of both scholars and their institutions. An interesting future research opportunity would be to compare how these trends differ between fields.
The Scientometric Bubble Considered Harmful The scientometric bubble is unethical and harmful for science. We adhere to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment when it emphasizes "the need to eliminate the use of journal-based metrics, such as Journal IFs, in funding, appointment and promotion considerations; the need to assess research on its own merits rather than on the basis of the journal in which the research is published". Assessing the quality of scientific publications requires human judgment. This judgment can be assisted, but not replaced, by objective measurements.
Chinese Academic Assessment and Incentive System This phenomenon will not be deterred until a reasonable ad-justment of the academic assessment system is carried out.
The Impact of Publishing During PhD Studies on Career Research Publication, Visibility, and Collaborations The results of this study highlight the relevance of publishing during PhD studies for a scientific career.
Performance-based funding and university research productivity: the moderating effect of university legitimacy Consistent with prior literature, we find that the introduction of the PRFS positively stimulates research productivity of universities.
Agent-based model for the h-index - exact solution This result not only completes the work conducted by Ionescu and Chopard, but also gives a perspective for a better insight into the citation process.
Are Overall Journal Rankings a Good Mapping for Article Quality in Specialty Fields? We find that the overall journal ranking provides a considerably good mapping for the article quality in specialty fields and that the current practice of using overall journal rankings to measure scholars' relative research productivity (in general) does not exhibit a downward bias toward researchers in specialty fields.
Knowledge map of Latin American research on management: Trends and future advancement Finally, we address possible strategies for future development of the management discipline in LAC.
The Research Contributions of Editorial Board Members in Library and Information Science Board members' experiences with research and publishing influence the expertise and expectations they bring to their work as reviewers. This analysis confirms the strong correlation between journal impact (citedness) and the median number of articles written by board members. Further research might allow us to evaluate disciplinary differences in board productivity, to identify the factors other than research experience that influence the selection of board members in each discipline, and to determine the extent to which board members who are less active in research bring uniquely valuable skills in other areas.
How Much Are PhD Students Publishing before Graduation?: An Examination of Four Social Science Disciplines We believe that this study provides students and their advisors with information that will serve as a gauge or reference point to help them set aggressive but realistic publishing goals as they proceed through their PhD programs.
What We Still Don't Know About Peer Review This lack of integration among the methodological approaches to PRP results in a partial comprehension of this important process, which determines the production and dissemination of an important part of scientific knowledge.
On full text download and citation distributions in scientific-scholarly journals Usage and citation leaks, bulk downloading, differences between reader and author populations in a subject field, the type of document or its content, differences in obsolescence patterns between downloads and citations, and different functions of reading and citing in the research process all provide possible explanations of differences between download and citation distributions.
Sleeping beauties in genius work: When were they awakened? Genius work are articles whose citations exponentially increase over a long period, for example, over 50 years. Hence, recognition of genius work is delayed. Empirical analysis revealed that the awakening period depends on the increase rate b in the exponential function. Additionally, a lower b leads to a longer sleeping period. The awakening period of sleeping beauties under the new criteria are significantly delayed, compared with van Raan's criteria.
A new approach for main path analysis: Decay in knowledge diffusion We have introduced here the concept of knowledge decay in main path analysis. The new decay approach is closer to real-world situations and therefore finds more reasonable main paths. Second, this study provides a methodological formulation and highlights the properties of the new approach, thus providing a sound basis for further development of main path analysis.
ARWU ranking uncertainty and sensitivity: What if the award factor was Excluded? The results indicate that if the ARWU ranking is reduced to the 4-indicator Alternative Ranking, it shows greater certainty and stability in ranking universities.
A comparison of citation distributions of journals and books on the topic "information society" From the results of the present study, it may be concluded that there is a strong association between the number of citations in journals and books.
The first cut is the deepest: repeated interactions of coauthorship and academic productivity in Nobel laureate teams The results reported here suggest that the advantages and costs of ongoing collaboration should be carefully weighed because, from a creativity viewpoint, collaborations have an expiration date, even for Nobel laureates.
Intellectual structure in stem cell research: exploring Brazilian scientific articles from 2001 to 2010 The progress in Brazilian stem cell research likely results from a combination of a federal law established in the 2000's, which regulates stem cell use and research, and the growth of Brazilian science. The results indicated that Brazilian stem cell research is structured in a diverse and interdisciplinary literature that is revealed by the eight clusters presented in Fig. 1. These findings also point to two primary research focuses: research with stem cell, which is oriented towards the clinical use of stem cells for the treatment of different diseases and research on stem cells, which is focused on elucidating the processes of cell differentiation and regeneration.
A comparison of two ways of evaluating research units working in different scientific fields The differences in production and citation practices between the scientific fields distinguished in any classification system generates a grave aggregation problem when one is interested in evaluating the citation impact of a set of research units in the all-sciences case.
Citation analysis and mapping of nanoscience and nanotechnology: identifying the scope and interdisciplinarity of research Some measurable levels of interdisciplinarity exist in all groups. However, one of the groups indicated that certain categories of both citing as well as cited articles aggregate mostly in the framework of physics, chemistry, and materials. This may suggest that the nanosciences show characteristics of a distinct discipline.
Interdisciplinary topics of information science: a study based on the terms interdisciplinarity index series In this study, the TI index series is proposed to discover the interdisciplinary topic terms.
Funding allocation, inequality, and scientific research output: an empirical study based on the life science sector of Natural Science Foundation of China This paper examined the level of inequality in research project funding resource allocation and its impact on the scientific research activity output based on empirical data from the National Natural Science Foundation of China covering the 11th Five-Year-Plan period (2006–2010) in the life sciences field.
Science linkages between scientific articles and patents for leading scientists in the life and medical sciences field: the case of Japan First, the expected value of the paper-paper citations lag (4 years) is shorter than the corresponding value for paper-patent citations (6 years), while the lag of paper-patent citations has fallen in recent years (H1).
Normalizing the g-index We conclude that gn is Schur-convex, i.e. a good normalized measure of impact and concentration in the class of citation vectors satisfying the basic conditions (1)–(2).
Three novel indirect indicators for the assessment of papers and authors based on generations of citations In this paper, we presented three new indirect indicators that can be used for scientific evaluation. We have also demonstrated that the indicators can be used to distinguish between authors with similar publication records but different scientific age spans. More investigation into the applications of the indicators to real citation data, while considering different citation depths and varying number of papers included in the Publication Record of an author, should better reveal the strengths and possible weaknesses of the proposed indicators.
Complex systems approach to scientific publication and peer-review system: development of an agent-based model calibrated with empirical journal data Our ABM mimics the properties and functions and addresses different scenarios of behavior and interactions in the scientific publication system.
Global research trends of geographical information system from 1961 to 2010: a bibliometric analysis Our analysis suggests that there has been substantial growth in scientific output from GIS studies: the annual growth rate was 63.7 %.
Adding authorship order to the quantity and quality dimensions of scholarly productivity: evidence from group- and individual-level analyses Research on program and individual accomplishments in criminology and criminal justice has relied nearly exclusively on simple counts of total publications. What the results of the current study suggest is that the total publications criterion measure is less correlated with research preeminence than first author publications.
Google Scholar, Scopus and the Web of Science: a longitudinal and cross-disciplinary comparison Our longitudinal analysis showed a consistent and reasonably stable quarterly growth for both publications and citations across the three databases. This suggests that all three databases provide sufficient stability of coverage to be used for more detailed cross-disciplinary comparisons.
Ranking scientific publications with similarity-preferential mechanism We find that the new method can not only significantly improve the robustness of the resultant ranking, but also have outstanding effectiveness with respect to identifying the influential papers and predicting the future citation growth.
Data collection and use in research funding and performing organisations. General outlines and first results of a project launched by Science Europe On the basis of the results and the discussion among the work strand members and within the WG, we draw a preliminary set of conclusions to produce guidance on relevant topics, including researcher and funding identification, potential, properties and limitations of data and indicators that are used in the context of measurement of research output and its assessment, classification systems used in sciences systems including their various types and issues of availability, confidentiality and harmonisation of data and indicators.
Data integration in Scandinavia Well integrated and structured research information systems on the institutional or national level are being developed for several purposes, including local management and national funding. The strength of these systems is connected to the completeness of bibliographical records, the automatic disambiguation of authors/persons and addresses/affiliations, and the possibility of thereby to connect with other data describing the researchers, their institutions and resources, and the outcomes of their research. It still remains to make this type of data comparable across countries, but recent developments in Scandinavia are pointing in this direction.
International publication trends and collaboration performance of China in healthcare science and services research This study shows the publication trends, collaboration patterns and research foci of HSS research in China form multiple perspectives and levels. These findings could help scholars and decision-makers understand the current status and likely future trends of the Chinese HSS research, and help them select the most appropriate collaboration partners and policies.
IN TANDEM OR OUT OF SYNC? ACADEMIC ECONOMICS RESEARCH AND PUBLIC POLICY MEASURES First, that economic discussion of key public policy terms, in the short run, does move in a correlative way with (often lagged) empirical measurements of the terms themselves.
Knowledge structure and theme trends analysis on general practitioner research: A Co-word perspective The research themes on GPs are relatively stable at the beginning of the 21st century.
Atlas of scientific institutions in food science (Scopus, 2003-2013) Using various bibliometric indicators of impact, this work has characterized the research performance of 645 institutions worldwide with production in Scopus's Food Science thematic category. These indicators provided a global panorama of this research production. The results presented here do not prejudge future findings, but they do contribute to the description of the spatial distribution of scientific output in FS at a global, national, regional, and city level.
The dynamics of Brazilian protozoology over the past century The analysis of the dynamics of Brazilian protozoology over the past century based on database searches from 1987-2011 allowed us to track and identify scientists who made important contributions by acting as the pioneers of this field.
Top-cited articles in digestive system disease from 1950 to 2013 Our study can give a historical perspective on the scientific progress of digestive diseases, as well as allow for recognition of most important advances in this area and provide useful information to guide future researches.
Alternative metric indicators for funding scheme evaluations A few selected alternative indicators can be used by funding agencies as part of their funding scheme evaluations if they are processed in ways that enable comparisons between data sets. Their evidence value is only weak, however.
Efficacy of a giant component in co-authorship networks Evidence from a Southeast Asian dataset in economics Although the network is sparse, the GC captured a large percentage of the most prolific authors. The study suggests that GCs in co-authorship are indeed not just the largest lump of connected nodes; rather they may represent, irrespective of their size or sparseness, the very seat or nucleus of intellectual activity in the community. Our results also show that it is the productive authors who are resident in the GC, and who are also better connected than the other authors in the entire network.
Assessing the enduring impact of influential papers This paper suggests a new and extended influence measure to assess the relative long-term importance and enduring impact of a paper.
Conceptualization of science using collaboration and competences Specifically, conceptualization of science based on collaboration reveals the most important researchers in a topic, nodes and links that connect the community, clusters and interdisciplinarity of the community, and also reveals the actual research interests of researchers.
Effect of gender on collaborative associations of researchers in Malaysia The study found that there indeed was positive assortativity, meaning that more authors preferred to co-author with authors of similar gender. No influence of gender was seen on the social capital of authors. However, gender did significantly influence the number of publications of authors.
The Impact of National Institutes of Health Funding on Scholarly Productivity in Academic Plastic Surgery A strong relationship exists between scholarly impact and the procurement of NIH funding.
Retracted Publications Within Radiology Journals Retraction represents an uncommon, yet potentially increasing, issue within radiology journals that publishers have inconsistently and insufficiently addressed. Greater awareness and training in proper biomedical research conduct, as well as establishment and enforcement of standardized publishers' policies, are warranted.
Longitudinal Analysis of Mechanism and Machine Theory: Geospatial Productivity, Journal Citation Networks, and Researcher Communities This research presents a longitudinal analysis of MMT field through bibliometrics from 1981 to 2011 from three perspectives: geospatial analysis of research productivity, citation network analysis of journals, and top researchers with research communities. These analyses can show the evolution of a research field and reveal the trend of the transition of dominating countries, regions, and researchers, the citation relation between core and related journals, and the research topics. The analysis of top researchers focuses on the most productive authors in MMT field. By knowing the countries of the researchers’ affiliated institutions can reveal the hot research topics and the leading countries in the field.
Academic Productivity of Neurosurgeons Working in the United Kingdom: Insights from the H-Index and Its Variants In this project we provide the most up-to-date and robust picture of academic productivity of all neurosurgeons working in a single country. The differences across academic rank, higher degree status, and university ranking demonstrate an internal validity for the metrics in our studied cohort. Our use of a wide range of h-index variants has provided a more comprehensive insight into the productivity status of neurosurgeons working in the United Kingdom.
A ranking of journals for the aspiring health economist The hope is that presenting these journals in one place, using popular and established journal ranking metrics, will result in a useful guide for health economic researchers as they seek to disseminate their work. Specifically, the metrics allows scores from different journals in different fields to be compared in an 'apples-to-apples' fashion; an attribute not found in competing metrics such as the h-index. Several topics for future research are evident.
How Social Networks Affect Scientific Performance: Evidence from a National Survey of Chinese Scientists Our results strongly support the hypothesis that different types of contacts in one's discussion network have differential impacts on the ego scientist's performance across multiple dimensions.
JTPE: A 30-Year Retrospective of Published Research Overall, the implications of this study indicated that JTPE is a valuable resource within physical education, as it provides findings for improving physical education practice. In closing, the authors of this study believe that these types of examinations are necessary to provide a retrospective view of the emergent research within the field. This research should be conducted in an effort to better recognize where we have been, where we hope to go, and how we will make our research journals the most effective avenue for the publication of research literature.
Academic productivity of French radiology residents: Where do we stand? Academic productivity of French radiology residents is high thanks to published theses and other articles.
Author Self-Citation in the Otolaryngology Literature: A Pilot Study Author self-citation in the otolaryngology literature is common, occurring in roughly two-thirds of articles.
The top 100 most cited scientific reports focused on diabetes research The most influential report in diabetes research seems to be RCT, which is performed to confirm the effectiveness and outcome of anti-diabetes drugs in patients with diabetes.
SimCC: A novel method to consider both content and citations for computing similarity of scientific papers In this paper, we proposed a novel method called SimCC that effectively considers both content and citations to compute the similarity of scientific papers.
Evaluating research: A multidisciplinary approach to assessing research practice and quality From a multidisciplinary perspective, a comprehensive quality model including 32 concepts, based on four main areas (Credible, Contributory, Communicable and Conforming) was developed for describing the main content of the quality of research practice. The quality model may be used as the structure for the further development of relevant elements, weights and operationalizations related to the quality of research practice in different academic fields. In sum, our model is expected to help us to represent and understand the criteria for high quality research in a more consistent manner.
A triple helix model of medical innovation: Supply, demand, and technological capabilities in terms of Medical Subject Headings As such, this important triple-interaction represents a key feature, one that is missed by linear and two-dimensional (e.g. supply-demand) models, that should not be neglected by theories and policies developed in contexts where technological capabilities are essential. From a governance perspective, such an indicator assumes even more importance considering its potential of informing the policy-making process about innovation uncertainty. Our study presents some limitations that are worth discussing. First, we measured uncertainty in terms of mutual information between supply, demand, and technological capabilities. Yet, different forms of uncertainty exist and these can be associated with different levels of 'ignorance' (Stirling, 2007) and hidden variables (i.e. additional dimensions). Future studies could further explore on the link between different forms of uncertainty and their operationalization.
The role of research efficiency in the evolution of scientific productivity and impact: An agent-based model Our simulation experiments revealed that the work efficiency strongly affects agents' academic outputs and impacts under a wide variety of conditions.
Perspectives on the Global Disparity in Ecological Science "Our overarching finding is that (a) the representation of researchers from low HDI countries declines dramatically with increasing journal profile and editorial involvement and (b) scientific-development factors other than GDP, specifically investment in research, are especially important for enhanced publication rates in low HDI countries."
The Privilege and Burden of Peer Review Ethnic minority reviewers were significantly less likely to refuse a review request than ethnic majority reviewers.
Costly collaborations: The impact of scientific fraud on co-authors' careers Our results show that scientific fraud in the biomedical field is not only harmful to science as a whole and, at the individual level, to the fraudulent scientist, but also to the innocent scientists whose only fault might have been choosing to work with the wrong colleague.
Contributions of chinese authors in PLOS ONE Using the odds-ratio, we could not find arguments that Chinese authors in PLOS ONE excessively cite other Chinese contributions.
Can Amazon.com reviews help to assess the wider impacts of books? Based on 2,739 BKCI-indexed monographs published in 2008, there were statistically significant but weak correlations between Amazon review-based metrics and citation counts across the social sciences, arts and humanities, and science and medicine, despite 71% of the books having no Amazon reviews.
The congruity between linkage-based factors and content-based clustersan experimental study using multiple document corpora We provide empirical evidence that shows the relatedness relationship denoted by documents’ cocitation linkage is consistent with the similarity relationship derived from the content of these documents. Our study shows moderate congruence between linkage-derived (factor-ascribed) document clusters and content-decided document clusters, which suggests that relatedness implies similarity. The congruity between the linkage-based factors and content-based clusters affords novel support for traditional citation-based bibliographical analytical methods.
Enhanced self-citation detection by fuzzy author name matching and complementary error estimates I presented common and improved self-citation identification methods and evaluated them against ground truth data. It was found that the most basic method, using author surname and initial, misses some 2.6% of AASC. I provide exemplary evidence that employing more thorough self-citation identification can lead to a signifi-cantly higher self-citation rate in clinical medicine.
Dimensions and uncertainties of author citation rankings: Lessons learned from frequency-weighted in-text citation counting Our findings regarding the variability of author rankings by different weighing schemes are devastating.
A bibliometric and network analysis of the field of computational linguistics In this paper we statistically analyzed three networks composed from the citations between papers found in the ACL Anthology.
The operationalization of "fields" as WoS subject categories (WCs) in evaluative bibliometrics: The cases of "library and information science" and "science & technology studies" We showed the possible problems by providing two examples of the journal sets with which we are most familiar: one discipline that is attributed a WC ("information science & library science") and one specialty (STS) that is not attributed a WC. In both cases, normalizations using these categories might seriously harm the quality of the evaluation. In summary, opening the metaphor of "best practices" to the challenge of "best pos-sible practices” may provide us with new research perspec-tives (e.g., Butler, 2010; Colliander, in press).
The impact of research funding on scientific outputs: Evidence from six smaller European countries The results presented in the paper provide insights for the design of research programs and the structure of research funding and for the behavior and strategies of research and sponsoring organizations.
Research assessment based on infrequent achievements: A comparison of the United States and Europe in terms of highly cited papers and Nobel Prizes The high-citation tail of citation distribution was revealed as an excellent source of information about the production of new knowledge by countries and research institutions.
Journal portfolio analysis for countries, cities, and organizations: Maps and comparisons Using the matrix of 43 (leading) countries versus journals, we found a remarkably strong divide between advanced and less-developed nations. Among both nations and cities, Israel scored highest on diversity in the portfolios. At the methodological level, we noted that instruments that serve the grouping (such as cosine-normalization and factor analysis) can be counter-productive when one aims at visualizing the variation that is unique to each case.
Interdisciplinarity as Academic Accountability: Prospects for Quality Control Across Disciplinary Boundaries This paper has investigated epistemic accountabilities across disciplines by drawing on the literature on interdisciplinarity and science policy as well as on empirical studies conducted in a national research funder in Finland.
Why do peer reviewers decline to review manuscripts? A study of reviewer invitation responses The study illustrates a simple way of enabling an editorial office to analyse reviewer invitation responses as a first step towards improving invitation acceptance rates.
Peer review in megajournals compared with traditional scholarly journals: Does it make a difference? Too many conclusions cannot be drawn from our very limited convenience sample. If in fact the outcome of this new type or peer review, leaving judgement of relevance to the readers to determine, does not make much difference to impact or citation, this could have big consequences for how peer review evolves in the future.
The JBJS Peer-Review Scoring Scale: A valid, reliable instrument for measuring the quality of peer review reports In conclusion, 10 of the 11 manuscripts had high ICCs, demonstrating excellent agreement across Deputy Editors in grading individual peer reviews of manuscripts using the JBJS Peer-Review Scoring Scale.
Chinese researchers, scholarly communication behaviour and trust Overall, it seems that not much has changed in the scholarly world despite huge digital disruptions. From a trustworthiness perspective, peer-reviewed journals are still king in the digital age and social media are little more than a bit player. Overall, then, no signs of a move towards Open Science/Web 2.0, with Chinese researchers seemingly wedded, perhaps, chained, to the traditional system and time-honoured ways of doing things. A little like their international colleagues.
Rewarding reviewers - sense or sensibility? A Wiley study explained Returning to the three primary statements outlined at the beginning of this article, we have the following: A need to increase the reviewer pool; A need to ensure reviewers in that pool are well trained, trustworthy, and produce good quality reviews; A need to find ways to reward reviewers in order to recognise their work and maintain motivation. A set of universally agreed reviewer competencies, with some variation at subject level, could provide the basis for both a training framework and ongoing measurement and evaluation of reviewer quality. Further collaboration could greatly facilitate progress on this issue also.
Early adopters of ORCID functionality enabling recognition of peer review: Two brief case studies These two case studies are late-stage prototypes and demonstrate functionality and user experience. As more researchers connect their ID during the review process, more citations will be enabled, supporting improved recognition for peer review in the AGU and F1000 communities. Educating researchers about opportunities for peer review citation and recognition, encouraging them to use their ID, or register for one if they have not already obtained so, and making the citation process as quick and seamless as possible, will be critical to gaining widespread adoption of this functionality.
The Effect of Self-Citations on the Hirsch Index Among Full-Time Academic Hand Surgeons The rate of self-citation among full-time academic hand surgeons affiliated with fellowship programs is fairly low.
Evolution and convergence of the patterns of international scientific collaboration Overall, this study shows, to our knowledge for the first time, the evolution of the patterns of international scientific collaboration starting from initial results described by literature in the 1970s and 1990s. We find a conver-gence of these long-run collaboration patterns between the applied and basic sciences. This convergence might be one of contributing factors that supports the evolution of modern scientific fields.
Nearing world-class: Singapore's two universities in QSWUR 2015/16 These indicate that the computed Overall result is not what the ranker intended it to be and needs re- interpretation.
Ten-Year Publication Trajectories of Health Services Research Career Development Award Recipients: Collaboration, Awardee Characteristics, and Productivity Correlates Career development awards are intended to support a scientist’s career and enhance his or her contributions to a scientific field; in this case, to improve the delivery of health care services. Career development award recipients generally follow consistent or increasing trajectories in publishing major journal articles, suggesting that the awards support researchers who contrib-ute substantially to scientific knowledge in HSR. Future research should investigate the reasons why some awardees publish at higher rates than oth-ers and the strength of these associations.
Authorship policies of scientific journals In conclusion, our findings strengthen the argument in favour of scientific journals adopting or developing clear and compre- hensive authorship guidelines to promote integrity in research.
The labor market return to academic fraud Academic fraud is ubiquitous and, based on our findings, it does constitute a serious economic problem.
National representation in the spine literature: a bibliometric analysis of highly cited spine journals The majority of the spine articles are published by authors from high-income countries while few publications from low-income countries.
Equal contributions and credit: an emerging trend in the characterization of authorship in major spine journals during a 10-year period The practice of ECA in original research articles is increasingly common in major spine journals.
From idea to publication: Publication rates of theses in neurosurgery from Turkey Publication rates of theses in neurosurgery are low as they are in the other specialties of medicine. Our study is a descriptive research, to give an idea about only publication rates of theses in neurosurgery. Further studies are required to understand the underlying factors, which are responsible for the limited success in publication of theses in neurosurgery.
Citation count prediction as a link prediction problem Our experiments show that the new feature performs better than ten state-of-the-art features in the classification task.
Peer review motivation frames: A qualitative approach According to the motivation frame applied, the current research results show differences in how reviewers perceive both the review process and the benefits of reviewing.
Productivity pay-offs from academic mobility: should I stay or should I go? Our results point to a complex interaction between job mobility and productivity, which only in certain circum-stances might result in a positive impact of the former on the latter.
SUBMISSION DEMAND IN CORE ECONOMICS JOURNALS: A PANEL STUDY Although submission fee appeared to deter manuscript submissions (probably of lower quality) a little bit, we found economists overall were not price elastic with respect to changes in manuscript submission fee.
QUANTIFYING THE LIFE CYCLE OF SCHOLARLY ARTICLES ACROSS FIELDS OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH Even though citation counts are an extremely valuable tool for measuring academic articles’ importance, we believe that the patterns observed for the life cycles of papers across fields of research support the “field-dependent factors” critique in economics.
Influential publications in ecological economics revisited Its themes and publication patterns have changed dramatically over that period, but it has retained its commitment over three editors, to being a unique venue for research that transcends disciplinary boundaries. We hope that the analysis of past patterns of publication in this paper can help future editors and authors to develop priorities for the future.
The European research elite: a cross-national study of highly productive academics in 11 countries The role of highly productive academics in knowledge production across all 11 European systems studied is pivotal: Without these 10 % of academics, national academic outputs would be halved. The European research elite is a highly homogeneous group of academics whose high research performance is driven by structurally similar factors which cannot be easily replicated through policy measures. Therefore, based on the combination of inferential and multiple regression findings, European research top performers emerge in this study as much more cosmopolitan (the power of internationalization in research), much more hardworking (the power of long overall working hours and long research hours), and much more research-oriented (the power of a single academic focus) than the rest of European academics, despite differentiated national contexts.
On the LASERs bibliometric indicators In this study, we report the research impact of the laser developments by using meaningly bibliometric parameters, generally applied by the scientific community.
An Institutional Postdoctoral Research Training Program: Increasing Productivity of Postdoctoral Trainees Postdoctoral program changes designed to increase postdoctoral publication rates can be successful.
How to Rank Journals We contend that have designed a more objective and intuitive way than has been previously available to reflect a composite of relative citation-based ranks from within and among specific research disciplines, by using a logical combination of metrics that speak to different aspects of journal caliber.
Policy and innovation: Nanoenergy technology in the USA and China Our study can guide future endeavors of the USA in nanoenergy.
Examining cross-disciplinary communication's impact on multidisciplinary collaborations: implications for innovations This work contributes to the literature on networked research organization as it developed a new framework to study the mechanism of the networked research by analysing complex relationships between factors at the organizational, project, and individual levels.
Credential Privilege or Cumulative Advantage? Prestige, Productivity, and Placement in the Academic Sociology Job Market Nevertheless, with the data we do have, we find an enormous association between PhD institution and placement in the set of jobs we consider. While our results make clear the uphill road faced by candidates from lower-prestige institutions, we disagree that a “caste system" offers a good way to think about this disadvantage. The evidence is more consistent with the conventional view that, to the extent PhD prestige directly causes placement differences, it is primarily due to faculty using institu-tional affiliations as a cue for quality.
External Influence as an Indicator of Scholarly Importance Our analysis of the number of Google and Bing web page counts of 723 economics scholars reveals only a low correlation between internal and external influence.
Open access to journal articles in dentistry: Prevalence and citation impact In the field of dentistry, 54% of recent journal articles are behind the paywall (non-OA) one year after their publication dates.
China and the United States-Global partners, competitors and collaborators in nanotechnology development From the above comparisons in the nanotechnology-related fields between China and USA, we found that the two countries have their own advantages and disadvantages in nanotechnology R&D. USA obtained more knowledge and experiences in nanotechnology development, while China is still a new competitor in this field and has a long way to go to develop nanotechnology. There are several issues that China needs to take action: (1) The mismatch between China's high number of publications and their low citations, which may be partially due to the impatient research environment where people pursuit quantity and impact factor instead of the quality of publications.
Current state of open access to journal publications from the University of Zagreb School of Medicine The overall proportion of OA in our study is higher than in similar studies, but only half of gold OA papers are accessible via PubMed directly. The results of our study indicate that increased quality of metadata and linking of the bibliographic records to full texts could assure better visibility. We believe that UZSM should consider mandating all faculty members to deposit their publications in UZSM OA repository to increase visibility and improve access to its scientific output.
The advantage of simple paper abstracts These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the style in which a paper's abstract is written bears some relation to its scientific impact.
An index for SSRN downloads Logs of the numbers of downloads – not the numbers of downloads – are a natural measure. And this is essentially our key observation.
A methodology to measure the effectiveness of academic recruitment and turnover The indicators presented can be used by the universities for ex-post monitoring and evaluation of their own processes of recruitment and turnover, as objectives measures of their effectiveness.
Expected number of citations and the crown indicator Every bibliometric indicator is flawed and the computational simplicity of M1 is important. Nevertheless, for the purposes of research performance assessment, one should be aware that M1 disadvantages researchers working in lower citation fields while benefiting researchers working in high citation fields.
National, disciplinary and temporal variations in the extent to which articles with more authors have more impact: Evidence from a geometric field normalised citation indicator The results confirm that domestic collaboration associates with more highly cited research overall, and that adding a second author to a study makes a much larger difference than each subsequent additional co-author.
Normalization of Mendeley reader counts for impact assessment In this study, we have proposed a method for the normalization of Mendeley reader counts that is based on an established method of normalization for citation counts.
Evaluating the patenting activities of pharmaceutical research organizations based on new technology indices The new proposed indices in this study are expected to contribute to the evaluation of the patenting activities of R&D organizations from various perspectives.
Interrelations among scientific fields and their relative influences revealed by an input-output analysis "In this paper we developed a method of closed-system input-output analysis and used it to study influences between subfields of physics using APS publication data."
Availability of digital object identifiers (DOIs) in Web of Science and Scopus For citable documents (articles, reviews and proceedings papers) the percentage of items with a DOI already reached 90% for the Sciences and the Social Sciences in 2014, both of them showing very similar numbers and trends. The compiled list of journals containing items (citable articles and articles) that still lack DOIs in 2014, should be alarming for the corresponding editors and encourage them to enhance the formal quality and visibility of their journals, and the sooner the better. Finally, scientists are also encouraged to review their publication strategies and to favour publication channels with established DOI assignment.
The precision of the arithmetic mean, geometric mean and percentiles for citation data: An experimental simulation modelling approach The results of the citation modelling based upon the discretised lognormal distribution show that the geometric mean is the most precise, the proportion of a nation's articles in the top 50% is almost as precise and that the proportion of a nation's articles in the top 1% is by far the least precise, at least under the assumption that the countries compared and the overall sample have the same standard deviation parameter.
Visualizing the intellectual structure of information science (2006-2015): Introducing author keyword coupling analysis This article introduced the AKCA method for analyzing the intellectual structure of a field and compared it with the ABCA method, particularly in terms of first- and all-author coupling.
Drivers of academic performance in a Brazilian university under a government-restructuring program Our study is a first step to explain scientific production in a relatively young federal university in Brazil after substantial recent expansion. The new faculty members hired by the University tend to have higher production, and the main explanation for this is a good formation (in terms of learning how to publish or being involved in productive research groups). These correlates of scientific production provide guidelines for policy and management in universities, including criteria for balancing research and teaching loads, awarding fellowships and research grants, designing new policy for future hiring and creation of new graduate programs.
A comprehensive examination of the relation of three citation-based journal metrics to expert judgment of journal quality Our results suggest that SNIP may be a better choice than RIP or JIF in evaluation of journal quality in situations where agreement with expert judgment is an important consideration. The fact that SNIP has a stronger agreement than RIP shows that the increase in agreement is due to the DCP normalization factor.
The museum of errors/horrors in Scopus This paper presented some typologies of weird errors/horrors of the Scopus database.
Ranking authors using fractional counting of citations: An axiomatic approach Our two main results both use six conditions.
Investigating the interplay between fundamentals of national research systems: Performance, investments and international collaborations In this work, we have characterized national research systems through three fundamental features: R&D investments, internationalization and bibliometric performance.
Selecting publication keywords for domain analysis in bibliometrics: A comparison of three methods The empirical study of DL in China shows that the TF-KAI method performed the best. Utilizing KAI with the support of a background corpus is a useful method to identify domain-specific keywords in bibliometric data. We believe that there is still room for improvement and we are looking for more appropriate methods in the following study.
Nondeterministic ranking of university departments We have provided an exercise to classify departments of Italian universities into groups that are statistically distinguishable from others.
Clustering by publication patterns of senior authors in the social sciences and humanities We conclude that diversity in SSH publication patterns cuts across disciplinary boundaries. Cluster analysis shows promise for application in research evaluation for the SSH.
The growth process of higher education institutions and public policies Our study added to the literature by introducing Gibrat's law into the universe of higher education and by showing that educational and research performance play a role in explaining a HEIs' relative growth rate as measured by total academic staff. The empirical results showed that Gibrat's law largely explains the growth process over the considered period of time and that the growth rate is not significantly dependent on size, with the exception of small HEIs. Our results also help to disentangle how the interaction between funding allocation mechanisms and cumulative processes determine the observed distribution of resources within higher education systems.
Excellence networks in science: A Web-based application based on Bayesian multilevel logistic regression (BMLR) for the identification of institutions collaborating successfully In this study we have presented an application which can be accessed via excellence-networks.net and which represents networks of scientific institutions worldwide. Applications of this kind which present a comprehensible visualization of complex data have grown in popularity over recent years: "Network and science-mapping visualizations have considerably enhanced the capacity to convey complex information to users."
The productivity of science & engineering PhD students hired from supervisors' networks We compared the scientific productivity of PhD students who are hired from a fine-grained set of mutually exclusive affiliation types: a PhD supervisor's affiliation, an external affiliation from which the supervisor derives her coauthors, and an external affiliation with which the supervisor has no coauthorship ties.
Number of papers published in English from the nursing departments of 42 national universities in Japan in the past ten years The number of papers published in English has increased over the past ten years, varied markedly depending on the universities and teachers, and many papers were published in Japanese journals. The results of the present study pro- vide a baseline for the long-term evaluation of English education in the future; we are planning to collect and publish data in 10, 20, and 30 years.
Network and perceptual determinants of satisfaction among science and engineering faculty in US research universities Conclusions present implications for university and departmental administrators.
Solving the Productivity and Impact Puzzle: Do Men Outperform Women, or are Metrics Biased? We suggest that the m(Q)-index would benefit all researchers because it provides a fairer evaluation of impact.
Trends in economics publications represented by JEL categories between 2007 and 2013 This article examines the publication shares of various research fields in economics between 2007 and 2013.
One size fits all? A different perspective on university rankings In this paper the aim was to contribute to the debate about university rankings by proposing an alternative way of looking at them.
Collaboration Networks in the Brazilian Scientific Output in Evolutionary Biology: 2000-2012 Scientific collaboration has achieved major importance over the last decades, becoming a strategic issue for planning and evaluating national and institutional scientific policies.
Publishing journal articles in Canadian geography Canadian geographers publish in a remarkable number and diversity of journals, which have increased markedly over the past 30 years.
Key Problems in Organizing and Structuring University Research in Vietnam: The Lack of an Effective Research "Behaviour Formalization" System In conclusion, as university research management is an under-explored research topic, this article helps to enrich this body of literature by presenting empirical findings of how research is structured and organized at four leading Vietnamese universities. These findings suggest that, at the four Vietnamese universities, even though research has been formally structured and organized, the management of research has not yet been professionalized. Apart from completing a number of the more visible tasks, the four universities appear to have neglected most of the less visible tasks in structuring and organizing research.
The Evaluation Scale: Exploring Decisions About Societal Impact in Peer Review Panels This study describes the range of tensions about assessing the value of the societal impact of research expressed by research evaluators prior to an evaluation process taking place.
The 'Negotiated Space' of University Researchers' Pursuit of a Research Agenda Our findings suggest that, whilst remaining important, university governance and funding organisations have a subtle, more nuanced and mediated – what we have called 'negotiated' – influence on research topic selection and research agenda formation than is often suggested. To conclude, the everyday research life of an academic researcher appears more uncertain, dynamic, fraught, opportunistic and negotiated over time, at least in the fields we addressed, than either extreme where, on the one hand, researchers can and do pursue only their favourite research agenda or where, on the other hand, their research agenda is completely controlled by external funders or university policy factors. Indeed, future research could address the coping strategies of individual researchers to navigate the complicated terrain of funding policy and university conditions that we have outlined.
BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF ESTONIAN FOLKLORE RESEARCH AND FOLKLORE: ELECTRONIC JOURNAL OF FOLKLORE Estonian folklore researchers are very active compared to their neighbors and they are remarkably visible amongst other big research countries from all over the world.
Scientific Collaboration in Chinese Nursing Research A Social Network Analysis Study In conclusion, further collaboration in the nursing field in China should be strengthened.
Evolutionary features of academic articles co-keyword network and keywords co-occurrence network: Based on two-mode affiliation network This paper proposed a method for determining trends in the literature and rapidly understanding the key ideas presented in a body of literature from a holistic perspective by examining the articles co-keyword relationships and keywords co-occurrence relationships.
A Study to Analyze Collaboration Patterns for Asian Library and Information Science (LIS) Scholars on Author, Institutional and Country Levels This study concludes that research productivity and collaboration among Asian countries are lower than developed countries.
Viticulture and oenology scientific research: The Old World versus the New World wine-producing countries This study provides an indication of the state of collaborative research between Old World and New World wine producing countries in the field of viticulture and enology based on the analysis of articles published in journals included in the SCIE. The results highlight the significant growth in the number of research papers published from 1994 to 2013. All countries have USA as the main country with which one collaborates with and, in second place, countries with which they bind through cultural or linguistic ties.
An examination of North American Library and Information Studies faculty perceptions of and experience with open-access scholarly publishing Thus, there exists a disconnect between proclaimed support for and actual engagement with open access. While there are a number of findings in this study that should give proponents of open access a sense of optimism, such as the fundamental belief that scholarly work should be considered a public good, this survey also highlights some of the deeper structural issues within the academy and the perceptions of LIS faculty around those structural issues that may inhibit greater participation in open-access publishing. Developing ways to respond to these issues at both the individual level among LIS faculty and the structural level within the academy will be important next steps for all in order to address what is perceived by most in this discipline to be an unsatisfactory current state of scholarly communication.
Research output and economic growth in G7 countries: new evidence from asymmetric panel causality testing The absence of a relationship between academic research output and economic growth could be attributed to the type of research conducted, the specific areas and research-result transmission, either as knowledge or skills, to the rest of the economy. For that reason, it is recommended that universities must provide commendable efforts to revitalize the relationship with growth by aligning their research with current industry needs. Adding to the explanation for the absence of a relationship between research output and economic growth is the lack of appropriate links between the 'knowledge' sector and the 'productive' industrial sector.
Measuring compliance with a Spanish Government open access mandate Two and one-half years after the implementation of this law, nearly 6 of every 10 articles resulting from projects funded by the Ministry of Science and Innovation were available in OA within 1 year of publication. This percentage of OA availability is higher than previously described in the literature (Björk et al., 2010; Gargouri et al., 2012b; Laakso & Björk, 2012; Laakso et al., 2011), but similar to that obtained by Archambault et al. (2013). A stronger mandate, more investment in researchers’ training and assistance, and incentives to publish OA would probably increase the rate of OA compliance.
A relational altmetric? Network centrality on ResearchGate as an indicator of scientific impact We conclude that a relational approach based on social network analyses of academic SNS, while subject to platform-specific dynamics, may add richness and differentiation to sci-entific impact assessment.
Bibliogifts in LibGen? A study of a text-sharing platform driven by biblioleaks and crowdsourcing The present study focused on the LibGen text-sharing platform hosting 25 million documents (42 terabytes in size). This collection contains 95% of educational materials, such as scientific articles, books, and textbooks. More research is needed to clarify the consequences of enjoying these bibliogifts. The availability of text-sharing platforms such as LibGen raises a variety of questions.
Guideline references and academic citations as evidence of the clinical value of health research The positive results undermine the need for specific guideline metrics because if articles are evaluated through their citations, then articles in CKS references will tend to be more highly cited and hence will tend to be rewarded even without singling out their applied value.
Comparing keywords plus of WOS and author keywords: A case study of patient adherence research Keywords Plus is as effective as Author Keywords in terms of bibliometric analysis investigating the knowledge structure of scientific fields, but it is less comprehensive in representing an article's content.
Does international collaboration yield a higher citation potential for US scientists publishing in highly visible interdisciplinary Journals? "It is clear that, statistically, American authors, in the sense of authors with an American address, directly submitting articles for publication in PNAS (and accepted, which in 2013 happened only for 18% of the published articles [Aldhous, 2014]) benefit in terms of received citations from international collaboration."
An Analysis of Altmetrics in Emergency Medicine This study is the first analysis of Altmetric scores for the top cited articles in EM. We demonstrated that there is a mild correlation between citation counts and Altmetric scores for the top papers in EM and other biomedical journals. We also demonstrated that there is a gap between the sharing of the top articles in EM journals and those related to EM in other biomedical journals. Future research to explore this relationship and its temporal trends will benefit the understanding of the reach and dissemination of EM research within the scientific community and society in general.
lA Survey of Social Science Journal Editors for Behind-the-Scenes Data on the Publication Process Overall the findings reported here suggest that social scientists can access information to help them understand the 'mysterious' process by which journal editors review manuscripts. In the end, the findings of this study provide useful, practical information for all social scientists seeking to navigate the publication process successfully. Mentors need to consider teaching these more practical aspects of the publication process to their mentees, in addition to more traditional aspects of publishing research.
Co-Authorship and Co-Citation Networks in the Agricultural Economics Literature: The Case of Central and Eastern Europe First, the majority of the articles were written by a small number of researchers, indicating that clusters and central authors play an important role in scientific progress.
Evolution and structure of scientific co-publishing network in Korea between 1948-2011 In this paper, the domestic collaboration network of Korea for the period of 1948–2011 was described and compared to other national and field-level coauthorship networks.
Another brick in the wall: a new ranking of academic journals in Economics using FDH First, the ranking based on the FDH method seems to be consistent with other well-known reference rankings (i.e.: KMS, Invariant, Ambitious and Area Score). Second, the additional information that provides the FDH model may be used by the Editorial Board to formulate strategies to achieve goals. To sum up, we think that the conceptual framework presented in this paper, based on building a journal ranking through the aggregation of accepted bibliometric indicators by using FDH provides an appealing methodology for obtaining fairer journals comparisons.
Towards a new perspective on context based citation index of research articles Use of citation count for measuring the impact of individual research articles is not an apt method to compute citation indices.
On the uncertainty of interdisciplinarity measurements due to incomplete bibliographic data Our method tackles the problem of uncategorized references, extending the Rao-Stirling index to encode the uncertainty caused by missing data as an interval.
Bibliometric indicators in the context of regional repositories: proposing the D-index The first applications of the D-index in professional practice were positive, considering their use and practicality.
Scientometric research in Russia: impact of science policy changes the influence of RSCI size dynamics on the observed Russian scientometric growth is insignificant.
Detecting the historical roots of tribology research: a bibliometric analysis The results on tribology show that RPYS has the potential to identify the important publications in the early history of tribology research: most of the publications which have been identified in this study as highly referenced (cited) publications are landmark publications in the field of tribology. Even though, the term tribology was coined during 1966 by Jost (1966), the basic of tribology dates centuries back.
Kinetika i Kataliz: 55 years in the bibliometric dimension The journal Kinetika i Kataliz, which was estab-lished in 1960, is now the main Russian journal spe-cialized in chemical kinetics and catalysis.
An overview of global research effort in fisheries science This overview of worldwide research effort in fisheries science was intended to assess how the field has changed during the past 20 years, and to identify current trends and priorities. In some cases, the outcome was counterintuitive (e.g. seemingly low level of effort on economically important species), demonstrating how a bibliometric analysis such as this one can inform the scientific community, funding agencies, and policy-makers.
Worldwide research productivity in the field of spine surgery: a 10-year bibliometric analysis There has a rapid increase of scientific research productivity in the field of spine surgery during the past 10 years. United States has special contributions to the body of spine publications. China and South Korea have increasing contributions to the field of spine surgery.
Incidence of Data Duplications in a Randomly Selected Pool of Life Science Publications This study questions the reliability of life science literature, it illustrates that data duplications are widespread and independent of journal impact factor and call for a reform of the current peer review and retraction process of scientific publishing.
Factors Affecting Scholarly Performance by Wildlife and Fisheries Faculty Our models provide a potentially useful tool with which to evaluate the component of performance of faculty related to publications and citations, because they permit performance in this realm to be placed quantitatively within a broader context of performance by peers. We emphasize that quantitative metrics, although alluring, cannot and should not replace qualitative assessment of performance by peers. We encourage future efforts to improve on the covariate set presented here, and to assess its robustness with a wider array of performance metrics.
China's research status in emergency medicine: a 15-year survey of literature The total number of articles from both China and the rest of the world increased significantly from 2000 to 2014, especially ML.
Retractions in general and internal medicine in a high-profile scientific indexing database The study identified greater incidence of plagiarism/duplication among retractions from countries with lower scientific impact.
MuICE: Mutual Influence and Citation Exclusivity Author Rank We conclude that the proposed Mulnfp method provides satisfying results when compared with baseline method W-PRp which uses the paper count as a weighting criteria.
Changes in the digital scholarly environment and issues of trust: An exploratory, qualitative analysis Our main findings can be summarised as: (a) There were no substantial changes. 'Publications' were always perceived as journal articles by the researchers interviewed. Almost all researchers considered the concept of open access as a positive development but they had doubts about the quality of open access journals.
On the Tacit Governance of Research by Uncertainty: How Early Stage Researchers Contribute to the Governance of Life Science Research This article has empirically discussed how the project form—and the funding uncertainty related to it—can lead to epistemic uncertainty being experienced as generalized, personal, existential risk by young life scientists and therewith create a structural link between the epistemic and the social.
Worldwide productivity in the hand and wrist literature: A bibliometric analysis of four highly cited subspecialty journals The number of publications of hand and wrist research shows a significant increase during the past 10 years.
Aiming for Excellence: Reflections on the Advanced Institute of Management Research and its Elite The AIM was wound up in 2012, having spent £30 million, most of it on the subject's elite. The problems that beset management research remain.
Dental research in Spain. A bibliometric analysis on subjects, authors and institutions (1993-2012) The Spanish dental production sharply increased in the last two decades, reaching quantitative and qualitative levels similar to those of the other medical specialties in the country.
The Mastery Rubric for Evidence-Based Medicine: Institutional Validation via Multidimensional Scaling An MR is a tool, and the MR-EBM that we describe can be useful to develop or evaluate a curriculum in EBM.
Fraud, individuals, and networks: A biopsychosocial model of scientific frauds The integrative approach proposed in this model has the added value of using information on the personal-level mechanisms and the systemic dynamics.
Research Collaboration in Saudi Arabia 1980-2014: Bibliometric Patterns and National Policy to Foster Research Quantity and Quality The findings revealed that collaboration had a positive effect on scientific productivity and qual-ity, since the collaborative publications received more citations and were published in journals with higher impact factor, thus they characterized high quality. Finally, there is an important message for all stake-holders of scientific research, especially the policymakers in different organizations and countries, in that the impact of collaboration on research productivity and quality is positive and significant and its benefits and outcomes are much greater than the coordination costs of collaborative research projects (Cummings and Kiesler 2007; He, Geng, and Campbell-Hunt 2009). Also, it is important to develop and implement research policies promoting research collaboration, at various levels (scientists, organizations and countries).
Interlending and document supply in the NHS: a North West case study In summary, interlending and document supply activity is falling and continues to fall as shown in the activity statistics reported by NHS library services in the North West of England. The improved access to online journals via consortia purchased collections and open access are identified as two major influences in the decline of demand for such services, although there has been little research conducted across NHS library services to examine the influence of cost/price on demand.
Evaluating patterns of national and international collaboration in Cuban science using bibliometric tools In spite of the limitations mentioned above, our results indicate that collaboration between scientifically advanced institutions (Central) and a wide range of national institutions is a consequence of the social character of science in Cuba in which cooperation rather competition prevail (López-Mola et al., 2006). The conclusion comes from a search in the limited field of biomedical science but it might be representative of Cuban science. Probably extending the search to other fields such as social sciences will allow the study of more features of Cuban collaboration as it could be foreseen from the model of Yaguajay (Lage-Dávila, 2004).
A Comparative Study of Scientific Publications in Health Care Sciences and Services from Mainland China, Taiwan, Japan, and India (2007-2014) In the field of health care sciences and services, China has made remarkable progress during the past eight years in the annual number and percentage of scientific publications. Yet, there is room for improvement in the quantity and quality of such articles.
Comparison of indexing times among articles from medical, nursing, and pharmacy journals Analysis of major medical, nursing, and pharmacy journals found that articles from nursing and pharmacy journals were indexed with MeSH terms more slowly than articles from medical journals.
The academic contribution of emergency departments in Taiwan: data on scientific publications, 1992-2011 During the past 20 years, the academic contribution of EDs in Taiwan has increased substantially. The bidirectional change in publication numbers since 2008 constitutes a milestone in the development of EM in Taiwan, and improvements are evident in the quality, quantity, and breadth of research. The academic contribution by Taiwan EDs has shown improvement with regard to quality, quantity, and breadth.
Who becomes a tenured professor, and why? Panel data evidence from German sociology, 1980-2013 First, our results indicate the importance of publishing in SSCI-rated journals, which is the strongest and most reliable predictor for tenure success. Second, in terms of ascription, our results do not support theories of female disadvantage. Women whose publications, years of experience, as well as social and symbolic national and international capital equal that of men, are about 1.4 times more likely to get a professorship than men. Third, our results show that institutional prestige does not directly influence academic success in German sociology. Fourth, our results shed light on whether social capital influences tenure. We have found comparably small but positively significant effects of social capital on the odds of getting tenure. Finally, our results show that affirmative action policies are not only symbolic lip service, but do seem to actually increase women's chances in academia, at least in German sociology. However, they also show that women get tenure with fewer publications, and therefore each of their publications is more strongly rewarded in terms of tenure, as compared with men.
Scientific celebrity, competition, and knowledge creation: The case of stem cell research in South Korea Our findings demonstrate that scientific celebrities generate very positive spillover effects, particularly in terms of knowledge creation by other scientists.
Exploring the link between research and economic growth: an empirical study of China and USA The study highlights the significance of research output in the growth process and the subsequent need to maintain the momentum of knowledge creation innovation and accumulation through research publications. In regards to policy, a developing, large and emerging economy like China can leverage from research by devoting more resources in producing scientific research as well as applying the knowledge into productive activities. In case of USA, which is the world leader in research and innovation, progress in research will not only benefit the economy but also help other countries and especially the developing economies which continue to benefit from knowledge creation and innovation in science and technology emanating from USA.
Uncovering information from social media hyperlinks: An investigation of twitter Based on findings from this study, it is fair to conclude that inlink data derived from social media are as rich a source of information as inlink data from the general web.
Can Mendeley bookmarks reflect readership? A survey of user motivations The results suggest that Mendeley bookmarking counts are an indicator of readership because most records bookmarked by most survey respondents had been read or were going to be read.
Theory-changing breakthroughs in science: The impact of research teamwork on scientific discoveries This study finds that there is bibliometric evidence supporting the idea of a challenge breakthrough. Another conclusion is that "standing on the shoulders of others" does not adequately describe the progress of science at the "micro" level of this individual theory-changing discovery (i.e., challenge discovery), given that the discovery is the result of the work of a small group of closely collaborating scientists. A follow-up study should focus on operationalizing a method to identify from bibliographic data a "core research group."
Does research with statistics have more impact? The citation rank advantage of structural equation modeling The results suggest that SEM may be a particularly influential technique in the sense that articles mentioning it tend to be more highly cited than average for their journal and issue, and tend to be more highly cited than the other related techniques examined, with the exception of Pearson correlation in medicine. Although the apparent citation advantage of Pearson correlations in medicine, in contrast to other fields, gives evidence that the most influential statistical techniques may vary by field and so those teaching statistics and those conducting research should be sensitive to field norms in the use of statistical methods.
The scientific impact of mexican steroid research 1935-1965: A bibliometric and historiographic analysis The group of researchers in Mexico led by Syntex, created a scientific communication model characterized by multidisciplinary journals, with the article as the primary channel but with the inclusion of notes, short communications, and letters due to the importance of priority in the experimentation process and the announcement of new discoveries.
Diversity of references as an indicator of the interdisciplinarity of journals: Taking similarity between subject fields into account We claim that for diversity studies in Informetrics the 2DS is a better discriminator than the related Rao-Stirling indicator.
Research Productivity in Top-Ranked Schools in Psychology and Social Work: Research Cultures Do Matter! We make an empirical case offering the working hypothesis that a culture of research is embedded in psychology as a profession and academic discipline, and such a culture does not exist in social work. We hypothesize that a main element in developing any profession's scholarship capacity includes ongoing comprehensive research mentorship—a factor not readily apparent in social work academic units.
Breast Microsurgery in Plastic Surgery Literature: A 21-Year Analysis of Publication Trends Over the 21-year study period, the United States not only contributed the greatest volume of research on female breast microsurgery but also demonstrated the greatest decline in research productivity. Efforts should be made to increase the LOE in breast microsurgery research.
From Excessive Journal Self-Cites to Citation Stacking: Analysis of Journal Self-Citation Kinetics in Search for Journals, Which Boost Their Scientometric Indicators Concluded, currently used scientometric indicators provide only limited protection against the unethical behavior discussed in this article, and are also prone to be shifted due to perhaps unintentional behavior aimed to advertise the primary research published by the journal or a network of journals. An algorithm is needed to be developed to search for potential citation networks, allowing their efficient elimination. Journal self-citations and citation stacking requires increased attention and elimination from citation indices.
Citation footprints on the sands of time: An analysis of idea migrations in strategic management Our analysis of input-output dependency relationships between the field of strategic management and other disciplines provides a number of interesting conclusions. SMJ emerges as an influential storer and source of knowledge within the citation network. Our analysis suggests that the field of strategic management continues to be interdisciplinary in its orientation, although there have been many discernible changes in the pattern of inflows and outflows over the past thirty years.
The state of L-Schools: Intellectual diversity and faculty composition Our study investigated the disciplinary composition of the L-Schools based on analysis of faculty’s terminal degrees and current research interests, as well as compared the dis-ciplinary composition of the L-Schools with the discipli-nary composition of the iSchools.
Highly cited articles in the Information Science and Library Science category in Social Science Citation Index: A bibliometric analysis The application of quantitative techniques in the analysis of highly cited articles can improve our understanding of the directions in IS&LS field. Y-index (j, h) as a newly developed indicator which was recently proposed by Ho (2012, 2013b), is useful for the evaluation both the publication quantity and character of contributing authors, institutions, and countries of IS&LS field. The Y-index provides another appropriate choice and could be adapted for the evaluation of authors, institutions and countries in a wider range of different subject areas.
New public management and research productivity - a precarious state of affairs of academic work in the Netherlands Answering these questions will contribute to the debates on the conditions and changes in research productivity and especially to understanding the gender aspects of academic work and how they play out in the relationship between balancing teaching and research and research productivity (Aiston and Jung 2015; Barrett and Barrett 2011; Cummings and Teichler 2014; Horta and Lacey 2011; Leišytė, Enders, and de Boer 2009).
How accurate are cited references in Iranian peer-reviewed journals? Peer-reviewed journals should encourage the use of standardized journal policies and quality-control measures regarding peer review, data quality and accuracy. Ultimately, my findings show that despite careful peer-review processes, 'errors of all kinds creep into the journals' (Garfield, 1990) and suggest a lack of awareness by authors of their responsibility in ensuring accurate citation. Contributors' greater efforts to avoid citation errors, along with the support of editors and reviewers, using software tools to manage references can increase both the cited and citing authors' visibility, readership and research impact especially in the current digital environment.
Small scholar-led scholarly journals: Can they survive and thrive in an open access future? There is widespread philosophical support for OA. However, the results of this research underscore the need to address the questions of how scholarly journals, in this case small independent scholarly journals, are going to make ends meet in an open-ended future.
The challenges facing library and information science journals: Editors' opinions In conclusion, our results show that journals will continue to improve and innovate, and that the future holds both threats and opportunities. Regarding how to manage research data, it seems that LIS journals have still to open and reconsider their approach to datasets, as there are still few data policies. Finally, the area that will see the most changes is the management of research data.
Internationalization of scientific publishing over time: Analysing publishers and fields differences Scientific journals are places for solving national, regional, and international problems using international solutions.
TrendMD: Helping scholarly content providers reach larger and more targeted audiences TrendMD's recommendation software offset this decay in visibility by resurfacing the articles to targeted audiences.
Does Formal Research Training Lead to Academic Success in Plastic Surgery? A Comprehensive Analysis of US Academic Plastic Surgeons Current evidence demonstrates that formal research training is associated with higher scientific productivity and increased likelihood of future NIH funding.
The nanotechnology race between China and the United States It is hopeful that competition and collaboration between the two countries in this field will positively advance the global nanotechnology development. However, the gap between USA and China in nanotechnology has narrowed significantly in recent years and American nanotechnology leadership faces challenges from all over the world. With improved investment in research infrastructure and funding, China is sustaining the fastest economic growth in the world.
China's Contribution to Anesthesiology Research: A 10-Year Survey of the Literature In the studied decade, anesthesiology research published by Chinese institu-tions lagged behind publications from developed countries.
Scientific collaboration and high-technology exchanges among BRICS and G-7 countries Our findings also suggest a relationship between high-technology economic activities of BRICS countries, the growth in their scientific production and their exogenous collabo-ration in intensive and technologically-related scientific activities.
Quantifying the scientific output of new researchers using the zp-index Therefore, use of the zp-index in conjunction with the number of publications can provide a more accurate assessment of a new scientist's academic achievements. Thus, the use of the zp-index may be particularly useful in conjunction with other scientometrics in election procedures for scientific awards and jobs from a pool of candidates, as it can provide a more comprehensive assessment of a researcher's scientific merit than just the number of publications alone. Future studies should examine how the zp-index behaves in conjunction with the current measures of scientific indicators among established researchers in predicting long-term success.
Human capital, collegiality, and stardom in economics: empirical analysis This study investigates the role of human capital formation and collegiality in fostering the development and growth of stars in the field of economics.
Why the referees' reports I receive as an editor are so much better than the reports I receive as an author? This paper has introduced a formal study which provides rational explanations for the self-serving bias of Bayesian-rational authors at the peer review stage.
Automated Research Impact Assessment: a new bibliometrics approach The ARIA method presents a new automated approach to evaluate research impact. The approach includes new statistics that science managers can use to benchmark contributions to research by funding source. We look forward to working with the NIH analysis community and with researchers to monitor and track these new bibliometric measures and establish potential benchmarks for using them into evaluate research portfolios.
No new evidence for a citation benefit for Author-Pay Open Access Publications in the social sciences and humanities Thus, social scientists and scholars in the humanities should be reticent to publish Open Access in the author-pay model. There is insufficient evidence that the Author-Pay Model of Open Access is a worthwhile investment for social scientists and scholars in the humanities.
Navigating the innovation trajectories of technology by combining specialization score analyses for publications and patents: graphene and nano-enabled drug delivery This paper shows how to employ specialization scores in navigating the innovation trajectory of a technology, from identifying its origins in research papers to determining the broadness of its fields of application in patents.
Proximity dimensions and scientific collaboration among academic institutions in Europe: The closer, the better? The results from our ZINB regressions confirm that, as expected, the larger the mass of publications, the greater its propensity to subsequently collaborate. In line with previous literature at other scale of analysis and other contexts reviewed in this paper, we found that geographical distance hinders SC; while similarities in scientific specialization (cognitive proximity) and institutional proximity encourage SC. Finally, our model shows the intensity of SC to be stronger among universities located in regions with similar level of R&D resources (economic proximity).
How to boost scientific production? A statistical analysis of research funding and other influencing factors In this paper, we investigated the impact of funding and other influencing factors like scientific team size and past productivity on the quantity and quality of the publications of the funded researchers.
Influence of the principle of least effort across disciplines The findings of this study contribute to the understanding of the interdisciplinary influence of the principle over a long period, from 1950 to 2013.
A Sciento-text framework to characterize research strength of institutions at fine-grained thematic area level We have designed a Sciento-text framework for a fine-grained analysis and research performance assessment of institutions in different thematic areas.
Quantifying the evolution of a scientific topic: reaction of the academic community to the Chornobyl disaster Summarizing the results, we can state that the Chornobyl problem continues to attract the interest of researchers.
Identifying institutional relationships in a geographically distributed public health system using interlinking and co-authorship methods Institutional relationships between Spanish public health entities have been identified both through link analysis and co-authorship methods. We found a discrete but statistically significant correlation between the number of selective links across a pair of entities and the number of academic articles published jointly by them (r = 0.5).
Scientific collaboration between 'old' and 'new' member states: Did joining the European Union make a difference? The results clearly show that the most significant impact, in terms of co-publication intensities, of the EU enlargement has been the high increase in the level of scientific collaboration that the NMS-12 have among each other (this applies in particular to the NMS-10).
Benchmarking scientific performance by decomposing leadership of Cuban and Latin American institutions in Public Health Because leadership might be questionable in some cases, we propose future studies to ensure a better interpretation of findings.
Scientists' response to societal impact policies: A policy paradox We conclude that there is a gap between policy on the one hand and how scientists perceive it on the other.
How Important Is US Location for Research in Science? Overall, our findings suggest that a scientist exogenously located in a country high in the income distribution can expect to be as productive in research as he or she would be in the US.
A scientometric analysis of selected GIScience journals This scientometric work analysed 12,436 papers published in several GIScience journals in the past 15 years.
Low Acceptance Rates of Conference Papers Considered Harmful My quantitative model shows that the lower the paper-acceptance rate, the lower the error rate must be to maintain reasonable quality—a requirement that is at odds with quick decisions.
Remote and interdisciplinary research in surgical knowledge production Surgeons in this study cited factors that might be considered barriers to research as motivators for remote and interdisciplinary collaboration.
European Non-Communicable Respiratory Disease Research, 2002-13: Bibliometric Study of Outputs and Funding The main conclusion is that respiratory disease research is seriously under-funded. If respiratory disease research were to be funded on the same scale as cancer, relative to its disease burden, funding would need to be quadrupled. And within RESPI research, the main need is for more work on COPD, which is even more under-resourced than asthma research but causes more distress and expense.
Most Common Publication Types in Radiology Journals: What is the Level of Evidence? Radiology journals have historically had relatively greater representation of less frequently cited publication types. Various strategies, including methodological training, multidisciplinary collaboration, national support networks, as well as encouragement of higher level of evidence by funding agencies and radiology journals themselves, are warranted to improve the impact of radiological research.
A Quantitative Analysis of Published Skull Base Endoscopy Literature We have identified the most-cited peer-reviewed research papers within the relatively small and young field of skull base endoscopy that may be considered significant classic works. Randomized clinical trials, as well as patient quality-of-life and economic impact studies, are still absent from these most-cited publications, and it remains to be seen when such publications will enter the mainstream of skull base endoscopy. Lastly, these top articles may be useful to surgical trainees as a syllabus for skull base neurosurgery.
Application of the h-Index in Academic Plastic Surgery "The h-index of plastic surgeons seems to correlate with academic rank and has potential as a tool to measure academic productivity within plastic surgery."
The hundred most cited publications in orthopaedic hip research - a bibliometric analysis The study provides intellectual milestones in hip research, reflecting on the qualities and charac-teristics of the research. Degenerative hip disease and arthroplasty research take up the greatest proportion of citations, followed by hip preserving research. LOE was low and there was only one RCT amongst the classics, emphasising that high LOE is not a prerequisite for a high citation count.
Network Bibliometrics of Public Policy Journals Overall, the bibliometrics reported here represent something of a paradox: relatively weak intrafield networks and seldom reciprocated interfield links to economics and political science journals, and yet most of these policy journals rank high in total citations and have been trending even higher. Perhaps this is ultimately a most appropriate and valuable role for public policy journals—not only to advance the field but to provide high-quality, applied research that informs researchers across a broad array of policy-relevant areas.
An approach for preventing the indexing of hijacked journal articles in scientific databases In this paper, we have presented an approach aimed at preventing the indexing of hijacked journal articles in scientific databases.
Collaboration, interdisciplinarity, and the epistemology of contemporary science However, what this paper has shown is, first, that the degree of cognitive convergence and divergence as well as the degree of epistemic dependence among collaborators are key dimensions for understanding the structure of contemporary science, second, that an analysis in terms of these dimensions not only reveals where our understanding of science may be influenced by untenable ideas, but also how to revise our understanding of such important aspects of scientific practice as accountability and quality control.
Stability and Longevity in the Publication Careers of US Doctorate Recipients Thus, though there have been changes in pre-PhD publication careers, post-PhD career spans remained quite stable.
LGBTQ Collection Assessment: Library Ownership of Resources Cited by Master's Students "The high percentages of ownership of books and journals support the hypothesis that Concordia Libraries have an excellent collection, which is appropriate for master's level research in LGBTQ studies."
Salami: By the slice or swallowed whole? Salami slicing tends to be viewed as a negative, even unethical practice, reflecting an apparent assumption that one data set should be presented in only one paper.
A Pragmatic Approach to Getting Published: 35 Tips for Early Career Researchers The foundation for getting your work published is by first conducting high-quality research. But even after this, getting published is a complex issue. Collaborating with researchers within as well as outside your field, sending your research article to an appropriate journal, and adequately highlighting the novelty and impact of your research can help pave the way to scientific recognition.
Dengue research: a bibliometric analysis of worldwide and Arab publications during 1872-2015 The amount of literature related to dengue research has considerably increased over the last decade. This bibliometric analysis has demonstrated the leading role that the USA, India, Brazil, Thailand, the UK, and France play in dengue research.
Performance Benchmarks for Scholarly Metrics Associated with Fisheries and Wildlife Faculty Our benchmarking approach may provide a useful tool to augment detailed, qualitative assessment of performance.
The Use of Academic Social Networks Among Arab Researchers: A Survey This study has examined the usage habits and perceptions of Arab researchers from six government-owned universities with respect to ASNs. To summarize, the findings of this study show that Arab researchers prefer to be involved in more than one ASN. Finally, this study did not examine the profiles of Arab researchers. This means that there is a need to conduct further research into the topic.
Synchronous international scientific mobility in the space of affiliations: evidence from Russia Instead of studying separately ‘brain drain, 'brain circulation' or 'brain gain, the approach of SISM enables to construct the integral model to describe authors' localization in the space of affiliation, which is a social space at the same time.
The chance of influence: A natural experiment on the role of social capital in faculty recruitment In sum, the article provides strong evidence that social capital matters for academic recruitment. This result may be reassuring for the sociologist who coined the term, as well as the many sociologists who have spent much of their careers researching the effects of social ties. But at the same time it may be discomforting for many academic institutions whose methods of selection may deviate quite substantially from the meritocratic and universalist ideal of the university (Merton, 1973).
Analysis of National Institutes of Health Funding to Departments of Urology NIH funding to urology departments lags behind awards to departments of other surgical disciplines. Future interventions may be warranted to increase NIH grant procurement in urology. Ultimately, urology departments must mobilize the unrealized academic potential of its faculty to deliver better patient care through research and innovation.
Is it easier to publish in journals that have low impact factors? The positive correlation suggests that it is harder to publish in journals that have high impact factor. But the weak correlation shows that there are many exceptions to this rule.
Mobility Intentions of Foreign Researchers: The Role of Non-economic Motivations In conclusion, our results provide empirical support for the idea that the key drivers of scientific mobility (including return and temporary movements) are not purely economic.
Topic Representation of Researchers' Interests in a Large-Scale Academic Database and Its Application to Author Disambiguation In this paper, we present a topic representation of researchers' interests in a large-scale academic database.
How do you write and present research well? 8 Assign authorship according to intellectual involvement The most important criteria to be a co-author is intellectual content, which includes writing, manipulating samples, writing programs, and analyzing data.
Predictors of full-time faculty appointment among MD-PhD program graduates: a national cohort study Over half of all MD-PhD program graduates in our study had full-time faculty appointments.
The Impact Factor of Radiological Journals: Associations with Journal Content and Other Characteristics Over a Recent 12-Year Period Radiological journals exhibited higher mIF than biomedical journals overall.
Associations Between NIH Funding and Advanced Bibliometric Indices Among Radiological Investigators Bibliometric indices were more strongly associated with grant funding for PhD than for MD radiology investigators, with publication count exhibiting the strongest association in the latter group. Time-weighted adjustments, as reflected by the m quotient and he index, may improve efforts to predict funding using bibliometrics. Such associations may have implications in assisting decisions regarding investing time, institutional funds, and other resources in junior and mid-range faculty based on predictive assessments of the likelihood of receiving subsequent external grant funding.
Individual and Institutional Productivity in Educational Psychology Journals from 2009 to 2014 Our findings revealed that individual and institutional productivity in educational psychology journals has been both consistent (e.g., Richard E. Mayer, University of Maryland) and changing (e.g., Fred Paas, University of Texas) in terms of the top performers over the past 24 years.
What Motivates People to Review Articles? The Case of the Human-Computer Interaction Community Our study has provided a broad understanding of review-ing motivations, particularly the differences between reviewers, how those motivations are related, and the rela-tive importance of the motivations in an interdisciplinary, conference-oriented research community, such as the HCI community on which we focused. We showed the diversity of factors that can motivate various groups of reviewers. We think research communities could benefit from providing venues that use peer review processes that match the diverse reviewing motivations of the specific community.
The Decision to Submit to a Journal: Another Example of a Valence-Consistent Shift? Thus, if editors of journals want to continue to attract high quality articles, it might be advisable to communicate accep-tance rates rather than rejection rates. At the very least, it is important to note that authors can be influenced by the positive or negative framing of journal attributes and that a well thought-out communication strategy may prove worthwhile.
Distortive Effects of Initial-Based Name Disambiguation on Measurements of Large-Scale Coauthorship Networks We conclude that initial-based disambiguation can misidentify author identities mainly through merging, and, therefore, can distort macroscopic views of authorship patterns and the collaboration structure of a field or scientific community. As such, the resolution of name ambiguity in bibliometrics is not any longer a matter of choice, but a necessary step to obtain a correct understanding of scientific collaboration, especially for large-scale coauthorship network studies.
Disciplinary, National, and Departmental Contributions to the Literature of Library and Information Science, 2007-2012 The literature of library and information science is both international and multidisciplinary.
Do Scopus and WoS correct "old" omitted citations? The analysis presented in this paper shows that the two bibliometric databases examined tend to gradually reduce the number of old omitted citations, although this reduction is relatively slow for both.
Factors influencing research collaboration in LIS schools in South Africa The findings further suggest that even though there are drawbacks to collaboration, majority of LIS researchers thought that collaboration is beneficial and should be encouraged. Indeed that observation has also been made in the current study whereby LIS researchers in South Africa are mainly focusing in all the benefits that come with such partnerships and therefore engaging in collaborative research. The results imply that LIS researchers prefer partnering with colleagues who are nearer, mainly from the same institution.
Patterns of internationalization and criteria for research assessment in the social sciences and humanities Publishing in books and in journals is the normal practice for the majority of researchers in the SSH. Publishing in the native language and in international languages is the normal practice for the majority of researchers in the SSH. Internationalization in the SSH should therefore be stimulated without introducing general hierarchies of languages and publications types or simple coverage criteria that overlook how different qualities of research are realized in these areas.
Stopped sum models and proposed variants for citation data The SVB NB-NB produced the lowest AIC in many cases, but it is also associated with large standard errors of parameter estimates, and it could be argued that the large standard errors render this model impractical. On the other hand, SVA models tend to have smaller standard errors than SVB, and are more practical, and thus SVA models are recommended for future citation analysis as a possible alternative to the discretised lognormal. On a theoretical level, the good fits found for some of the proposed stopped sum variant models give evidence that there may be (at least) two important and separate processes that govern the citing practices of authors.
Scientific workflows for bibliometrics The use of scientific workflows in bibliometrics is still in its infancy. Scientific workflow managers are powerful tools for managing bibliometric analyses, allowing complete integration of online databases, Web services, XML parsers, statistical analysis and visualization. All workflows for bibliometrics and scientometrics presented here can be found in the myExperiment group for Bibliometrics and Scientometrics (http://myexperiment.org/groups/1278.html).
The effect of holding a research chair on scientists' productivity In this article we show that holding a research chair is a significant determinant of scientific publication when the regression is run over the entire data set of Quebec scientists. After such matching, the results show that the effect of the Canada research chair program on scientific productivity remains significant and positive while the effect of industrial chairs and the chairs appointed by Canada federal granting council (NSERC, and CIHR) become non-significant. Although not trivial, future research should aim to cast a wider net on outputs, outcomes and impacts of university research.
The rise in co-authorship in the social sciences (1980-2013) This study documents the evolution in co-authorship in the social sciences over 30 years period. The results show that the majority of research fields have had substantial increases in the share of co-authored and international co-authored articles and numbers of authors per article during the 34 years. Generally, the results show that the increases have occurred mostly in subject categories, where there is a tendency to employ quantitative research methods, experiments and labor division, which can lead to more specialization (Laband and Tollison 2000; Corley and Sabharwal 2010).
iSEER: an intelligent automatic computer system for scientific evaluation of researchers In this paper, we proposed iSEER system that uses bibliometric indicators as well as network structure features to classify researchers based on their collaboration patterns, research performance, and efficiency.
Analysis of scientific productivity and cooperation in the republics of former Yugoslavia before, during and after the Yugoslav wars The analysis of scientific-research outputs of the republics of former Yugoslavia for the period 1970–2014 has been presented in this paper. It reveals that the civil Yugoslav wars affected the republics' productivities and scientific cooperation in different ways. However, it seems that in the last 5 years productivity and scientific cooperation look similar as before the Yugoslav wars. This result strengthens the results from the 2010 study.
Meso-level institutional and journal related indices for Malaysian engineering research This study puts forward a better understanding in considering new impact indices at meso level for performance evaluation purpose. The Malaysian engineering institutional case indicates that h-index and others metric have not only strong functional association for institutional cumulative journal indices but also with total institutional citation data and shows correlation as well. This index appears as a useful yardstick, because of good functional relationship with C and P and has shown some discriminatory power for the ranking purpose.
Technological evolution seen from the USPC reclassifications It is suggested that future research extend the patent sample to subclasses or reclassified secondary USPCs in order to understand the technological evolution within a field in greater detail.
Diffusion of nanotechnology knowledge in Turkey and its network structure Our analysis that nanotechnology R&D in Turkey is flourishing. This decision has tremendously increased the diffusion and adoption of nanotechnology as a research field. The taxonomy identified by the co-word analysis shows that Turkish nanoscientists mainly work in Materials Sciences, Chemistry and Physics, which is similar to some extent to the global trends in nanotechnology research and development.
Bibliometric indicators of interdisciplinarity: the potential of the Leinster-Cobbold diversity indices to study disciplinary diversity The paper discusses some interesting properties of the LCDiv which make them more appealing in the study of disciplinary diversity than the standard interdisciplinary diversity indicators.
The relationship between authors' bibliographic coupling and citation exchange: analyzing disciplinary differences Overall, the correlation is positive and significant in all subject areas, showing when the bibliographic coupling strength is stronger between two authors, they tend to cite each other more often.
A delineating procedure to retrieve relevant publication data in research areas: the case of nanocellulose The proposed delineation procedure enabled us to retrieve relevant publications from research areas involving nanocellulose.
Science system path-dependencies and their influences: nanotechnology research in Russia Russia's focus on nanotechnology has not fulfilled the initial aim of scientific, techno-logical and economic catch-up with leading countries.
Large-scale assessment of research outputs through a weighted combination of bibliometric indicators The derived evaluation is homogeneous among different scientific domains and can be used to address the quality of research at the departmental (or higher) levels of aggregation.
Taking scholarly books into account: current developments in five European countries One of the first conclusions of the present overview is the lack of use of citation metrics in all of the five systems (Table 1).
Research data explored: an extended analysis of citations and altmetrics Most of the research data still remain uncited (approx. 86 %) and total altmetrics scores found via aggregation tools are even lower than the number of citations. Still, citations of research data should be studied in more detail. It is crucial to further explore the real meaning and rationale of research data citations and how they depend on the nature and structure of the underlying research data, e.g., in terms of data curation and awarding of DOIs.
A vector for measuring obsolescence of scientific articles Our findings show that the proposed obsolescence vector is different from and serves as an alternative to the average- and quartile-based criteria. As an alternative to the average-based and quartile-based criteria, the obsolescence vector avoids the arbitrariness in determining thresholds on sleeping periods or awakening intensity. As an alternative to the parameter-free approach, it measures the obsolescence of articles by taking into account the complete, rather than partial, citation history.
An evolutionary analysis of collaboration networks in scientometrics Based on the macro-level structure analyses, the degree distribution of scientific collaboration in each timespan were consistent with power-law, and both the average degree and average distance steadily increased with time, which demonstrated that the cooperation between authors was getting more frequent. From the meso-level perspective, the evolution of the collaboration networks was explored by analyzing the changes of clusters among three co-author networks. Micro-level structure analyses illustrated the authors with high performance in raw degree measure, degree centrality measure, and betweenness measure were dynamic in different timespans. Interestingly, on each dimension, Leydesdorff, L and Glänzel W became the genuine dominators (or “stars") in the scientometrics field during the most recent decade.
"Sleeping beauty'' and her restless sleep: Charles Dotter and the birth of interventional radiology Despite the fact that Charles Dotter is recognized today as the father of interventional radiology, his landmark paper suffered from delayed recognition. Analysis and discussion of the present case study should open new avenues in identifying sleeping beauties in literature, while nurturing studies of resistance to science or controversy by providing the sociology of science with a new scientometric approach.
Research-driven classification and ranking in higher education: an empirical appraisal of a Romanian policy experience The boundaries between classification and ranking of higher education institutions are often hard to establish and it is even harder to properly communicate the differences to intended stakeholders.
Modeling time-dependent and -independent indicators to facilitate identification of breakthrough research papers We have identified a set of time-dependent and -independent indicators and ranked them for importance in differentiating a set of breakthrough publications from a comparison group.
Disentangling the automotive technology structure: a patent co-citation analysis In this paper, using patent co-citation analysis, we show how in the automotive industry (1) most of the companies are located close together, depicting the sector technology structure as highly dense; (2) the market leaders do not coincide with technology production leaders and not necessarily occupy central technological positions; (3) the automotive groups considerably vary in the three timespans studied in terms of position and composition; (4) the market leader groups occupy technological remoteness positions during economic growth timespan; (5) the sector technology structure is highly dense during growth, and strongly scattered with a lack of technologically-centered positioned actors after economic decline.
A triangular model for publication and citation statistics of individual authors Elementary statistics including relative frequencies and (conditional) mean values have been used to illustrate a simple model of the author-paper-citation relationship. Both opportunities and limitations have been sketched. The main problem is of conceptual nature: Authors and their papers might hold a different position in various environments created by co-authorship of subject-related issues.
On the bibliometric coordinates of four different research fields in Geography "General publication strategies seem to be established for both natural science and social sciences, however, with significant differences."
International trade in ideas We establish a link between international trade in goods and international collaboration of scientific studies.
Collaboration network of knowledge creation and dissemination on Management research: ranking the leading institutions This paper has analyzed the importance of the world's leading institutions in knowledge creation and dissemination in research on Management. First, it has been noted that a small number of institutions account for the bulk of the impact, corroborating the findings of other prior studies, along with the presence of Lotka's law in the distribution of impact across institutions. Degree centrality in the network is therefore a useful indicator for measuring the importance of different institutions, as it is a compound indicator that in a way integrates both scientific output and impact.
How does prolific professors influence on the citation impact of their university departments? This study demonstrates two seemingly irreconcilable findings.
Measures of scholarly journal quality are not universally applicable to determining value of advertised annual subscription price Clear from our study was that no single measure of journal quality is universally applicable to determine subscription "value.”
Tracing the indirect societal impacts of biomedical research: development and piloting of a technique based on citations We have found that the reference was Central for 4.4 % of citing articles overall and it was Central ten times more frequently for those articles containing three or more citation occasions. We identified societal impacts in the citation streams including citations in international clinical guidelines. We believe that we have shown that this is an approach that should be further explored given the increasing interest in identifying the societal impacts of research as it potentially provides an additional qualitative method of exploring the influence that a piece of biomedical research has had and in illuminating the processes involved in the translation of the research findings and the eventual impact on clinical practice.
Identifying key papers within a journal via network centrality measures As a result, we conclude that eigenvector centrality is the most appropriate centrality metric for filtering papers and measuring the relative importance of a paper within a journal.
Is the promotion of research reflected in bibliometric data? A network analysis of highly cited papers on the Clusters of Excellence supported under the Excellence Initiative in Germany "As the results of this study have shown, the outcomes yielded for life sciences and natural sciences differ from each other.
Influence of international co-authorship on the research citation impact of young universities The results show that, both young and old institutions benefitted from international co-authorship as evident by the citation impact of their publications.
The study of subject-classification based on journal coupling and expert subject-classification system Our study shows that the improved subject-classification system constructed in this article not only conforms to previous experience and cognitive but also combines subject development knowledge.
Designing a Composite Index for research performance evaluation at the national or regional level: ranking Central Universities in India In summary, the Composite Index takes into account not only aggregate papers and citations, but also the distribution in the top cited papers, and internationally collaborative papers.
Knowledge in motion: the evolution of HIV/AIDS research Tracing the history of HIV/AIDS research through its content allows for the evaluation of the dialogue between research scientists seeking to understand and mitigate its spread.
Major trends in knowledge management research: a bibliometric study Our study serves as a resource for future studies by shedding light on how trends in knowledge management research have evolved over time and demonstrating the characteristics of the most cited articles in this literature.
Successful fish go with the flow: citation impact prediction based on centrality measures for term-document networks To summarize, in this work we have introduced a novel and exclusively content-based method for ranking documents according to estimates of their potential impact.
Impact factor distribution revisited with graphical representation The S-shaped distributions are con-firmed by the graphical demonstration.
When science meets cluttered writing: adjectives and adverbs in academia revisited "It is accordingly suggested that researchers in arts and humanities and social science should use less adverbs in academic writing."
Characteristics of research collaboration in biotechnology in China: evidence from publications indexed in the SCIE The results show that, firstly, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tsinghua University, Zhejiang University, Fudan University and China Agricultural University are the top 5 active institutions in the field of biotechnology in China, according to the value of betweenness centrality in the collaboration networks. Secondly, the collaboration pattern indicates that Chinese academic institutions are more focused into building national collaboration and tapping national expertise. Third, both national and international collaboration degrees in this field are improving constantly. Fourthly, Chinese academic institutions have extensive collaboration in various fields in biotechnology. National collaboration focuses more on the application fields of biotechnology. Bioinformatics-related subjects attach greater importance to international collaboration. Bibliometric studies will help research organizations acquire a more comprehensive understanding of the status and developments of research on biotechnology in China and identify their peers who are conducting similar research. funding agencies and decide makers can increase the level of collaboration between Chinese academic institutions and world first-class universities and support the facilitation of multi-disciplinary communication in biotechnology. And comparative study will also be more helpful to understand the development of biotechnology in China.
A performance indicator for academic communities based on external publication profiles Here, we presented an approach for quantifying the scientific performance of a group of researchers based on the similarity between its publication profile and a reference group's publication profile.
How to normalize Twitter counts? A first attempt based on journals in the Twitter Index This paper proposes a first attempt to normalize TC.
The scaling relationship between citation-based performance and international collaboration of Cuban articles in natural sciences We found a scaling relationship between CBP and collaboration patterns of Cuban articles in the Natural Sciences indexed in the Web of Science. This result demonstrates that scientific collaboration, mainly at the international level backed Cuban research on Natural Science to foster its international visibility and its impact in the past 35 years. The findings of this reseach suggest policy makers and institutions in small science systems should foster international collaboration strategies with top performance countries to increase international visibility and scientifc impact.
Back to the past: on the shoulders of an academic search engine giant We finally hypothesize that "first page results syndrome" in conjunction with the fact that Google Scholar favours the most cited documents are suggesting the growing trend of citing old documents is partly caused by Google Scholar.
"Listing author contribution" does not alter the author inflation in the publications in basic research in four major gastroenterology journals in 10 years The number of authors in basic science papers are increasing; the new requirement of listing authorship contributions has not affected this trend.
RPYS i/o: software demonstration of a web-based tool for the historiography and visualization of citation classics, sleeping beauties and research fronts In this brief communication, we introduced a new online platform, RPYS i/o, for con- ducting interactively both standard and Multi-RPYS analyses. The contribution to the information and library sciences is mainly methodological; but using examples from the philosophy of science, we could show how interesting questions can be further developed by using this tool. We hope that, in concert with tools such as CRExplorer.exe and RPYS.exe, more bibliometricians will contribute to maturing algorithms for reconstructing the intel- lectual history of a field.
Still no new evidence: Author-Pay Open Access in the social sciences and humanities In summary, we still have no new evidence that there is either a citation or a societal benefit for Author-Pay Open Access Publications in the Social Sciences and Humanities.
Research collaboration experiences, good and bad: Dispatches from the front lines Our results show that the components of the provisional research collaboration effectiveness model have some considerable veracity, and also that they are insufficient.
What determines researchers' scientific impact? A case study of Quebec researchers These results suggest that the most important determinants of researchers' citations are the journals in which they publish, as well the collaborative nature of their research.
Methodological choices for research in Information Science: Contributions to domain analysis The diversity of nomenclatures and the lack of a common language regarding methodological choices were outstanding in the present study. Some principles for the activity of research, such as freedom of thematic and methodological choices and versatility of possible combinations of methods, techniques and tools available to the researcher, should be taken into account without affecting the choice of categories for conducting content analysis. The categories are intended to be a framework dedicated to rescue the intent and previous achievements to organize the methodological knowledge developed in the field.
Benchmarking the scientific output of industrial wastewater research in Arab world by utilizing bibliometric techniques A remarkable evidence of commitment to increase research activities in industrial wastewater research has been noticed in the Arab world.
"The Good Old R01" Challenging Downward Funding Success Trends at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute In summary, through the analysis of the NIH and NHLBI competing R01 award trends in 2010 through 2014, the decreased success rates were observed at all levels.
Structure and Evolution of Mediterranean Forest Research: A Science Mapping Approach Through the analysis of 2,698 publications published from 1980 to 2014, we concluded the following: (i) the number of scientific publications increased exponentially since 1995, (ii) Forest Ecology and Management was the most active journal in publishing Mediterranean forest research, (iii) Mediterranean forest research was mainly led by Spain, Italy and France, (iv) biodiversity and conservation, forest restoration, climate change, land degradation and soil represent well defined research topics, characterizing the current status of the Mediterranean forest research, (v) fire and climate change research generally received much more citations over time and (vi) the multidisciplinary role of global change research. Future studies may address different but related issues such as the analysis of collaborations among different actors (i.e., authors, organizations and countries) as well as the characterization of the research carried out in different geographic regions.
Quality Assessment of Studies Published in Open Access and Subscription Journals: Results of a Systematic Evaluation The epidemiological studies published in OA journals in the field of oncology approach the same methodological quality and quality of reporting as studies published in non-OA journals. Our findings indicate that the methodological quality of studies published in OA and non-OA journals, as well as the quality of reporting, are comparable. Additional studies including a larger set of papers and different fields of publication could provide new insights into the quality assessment of studies published in open access and subscription journals.
Unsustainable Growth, Hyper-Competition, and Worth in Life Science Research: Narrowing Evaluative Repertoires in Doctoral and Postdoctoral Scientists' Work and Lives "In conclusion, we discuss the implications of these findings for the epistemic and social development of the life sciences, and for other scientific fields."
'Excellence' and Exclusion: The Individual Costs of Institutional Competitiveness As the consummate manifestation of the competition fetish, the REF is a force with potentially disastrous consequences for the future of the academic profession and scientific endeavor more generally. The first change must be that academics are treated in a parity of esteem and made eligible in a universal system of assessment. To achieve this it will be necessary to substantially blunt the edge of managerialism through serious structural administrative and pedagogical reforms that will in turn re-professionalise academics and re-empower them within their universities and within academia more generally.
Beyond REF 2014: The impact of impact assessment on the future of information research Overall, however, it is clear from the results that LIS researchers involved in the case studies are now more mindful of impact at all stages of the research process and envisage a wide array of future strategies to enhance impact and its evidencing. It is anticipated that the findings will suggest future research directions in LIS focused more specifically on researching and facilitating quality driven interactions between people and/or organisations and information, as this is where real, demonstrable impact could be achieved. Equally, for LIS as a whole there is a debate to be had as to how the discipline can maximise impact and perceived value in order to build a successful future for the discipline in the context of tightening resources.
Some Evidence for a Gender Gap in Personality and Social Psychology In analyzing the gender of authorship, times cited in the field's flagship journals, and award recipients, the current research found that women in personality and social psychology were consistently underrepresented.
A geometric graph model for citation networks of exponentially growing scientific papers A directed geometric graph is proposed to model citation networks with exponentially growing nodes, which overcomes certain shortcomings of our prior proposed model, and provides better reproductions of some typical statistical features of the empirical data, e.g. out-degree distribution.
Day of the week effect in paper submission/acceptance/rejection to/in/by peer review journals In summary, there is quite a number of studies on the "day of the week" effect on financial markets. Moreover, to take into a specific outcome (later acceptance or rejection) does not seem to have been studied. This normalization is relevant in order to observe whether the acceptance and rejection rates ( = probabilities) will differ depending on the day of submission.
Do return requirements increase international knowledge diffusion? Evidence from the Fulbright program Overall, the results suggest that return requirements mainly benefit countries that have weak scientific environments. Thus, return requirements for countries with weak scientific environments do counteract brain drain. We conclude that requiring scientists to return to home countries redirects their focus toward science produced at home.
Analysis of scientific collaboration in Chinese psychiatry research We should encourage collaborative behavior in the Chinese psychiatry field, as this facilitates knowledge distribution, resource sharing and information acquisition.
USING EXPERT JUDGMENTS TO RANK 45 LATIN AMERICAN BUSINESS JOURNALS Journal rankings are controversial, but at the same time, they are widely used and are relevant tools in universities and research agencies and institutions. In the present study, the highest perceived quality scores were given to Academia (CLADEA-Uniandes), RAE (FGV), and Innovar (Universidad Nacional de Colombia). Our analysis of the results of the present study suggests that language and branding have an effect on the perception of journal quality. Future studies can consider a more complex approach with several quality measures, including hard data indicators such as total citations or the H-index (Romero-Torres et al., 2013) in combination with perceptions, as well as a wider range of independent variables driving those perceptions (Theoharakis et al., 2007).
Two-dimensional mapping of scientific production of nations in the fields of physics and astronomy Pm-Cm diagrams were produced by employing a two-dimensional method.
Does the DHET research output subsidy model penalise high-citation publication? A case study These findings suggest that the annual subsidy awarded to universities for research output may inadvertently penalise high-citation publication.
Bias in Research Grant Evaluation Has Dire Consequences for Small Universities Rather, to support objective and robust review of grant applications, it is necessary for research councils to address evaluation skew directly, by adopting procedures such as blind review of research proposals and bibliometric assessment of performance.
What Is a Complex Innovation System? The global research system has characteristics of a complex adaptive system and it exhibits a variety of scale-invariant properties indicative of self-organizing processes.
Biomedical science paper authorship: A modest proposal I am confident if this proposal is instituted promotion committees, academic societies, and more importantly, the authors themselves would get a far more realistic measure of their contribution to the biomedical science described in the article.
Global scientific production of robotic surgery in medicine: A 20-year survey of research activities There is a skyrocket trend of robotic surgery in medical research over the last two decades, and countries with high GDP tend to make more contributions to the medical field of robotic surgery.
Positive correlation between quality and quantity in academic journals In conclusion, this study reports a positive correlation between quality and quantity in the production of publishers. Clarifying the correlation in publishers might help to provide a more accurate evaluation for the scholars' research performance, which can lead to a better development of research policy.
The discretised lognormal and hooked power law distributions for complete citation data: Best options for modelling and regression The results show that, when full sets of citation data are analysed (i.e., including uncited articles), both the discretised lognormal and the hooked power law fit better for some subject areas than does the other distribution. Both the discretised lognormal and the hooked power law have problems with parameter estimates from the fitted model not being stable over time, especially in some subject areas and for recent articles, and so the standard normal distribution applied to the natural log of the citation counts plus one seems to be the best approach when accurate model parameters are needed, as in the context of regression. Additional research is needed to assess the extent to which the finding could also apply to multidisciplinary collections of articles that may essentially combine distributions with either different models or different model parameters.
Large-scale analysis of the accuracy of the journal classification systems of Web of Science and Scopus Our most important findings regarding the accuracy of the WoS and Scopus journal classification systems can be summa-rized as follows. First, WoS performs much better than Scopus according to Criterion I. Our results suggest that WoS and especially Scopus tend to be too lenient in assigning journals to categories. Second, lack of transparency is a weakness of both the WoS and the Scopus classification system.
Evaluating paper and author ranking algorithms using impact and contribution awards Simply counting citations is the best metric for ranking high-impact papers in general.
Assessing evaluation procedures for individual researchers: The case of the Italian National Scientific Qualification We argue that the ASN is not fully compliant with the best practices for the use of bibliometric indicators for the evaluation of individual researchers; moreover, the quality of final reports varies considerably across the panels, suggesting that measures should be put in place to prevent sloppy practices in future ASN rounds.
Are the discretised lognormal and hooked power law distributions plausible for citation data? Taken together the results confirm that citation counts for a single subject and year do not follow a single universal discretised lognormal distribution, after compensating for different location parameters.
A data analytic approach to quantifying scientific impact In this paper, we propose a simple data analytic approach to predict the future citations of individual papers. The approach is accurate, robust and reliable across journals from different disciplines and outperforms the state-of-the-art WSB model in all experiments.
Introducing CitedReferencesExplorer (CRExplorer): A program for reference publication year spectroscopy with cited references standardization In this paper, we introduced a new tool – the CitedReferencesExplorer – which can be used to analyze the CRs of a specific research field or topic. The tool is especially suitable to identify those publications which have been frequently cited by the researchers in a field and thereby to study for example its historical roots. The CRExplorer is not only a helpful tool to analyze a dataset under study, but it also offers a context for cleaning the data.
A new methodology for comparing Google Scholar and Scopus The study is exploratory, and hypothesis generating rather than hypothesis-testing. It confirms findings on source coverage and citation impact obtained in earlier studies. Further empirical studies are warranted, e.g., to measure error rates, to verify the citations, to study further subject fields, non-English journals, lower ranked journals, OA versus non-OA journals, indexing speed and correlations.
A theoretical evaluation of Hirsch-type bibliometric indicators confronted with extreme self-citation "The main findings related to the analysis of the theoretically-constructed dataset that constitutes the object of the present study highlight the fact that all of the h-index variants (including more traditional bibliometric indicators) are decidedly responsive to manipulative practices."
Network and actor attribute effects on the performance of researchers in two fields of social science in a small peripheral community Our results show that being among the 50% most productive scientists in the 2002–2012 period in the fields of psychology and sociology in Croatia is dependent upon the co-authorship network within the national and disciplinary community in the 1992-2001 period.
The ratio of top scientists to the academic staff as an indicator of the competitive strength of universities In this study we confirm this expectation for the case of Italy.
Generation of topic evolution trees from heterogeneous bibliographic networks In this paper we show that meta-paths over a heterogeneous bibliographic network (consisting of papers, authors and venues) can be used to identify the network elements that made the greatest contributions to a topic. Compared to baseline networks without restrictions, we find that restricted networks provide more useful topic evolution trees. The methods proposed in this paper open up a promising research path to utilize heterogeneous graphs of scientific papers to enhance the information retrieval of scientific literature as well as to identify research communities focused on particular lines of research.
Are there too many uncited articles? Zero inflated variants of the discretised lognormal and hooked power law distributions The results show that there is a genuine problem of zero inflation within a substantial fraction of Scopus categories. In conclusion, future citation analysis and research indicators should take into account uncitable articles, and the best fitting distribution for sets of citation counts from a single subject and year is either the zero inflated discretised lognormal or zero inflated hooked power law.
A farewell to the MNCS and like size-independent indicators In this part of the paper we call for the scientometrics community and related stakeholders to expedite the shift to the new technological trajectory of efficiency indicators, and offer several strategic recommendations:
A Comparison of Research Productivity Across Plastic Surgery Fellowship Directors As measured by the h-index, there is a high level of academic productivity among fellowship directors, regardless of subspecialty area. Unlike other plastic surgery subspecialties however, the h-index of aesthetic plastic surgeons is not correlated to academic rank, revealing a discrepancy between perceptions of aesthetic plastic surgery and its actual academic impact. Ultimately, these findings indicate that academic rank and fellowship training are most likely not reliable indicators of academic productivity for aesthetic plastic surgeons.
An Audit of Top Citations Published in Pediatric Emergency Care In conclusion, this study has identified the 100 most often cited pediatric emergency medicine articles published in PEC since 1985.
The Productivity of NHLBI-Funded Obesity Research, 1983-2013 NHLBI-funded obesity publications have contributed substantially to the obesity literature, with many highly cited.
Disseminating Knowledge: From Potential to Reality-New Open-Access Journals Collide With Convention Most of the surveyed early entrants are disappointingly predatory. The majority are neither enhancing the field nor the authors who publish in them. Both signal that established governance mecha-nisms in academic publishing are failing to ade-quately manage the disruptions taking place due to new, primarily digital, technological developments. We urge the leading scholarly management as-sociations, such as the Academy of Management, Asian Academy of Management, and the European Group on Organization Studies, to support the pub-lication of high-quality OA journals that offer the types of high-quality scholarship and broad acces-sibility that are most needed in the 21st century.
Global competition for scientific talent: evidence from location decisions of PhDs and postdocs in 16 countries By way of summary, the empirical results, regardless of which of the two samples are used, support the hypothesis that research excellence is positively associated with individuals coming to the United States for postdoctoral training, while the level of fringe benefits, the quality of working conditions, and lifestyle are negatively associated with coming to the United States for postdoctoral training. Finally, we find that the foreign-born are increasingly drawn to five of the six alternative countries that we model-Australia, France, Germany, Switzerland, and the UK. The exception is that we find no evidence that Canada is a competitor at the postdoctoral level.
Publish or teach? The role of the scientific environment on academics' multitasking Our theoretical framework predicts that professors devote more time to the task for which they have a marginal advantage.
Influence of human behavior and the principle of least effort on library and information science research HBPLE is a classic work on linguistics that has been cited by authors representing various disciplines, including LIS. An increasing trend in the annual number of citations indicated that the influence of HBPLE on LIS research has not yet diminished. I suggest that future studies aim to identify the influence of HBPLE on various disciplines.
Becoming an interdisciplinary scientist: an analysis of students' experiences in three computer science doctoral programmes Our study shows that interdisciplinary doctoral research depends upon far more than the presence of such structures. Our findings suggest that actual predoctoral work in a field other than computer science is far more important than Nash's (2008) and Stokol's (2014) frameworks, and descriptions of predisposing variables and principles would suggest for a doctoral student to engage in interdisciplinary research. These findings open the way to further research and policy initiatives to facilitate early career scientists' interdisciplinary development and their interdisciplinary research productivity to better assist students with their goals in order to develop their careers as interdisciplinary scholars.
HOW DO SCIENTISTS RESPOND TO PERFORMANCE-BASED INCENTIVES? EVIDENCE FROM SOUTH KOREA Overall, the findings of this study provide significant management implications for university administrators.
How to measure the quality of financial tweets In this paper we have addressed an important issue: the evaluation of the quality of tweet data. We propose to contextualize and improve the well known Hirsch index (the h index) that we modify according to a statistical rigorous paradigm and rename T index. From an applied perspective, we foresee at least two main advantages in the adoption of our statistical T index: 1. comparison among twitterers can be simply performed in terms of an easy to understand ranking; 2. rankings can be robustified by using appropriate confidence intervals and levels.
Causality between research output in the field of biotechnology and economic growth in Turkey In the light of the obtained findings, it was determined that there was a causality relationship between economic growth and research output in the field of biotechnology in Turkey.
Scientific author names: errors, corrections, and identity profiles Possible solutions are discussed in relation to identifying author profiles and adjusting editorial policies to the emerging problems.
"Let us salute one of our kind." How academic obituaries consecrate research biographies The insights shed light on underlying academic virtues and values.
Altmetric: Top 50 dental articles in 2014 Altmetrics are intended to supplement bibliometrics, not replace them. Altmetrics is a fresh and emerging arena for the dental research community. We believe that dental clinical practitioners, research scientists, research directors and journal editors must pay more attention to altmetrics as a new diverse and rapid tool to measure scholarly social impact.
Global research trends of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: a bibliometric analysis There is a rapid increase in research activities related to MERS-CoV from 2012 to 2015. This study demonstrates that the MERS-CoV related literature has grown to be more extensive and global over the past 4 years. Furthermore, the USA, the UK and KSA may have higher quality of articles according to the value of h-index.
The impact of members of the Society of University Surgeons on the scholarship of American surgery SUS society members are a highly productive academic group. These data support the premise that the SUS is meeting its research mission and identify its members as very academically productive contributors to research and scholarship in American surgery and medicine. The data show that SUS members outperform their non-SUS peers in academic productivity. This supports the premise that the SUS is achieving its research mission. The role of SUS members as leaders in American surgery is confirmed, as they are more likely to hold and achieve higher academic rank and to serve in leadership roles or chair positions.
TOPIC-ADJUSTED VISIBILITY METRIC FOR SCIENTIFIC ARTICLES The proposed model leads to significant improvement in link predictions, which can be helpful in article recom-mendation.
Measuring diversity in disciplinary collaboration in research teams: An ecological perspective This exploratory study suggests that using Shannon's entropy can be useful in providing new insights about cross-disciplinary research teams that would not be possible through bibliometric analysis. Our findings suggest that there is not a relationship between team size and disciplinary diversity. This analysis approach could be helpful for funding agencies to assess the cross-disciplinary research potential of a research network, although we recognize that using CVs and current occupational affiliations have limitations.
Scholarly reputation in the digital age and the role of emerging platforms and mechanisms Overall, a large number of researchers, despite having their reservations, think that reputational systems are here to stay and that they will become increasingly important. The reputational benefits of new platforms and mechanisms are not well known among many scholars, but things are slowly changing. Young researchers generally have a more encompassing view of reputation than their older colleagues, and they look to benefit most from emerging reputational platforms and might possibly be the drivers of change.
Determining effects of individual research grants on publication output and impact: The case of the Emmy Noether Programme (German Research Foundation) The analysis reveals moderate (statistical) effects of PP on the outcome of the FD for some output and impact measures in the field of biology.
Past performance does not guarantee future results: lessons from the evaluation of research units in Portugal The results provide an empirical contribution to the discussion regarding whether science can be measured and how, and reinforce the importance of evaluations where the use of quantitative data is defined and the differences between areas are accounted for.
Perceptions of Scholars in the Field of Economics on Co-Authorship Associations: Evidence from an International Survey Our study surveyed 580 researchers worldwide to understand Economics authors' perceptions of research authorship and collaboration.
The Domino Effects of Federal Research Funding Our analysis demonstrates a complementary relationship between federal science funding and non-federal funders.
Gaps in affiliation indexing in Scopus and PubMed Unfortunately, our study shows that about 7% of UNMC/NM's publications fall through the cracks in Scopus's affiliation-identifier indexing.
Estimating biologically relevant parameters under uncertainty for experimental within-host murine West Nile virus infection Our analysis gives mechanistic insights into the dynamics of WNV infection and produces estimates of viral characteristics that are difficult to measure experimentally.
Intra- and Inter-institutional Collaborative Pairing Trends of LIS Field in South Korea It can be concluded that the distribution of intra-institutional co-authorship and inter-institutional co-authorship, institution type, regional feature and core collaborative authors are influential factors for collaborative pairing. And institutions that have a high degree of centrality and betweenness centrality affect other institutions that are part of their collaborative pairing. Future institutional-level studies should focus on more diverse fields.
International Review of Economics and Finance (1992-2015): The past 24 years and beyond Overall, the journal has a diverse authorship and it has been a success for the last 24 years. Based on its momentum in recent years, we anticipate IREF moving to a leading journal in the near future.
Structural dynamics of keyword networks: Liquid crystal display and plasma display panel cases "We expect that this structural investigation of keyword co-occurrence networks provides an indicator to diagnose the research evolution in that field. The core/periphery structure in the keyword network is an effective method to trace the structural evolution of the scholar community. Finally, we believe that common features derived from accumulated evidences can provide insights into scientific evolution."
Ranking Authors and Institutions by Publications in Regional Science Journals: 2010-2014 We provide an updated and broad assessment of the representation of authors and their institutions in regional science journals. The rankings should be helpful in assessing the contributions of researchers and institutions to the core regional science literature. They can be used in addition to discipline rankings to help regional science and regional scientists avoid becoming “lost in academic space” (Isserman 1993: 26).
Exploiting Heterogeneous Scientific Literature Networks to Combat Ranking Bias: Evidence From the Computational Linguistics Area This paper proposes a new framework, MutualRank, for a less-biased ranking of scientific publications.
Genetic algorithms and Gaussian Bayesian networks to uncover the predictive core set of bibliometric indices Our findings provide information on which subset of bibliometric indices has the highest predictive power.
Recovering uncaptured citations in a scholarly network: A two-step citation analysis to estimate publication importance This article proposes a two-step citation analysis method for article and author ranking.
The "total cost of publication" in a hybrid open-access environment: Institutional approaches to funding journal article-processing charges in combination with subscriptions For the 23 institutions included in this study, APCs (in addition to subscriptions) are now a considerable proportion of the TCP.
Interdisciplinary research has consistently lower funding success The interdisciplinary distance metric allows efficient evaluation of trends in research funding, and could be used to identify proposals that require assessment strategies appropriate to interdisciplinary research.
If I tweet will you cite? The effect of social media exposure of articles on downloads and citations At least within the first 3–27 months of observation, SM exposure did not change the number of downloads and citations in papers published in the International Journal of Public Health.
Analysis of Collaboration Networks in Business Disciplines In this article, we have primarily demonstrated the col-laboration networks of the six disciplines in business and the interdisciplinary collaboration modes among them. We discover that the average collaboration degree of the scholars of the six disciplines is relatively low, to be sim-ply one to two; the collaboration rate and degree of infor-mation science is the highest; the collaboration rate of business administration and the collaboration degree of marketing are the lowest. The common characteristics of the six networks are displayed in obvious core marginal texture and unobvious small-world phenomenon of collaboration between the scholars whose network den-sity is comparatively low, which means that the scholars have little exchange and unclose contact.
Measuring the Degrees of Openness of Scholarly Journals with the Open Access Spectrum (OAS) Evaluation Tool No journal from the 1,005 samples received a perfect total score of 100 based on the OAS Evaluation Tool in 2015. Journals' machine readability is so far the weakest area among the six categories of the OAS Evaluation Tool: 56.92% sample journals in this study received a score of 0 in machine readability. On the positive side of openness, it is extremely rare to find a journal that does not have any element of openness: only 9 (0.89%) journals received an end score of 0.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Health and Medical Journals: Issues in Medical Scholarly Communication in Africa Findings from this study provide insight about the coverage, visibility, and impact of health and medical research published in Africa and as indexed in AJOL.
Beyond the Impact Factor: measuring the international visibility of Romanian social sciences journals The low international visibility for the Romanian Social Sciences journals, despite the recent introduction of ten journals in one of the most prestigious databases, should raise major concerns regarding the quality of the articles published in these journals.
Emergence of collaboration networks around large scale data repositories: a study of the genomics community using GenBank The growth in cyberinfrastructure enabled science is affecting the scale and structure of scientific collaboration.
Evolving cohesion metrics of a research network on rare diseases: a longitudinal study over 14 years The analysis of Spanish research network on rare diseases reveals a growing cohesion.
What we learn from the shifts in highly cited data from 2001 to 2014? Primarily, the first and most important correlation is between research, and a country's economics.
Optimal research team composition: data envelopment analysis of Fermilab experiments Our results show that groups of moderate size outperform larger ones in a major particle physics laboratory.
Is there a gender difference in scientific collaboration? A scientometric examination of co-authorships among industrial-organizational psychologists However, our finding that female researchers collaborate more often and, on average, with more colleagues contradicts the idea that female researchers are less successful than their male researchers due to a lack of scientific collaboration.
MACA: a modified author co-citation analysis method combined with general descriptive metadata of citations As a result, the proposed MACA is found that more detailed and subtle information of a knowledge domain analyzed can be obtained, compared to ACA.
Characterization, description, and considerations for the use of funding acknowledgement data in Web of Science The characterization of the funding acknowledgement information collected by Thomson Reuters can therefore help understand the possibilities offered by the data but also their limitations.
Predicting citation patterns: defining and determining influence Despite the good system results, we would like to increase our system’s performance by adding features.
Use of dissertation data in science policy research This case study aims to demonstrate the utility of Ph.D. dissertation data for science policy research.
Using h-cores to study the most-cited articles of the twenty-first century We conclude by stating that the notions of h-cores and h-core scores provide a new perspective on leading countries, articles and scientists.
The consequences of competition: simulating the effects of research grant allocation strategies We implemented a conceptually simple simulation model that describes qualitatively the interactions between the grant allocation process, organisation's promotion process, researcher's skill, motivation and productivity.
An assessment of quality, trustworthiness and usability of Indonesian agricultural science journals: stated preference versus revealed preference study It is also observed that Quality and Trust indices are well correlated and indicate a good model fit with the Overall Index. On the other hand, Usability Index is negatively correlated and shows very less model fit with the Overall Index. This paper has demonstrated an assessment of IAARD journal influence as a combination of two studies: stated preference and revealed preference.
Iran's scientific dominance and the emergence of South-East Asian countries as scientific collaborators in the Persian Gulf Region International scientific collaboration patterns reflect geographical, political, social and historical relations and may also actively contribute to shaping these, and thus have an effect upon political relations as well.
Interpreting correlations between citation counts and other indicators Overall, the results suggest that due to the number of assumptions that must be made, in practice it will rarely be possible to make a realistic interpretation of the strength of a correlation coefficient.
A classification of the use of research indicators In our classification we have identified five main types of use: General science policy, Funding allocation, Organization and management, Content management and decisions, and Consumer information.
Data matching, integration, and interoperability for a metric assessment of monographs Data standardization is an aspect of bibliometrics that assists with the development of new performance indicators.
Exploring the intellectual structure of nanoscience and nanotechnology: journal citation network analysis This study provides an overall view of intellectual structure of nano field based on the empirical data and quantitative analysis.
Bibliometric analysis of top 100 most-cited clinical studies on ultrasound in the Emergency Department "The most frequently cited studies conducted in the emergency department pertaining to the use of ultrasonography included a wide range of topics, and approximately half of the primary authors of these studies were emergency medicine specialists."
BIBLIOMETRIC OVERVIEW OF BUSINESS & ECONOMICS RESEARCH This article presents a general bibliometric overview of the most influential research in business & economics. This information is very useful to get a complete picture of the state of research in business and economics and can be used for a wide range of purposes including research policies and academic strategies. Finally, it is worth noting that this bibliometric overview permits to obtain a general picture of the state of the art of business and economics research through the last decades and according to the research found in the Web of Science.
A Bibliometric Analysis of PubMed Literature on Middle East Respiratory Syndrome We found that a large majority of MERS articles were published in highly cited specialized journals and that universities were the most productive organizations.
Coauthorship and subauthorship patterns in financial economics We have presented the network structure of subauthorship in four finance journals: the Journal of Finance, the Review of Financial Studies, the Journal of Financial Economics and the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, from 1994 to 2013. Future research could explore the subauthors' social and educational characteristics such as their age, sex and the academic institution where they obtained their PhD. This will shed light on the social and academic identity of these indirect contributors to scientific innovation in finan- cial economics.
An Analysis of Individual and Institutional Contributions to the Fashion Marketing Forum From 2004 to 2014 The results of this study provide a current snapshot of publishing activity in the field of fashion marketing.
Revisiting the standing of international business journals in the competitive landscape However, it provides a considerable methodological advancement compared to existing journal ranking studies and thus lifts the prevailing discussions to a more rigorous and informed level.
Brief alcohol intervention trials conducted by higher prestige authors and published in higher impact factor journals are cited more frequently We conclude that studies conducted by more established authors and reported in more prestigious journal outlets are more likely to be cited by other scholars, even after controlling for various proxies of study quality.
Assessing the evolution of scientific publications in orthopedics journals from mainland China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan: a 12-year survey of the literature In conclusion, this study provides a novel overview of current Chinese orthopedics research.
Fifty top-cited fracture articles from China: a systematic review and bibliometric analysis This list of the top 50 publications identifies the most influential Chinese fracture surgery articles for the global community.
Using Bibliometrics to Demonstrate the Value of Library Journal Collections Our analysis of the references cited by NOAA-affiliated authors in their articles published between 2009 and 2013 produced a number of potentially useful results for use within our agency.
Strategies for Success: Open Access Policies at North American Educational Institutions As more educational institutions establish open access policies, there is a corresponding need to assess how these policies are created as well as their individual and collective impact on improving access to faculty scholarship.
Negotiating Authorship in Chinese Universities: How Organizations Shape Cycles of Credit in Science This article contributes to the literature on scientific authorship in particular and on reward and recognition systems in science in general. These findings have important policy implications for China's S&T system in particular and research management in general. As suggested by these cases, corrupt academic practice may not simply be a product of the overwhelming trend of metric measurement of research output but instead mediated and shaped by local organizational contexts to a large extent.
With a little help from our friends: An empirical investigation of co-authoring in accounting research Our findings suggest that motivations for co-authorship as well as the experiences of authors are conditioned principally, on a combination of productivity and social considerations. From this finding follows our identification of almost a ‘typology’ of co-authorship styles. In addition to this practical importance, the contribution of this study has theoretical significance that our inductively-derived typology assists in improving the sense-making of our empirical findings by considering the subjective viewpoints of the embedded participants within the context where (their) reality is situated.
The Aesthetic Surgery Literature: Do Plastic Surgeons Remain at the Cutting Edge? Whilst plastic surgeons continue to maintain a center-stage presence in terms of authorship of aesthetic surgical literature, significant contributions are now made by other specialties. We must continue to foster high-quality, peer-reviewed research and innovations to maintain our visibility as leaders in the aesthetic surgery literature and sustain a competitive advantage in aesthetic surgery practice.
Analyzing research performance: proposition of a new complementary index In this paper I have tried to establish a rational and objective framework for analyzing scientists' research outputs.
Collaboration experiences across scientific disciplines and cohorts One important implication from our study is that, rather than taking the cohort difference for granted or simply assuming “it is the way it is,” university leaders and department directors need to contemplate this problem and manage to create a friendly and fair collaboration environment for junior and next generation scholars.
Theories in communication science: a structural analysis using webometrics and social network approach This study provides a better understanding of social sciences (communication sciences) by proposing another metric to describe and assess their presence and structures on the World Wide Web. Based on theory co-occurrences, communication sciences appear to have a bipolar network structure in which both academic and social websites refer to communication theories. In this regard, future research should consider a more comprehensive range of communication theories and employ more robust methods to develop a complete list of communication science theories representing all possible theories in the field.
Academic research in innovation: a country analysis This study presents a general overview of the leading countries in innovation research between 1989 and 2013.
Foundations and trends in performance management. A twenty-five years bibliometric analysis in business and public administration domains Our paper presents more findings on 25 years of research on performance management but the main result is the identification of a clear path of evolution in both sub-domains.
A new network model for the study of scientific collaborations: Romanian computer science and mathematics co-authorship networks In this paper, we represent co-authorship data in a network in which papers, represented as nodes, are connected if they have a common author.
Context sensitive article ranking with citation context analysis In this work, we presented a method to utilize citation contexts in order to rank important articles in a topic specific way.
Open scholarship ranking of Chinese research universities The OSR provides an evaluation framework for universities' performance in open scholarship, and can be regarded as an acceptable way of ranking universities.
Recent trends in academic journal growth Firstly, academic journals grew at an average rate of 4.7 % from 1986 to 2013, which is aligned to the 4.68 % growth rate during the Big Science period from 1944 to 1978 that was observed by Mabe and Amin (2001).
Experiences and perceptions of South-South and North-South scientific collaboration of mathematicians, physicists and chemists from five southern African universities We conclude that supporting international and national collaboration which includes increased scientific mobility, strong scientific groups and networks, are key factors for capacity building of research in southern African Universities.
Time-aware link prediction to explore network effects on temporal knowledge evolution This study sought to contribute to understandings of co-word network evolution, identify important network structural and topological features along with their temporal evolutionary information to describe instances in classification datasets and use supervised learning models to accurately predict future links among keywords from scientific literature.
Toward a better scientific collaboration success prediction model through the feature space expansion "The experiments on a dataset collected from the Scival Expert, demonstrate that the new feature space improves the performance of the prediction."
Distinguishing sleeping beauties in science In this study, we suggest relevant rules for distinguishing sleeping beauties based on several examples.
Quantifying the changing role of past publications We identified and analyzed the dense cores of yearly article co-citation networks based on Web of Science citations (1975–2008).
A global analysis of the impact of research output on economic growth The estimations support the positive impact of research output on economic growth, irrespective of the indicators of research output used and irrespective of whether the focus is on developed countries or developing nations.
How physics works: scientific capital in the space of physics institutions The social space of physics research institutions provides a map of field of physics in Russia.
Bibliometric analysis of Egyptian publications on Hepatitis C virus from PubMed using data mining of an in-house developed database (HCVDBegy) To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to analyze the quantity and quality of research productivity in the field of HCV in Egypt.
Research assessment using early citation information Our results show that cumulative citations are highly predictable by early citations at the university discipline level in economics.
Are all economics graduate cohorts created equal? Gender, job openings, and research productivity We find that favorable conditions at the time of academic job search are positively correlated with research productivity for both male and female PhDs.
Academy of Management Journal, 1958-2014: a citation analysis In this paper we have analysed the entire publication history of AMJ from 1958 to 2014 and found the most published authors, most cited articles, most cited authors, top-ranked institutions, and the top-ranked countries responsible for the articles.
The ecstasy and the agony of the altmetric score Obviously such a score is only a number and needs to be put into context for appropriate interpretation.
Metrics, flawed indicators, and the case of philosophy journals The upshot of my analysis is that the question of how to assess journals and research outputs in the humanities is still far from resolved.
A study on statistical methods used in six journals of library and information science One of the major findings of this study is that clear increase trends of research papers that used statistical methods were discovered from 5 of the scholarly journals (JASIST, IPM, JIS, LISR, and JD).
Recent trends in co-authorship in economics: evidence from RePEc This article adds to the recent research on patterns of co-authorship in economics over time. Based on a large dataset of more than 700 000 articles we verify the constantly increasing trend of authorship. In our regression results, we find a clear positive relationship between co-authorship and the number of citations, the length of an article and the title. Especially the latter one is surprising. We leave this for future research.
Contributorship and division of labor in knowledge production As the first large-scale analysis of contributorship, this work has shed light on the degree to which contributorship can inform our understanding of the practice of science and the allocation of rewards and resources within it.
Job choice in academia Our results thus shed light on both the asymmetric mobility of researchers, and on the academic labour market and the organisation of academic research in general.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific literature on intestinal parasites in Argentina during the period 1985-2014 This study showed an increase in the number of articles published on intestinal parasites in humans in Argentina over the last 30 years.
Enhancing the foundations for theorising through bibliometric mapping This paper set out to explore two related research questions. That is, how software tools can help reduce the complexity of sifting through large bodies of literature and how these tools can enhance the foundations for theorising. Consequently, future research may wish to go beyond the illustration of the promise of technology for the identification of research questions and offer a detailed account of how technological advancements can contribute to theory building from the beginning to the end.
Strategies for Using Plagiarism Software in the Screening of Incoming Journal Manuscripts: Recommendations Based on a Recent Literature Survey Based on this survey, it is concluded that excluding materials and methods sections and ‘<2% sources’ significantly lowers the accumulated similarity index to what appears to be a more realistic level as well as offering a much more reliable result in terms of hits of intellectual relevance.
Intellectual structure of trust in business and management: a co-citation analysis The findings provide academic professionals a different perspective that heretofore had not been discussed.
Effects of gender in library and information science research A case study of The Electronic Library The current study of authors who had published in the last decade (2005 through 2014) in The Electronic Library – a prominent journal in the field of library and information science – reveals low participation of females in the research world compared to males. Regarding the professional engagement of authors, males are found to be more productive as teachers while females are productive as working professionals or as academic research scholars. The results of this study reveal that an imbalance in terms of research productivity exists between male and female researchers in the field of library and information science.
Extraction, analysis and publication of bibliographical references within an institutional repository Although reference extraction from scholarly work is hard, it is not impossible. Perfection is currently not possible for automatic extraction, but the achieved results are encouraging and can be used to establish a reference publishing workflow for Institutional Repositories. A publication infrastructure where references are available for software agents would enable additional benefits like citation analysis, e.g. the collection of citations of a known paper and the investigation of citation sentiment. The publication of reference information as demonstrated in this article is possible with existing semantic web technologies based on established ontologies and open source software components.
A comparative study on the reliability of co-authorship networks with emphases on edges and nodes Studies on the reliability of scientific co-authorship network identify which networks are reliable from different approaches (edges and/or nodes) according to the participation of researchers and the intensity of extant co-authorship relations. The results of this work showed that the measure of reliability of the co-authorship network with emphasis on edges or relations of co-authorship is more sensitive to changes in individual reliabilities of the network with emphasis on nodes or researchers. However, the use of other centrality measurements and the execution of simulations for more trust-worthy results are recommended besides the employment of these measurements.
Cooperation for Publication? An Analysis of Co-authorship Patterns in Leading Accounting Journals Our analyses do not indicate that cooperation is positively associated with a paper's research impact as measured by citation numbers. Moreover, we find a significant negative relationship between a researcher's share of co-authored papers and his or her research output in leading accounting journals if the latter is weighted by the number of co-authors. Overall, we hope that our findings encourage debate about the potential, pitfalls and purpose of cooperation among accounting academics.
A Citation Analysis of Business Ethics Research: A Global Perspective Our study provides three interesting results that shed light on the development of a theory of journal ranking and allocation of scarce resources to disseminating the research results through publication in journals with most impact.
Trends in Authorship Characteristics in The American Journal of Sports Medicine, 1994 to 2014 Within the past two decades, there has been a significant increase in the average number of authors per article in AJSM, as well as a higher proportion of international groups and academic institutions publishing in the journal. More nonphysicians are publishing in AJSM, with a significantly higher percentage of first authors with a bachelor’s degree as their highest degree. This is likely due to a combination of a general increased interest in research as well as increased competition among medical students.
Time to research Australian physician-researchers Since 1989, more medical graduates are completing SMS PhDs, although more often prior to completing clinical Fellowships, and many have ongoing, albeit low, research activity.
Understanding Scientific Collaboration in the Research Life Cycle: Bio- and Nanoscientists' Motivations, Information-Sharing and Communication Practices, and Barriers to Collaboration This study explored collaboration from the perspective of the research life cycle by interviewing 24 bio- and nanoscientists. It shows that crucial aspects of collaboration (i.e., motivating factors, collaboration forming, selecting a collaborator, developing communication methods, information-sharing practices, and collaboration barriers) are interwoven in the research life cycle.
Not All International Collaboration is Beneficial: The Mendeley Readership and Citation Impact of Biochemical Research Collaboration Confirming previous similar studies, the results show that larger collaborations are more successful at attracting citation impact in biochemistry but that, other factors being equal, additional institutions tend to associate with fewer citations. Overall, and other factors being equal, the results suggest that biochemists in the United States should seek, and funders should encourage, larger collaborations but not more highly multi-institutional collaborations. An important implication of the methods used to derive the findings reported above is that statistical methods can suggest that international collaboration itself is an advantage, whereas a more detailed model with the same data finds that international collaboration is only an advantage with specific nations.
Using Path-Based Approaches to Examine the Dynamic Structure of Discipline-Level Citation Networks: 1997-2011 In this paper we employed the MST algorithm to a dynamic discipline-level citation data set with the goal to identify knowledge paths among scientific disciplines.
Mendeley Readership Altmetrics for Medical Articles: An Analysis of 45 Fields The results give evidence that Mendeley readership counts would be a good proxy for citation counts for all medical research fields, except for drug guides. The difference between the best fitting distribution for citations (hooked power law) and readers (usually lognormal) suggests that, at a fine-grained level, citations and readers are not fully interchangeable and that they have to some extent a differing underlying dynamic. Nevertheless, further research is needed to investigate whether there are more concrete implications of the distribution differences found.
Spamming in Scholarly Publishing: A Case Study Basically, the overall characteristics of the journals and publishers that we studied that sent spam e-mails were as follows: • Most used the OA model (74% of journals and 60% of publishers). • Most of the journals and publishers were funded by APCs. • The average time claimed for peer review was 4 weeks or less. • Many journals and publishers gave no—or false—information concerning where they were based. • Some sent as many as 40 e-mails during the period of our study. • The layout and some parts of the letters from many publishers were the same. • A number of the journals studied had only a few articles available for readers to see in advance, some with errors or mistakes. • More than 70% of the publishers were present in Beall’s list.
Constructing Conceptual Trajectory Maps to Trace the Development of Research Fields Literature review is a necessary step in the research process, and researchers need to understand the state and overall development of research fields quickly.
NODE IMPORTANCE MEASURE FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH COLLABORATION FROM HYPERNETWORK PERSPECTIVE In view of the limitations of traditional modelling method for scientific research collaboration network, we present a modelling method of hypernetwork, and on the basis of which we investigate the problem of node importance measuring in SRCH in view of hypernetwork.
Impact of lexical and sentiment factors on the popularity of scientific papers Altogether, our results indicate that textual properties of title and abstract have non-trivial effects in the processes leading to the attribution of citations.
Low immediate scientific yield of the PhD among medical doctors In conclusion, we found that the majority of PhD gradu-ates in Denmark stop their research activity shortly after being a laureate. Among those who remain active, being a co-author instead of a lead or a senior author mainly comprises this activity.
Publication activities of German junior researchers in academic medicine: which factors impact impact factors? The study's results support the assumption about women's underrepresentation in science as well as the relevance of structured doctoral study programs for preparing and recruiting young academics in medicine for scientific careers.
Access to ICT and Research Output of Agriculture Researchers in Kenya Our findings suggest some differences in access between scientists working universities and KARI centres, but the overall picture shows that those differences diminished by 2010 as nearly all scientists enjoyed substantial levels of access, comfort and diversity of access to computers, email and the web. Institutional differences in professional activities and productivity likely relate back to the different education levels between the two institutions. Both institutions should be able to use ICTs to enhance their research functions, but as long as they differ in their other core function (teaching versus extension), we expect continued differences in education levels and productivity focus in agricultural research.
Coranking the Future Influence of Multiobjects in Bibliographic Network Through Mutual Reinforcement While previous related works focus mainly on ranking the current importance of papers and authors, this article proposes an approach, MRCoRank, to predict the future influence of new publications and young researchers.
Peer review and competition in the Art Exhibition Game Our results clearly indicate that competition is a double-edged sword: whereas on the one hand, competition fosters innovation and diversity of products, on the other hand, it also leads to more unfair reviews and to a lower level of agreement between re- viewers.
The Search for Landmark Works in English Literary Studies: A Citation Analysis The results of this study, which echo its macro-level counterparts, provided little to no support for the concept of the “seminal” or “landmark work” in literary scholarship. Rather than identifying predictable patterns of use, the data highlight the diversity of sources used even in a very narrow field of literary scholarship, a pattern that matches the overall patterns observed in literary studies and the humanities as a whole.
Multiple Citation Indicators and Their Composite across Scientific Disciplines Multiple indicators and their composite may give a more comprehensive picture of impact, although no citation indicator, single or composite, can be expected to select all the best scientists. Instead of using only one citation indicator, systematically examining multiple indicators offers a more complete, granular picture. However, the use of a composite may allow for capturing not only citation influence but also aspects of co-authorship and relative credit in multi-authored papers that currently represent the large majority in most scientific fields.
Is there an impending loss of academically productive trauma surgical faculty? An analysis of 4,015 faculty Senior trauma surgical faculty are as academically productive as other general surgical faculty and other surgical specialists. Junior trauma faculty, however, publish at a lower rate than other general surgery or subspecialty faculty. Causes of decreased academic productivity and lower NIH funding must be identified, understood, and addressed.
Public Policy and the Origins of Bureaucratic Red Tape: Implications of the Stanford Yacht Scandal In the Stanford yacht case, a set of ill-defined and erratically implemented policies played a major role in creating the organizational disaster that began with Stanford and spread to other institutions.
Does Presentation Order Impact Choice After Delay? Analysis of a consequential real-world domain suggests that mere presentation order impacts choice after delay, even in situations where exposure is more incidental than motivated and choice is not required. Articles that appeared earlier in a journal issue, or earlier in a topical section of a journal, were cited more frequently.
Research as Profession and Practice: Frameworks for Guiding the Responsible Conduct of Research By elucidating these features, these perspectives can serve to guide the development of RCR education programs.
National Institutes of Health Support for Clinical Emergency Care Research, 2011 to 2014 Emergency care research makes up 0.7% of NIH spending on new research project grants. The success rate is high for emergency medicine principal investigators conducting clinical work. The overall success rate for emergency medicine R01s is similar to that of other clinical specialties.
The bibliometric indicators as predictors of the final decision of the peer review "The analysis showed that only a few bibliometric indicators are able to predict the final decisions taken by the peers at the opening Investigador FCT when the goal is to select applicants that do not have a long scien-tific career."
The citation impact of collaboration between top institutions: A temporal analysis The results show that collaboration for high-impact institutions (in the top 100) has increased over time, as it has in general for all insti-tutions (Gazni, Sugimoto and Didegah 2012), and it has increased at a faster rate than has collaboration for moderately high-impact insti-tutions (in the top 401-500), starting from a lower basic level.
Kin of coauthorship in five decades of health science literature In conclusion, a certain level of kinship may have beneficial effects on the research outputs of a country, whereas greater or lesser amounts of kinship could have adverse effects.
Patient safety: the landscape of the global research output and gender distribution Though the topic is a global matter, the scientific output on patient safety is centred mainly in industrialised countries.
How do scientists perceive the current publication culture? A qualitative focus group interview study among Dutch biomedical researchers Our findings suggest that the current publication culture leads to negative sentiments, counterproductive stress levels and, most importantly, to questionable research practices among junior and senior biomedical scientists. Future research should identify alternatives and inter- ventions to restore core values such as trust, credibility, integrity and collaboration.
Bibliometric analysis of the top-cited gastroenterology and hepatology articles Top-cited articles were not only published in highly ranked journals specialising in Gastroenterology and Hepatology but also in 14 journals not specialised in this field. The number of citations correlated with the number of institutes and the number of countries involved but not with the number of grants received or the number of authors. Females were under-represented in the authorship.
Surgical trainee research collaboratives in the UK: an observational study of research activity and publication productivity The experience of UK-based trainee research collaboratives provides useful insights for trainees and policymakers in global healthcare systems on the value and feasibility of trainee-driven high quality surgical research.
Misconduct, Marginality and Editorial Practices in Management, Business and Economics Journals This paper complements previous studies on retractions in the natural sciences by focusing on management, business and economics, and by providing data on evolving practices and ideas at these journals regarding misconduct and marginality in received submissions. The activities of academic journals to detect and retract fabricated or plagiarized submissions, and their editors' ideas to support creative contributions instead of accepting increasingly marginal papers, indicate that the productivity logic is competing head on with an invigorated Mertonian ethos of discovery and organized skepticism.
Physical Activity and Aging Research: A Bibliometric Analysis This paper presents the first attempt to conduct a bibliometric study in the field of PA and aging research. From the 9,935 publications collected, it was found that publication output across a variety of disciplines has steadily increased over time indicating the growing importance of the field. Interventional PA research focusing on increasing activity levels in older adults is strongly encouraged.
The 100 most-cited articles in neuroimaging: A bibliometric analysis Our study presents a detailed list and an analysis of the 100 most-cited articles in the field of neuroimaging, which provides an insight into historical developments and allows for recognition of the important advances in this field.
An emerging trend of equal authorship credit in major public health journals An emerging trend of giving equal credit to multiple authors is observed in the public health journals.
Research performance of AACSB accredited institutions in Taiwan: before versus after accreditation This study shows that the AACSB accreditation has a positive impact on research performance. The findings can be used as a reference for current non-accredited schools whose research goals are to improve their research productivity and quality. However, there remain some issues such as the limitations of this study that need to be further examined in the future.
Influential journals in health research: a bibliometric study The work identifies the leading journals in health research through a bibliometric approach.
The Post-Embargo Open Access Citation Advantage: It Exists (Probably), Its Modest (Usually), and the Rich Get Richer (of Course) When treating all the articles in aggregate, this study produced an OACA of comparable magnitude to previous studies. So, even though effects found here are more modest than reported elsewhere, given the conservative treatments of the data and when viewed in conjunction with other OACA studies already done [2,12], the results lend support to the existence of a real, measurable, open access citation advantage with a lower bound of approximately 20%... And the better the author, the stronger the interest in open access, since, as shown by the analysis of above-median articles, OA (unsurprisingly) benefits better articles the most.
The historical path of evaluation as reflected in the content of Evaluation and Program Planning The history of publication in evaluation has a particularly rich history of collaboration between practitioners and academics.
How to Act When Research Misconduct Is Not Detected by Software but Revealed by the Author of the Plagiarized Article The case points to the need for combining anti-plagiarism efforts and actively seeking opinion of non-native English-speaking authors and readers who may spot intellectual theft which is not always detected by software.
Measuring scientific performance of ISI indexed journals in economics: the impact of synchronous and diachronous impact factors While the most significant index that promotes scientific fairness and recognition is the citation concentration index, we found the synchronous approach to offer a complementary instrument for evaluating short term mode of performance and permanent impact of publications among first comers.
Ethical Ambiguity in Science We have argued that existing research on ethics in science maintains a conceptualization of misconduct that underemphasizes or even overlooks the ambiguous character of misconduct that scientists encounter in everyday situations in their work.
Perpetuation of Retracted Publications Using the Example of the Scott S. Reuben Case: Incidences, Reasons and Possible Improvements In conclusion, the analysis of Reuben's publications clearly shows that retracted articles are still cited 5 years after.
Evaluating the Pros and Cons of Different Peer Review Policies via Simulation The simulation results point to the crucial role of program chairs in determining the quality and diversity of articles published in the conference. Furthermore, we demonstrate the importance of discussion among reviewers, suggest the circum- stances in which the single-blind review policy should be adopted instead of the double-blind review, and question the creditability of the author feedback mechanism. We stress that randomness plays an important role in the peer review process, particularly for highly competitive conferences.
An Analysis of Medical Laboratory Technology Journals' Instructions for Authors The impact factor of the journals in the “Medical Laboratory Technology" category does not reflect a journal's compliance to uniform standards or its level of declared publication ethics. There is a need for improving editorial policies and research integrity policies based on current recommendations by leading organizations in the field of scientific publishing.
Impact and outcomes of research sponsored by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy The ASGE research program has grown considerably since 1985, with the majority of grants resulting in at least 1 grant-related publication.
What Effect Does Self-Citation Have on Bibliometric Measures in Academic Plastic Surgery? Self-citation impacts bibliometric data in statistically significant, but small (3-5%) and predictable ways within academic plastic surgery.
Hundred top-cited articles focusing on acute kidney injury: a bibliometric analysis This study provides a historical perspective on the scientific progress on AKI, and highlights areas of research requiring further investigations and developments.
Sanctions for Research Misconduct in Cardiothoracic Surgery Journals An immediate corrective action when misconduct is found, however, is application of sanctions, which may serve as deterrents to future violations.
A longitudinal analysis of link formation on collaboration networks In brief, this study shows that a strategic intermediating (structural) position in the network is the most effective processes for scholars' attachments during the evolution of their collaboration networks.
Expert-based versus citation-based ranking of scholarly and scientific publication channels The purpose of this study was to analyze whether or not the assignment of quality ranks to publication channels – which currently is performed by experts – could (at least partially) be replaced by automatic rules. Our analysis and results indicate that using repeatable methods and the detected rules and patterns, even if they are enlarged and improved (e.g. by considering also whether the publication channel publishes original research or reviews), could save money and man-hours in managing one of the three main components of the Norwegian performance-based funding model – the national database – and bring more transparency and objectivity into the second main component: the publication channel rankings. Through our analysis of the publication channels for which the Finnish expert-based rank was higher than the rules suggested, we found multiple signs that the higher-than-predicted rank of a publication channel could be linked to the publication profile of Finnish scholars or even those who can influence the decision-making process.
Measuring the robustness of the journal h-index with respect to publication and citation values: A Bayesian sensitivity analysis This paper aimed at investigating for the first time in a systematic way the sensitivity of the journal h-index to changes in the number of publications and citations, by utilizing some of the most popular h-index mathematical models.
Posted, visited, exported: Altmetrics in the social tagging system BibSonomy We observed small, yet noticeable correlations between citations and posting, viewing, and exporting publications – for citations in general, but also for citations occurring in the near future. We found small, yet significant predictive power in an experiment where usage features (bookmarks, views, and exports) of one year were used by machine learning classifiers to predict whether the number of citations that a publication receives in the next year exceeds the median number of citations in that next year. Our results are promising: They show that several usage metrics have the potential to serve as indicators for impact.
Mapping the evolution of scientific fields based on cross-field authors Our results are informative, they not only present a clear scientific map, but also reveal what kinds of authors are likely to perform interdisciplinary research and highlight the dynamics of topics across fields.
Normalization of Mendeley reader impact on the reader- and paper-side: A comparison of the mean discipline normalized reader score (MDNRS) with the mean normalized reader score (MNRS) and bare reader counts This generally favorable result for the MNRS in all disciplines leads to the recommendation to prefer the MNRS over the MDNRS-provided that the user has an external field-classification scheme at hand.
Gazing at the skyline for star scientists This technique can be used as a tool for short-listing distinguished researchers in case of award nomination.
Differing disciplinary citation concentration patterns of book and journal literature? First, book chapter is not a suitable unit in traditional bibliometric studies to compare with journal articles.
Which publication is your representative work? In this paper, we propose a self-avoiding preferential diffusion process in the citation network to solve this problem.
From rankings to funnel plots: The question of accounting for uncertainty when assessing university research performance The funnel plot methodology is unlike traditional research performance rankings in that it allows the measurement and visualization of uncertainty.
Citation count distributions for large monodisciplinary journals The primacy of the discretised lognormal distribution for relatively pure citation distributions is a useful result for those wishing to conduct theoretical analyses of the properties of citation-based indicators.
Citation score normalized by cited references (CSNCR): The introduction of a new citation impact indicator The results of this study reveal that the CSNCR is an interesting alternative to the other field-normalized indicators.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific publications in transplantation journals from Mainland China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan between 2006 and 2015 Transplantation research productivity in East Asia is highly skewed, with gross domestic product having a significant positive correlation.
The net as a knowledge machine: How the Internet became embedded in research The growth of web- and Internet-related research has followed broadly similar trends over time in the major research areas. What we can see here is a simultaneous differentiation of research and a moving of the research front from one area to the next as the technology develops. Still, as the Web turns 25, its impact on the academic landscape is undeniable, even as the younger technologies it has spawned may be poised to steal the spotlight.
Research impact of general and funded papers A citation analysis of two ACM international conference proceeding series First, in most cases, the number of funded papers published for ACM SIGIR and ACM SIGKDD is larger than the number of general papers.
Brain circulation, diaspora and scientific progress: A study of the international migration of Chinese scientists, 1998-2006 The findings of this study shed light on international migration in the sci-entific world, and contribute to the policy debate on brain drain from the developing world.
Variants of Epistemic Capitalism: Knowledge Production and the Accumulation of Worth in Commercial Biotechnology and the Academic Life Sciences Capitalist dynamics in knowledge production are not limited to situations in which direct economic interests influence the practices of researchers. If left unchecked, the accumulation of specific forms of capital tends to displace other forms of worth in knowledge production practices. Acting against this decline, in the life sciences and in other fields, will need to be based on a deep understanding of the cultural dynamics that have created the problems we are facing in academia today.
Inter-rater reliability of h-index scores calculated by Web of Science and Scopus for clinical epidemiology scientists Our results showed a stronger relationship and increased agreement between raters when calculating the h-index of a scientist using Scopus compared to WoS. The higher inter-rater reliability and simple user interface used in Scopus may render it the more effective database when calculating the h-index of senior scientists in epidemiology.
Bibliometric trends of health economic evaluation in Sub-Saharan Africa The development and evaluation of HTA research networks in Sub-Saharan Africa should be supported, with South Africa central to any such efforts. Organizations and institutions from high income countries interested in supporting priority setting in Sub-Saharan Africa should include promoting collaboration as part of their agendas, in order to take advantage of the potential transferability of results and methods of the available health economic analyses in Africa and internationally.
The US Public's Investment in Medical Research: An Evolving Social Contract The evolving social contract retains the presumption that public financing of research generates new and beneficial results for society and the public good, and adds to that a recognition of shared purpose for addressing national and global challenges.
Government investments and the publishing activity of higher educational institutions: Bibliometric analysis Our analysis shows that huge government investments into higher educational establishments, including the practice of additional monetary rewards to university associates who published their works in WoS-indexed journals, had a positive influence on the SP of higher educational institutions.
The Impact of a Researcher's Structural Position on Scientific Performance: An Empirical Analysis "We believe this finding, and the method we have developed, could have implications for the way research networks are managed and researchers are supported."
Does high impact factor successfully predict future citations? An analysis using Peirce's measure It is clear that the journal impact factor is not effective in predicting future citations of successful authors. It is seen that this measure is independent of Pearson's correlation (Seglen 1997) and gives a more quantitative refinement of the Type I and Type II classification of Smith (2004).
Constructing a synthetic indicator of research activity The present work demonstrates that it is possible to identify a range of dimensions cov- ering a set of indicators of R&D and innovation, and to develop a synthetic indicator of research activity that provides the basis for a classification of universities according to their performance, in absolute and relative terms. This methodology can be applied to similar indicators to measure complex multidi- mensional concepts, not only in the Spanish university system but also in other countries. Future studies would need to address these limitations and apply the present methodology to other university systems in different geographical areas, to examine its external validity.
Allometric models to measure and analyze the evolution of international research collaboration "On the basis of the results presented in this paper, we can therefore conclude with some properties of the patterns of international scientific collaboration: 1. Acceleration of the internationalization of research collaborations across all research fields. 2. Acceleration is most pronounced in applied disciplines, including particularly medical sciences and allied medical fields, and psychology. 3. Low relative growth of international research collaboration is across more basic research fields, such as Astronomy, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics, etc."
Exploring the topic hierarchy of digital library research in China using keyword networks: a K-core decomposition approach Based on the K-core decomposition method, we find that there are four hierarchical layers in the backbone of the DL keyword network in China.
Long term productivity and collaboration in information science The findings need to be interpreted cau-tiously, however, because authors that produce few academic articles within a field may publish in other fields or leave academia and contribute to society in other ways.
Do scholars follow Betteridge's Law? The use of questions in journal article titles Concerns regarding click-bait questions in academic publications may, therefore, be unwarranted.
Readability and citations in information science: evidence from abstracts and articles of four journals (2003-2012) The results showed that both the abstracts and the full texts are categorised into the difficult level in terms of both FRE scores and SMOG scores.
Using co-authorship and citation analysis to identify research groups: a new way to assess performance The proposed method could be used to better understand the self-organizing mechanisms of research groups and have better assessment of their performance.
Public-private interactions reflected through the funding acknowledgements Overall, the research funded by both the public and private sectors had the best impact (i.e. higher values of NP and Q1), as expected in the first hypothesis. In addition, it had the highest number of authors and organisations, and the greatest proportion of national collaboration. Furthermore, when analysing what explanatory variables had an effect on the impact, it was observed that NP values were higher for articles with FA, funded by both the public and private sectors, and with international collaboration.
Persistent value of older scientific journal articles The results were mixed.
Modelling the Basic Research Competitiveness Index (BR-CI) with an application to the biomass energy field In short, the modelling and empirical study in this paper not only offers some new references for fully exploring the international competition in the basic research of biomass energy field, but also provides some new perspectives and ideas for examining the international competitiveness in the basic research field of science and technology.
An instrument to measure individuals' research agenda setting: the multi-dimensional research agendas inventory This article describes the first instrument capable of evaluating the endogenous aspects of researchers' research agenda setting.
Twitter use in physics conferences The above analysis of 116 scientific conferences suggests that Twitter is used in a quantitatively and qualitatively different manner at conferences devoted to the physics of elementary particles and fields, and to geophysics, astronomy, and astrophysics, than at conferences in other fields of physics. Further qualitative research, broadening the scope to include “big science” fields in other areas of science, will be undertaken to test this hypothesis.
Two citation-based indicators to measure latent referential value of papers In this paper, we propose two scientific indicators which are helpful for researchers to measure the referential value of papers. The experimental results demonstrate that the two indicators are able to recommend relatively new papers of high future citation ranking. On the other hand, they can be supplementary indicators to measure value of publications.
A diachronic study on the information provided by the research titles of applied linguistics journals The study concludes with some discussion on the results obtained. The findings of this study have both pedagogical and academic implications. As a whole, the findings of this study showed that the information trends across the three applied linguistics journals showed similar patterns.
A bibliometric analysis for the research on river water quality assessment and simulation during 2000-2014 This study offers a comprehensive statistical review of the literature related to river water quality assessment and simulation.
Vector-valued impact measures and generation of specific indexes for research assessment In this paper we show a suitable mathematical structure based on finite dimensional vector valued impact measures in order to provide a response to the increasing interest in using several impact indexes (altmetrics) together for research assessment.
Are the impact factor and other variables related to publishing time in ecology journals? Here we found that journals with high impact factor publish the papers faster compared to journals with low factors.
Self-citation rate and impact factor in pediatrics Self-citation is relatively rare in pediatric journals. This study showed that self-citation is much rarer in pediatric journals as compared to other fields of medicine. On the contrary, the IF of pediatric journals was inversely correlated with their SCR. We speculate that the field of pediatrics is rather remote from systematic manipulations of IF through SC.
Understanding the evolving academic landscape of library and information science through faculty hiring data This research examined disciplinary characteristics of LIS by investigating a hiring dataset of faculty members currently employed at US LIS schools. Thus, investigating the disciplinary characteristics of LIS using faculty hiring data sheds light on the understanding of this discipline. We expect subsequent studies using LIS faculty hiring data will produce additional insights to the filed.
ScientoBASE: a framework and model for computing scholastic indicators of non-local influence of journals via native data acquisition algorithms Internationality has thus been defined and perceived as the degree to which a journal transcends local communities and boundaries, with respect to the quality of publication and influence. The paper meticulously defines internationality of peer-reviewed journals as a measure of influence that spreads across boundaries and attempts to capture different and hitherto unperceived aspects of a journal for computing internationality. The current work utilizes parameters like “international collaboration ratio" which incorporates participation of authors from different demographic regions. Authors humbly submit that “true” internationality of a scholarly publication is necessarily contextual and must be devoid of local or community influence.
A bibliometric analysis on the performance and underlying dynamic patterns of water security research "The growths for the publication accumulation in overall scopes, top subject categories, top productive countries and top productive journals generally meet the logistic formulas. The large value of K and small value of b verify that the water security research is currently living at the early stage of an emerging and rapidly developing discipline."
Does alphabetization significantly affect academic careers? We find that economics and mathematics are highly alphabetized, political science and physics are also alphabetized but to a lower degree, chemistry, civil engineering, mechanical engineering, psychology and sociology are non-alphabetic fields. We see that there is no consistent and clear prevalence of Professor A in the alphabetic fields compared to the non-alphabetic fields. We also cannot see any clear advantage of Professor A in working in higher ranked universities.
Scientific output of the emerging Cuban biopharmaceutical industry: a scientometric approach Qualified human resources, innovative knowledge, leadership, high specialization in the field of vaccines development and non-dependence of international collaboration are strengths of the organization.
Microsoft Academic (Search): a Phoenix arisen from the ashes? Overall, this first small-scale case study suggest that provided some teething problems with regard to publication duplicates and wrong year allocations can be resolved—the new incarnation of Microsoft Academic presents us with an excellent alternative for citation analysis, especially if coverage for books and non-traditional research outputs could be further improved.
Do they agree? Bibliometric evaluation versus informed peer review in the Italian research assessment exercise The conclusion reached by ANVUR must be reversed: the available evidence does not justify at all the joint use of IR and bibliometrics within the same research assessment exercise.
Estimating the partnership ability of Scientometrics journal authors based on WoS from 2001 to 2013 according to I•-index<SUP>1</SUP> Although Schubert wasn't in top ten authors according to centrality measure. So we can conclude that p-index notices qualified dimension of co-authorship and isn't in the same direction of centrality measure. Centrality measures are based on quantity of links but phi-index is based on quality of link.
A scientometric analysis of reproductive medicine Form our data it is possible to conclude that RM is a dynamic field, that the scientific production related to RM is worldwide growing, with marked differences in term of quantity and quality and of extent of international collaboration among Regions and Countries. The interest of researchers is switching from basics to more applied issues and, though papers related to RM is even more present in journals devoted to other disciplines, it is desirable a more deep integration with other medical and non-medical fields. Lastly, the analysis of co-authorship pointed out the collaborative base of RM and the existence of a large connected community and several micro-communities.
Neurosciences in Brazil: a bibliometric study of main characteristics, collaboration and citations Brazilian scientific output in Neurosciences grows every year, along with the percentage of articles published in English and in foreign journals. Brazilian Neurosciences research is highly concentrated among a small number of institutions, authors and regions. The impact of Brazilian Neurosciences research has not kept pace with its growth. Thus, it is suggested to conduct further studies to determine why research is scarce in the northern and northeastern states.
Mapping intellectual structures and dynamics of transport geography research: a scientometric overview from 1982 to 2014 Finally, 23 documents are identified as playing the pivotal role in its knowledge evolution as an intellectual base.
Proving ground for social network analysis in the emerging research area "Internet of Things" (IoT) This study explores the structural changes in the community of scholars in terms of co-authors and co-institutions in the field of IoT. A prediction model was developed and tested, and its accuracy, precision, and recall were 76.84, 80.20, and 94.47 %, respectively. Future research should examine the other important research on IoT published before Dec 31, 2015.
Mapping the institutional collaboration network of strategic management research: 1980-2014 The main objective of the study was to explore and map the evolution of institutional collaboration and the network of the collaboration in SM research.
Comparison of environmental laws publications in Science Citation Index Expanded and Social Science Index: a bibliometric analysis This study investigated environmental law research in both natural science and social science.
Collaboration dynamics of Mexican research in Chemistry and its relationship with communication patterns Mexican research institutes and departments specializing in Chemistry show a clear ten-dency to work in teams and to collaborate mainly with other national institutions.
Highly cited Antarctic articles using Science Citation Index Expanded: a bibliometric analysis A total of 852 Antarctica highly cited articles were published for the last 53 years from 1959 to 2011, with an average of 181 cited times. Moreover, the comprehensive analysis of keywords revealed that sea ice, southern ocean, climate change, and ozone depletion were recent focuses and would receive more citations in the near future.
Surviving in the dispute: A bibliometric analysis of global GMF-related research, 1995-2014 The amount of GMF-related publication outputs increased obviously over the past two decades.
Recent trends in Middle Eastern scientific production Overall, our data shows that during the period 1996–2014 Israel was the leading nation in the Middle East in terms of the total number of citations and of total citations per document, while Turkey and Iran were in the lead in terms of scientific documents produced, and together with Egypt and Saudi Arabia, were among the emerging countries in the Middle East in terms of scientific production. We also concluded that the Middle Eastern countries greatly differ in terms of scientific production over time and that no common trend can be found among them. Our findings also show a profound imbalance in terms of scientific performance, highlighting a big divide between the top 5 and the other countries of the Middle East.
Scientific collaboration framework of BRICS countries: an analysis of international coauthorship This result indicates that it could be important to implement policies aimed at fostering the scientific collaborations between the five countries. Moreover, as above introduced, BRICS aim at fostering mutual scientific collaboration, thus confirming its relevance. To this end it would be important for the BRICS to further promote policies and initiatives aimed at fostering collaboration in research. In fact above presented data show clearly that scientific collaboration in the network around BRICS countries has been driven basically by some main factors. These ones should be generally ascribed to geographical proximity, to a common cultural background and to historical reasons.
Application of bibliometrics in analysis of output differences among countries under International Ocean Discovery Program Taken together, our results reveal that IODP main members can be divided into four groups.
Global pattern of science funding in economics In conclusion, the funding analysis of economics during 2009–2014 shows that, though the funding ratio of global economics researches rises year by year, it is still obviously lower than the overall level of natural sciences and other social sciences. In spite of this, funding plays an important role in promoting high-impact researches and decreasing uncited papers in economics.
Global neuroscience and mental health research: a bibliometrics case study In conclusion, the increased use of citation counts as an impact measure, while continuing to bias the literature towards the English-language publications and high profile journals, should at the same time increase visibility of women researchers and non-clinical research disciplines in the health sciences.
Bonded-communities in HantaVirus research: a research collaboration network (RCN) analysis Here we scientometrically analysed the research landscape of HantaVirus research.
50 years of space research in Europe: a bibliometric profile of the European Space Agency (ESA) This study provides insights on the scientific and technical production of the European Space Agency (ESA).
A validation of the individual annual h-index (hIa): application of the hIa to a qualitatively and quantitatively different sample The results of this article broadly support the assertion of Harzing et al. (2014) that the hIa represents an improved tool for the comparison of academics of varying disciplines and career stages.
Citation Impact of Women in Social Work: Exploring Gender and Research Culture The overall impact scores for these women are significant and speak to a number of factors including negotiating long-standing systemic and structural variables.
Using the prisms of gender and rank to interpret research collaboration power dynamics Overall, the findings support that gender structures some part of the collaborative experience, but that status hierarchy exerts more clear effects. Our overarching goal of disentangling gender effects from seniority effects thus could not be achieved with this study. We definitely identified gender effects that are direct and persist when taking seniority into account. But we found that gender and seniority were entwined in relation to our analyses of other constructs, such as personality, style, and interpersonal collaboration dynamics.
Automating the Horae: Boundary-work in the age of computers ArXiv thus functions as a certification site, by dividing its population into insiders and outsiders in the eyes of the wider physics community.
"Crackpots' and "active researchers': The controversy over links between arXiv and the scientific blogosphere While there are promising indications that blog discourse may provide an alternative or complementary form of public peer review within certain communities, this case study highlights the complicated nature negotiating the propriety of intellectual prac- tices. The fact that the terms ‘semi-permanence’ and ‘semi-ephemerality’ are clunky and inexact speaks to the need for better understanding of Web 2.0 communi- cations as a form of scholarly communication. There is more work to be done on blog discourse, and blogs are an excellent site for investigating the tension between perma- nence and ephemerality.
Beams of particles and papers: How digital preprint archives shape authorship and credit HEP is still based on an oral culture of face-to-face communication and on kinship relationships that are only partially captured within its formal communication system.
Gendered Authorship and Demographic Research: An Analysis of 50 Years of Demography This result corroborates previous findings that demography is more gender-balanced than most other fields of research. We believe, however, that our findings provide evidence of some segregation by gender in the publications in Demography. Although we were unable to answer these substantive questions, we hope that this descriptive paper motivates others to conduct more fine-grained analyses of gendered publication activities in demographic research.
Ranking economics departments in the US South: an update This study provides an update to the ranking of Southern economics departments that appears in Mixon and Upadhyaya (2001). This approach indicates that the economics department affiliated with Vanderbilt University is currently the top-ranked unit in the South, followed by the economics department at George Mason University, which was ranked first in Mixon and Upadhyaya (2001). Rounding out the top five are Johns Hopkins University, the University of Maryland and Georgia State University, respectively.
Comparative Performance of Adult Social Care Research, 1996-2011: A Bibliometric Assessment We conclude by noting the limitations to bibliometric analysis of ASCR and examine how such analysis can support the strategic development of the field. Our use of bibliometrics to profile ASCR is exploratory, and it is not possible to draw definitive conclusions about research volume, quality or impact. Further development of bibliometric methods, such as through integration of high-quality statistics on research inputs, will help to illuminate the strengths and weaknesses of ASCR in this pursuit.
Scientometrics: Nature Index and Brazilian science Given the limitations discussed here and based on principle of in dubio pro reo, it is questionable to dispute the quality of Brazilian science and its efficiency based on the assertions given by Dr. Leite. Finally, I agree with Dr. Leite that much can be done to help Brazilian science grow not only in quantity, but also in quality (e.g., less bureaucracy, more internationalization, more meritocratic and well-managed financial incentives).
Model-based evaluation of scientific impact indicators Our analysis can provide useful hints for a proper use of bibliometric indicators.
Growth and structure of authorship and co-authorship network in the strategic management realm: Evidence from the Strategic Management Journal In the light of the results of analysis, there was a significant increase in the number of author appearances, number of authors, ratio of articles per author, ratio of authors per article, number of multi authored articles, number of authors of multi-authored articles, and the index of collaboration by sub-periods.
The positive association of Association for Academic Surgery membership with academic productivity AAS membership appears to be correlated with greater academic performance among junior and midlevel surgical faculty.
International publishing partnerships for China's English language journals and financial security We conclude that although international partner-ship is an on-going fashion at present in China, it has both benefits and limita-tions. We also propose that to reduce the financial pressure on CELJs, government funding should be differently apportioned, providing a better return on investment (ROI). For the new journal (less than 5 years from being launched), part-ner is not recommended, or conditionally recommended that it has enough money. For the non-SCI journals, attracting good papers is of priority. The money should be spent on how to solicit high-quality papers, and then on the partnership.
How researchers manage their academic activities Researchers are overwhelmed by paperwork and waste their precious time filling in different templates dictated by their institutions, funding agencies, and so on, instead of being able to focus on their research.
Not so different after all: Malaysian researchers' cross-discipline view of quality and trustworthiness in citation practices This study has shown views, perception, and behaviours of Malaysian-based researchers in respect to scholarly channels and resources they trust to cite. The findings show that although technology has made it easier for researchers to access and use scholarly information, the criteria for modifying trust remains traditional among Malaysian scholars. One of the most important conclusions that this study derived is that citation is a socially constructed feature.
ResearchGate: Reputation uncovered ResearchGate provides a very wide range of reputational mechan- isms and data.
How online usage of subscription-based journalism and mass communication research journal articles predicts citations We conclude that journal publishers wishing to obtain a quick proxy measure of citation potential for journal articles should consult their total online usage.
The Prevalence of Inappropriate Image Duplication in Biomedical Research Publications These findings have important impli- cations for the biomedical research enterprise and suggest a need to improve the literature though greater vigilance and education.
Academic copyright in the publishing game: a contest perspective Our paper adds to the literature by analyzing a contest model where scientists compete for publishing their articles in (top) journals. Assuming that scientists are also motivated by career concerns, we find that private research incentives can, from a social perspective, be too high when the rent-seeking motive outweighs the positive externalities of research. If incentives are too high, open access is always superior.
What happens when national research funding is linked to differentiated publication counts? A comparison of the Australian and Norwegian publication-based funding models "We conclude that the experience in Norway with differentiated publication counts linked to funding has been different from the experience in Australia with an undifferentiated model."
Determinants of research quality in Italian universities: Evidence from the 2004 to 2010 evaluation exercise The VQR provides invaluable information about scientific research that has been produced in Italian Universities and Research Centers in the period 2004-10.
Using Google Scholar in research evaluation of humanities and social science programs: A comparison with Web of Science data Restrictions to the use of GS are the intensive manual data handling and cleaning, necessary for a feasible and proper data collection.
Humanities and social sciences in the bibliometric spotlight - Research output analysis at the University of Vienna and considerations for increasing visibility The University of Vienna's data shows an increase in international visibility in both humanities and social sciences faculties in the reporting period, indicated by the increase in international (non-German) publications, and the percentages of peer-reviewed articles and of indexed articles in A&HCI and SSCI. Taking all this into account, the currently practised model of target agreements proved to be a suitable instrument to implement the university's research strategy in the humanities and social sciences. Further strategies are needed to increase the international visibility of publications in the humanities and the social sciences.
How robust is journal rating in Humanities and Social Sciences? Evidence from a large-scale, multi-method exercise We find that journal rating is a legitimate and robust assessment exercise, as long as it is managed carefully and in a cautious way and used to evaluate aggregates of researchers rather than individual researchers. This implies that journal rating cannot be considered a substitute, but a complement to peer review. It can be used to evaluate aggregates of researchers; for the evaluation of individual researchers, it should always be a component (perhaps a minor one) of an overall evaluation based on a multiplicity of criteria.
The heterogeneous landscape of bibliometric indicators: Evaluating models for allocating resources at Swedish universities Our findings show that almost all major HEIs in Sweden use bibliometric measures for resource allocation; bibliometrics are applied at 24 of 26 HEIs in our sample, although the extent and the level differ considerably.
The Impact Factor as a measuring tool of the prestige of the journals in research assessment in mathematics Due to the lack of stability of the position of the journals of mathematics in these lists, we propose a 'cumulative index' that fits better the characteristics of mathematical journals.
A national survey on small research grants and the scholarly productivity of emergency medicine physicians in Canada The results of our evaluation indicate that modest research grants can support physician-researchers early in their careers, and many of these researchers continue with future research success, including research appointments, funding, and scholarly publications.
Tracking the performance of an R&D programme in the biomedical sciences We suggest that by finding the point at which the share of mentions stabilizes may be a good strategy to identify the complete fulfilment of these types of R&D policies.
Epistemic Consequences of Bibliometrics-based Evaluation: Insights from the Scientific Community The bibliometrics-based evaluation has an extremely strong normative function on scientific practices which deeply impact the epistemic status of the disciplines. Further, the validation of bibliometrics-based evaluation practices relies on the wide acceptance and diffusion within the scientific community, so that bibliometrics is substantially self-sustained through its broad application. This paper aims to be a step towards the development of a discussion which should go beyond the strictly evaluative problem and should involve epistemic considerations.
Co-authorship Networks in Swiss Political Research In this article, we have characterized scientific collaboration between political researchers in Switzerland.
The construction of interdisciplinarity: The development of the knowledge base and programmatic focus of the journal ClimaticChange, 1977-2013 We used two complementary methods to investigate the construction of interdisciplinarity in the journal Climatic Change: a scientometric analysis of the development of the references in the knowledge base of the publications, and semantic maps of the title words in the editorials. Our results show that the knowledge base of the journal has developed through three subsequent phases of multidisciplinarity to interdisciplinar- ity, and further to transdisciplinarity, while the program- matic focus follows policy-relevant issues as a forerunner of scientific development. In conclusion, the journal’s reference patterns seems to have followed the development of the policy agenda.
Aggregated journal-journal citation relations in scopus and web of science matched and compared in terms of networks, maps, and interactive overlays The shared journals do the job more than the further extensions with unique jour- nals. The JCR maps thus seem highly reliable to us, but the Scopus maps can provide richer visualizations. Thus, which one of the two databases to use in a project may depend on the research question (and con- textual factors such as institutional access).
Nobel numbers: Time-dependent centrality measures on coauthorship graphs Although citation-based measures dominate both academic assessment procedures... coauthorship graphs provide not only unique windows into the social and lineage structures of research communities but also an opportunity to investigate the “shapes” of both disciplines and the boundaries between disciplines at resolutions down to the level of individual researchers. What is shown here is that the “center” of physics as defined by Nobel laureates from 1951 to 2000 is remarkably stable: Despite occasional excursions into distant and, at least in 2000, sparsely populated areas of the coauthorship graph, the center returns to the same region often enough that both the decade-to-decade means and the dispersions of Nobel number distributions computed from several reference points, including some outside of physics, remain roughly flat. The present study raises several questions about the social structure of scientific disciplines generally.
Disciplinary knowledge production and diffusion in science This study has examined patterns of disciplinary knowledge production and diffusion through a comprehensive citation data set of Scopus-indexed journals. By matching the disciplinary citation data with R&D expenditures, the study has shown that the growth rates of disciplinary citations align with the growth rates of global R&D expenditures, thus providing evidences to support the impact of R&D expenditures on knowledge production. The next step in this direction will examine each discipline in the context of a flow network and using network theories and methods to capture the more latent "linked" aspect of disciplinary knowledge production and diffusion.
Modeling journal bibliometrics to predict downloads and inform purchase decisions at university research libraries The implications of the findings are that university libraries that use local metrics have better insight into the value of a journal and therefore more efficient cost content management.
How much does the expected number of citations for a publication change if it contains the address of a specific scientific institute? A new approach for the analysis of citation data on the institutional level based on regression models The calculation of the expected values allows, on the one hand, investigating how the citation impact of the papers of an institute behaves in comparison with the total of all papers (e.g., in 1 year). On the other hand, the expected values for several institutes can be compared with one another or with a set of randomly selected publications. It would be desirable to apply, to test, and, if appropriate, to optimize the approach presented in this study with other data (such as publications from more than 1 year, or include further factors influencing citations).
Business process costs of implementing "gold" and "green" open access in institutional and national contexts The findings of this study shed fresh light on the costs of the business processes associated with making articles OA via either the Gold or Green routes. They indicate that the Gold OA process (taking on average 134 minutes at a cost of £88 or $133 per article) remains inefficient, with little or no evidence of economies of scale at the present time. It is possible that savings might be achieved through increasing efficiency in a number of areas.
Peer review in hematopoietic cell transplantation: are we doing our fair share? In conclusion, among the respondents of this survey most felt the peer review process to be valuable and fair, however, the lack of response suggests that further study into improving the peer review process in the field of HCT is warranted in the era of electronic publishing and communication.
University Rankings: Evidence and a Conceptual Framework Ranking systems exhibit a high degree of macro-level predictability, as that ranking organizations churn their annual rankings as they attempt to hold interest or to make news. The confluence of evidence suggests that imposition of ranking regimes is not a catalyst of innovation in higher education unless that innovation favors ranking criteria. Rankings simplify, reducing university qualities, contexts, and unique characteristics to simpler metrics.
RANKINGS AND TRENDS IN FINANCE PUBLISHING: AN ITERATIVE APPROACH "Over a 30-year period (1985–2014), we find increases in the number of coauthored publications involving collaboration between authors at different institutions."
Who is shaping the field? Doctoral education, knowledge creation and postsecondary education research in the United States Our findings raise important questions about the social processes governing knowledge generation within the field – including questions about the extent to which such concentration is or is not desirable.
Which gender gap? Factors affecting researchers' scientific impact in science and medicine This is undoubtedly the most important finding of this paper: Once we have accounted for differences in the amount of funding at the disposal of individual scientists, the number of articles they publish, the Impact Factor of the journals they target and the specific number of co-authors with whom they collaborate (which have all lower values for women), writing with a higher propor- tion of female co-authors systematically decreases one's relative citation rate. In light of the evidence presented in the article, science policy should continue to encourage women to enter a research career, without achieving a more gender balanced research environment, these gender biases will remain. In addition, more research is required to truly measure the societal impact of one's research.
Improving the Peer review process: Capturing more information and enabling high-risk/high-return research This finding is important as it improves the existing peer review process by utilizing not only the mean value of peer reviews, but also their standard deviation.
A fuzzy-set analysis of hard and soft sciences publication performance The results show that different necessary conditions and sufficient conditions exist for success in PP for the hard and soft SRA datasets.;The findings not only strengthen Abbott's (2001) and Becher's (1994) claims about the existence of varying factors that contribute to improved PP in the SRAs but also reopen the debate on the varying significance accorded to scientific publication indexes and rankings depending on the nature of research published by different SRAs.;Further, the results can help identify possible pathways for achieving success in scientific publishing; for example, research center coordinators may be able to fine-tune their selection of new researchers.
World-wide architecture of osteoporosis research: density-equalizing mapping studies and gender analysis Constituting the first concise analysis of the global research architecture in the field of osteoporosis, this study illustrates that the world-wide scientific output is constantly growing.
A bibliometric analysis of dengue-related publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded Overall, international collaboration appeared to play a significant role in dengue research.
Demographics and Scholarly Productivity of American Board of Anesthesiology Volunteers: Results of an Internet-Based Bibliometric Analysis These results indicated that ABA volunteers are leaders in anesthesiology with established records of administrative, educational, and scholarly accomplishment. Scholarly productivity was dependent on academic rank, career duration, additional degrees, and extramural funding, but not on practice location, subspecialty certification, TEE credentials, or sex.
The Geography of the Journal of Geography: Paper Origins, 2008-2015 The Journal of Geography, as the flagship publication of the National Council for Geographic Education, seeks to publish the best in geography education research regardless of its origin. Impediments such as access, language, and submission ease can be addressed to broaden the submission base to advance geography education. These are not issues for the Journal of Geography and their absence, along with an improving impact factor (citation rate) and attention paid to remedying issues discouraging submission, should make the journal an attractive outlet for geography educators worldwide.
Open Access Awareness and Perceptions in an Institutional Landscape The good opinion of open access among researchers at the University of Navarra does not correspond to their use of the institutional repository.
The 50 Most Cited Articles in Orthopedic Cartilage Surgery Articles with stronger levels of evidence are more highly cited, with an increasing trend as evidence-based practice has been emphasized.
Trustworthiness and Authority of Scholarly Information in a Digital Age: Results of an International Questionnaire Although scholarly communication has undergone tre- mendous changes over the last few decades, creating new modes and technologies for accessing information and reaching readers, trust in quality remains the foundation in decisions about what to read, what to cite, or where to publish. However, with all of the changes in dissemination chan- nels, the methods and criteria used to justify trustworthiness and quality remain surprisingly traditional. New and alternative options for reading and disseminat- ing research results are not being embraced by a majority of academics.
Map of Science with Topic Modeling: Comparison of Unsupervised Learning and Human-Assigned Subject Classification We conclude that from theoretical and practical perspectives there exist several challenges for human reasoning-based classification frameworks of scientific knowledge, as they typically try to fit new-to-the-world knowledge into historical models of scientific knowledge, and cannot easily be deployed for new large-scale data sets. Automated classification schemes, in contrast, generate classification models only from the available text corpus, thereby identifying credibly novel bodies of knowledge. However, we also argue that it is neither possible nor fruitful to declare one or another method a superior approach in terms of realism to classify scientific knowledge, and we believe that the merits of each approach are dependent on the practical objectives of analysis.
Visualizing the World's Scientific Publications Awareness of the strengths and weaknesses of each group in various knowledge domains may have useful applications for examining scientific policies, adjusting the allocation of resources, and promoting international collaboration for future developments.
The Effects of Research Resources on International Collaboration in the Astronomy Community The findings support our hypotheses that the conditions of an institution's research resources are positively related to the institution's central position in the network, even though not all centrality measures reveal the effects in the same manner.
Comparing and Combining Content- and Citation-Based Approaches for Plagiarism Detection We carry out experiments with real data sets of scientific papers and concluded that a combination of the methods can be beneficial. When metrics were combined through machine-learning algo- rithms, we obtained slight gains compared to using the metrics on their own. Despite the superior results achieved by content similar- ity, we believe citation analysis is promising, especially in cases of cross-language plagiarism.
Robustness of Journal Rankings by Network Flows With Different Amounts of Memory We have shown that the robustness of flow-based rank- ings to the selection of included journals tends to increase with increasing Markov order.
Author Practices in Citing Other Authors, Institutions, and Journals Analysis of the distribution of author-cited journals, institutions, and authors shows that all of these cited items have a core-scatter form. Authors commonly cite using scientific paper and literature review citing styles, which means that they reinforce the core continuously. The findings of this study support previous research that endeavors to use theoretical principles such as perceived relevance and least effort to better explain citation behavior.
Evaluation of the Citation Matching Algorithms of CWTS and iFQ in Comparison to the Web of Science This research investigated the performance of the citation matching algorithms of CWTS and iFQ in comparison to the WoS. It was found that the algorithms of the bibliometric research groups perform better than the WoS algorithm. Overall, the findings corroborate Olensky's conclusion (2015) that, if the WoS were to provide the full cited reference information, like Scopus, the matching algorithms could take additional authors as well as the article title into account, which would open up new opportunities for variation thresholds in the citation matching process.
The Power-Law Relationship Between Citation-Based Performance and Collaboration in Articles in Management Journals: A Scale-Independent Approach The results suggest the existence of properties in the field of management similar to those shown for other disciplines in previous research. Second, for practitioners, strategies should be formulated to encourage collaboration practices in management research because collaboration tends to increase the impact of peer-reviewed articles. The results suggest possible future lines of research such as the comparison of the impact factor with SI to measure the citation-based impact of journals.
Bioinformatics programs are 31-fold over-represented among the highest impact scientific papers of the past two decades This study highlights the disproportionate impact bioinformatics has had on science in the past two decades. The Gini coefficient analysis of citations by journal suggests a greater gap between citation-rich and citation-poor bioinformatics papers, which suggests that it may be worth examining in greater depth why some of the less cited methods fared so poorly were they simply not needed or was the right audience simply not aware of their existence? It suggests bioinformatics, as a field is somewhat "hit or miss" or high-risk/high-reward, relative to other fields.
The most cited articles in coronary heart disease: A bibliometric analysis between 1970 and 2015 This study presented a detailed analysis of 100 most cited articles focused on CHD in recent decades, which provides insights into the circumstances and trends in preventing and treating CHD. This report provides insights into historical developments and characteristics of the most cited articles in the field of CHD over the past decades.
Four decades of the Journal of Econometrics: Coauthorship patterns and networks We reported the most prolific authors and institutions and we modeled the network of collaborating researchers who have published their work in JE. We also found the most central authors, affiliations and countries in the first four decades of JE. Furthermore, we discovered that the networks of authors, affiliations and countries exhibit small-world properties. They are integrated, with a large number of ties, a big giant component and small distances between collaborators within the giant component.
Morals, morale and motivations in data fabrication: Medical research fieldworkers views and practices in two Sub-Saharan African contexts We show that geographical and hierarchical distance between high-ranking research actors and fieldworkers in contemporary configurations of international medical research can compartmentalise, and ultimately undermine, the relationships necessary to produce high-quality data.
Slipping through the net: the paradox of nursing's electronic theses and dissertations Despite the small study size, the findings added valuable new insights to the overview gained from the 2011 survey.
High-Impact Social Work Scholars: A Bibliometric Examination of SSWR and AASWSW Fellows The results indicate the social work profession includes many researchers who are making an exceptional scientific impact.
H-index manipulation by merging articles: Models, theory, and experiments Altogether, our experiments show that the merging option leaves some room for manipulation but that substantial manipulation requires merging visibly unrelated articles. Hiring committees that use the H-index in their evaluation thus should either examine the article merges more closely or rely on databases that do not allow article merges. Clearly, it is interesting to consider merging articles in order to increase other measures than the H-index, like the g-index [14, 31], the w-index [30], or the i10-index of a certain author.
The knowledge production model of the New Sciences: The case of Translational Medicine Our study provides evidence of the tight linkage between a new science, such as Translational Medicine, and a set of research technologies.
Evaluating the Impact of Open Access at Berkeley: Results from the 2015 Survey of Berkeley Research Impact Initiative (BRII) Funding Recipients Recipients of open access funding from the Berkeley Research Impact Initiative believe that their articles received more attention and had a greater impact that they might have had in a subscription journal.
Health Sciences Libraries Forecasting Information Service Trends for Researchers: Models Applicable to All Academic Libraries The information needs of health and biomedical researchers are complex and continuously changing.
A bibliometric analysis of the development of next generation active nanotechnologies We found, over our study period through to 2010, increasingly higher growth in the rate of active nanotechnology publications and a relative increase in the share of active nanotechnology research among all nanotechnology publications.
A Simple Framework for Evaluating Authorial Contributions for Scientific Publications In conclusion, a simple tool is proposed, which enables assignment of a "contribution score” between 0 and 20 to prospective authors on a research paper.
Analyzing the Publish-or-Perish Paradigm with Game Theory: The Prisoner's Dilemma and a Possible Escape Overall, our analysis suggests that, under rather weak assumptions, the publish-or-perish scenario takes the form of a prisoner's dilemma, which constitutes a substantial obstacle to beneficial delayed publication of more complete results.
Plagiarism Allegations Account for Most Retractions in Major Latin American/Caribbean Databases The reasons alleged in retraction notices may be used as signposts to inform discussions in Latin America on plagiarism and research integrity. At the international level, these results suggest that the correction of the literature is becoming global and is not limited to mainstream international publications. Overall, the identified retractions indicate that editorial action aiming to correct the literature in Latin American databases has started very recently.
Academic Productivity of US Cardiothoracic Surgical Centers USNWR rankings provide a good representation of academic productivity, while NIH funding ranking or designation as department versus division does not. The individual productivity of the chairperson is correlated with that of the whole group. Our results suggest that the annual rankings released by the USNWR might be a valuable tool from this standpoint, since we found that the CT surgical centers in the Top ten for several categories were indeed those with higher academic productivity.
Piracy of scientific papers in Latin America: An analysis of Sci-Hub usage data Sci-Hub represents a threat to publishers and OA, which seeks the openness of science from its origin, rather than a complete disruption of elements legally protected.
A cluster analysis of the business models of Spanish journals The cluster analysis, applied to 327 Spanish scientific journals, revealed four clusters whose characteristics can be grouped into four business models that are common in the Spanish scientific publishing field. From an international perspective, the paper pro- vides a simplified methodological framework that could be applied to any kind of journal and could help us to understand the operation of a publishing project, regardless of its nature (public, private, university, for-profit or non-profit, open access or not, etc.) and respective area of knowledge or language. Further research could also include information on factors that are essential to the sustaina- bility of scientific journals or on the scientific policy or editorial line prioritized by the journals, according to an assessment based on quality indicators.
A not-so-harmless experiment in predatory open access publishing Publishing in pOA journals has many obvious and well-documented negative consequences, such as tarnishing the reputation of researchers or institutions; disseminating low-quality, often bogus and plagiarized, research; and decreasing the confidence of the public in the peer review process.
New university presses in the UK: Accessing a mission The development of new OA University Presses in the UK in 2015 does mark a departure. The current situation offers a wonderful opportunity for institutions to take a greater role in the dissemination of their institution's research and to support their academics, if they can be convinced of the benefits that accrue to an institution by making its research widely available via OA publishing.
H-classic: a new method to identify classic articles in Implant Dentistry, Periodontics, and Oral Surgery The H-classics approach offers an objective method to identify core knowledge in clinical disciplines such as ID, P, and OS.
Analysis of self-citation and impact factor in dermatology journals In general, the IF of dermatology journals is not influenced by the SCR. However, journals with a lower IF tend to have a higher SCR. Subspecialty journals and foreign language journals have a higher SCR than general dermatology and English language journals, respectively, probably owing to their limited distribution and the difficulty experienced by international authors in accessing references in specific languages.
Predicting the Impact of Scientific Concepts Using Full-Text Features Our results show the clear benefit of text features over metadata. We conclude that the benefit of analysis of the full text of scientific articles is well worth the increased performance cost of the natural language analysis.
Towards an Understanding of the Relationship Between Disciplinary Research Cultures and Open Access Repository Behaviors Physicists, economists, and clinical medics share particular cultural characteristics that may explain why these three disciplinary communities are “OA-friendly.” The findings presented in this paper are important in that they contribute to the development of a greater understanding of disciplinary research cultures in relation to OAR and OA policy initiatives.
The application of bibliometrics to research evaluation in the humanities and social sciences: An exploratory study using normalized Google Scholar data for the publications of a research institute Even if scores calculated with the help of GS and the WoS/Scopus are not identical for the different publication types (considered here), they are so similar that they result in the same assessment of the institute investigated in this study: For example, the institute's papers whose journals are covered in the WoS are cited at about an average rate (compared with the other papers in the journals).
University citation distributions First, we only need a single explanatory model for the type of high skewness characterizing all university citation distributions.
The normalization of occurrence and Co-occurrence matrices in bibliometrics using Cosine similarities and Ochiai coefficients We argue in this study that the proper equivalent to cosine-normalization of the occurrence matrix is Ochiai-normalization in the case of the corresponding co-occurrence matrix.
Estimating open access mandate effectiveness: The MELIBEA score There are not yet enough OA mandates to test further mandate conditions that might contribute to mandate effectiveness, but the present findings already suggest that it would be productive for existing and future man-dates to adopt the three identified conditions so as to maximize their effectiveness, and thereby the growth of OA.
Intravenous Lipid Emulsion as an Antidote for the Treatment of Acute Poisoning: A Bibliometric Analysis of Human and Animal Studies In summary, we evaluated the global research output in the field of lipid emulsion research as an antidote for the treatment of acute poisoning for 1955–2015.
Pilot analysis of the Motivation Assessment for Team Readiness, Integration, and Collaboration (MATRICx) using Rasch analysis The MATRICx provides a potential inroad to understanding several collaborative contexts in health and biomedical sciences, including student motivations and threats to engaging in course and project-related group activities; faculty strategic work group engagement; sharing of knowledge through collaborative research and scholarship; and the creation of scientific teams inclusive of multirole and multidiscipline stakeholders.
Visualization and analysis of SCImago Journal & Country Rank structure via journal clustering In sum, it can be concluded that information visualization is a very powerful tool for analysis, assessment and validation of results supporting a classification.
The status of open access library and information science journals in SSCI Based on the above analysis and evaluation of LIS OA journals available in the SSCI, the authors came to several conclusions. Thus, the authors believe that the percentage of LIS OA journals in SSCI was not very high. The authors recommend further studies in this area.
Current status of open access journals published in D8 countries and registered in the Directory of Open Access Journals (pre-2000 to 2014) In all, about 13.8 percent of journals registered in DOAJ are from D-8 states. The share of three countries (Egypt, Iran, and Turkey) accounts for approximately three-fourths of all D-8 journals.
Lotka's Law and productivity patterns of authors in biomedical science in Nigeria on HIV/AIDS A bibliometric approach The categories of non-collaborative authors and co-authors did fit into Lotka's Inverse Law with different parameters of a = 1.26, α = 1.26, respectively. Overall, there was incremental growth in the productivity of authors within the HIV/AIDS discipline during the period of 2008 to 2012. Thus, future research could include examining if the extent of the co-authorship productivity pattern increases if more articles are sampled in different databases.
The construct validity of the h-index The conclusion that the h-index fails any test in terms of construct validity implies that the widespread use of this metric within the higher education sector as a management tool represents poor practice, and almost certainly results in the misallocation of resources.
Investigation and analysis of Informetrics curriculum education in China Based on the above empirical investigation and analysis, we can draw the following conclusions about the Informetrics course. Although the Informetrics course has made considerable progress in all aspects, the focus should still be on strengthening the international construction from now on. What's more, colleges and universities offering Informetrics-related courses courses ought to further enrich the teaching mode and provide online courses to make it richer and more flexible.
Chinese academic contribution to burns: A comprehensive bibliometrics analysis from 1985 to 2014 In summary, articles by Chinese researchers in the field of burns, especially after 2001, are promising.
Open access publishing trend analysis: statistics beyond the perception From 2010 to 2012, the number of open access journals with impact factor has gradually risen, with a prevalence for journals relating to medicine and biological science disciplines, suggesting that authors prefer to publish more than before in open access journals.
Quantified academic selves: the gamification of research through social networking services The gamification of quantified academic selves intensifies the competitive nature of scholarship, it commodifies academic outputs and it might lead to goal displacement and cheating. However, self-quantification might also serve as a liberating and empowering activity for the individual researcher as alternative measures of impact and productivity are provided by these platforms.
Classifying modeling and simulation as a scientific discipline Finally, we use our approach to uncover new funding trends in M&S and support a uniform basis for education and research. In future work, we will look to apply our approach for additional types of analyses which build the M&S body of knowledge.
Research diversification and impact: the case of national nanoscience development We have shown that nations more often improved their nanotechnology research impact when they conformed to the nanotechnology research portfolio of other nations and when they did not concentrate in a few subfields.
The effects of external collaboration on research output in engineering Our results suggest that the degree variable has a significant impact on future productivity and citations.
Importance and susceptibility of scientific productivity indicators: two sides of the same coin Ultimate individual responsibility and international projection are common characteristics of the most important and least susceptible indicators of scientific productivity.
At what institutions did Nobel laureates do their prize-winning work? An analysis of biographical information on Nobel laureates from 1994 to 2014 The institutional analysis shows that three institutions have a large number of Nobel laureates at all three time points: UC Berkeley, Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Influence of the program "5-top 100" on the publication activity of Russian universities Based on the results obtained we may conclude that our hypothesis is not rejected. The program “5–top 100” demonstrates the positive influence on the publication activity of the universities evaluated.
The evolution of research collaboration within and across disciplines in Italian Academia The analysis of scientific collaboration within and across academic disciplines is an important area of research for the social studies of sciences.
Effect of high energy physics large collaborations on higher education institutions citations and rankings Firstly, the conclusions shown here should not be construed as criticism of any kind to HEPLCs activities and publications.
Scientific credit diffusion: Researcher level or paper level? Our main contributions are two-fold: (1) We pointed out that researcher level method is unreliable because it misallocates scientific credit among researchers and their publications.
Uncovering inter-specialty knowledge communication using author citation networks We find that the two metrics portray different aspects of knowledge communication in CLIS and conclude that indirect paths, the size of specialties, and the communication structure among specialties may lead to the differences.
Comparison of performance of researchers recipients of CNPq productivity grants in the field of Brazilian production engineering Referring to the objective of this study, it was observed that: (a) In relation to the scientific production, productivity grant researchers presented superior performance than the other professors working in graduate programs in the Production Engineering area; (b) There is a tendency towards the increase in the mean of supervisions to master students starting from the highest aggregate level of productivity grants going down to the beginner levels. Finally, it was noticed that CNPq follows, even if partially or not very explicitly, the criteria that were set for awarding productivity grants. The discussion developed in this study is believed to be useful for the researchers in the Production Engineering field, who hold a productivity grant or not, to reflect on the requirements to achieve such recognition.
An analysis of the titles of papers submitted to the UK REF in 2014: authors, disciplines, and stylistic details The results tend to be consistent with these expectations and it is clear that multiple authorship leaves a footprint on the style at least of the title, and thus also perhaps the style of the paper itself.
The productivity of top researchers: a semi-nonparametric approach Our study shows, for both researchers and institutions productivity, that the log-SNP provides a better fit of research productivity distribution than the lognormal and quantifies the differences in the measures of the top researchers' productivity attached to the distributional hypothesis.
Usage patterns of scholarly articles on Web of Science: a study on Web of Science usage count In this study, by using the newly released article usage counts from the Web of Science platform, firstly, we analyze the usage patterns of scientific papers on WoS platform in the field of Information Science and Library Science. It is proved that the distribution of usage counts obeys the power law.
Mapping and classification of agriculture in Web of Science: other subject categories and research fields may benefit Even "core" journals as well as categories are frequently not mapped to the applicable agricultural categories, contrary to what one might expect.
Age stratification and cohort effects in scholarly communication: a study of social sciences Our research suggests that changes in scholarly communication patterns are more due to career aging (rank) than to cohort changes: that is, that changes were more likely to occur with changes in academic status than in mere passage of time. Overall, rank was shown to be the best predictor of changes in scholarly communication practices and metrics, suggesting that future studies should focus on this variable when operationalizing aging. To increase the robustness of the study, the sample should be enhanced to show variability in institutions and disciplines. Future work should continue to test various models of aging in order to understand more fully the intersection among temporal, social, and individual factors of scientific achievement.
The normalization of co-authorship networks in the bibliometric evaluation: the government stimulation programs of China and Korea This analysis of the collaboration patterns among countries belonging to the Sino-Korea research network reveals some interesting facets of how scientometric data can be used to map international and institutional co-authorship culture.
Insularity and citation behavior of scientific articles in young fields: the case of ethnobiology This citation behavior may relate to the better establishment of this type of journal in the ethnobiology field, which also had articles with a lower citation rate of gray literature. This interaction through the citation of authors from other countries is an important requirement to evaluate a field of research and to build a high-quality science (Leimu and Koricheva 2005; Nightingale and Marshall 2013). Another factor that may explain these results is the effect of the age of the analyzed journals.
Evaluating a European knowledge hub on climate change in agriculture: Are we building a better connected community? Given that interdisciplinary networks often take several years to have an impact on research outputs, these changes within the relatively new MACSUR community provide evidence that the knowledge hub structure has been effective in stimulating collaboration.
Is open access the solution to increase the impact of scientific journals? Our analysis performed on several journals belonging to Hindawi Publishing Corporation and Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute and following some bibliometric indicators, cannot precisely indicate whether the enhanced visibility provided by open access will lead to an increase of the citations number. We regard visibility as a necessary, but unsufficient condition for impact increase. Many researchers demonstrated that, apart from visibility, other elements influence the journals' impact factors, and in this respect, it can be considered that the quality of the presented research is decisive.
Relation between awarding of Grants-in-aid for scientific research and characteristics of applicants in Japanese universities We detected zero-inflation in all the fields as well as individual fields, and the magnitudes of zero-inflation give an important feature of the fields.
Journal copyright restrictions and actual open access availability: a study of articles published in eight top information systems journals (2010-2014) Overall the OA landscape among articles published in top IS journals is currently vibrant and active.
Establishing a World-Class University in Saudi Arabia: intended and unintended effects The example of the King Abdulaziz University shows that the decision to become a WCU can be realized with much cautiousness. Rather, the example of KAU shows that a well-conceived investment in science can imply a substantial increase in scientific quality and support a useful industrial strategy in the long run. The availability of sufficient resources avoided the negative effects at many other universities where their striving for good ranking positions implied an extrusion of teaching by a stronger focus on research.
The effect of collaborators on institutions' scientific impact Results show that institutions receive the highest credit from their collaborators while collaborators extensively cite the papers that they themselves are collaborating in; however non-collaborated papers were cited more than the collaborated ones.
Correlation among top 100 universities in the major six global rankings: policy implications There is an obvious positive correlation in the ranking results (ranking order and score) between each pair of the studied six major global rankings. These coefficients range between 0.538 and 0.933 using rank order and between 0.551 and 0.964 using score revealing a moderate to very high degree of correlation among the six ranking results. Indeed, rankings have profound influence and impact on higher education system strategic planning and attitudes worldwide.
Bibliometric indicators to identify emerging research fields: publications on mass gatherings Research into mass gatherings constitutes an emerging area of knowledge, as evidenced by the high number of transient authors observed, the absence of a stable research community, and a high degree of concentration within publications on the topic. The field of mass gatherings constitutes a markedly multidisciplinary area of knowledge, in which there are prominent contributions from the broader fields of Infectious Diseases; Emergency Medicine; and Public, Environmental & Occupational Health. Only with this knowledge can these gatherings be adequately planned and effectively managed to reduce or mitigate the incidents and emergencies that may occur.
The new Norwegian incentive system for publication: from bad to worse This article has shown, by the aid of some simple examples (named Cases in the text), that the new system for calculation of publication credits in Norway, has its sides.
Accurate forecast of countries' research output by macro-level indicators This research was devoted to developing a model for accurately predicting countries' research output. In collecting data on 16 standard macro-level predictors and analyzing their effects with BRT, the model provided accurate predictions of countries' research output. Despite the satisfactory results in terms of predictive accuracy, there is still need for further research.
Measuring academic research impact: creating a citation profile using the conceptual framework for implementation fidelity as a case study These results suggest that it is both possible and straightforward to categorise the level of impact of a key paper based on its "citation profile", i.e., the frequency with which the paper is cited within citing publications, thus adding depth and value to the citation metric.
Are citations from clinical trials evidence of higher impact research? An analysis of ClinicalTrials.gov Nevertheless, it is reasonable for researchers to use citations to their work from clinical trials records as evidence of the possible long-term impact of their research.
To be or not to be on Twitter, and its relationship with the tweeting and citation of research papers The main conclusion is that the participation on Twitter affects the dissemination of research papers, and in consequence, it indirectly favours the likelihood that academic outputs being cited.
Tracking the digital footprints to scholarly articles from social media Social media plays an important role in directing people to scholarly articles, which is confirmed for the first time with real data in this study.
Authors and reviewers who suffer from confirmatory bias Based on these, we offer a theoretical explanation of current practices adopted to improve the review performance (e.g., desk rejection).
Gender inequality and research performance: moving beyond individual-meritocratic explanations of academic advancement The overall result of this study has implications for research organizations and managers, since it raises concerns about the validity of individual-meritocratic explanations of the skewed gender distributions in Danish academia. In line with Cech and Blair-Loy (2010), one might argue that institutionalized beliefs about the mechanisms causing the persistent gender gap in science may determine whether research managers and principal investigators choose to engage in structural transformations aimed at promoting female researchers or stick with the meritocratic explanation, thus leaving issues of structural discrimination, ‘chilly climates’ and implicit gender stereotyping unnoticed.
The control model for the selection of reference collections providing the impartial assessment of the quality of scientific and technological publications by using bibliometric and scientometric indicators The model proposed in this paper for controlling the choice of collections that can adequately assess the quality of scientific and technological publications by the bibliometric and scientometric indicators is based on the use of natural language text and text collection modeling, methods of computational search for semantically similar texts and text collections, as well as the models for assessing the information capacity of scientific and technological texts.
UNCERTAINTY QUANTIFICATION OF SCIENTIFIC PROPOSAL EVALUATIONS In short, the number of proposals has greater impact on overall fairness.
Quantifying the evolution of individual scientific impact The random-impact rule and the Q parameter, representing two fundamental characteristics of a scientific career, offer a rigorous quantitative framework to explore the evolution of individual careers and understand the emergence of scientific excellence. Such understanding could help us better gauge scientific performance and offers a path toward nurturing high-impact scientists, potentially informing future policy decisions.
Technological novelty profile and invention's future impact In this paper, we quantitatively studied the novelty distribution of technology pairs, and a connection between the novelty profile of an invention and its future impact, by using technology code pairings in the U.S. patent spanning 179 years (1836-2014) [27].
The classical origin of modern mathematics Our analysis reveals important transition points in the history of mathematics and allows us to categorise countries according to their capacity to attract, export and self-maintain knowledge.
A bibliometric retrospective of the Journal Computers in Human Behavior (1991-2015) The authors created a bibliometric profile of the CHB Journal employing bibliometric analyze, bibliometric mapping and the-matic analyze. The study reveals that the trend of scientific litera-ture production is positive, that the average number of references is increasing, contrary to the number of pages per publication which is decreasing, although it has remained stable in recent years. The rising number of publications, increasing number of citations and, consequently, the Journal Impact Factor, together with the exis-tence of SBs, shows that the editorial policy is well thought out and future oriented.
At What Ages Did Astronomers Write Their Most Important Papers? Therefore my results are identical to theirs within my errors
Citations increase with manuscript length, author number, and references cited in ecology journals We suggest that the adoption of arbitrary manuscript length limits discourages publication of more impactful studies, negatively impacting science.
Socialization and Proactive Behavior: Multilevel Exploration of Research Productivity Drivers in US Business Schools The findings of the study demonstrate that both organizational environment and individual behavior influence the research performance of US business school faculties, with collaboration behavior being the most important driver of research outcomes. The findings also inform the decision-making of business-school hiring committees and contribute to lower information asymmetry in the candidate screening process. Our paper seeks to help researchers in becoming highly productive employees in their strata.
Study of Predatory Open Access Nursing Journals Predatory journals exist in nursing and bring with them many of the "red flags" that have been noted in the literature, including lack of transparency about editorial processes and misleading information promoted on websites.
Understanding researchers' strategic behaviour in knowledge production: a case of social science and nanotechnology researchers We have analysed the strategic behaviour of researchers in relation to knowledge production, expressed in behaviour modes.
Some remarks concerning the cost/benefit analysis applied to LHC at CERN The main conclusion is that the overall result of the CB analysis, the Net Present Value, although positive for LHC, has a large uncertainty and if used to assess a project needs a detailed discussion. On the other hand partial results can be very useful, for example for the results of education or technology transfer. CBA can be a useful element for decisions taking, but should not be considered as the only or even the main instrument.
Research infrastructures in the LHC era: A scientometric approach The aggregated analysis carried out indicates a regularity in the pattern of publications and citations for research infrastructures.
How to Count Citations If You Must Thus, the Euclidean index, in addition to outscoring the h-index, outscores a whole family of indices satisfying properties (i)–(iv), namely the family of σ-indices for values of σ > 1 that are not too close to 1.85.
Half-century of Dental Public Health research: bibliometric analysis of world scientific trends DPH research published in DPHJs had some unique features and greater focus on the themes of quality of life, socioeconomic factors and health behaviour/education/promotion than other groups of journals. This research may assist agencies and researchers to better understand the state of art in DPH research.
The impact of socio-technical communication styles on the diversity and innovation potential of global science collaboratories Gained insight can ultimately help policy-makers to design GPS environments and promote innovation.
Dengue research networks: building evidence for policy and planning in Brazil SNA proved to be a valuable tool that, along with other indicators, can strengthen a knowledge platform to inform future policy, planning and funding decisions.
European research and the Hungarian school of food irradiation Our analysis has been proven, that modern, multivariable methods could play an extremely important role in understanding the formation of networks between scientists and different academic schools, that's why its application should be encouraged in a wide array of fields.
Emergent phenomena in scientific publishing: A simulation exercise In this paper we have demonstrated that in a perfect world, where estimates of scientific quality are always accurate and strate-gic behavior is absent, peer-review indeed is a viable tool suitable for objectively clustering academic research in outlets of different quality.
Is it better to "Stand on Two Boats" or "Sit on the Chinese Lap"?: Examining the cultural contingency of network structures in the contemporary Chinese academic labor market Our study contributes to the literature of network structure on academic job success. However, as our study demonstrates, net- work effects vary across cultural contexts. Our study also contributes to the research literature on labor markets and transitional societies.
Russian journals in global informational and analytical resources The above study of the Russian segment of the global informational and analytical resources Scopus and WoS and the Scimago and JCR DBs based on them shows that Russian scientific periodicals are rep-resented in these systems very scantily, by 324 journals in total. In making decisions on granting support to journals, we should not overemphasize the significance of quantitative indicators, both existing and newly devel-oped aggregate ones. No effective system of supporting periodicals is possible without thorough expert work. The dominant orientation at foreign journals, to which the system of indicators of scientific effective-ness, proposed by the present-day administrators of Russian science, de facto leads, is a path to the stagna-tion and disappearance of domestic editions.
Research assessment and recognized excellence: simple bibliometrics for more efficient academic research evaluations We propose a simple evaluation process relying on a composite index with a journal-based and a citations-based component.
Scientific Wealth in Middle East and North Africa: Productivity, Indigeneity, and Specialty in 1981-2013 The results prompt questions about the strength of the developing scientific enterprise and highlight the need for consistent long-term policy for effectively addressing regional challenges with domestic research.
Distributed or concentrated research excellence? Evidence from a large-scale research assessment exercise The data show a remarkable pattern. As expected from our discussion on peer effects, recruitment processes, and governance systems from a comparative perspective, we find confirmation of a limited stratification of departments according to criteria of research quality, and a moderate concentration of excellent researchers. This pattern is also in sharp contrast to what is known from the fields of economics of science and scientometrics regarding the skewness of the distribution of individual productivity. Effective evaluation of research should therefore allocate additional attention to the humanities and social sciences, if a positive outcome is to be expected.
An automatic method for assessing the teaching impact of books from online academic syllabi In conclusion, the automatic syllabus search method gives a new way to estimate the educational utility of books in a way that sales data and citation counts cannot.
The effects of research level and article type on the differences between citation metrics and F1000 recommendations We conclude with a recommendation that the application of bibliometric approaches in research evaluation should consider the proportion of 3 types of publications: evidence-based research, transformative research, and translational research.
Mendeley readership counts: An investigation of temporal and disciplinary differences Although there were substantial differences between broad fields and smaller differences between subfields, the results confirm the value of Mendeley reader counts as early scientific impact indicators. Hence, the results suggest that Mendeley reader counts are a good substitute for citation counts for scientometric applications involving articles that are younger than 5 years old, and especially when the articles are in their first few years, and in fields with higher levels of Mendeley use. Nevertheless, Mendeley counts should not be used for evaluations with stakeholders because they can be manipulated (Wouters & Costas, 2012).
Scientific research measures Dual SRMs permit the aggregation of scientists' research outputs and therefore theoretically result in well-founded rankings of research teams, departments, and universities, something that has constituted a central theme in the scientific community over the last decades.
Overlay maps based on Mendeley data: The use of altmetrics for readership networks The proposed overlay maps are able to show the impact of publications in terms of readership data.
Citation data as a proxy for quality or scientific influence are at best PAC (probably approximately correct) This places research evaluation in a theoryless framework in which human beings, concretely experts, can cope and make decisions that are sufficiently rational.
Highly cited papers in Library and Information Science (LIS): Authors, institutions, and network structures Common interests in these topics appear to be a driving force of collaboration among highly cited authors.
Institute for Scientific Information-indexed biomedical journals of Saudi Arabia Their performance from 2007-2014 "This study shows that the overall quality of all Saudi biomedical journals has improved in the last 8 years."
Crowd-authoring: The art and politics of engaging 101 authors of educational technology The recommendation is therefore that funding agencies should sponsor an intercontinental group of academics to form an 'assembly of authoring', the task of which is to constantly compose authoritative articles on a regular basis.
Career and collaboration patterns in tourism research The results both reinforce and complement studies that have used bibliometric data to examine trends in tourism research collaboration. Rather than examining the topic from a macro-perspective, the research provides insights into the collaborative behaviour of individuals that drives broader patterns observed in bibliometrics studies. The paper makes both a practical and theoretical contribution to the understanding of research collaboration in the tourism field.
Lost in Translation: NIH Funding for Family Medicine Research Remains Limited Changing these proportions will likely require considerable effort to build research capacity within DFMs and their frontline practice research networks, and to shift policymaker and funder perceptions of the value of the FM research enterprise.
Federal Research Funding for Family Medicine: Highly Concentrated, with Decreasing New Investigator Awards An already thin stream of research funding from federal agencies also concentrates in a few universities, revealing that most funded DFMs depend on a small number of federal institutes and centers.
What a MES(s)! A bibliometric analysis of the evolution of research on multi-energy systems Our analysis of knowledge development on Microgrids and Smart Grids has identified that although there are links between these concepts, knowledge development has been distinct to date.
Evaluating an interdisciplinary research project: Lessons learned for organisations, researchers and funders In applying the framework we identified guidelines for funding bodies evaluating interdisciplinary research projects, such as evidence of interdisciplinary working (research team and organisation), explicit to link interdisciplinary research processes and outcomes, and furthermore a call for new research on how to evaluate the long-term impacts and the valued added by interdisciplinary research. Furthermore, we propose four management interventions to link the process of interdisciplinary research and its outcomes and to better manage risks, stress and integration. While organisational structures and learning can facilitate interdisciplinary research projects, to achieve successful integration will also require (in some instances) a cultural change where researchers, methods and concepts from different disciplines are afforded equivalent status in potentially contributing to solving wicked problems.
Classic articles in Psychology in the Science Citation Index Expanded: A bibliometric analysis The 110 classic articles in Web of Science category of psychology were cited an average TC2013 of 2,102 times from Web of Science Core Collection (ranging from 1,001 to 9,977 total citations), for the years 1927–2002.
PRESENCE OF ALLEGED PREDATORY JOURNALS IN BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATABASES: ANALYSIS OF BEALL'S LIST As a general conclusion we confirm that there is no significant presence of predatory journals in bibliographic databases. However, 14 titles (1.48%) in a database of more than 16,000 cannot be considered relevant. Veterinary Science Database draws particular attention, which, considering it is smaller than the above (5,726 titles), contains 44 suspicious titles.
Associations Between Academic Rank and Advanced Bibliometric Indices Among United States Academic Radiologists When controlling for the h-index, more rapid publication, as indicated by the m-quotient, was negatively associated with radiologists' academic rank, indicating the additional influence of career duration in promotions decisions.
Use of a Machine-learning Method for Predicting Highly Cited Articles Within General Radiology Journals Machine learning can be successfully applied to create specific feature-based models for predicting articles likely to achieve high influence within the radiological literature.
Looking Across and Looking Beyond the Knowledge Frontier: Intellectual Distance, Novelty, and Resource Allocation in Science Only theories emphasizing the bounded rationality of evaluators (Kahneman et al. 1982, Johnson et al. 1982, Camerer and Johnson 1991) pro-vide explanations for all observed patterns, on their own.
Research Performance and University-Industry-Government Funding Sources in Taiwan's Technological and Vocational Universities Research funding exerts significant influence on knowledge transition and innovation process. The results indicated that funding is closely related to patent count and paper publication. Policymakers and universities could consider the general distribution and tendency of the three types of research funding investment and give proper incentives to guide their faculties' research interests and achievements.
Trouble in Paradise: Problems in Academic Research Co-authoring A close reading of the cases and anecdotes provided above shows that co-authoring problems have many idiosyncratic elements. All of our evidence shows that if collaborative teams have open and participative discussions about crediting, ones where even Junior and inexperienced team members feel safe to express their views, then the likelihood of bad co-authoring outcomes plummets. Thus, we feel that it is safe to predict that in the absence of better team norms, rules and procedures co-authored crediting disputes are likely to only get worse.
The Least Interesting Unit: A New Concept for Enhancing One's Academic Career Opportunities In conclusion, although a certain number of LIUs would not be bad, science would find itself in a dystopian situation if fulfilling Maxim 2 would become the new norm: the LIU maxim, Maxim 2, has thus been introduced, just like the corresponding LPU maxim, as an example of an unethical practice.
A Critique of the Bucket Classification of Journals: The ABDC List as an Example The use of the ABDC list is problematic because (i) any journal ranking/classification system is a hazardous endeavour, the outcome of which can be misleading; (ii) opinion-based ranking/classification systems are biased and subjective; and (iii) a bucket classification system invites publication arbitrage to earn publication surplus.
Determinants of Research Productivity in Spanish Academia In this article, we have contributed to the literature on publication productivity, as we have been able to detect the profile of success in publication in two different cohorts of Spanish researchers.
Trends of triple negative breast cancer research (2007-2015) A bibliometric study Literature growth related to TNBC is expanding rapidly in recent years. The quality of the articles from China still requires improvement. MCL-1 is an emerging topic that should be closely observed.
Scientific profile of brain-computer interfaces: Bibliometric analysis in a 10-year period This study provides a historical perspective on the progress in the field of BCI, allows recognition of the most influential reports, and provides useful information that can indicate areas requiring further investigation.
PUBLICATION OUTLETS FOR SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY FACULTY: 2010 TO 2015 This research study was conducted to address two broad issues.
A Mapping of Marine Biodiversity Research Trends and Collaboration in the East Asia Region from 1996-2015 We hope that this study will be a good reference for policymakers and researchers to set up a new joint policy and research among China, Japan and South Korea.
The linguistic patterns and rhetorical structure of citation context: an approach using n-grams The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the existence of frequent n-gram patterns in citation contexts and their relation with the rhetorical structure of scientific articles.
Researchers' career transitions over the life cycle This paper reports that as academic researchers age, they devote less time to research activities mainly because of the decrease in total hours worked and partly because of the increase in hours spent on administrative tasks.
RETRACTED: Bibliometric study of Electronic Commerce Research in Information Systems & MIS Journals (Publication with Expression of Concern. See vol. 114, pg. 1423, 2018) (Retracted article. See vol. 126, pg. 909, 2021) In this paper we have drawn on bibliometric data relating to the e-commerce Information Systems & MIS journal articles listed in the Thomson Reuters WoS.
Policy documents as sources for measuring societal impact: how often is climate change research mentioned in policy-related documents? Given the low coverage of the climate change literature in policy documents, this study can be only a first attempt to study this new source of altmetrics data.
Path analysis of the relationship between visibility and citation: the mediating roles of save, discussion, and recommendation metrics Identifying the effective paths through which social networks affect citation through alt-metrics as well as presenting a conceptual model of those paths could enrich and expand the theoretical foundations in the field of altmetrics. Identifying the most effective indicators in social networks and paths leading to citation, like save on Mendeley, helps determine the most influential channels of online scientific interactions for policy makers and researchers. Further research is required to assess altmetrics indices and to verify their validity for evaluating research.
Identification of conversion factor for completing-h index for the field of mathematics Although these results show better performance of complete-h when computed for this dataset.
Rehabilitation using virtual reality technology: a bibliometric analysis, 1996-2015 VR for rehabilitation related researches have significantly increased in the last 20 years. The mainstream research on VR for rehabilitation was in rehabilitation sciences and computer science fields, while increasing attention was paid to the field of biotechnology. The application and development of VR in the field of rehabilitation will develop rapidly and solve more problems.
Core-periphery dynamics in collaboration networks: the case study of Slovenia The proposed approach combines structural analysis of a network based on core-periphery partition and machine learning methods to study evolution of collaboration networks over time.
Who gets Horizon 2020 research grants? Propensity to apply and probability to succeed in a two-step analysis The main point is that it is essential to distinguish two separate stages in the participation process: the self-selection stage in which a research organization decides whether to invest time and resources in developing a project application, and the selection stage in which the European Commission evaluates and selects proposals. Regarding the first stage, our results indicate two key dimensions that determine whether a research organization is likely to prepare and submit an application: (1) if the organization has previously participated in EU FPs (and thereby already sustained the application-related sunk costs); and (2) the availability of national funding, which may act as a complementary channel and provide additional resources that encourage application efforts. Our results indicate two main factors that strengthen the likelihood that a research organization will submit a successful application: prior participation in EU FPs (indicating persistence and learning effects from previous EU projects), and scientific reputation.
Measuring the match between evaluators and evaluees: cognitive distances between panel members and research groups at the journal level We have considered two potential approaches of determining the match between research groups and expert panel members based on the journals in which they have published: distances (including confidence intervals) between barycenters on the map and distances (also including confidence intervals) between SAPVs.
Analysis of co-authorship graphs of CORE-ranked software conferences We believe our results raise some interesting findings related to how the SE conference communities grow (e.g., island-based and scarce collaboration) and behave (e.g., latent structures), and that only conferences with the highest CORE rank behave significantly differently from the rest; which can be useful to rediscuss the factors that CORE takes into account when evaluating conferences. Thus, the CORE classification in four separate quality categories may not be justified based on the structure and patterns found in the co-authorship graphs, instead, this suggest that two categories would be enough (separating really good conferences from the rest), which would simplify the whole conference evaluation process. As further work, we would like to replicate our analysis on different CS fields and also using other ranking mechanisms such as MAS, SHINE or GII-GRIN (still work in progress but aiming at aggregating the results of CORE, MAS and SHINE), thus allowing us to better understand what community factors are most relevant to achieve high-quality conferences.
The research space: using career paths to predict the evolution of the research output of individuals, institutions, and nations These findings show that data on career trajectories—the set of fields that indi- viduals have previously published in—provide more accurate predictors of future research output for more focalized units—such as individuals or organizations—than citation based science maps. Therefore, it can be a useful tool for research policy and the evaluation of research portfolios.
The dispersion of the citation distribution of top scientists' publications The Pareto rule does not apply to the citation distribution of TSs' publications.
A study on construction and analysis of discipline knowledge structure of Chinese LIS based on CSSCI This study provides a reference for the construction and applications of DKS based on academic resources, and it plays an enlightening and driving role in summarizing and combing discipline knowledge from CLIS.
Unbalanced international collaboration affects adversely the usefulness of countries' scientific output as well as their technological and social impact We concluded that very high and unbalanced international collaboration, as presented by many countries, misrepresent the importance of their scientific production, technological and social outputs.
Do Hirsch-type indices behave the same in assessing single publications? An empirical study of 29 bibliometric indicators We argue that indices which are neither too near to nor too far from the h-index could be much more promising than others. Based on results above, this study finds that when compared with the h-index or Wu's w-index, these indicators show various characteristics for assessing single publications.
A comparative study on three citation windows for detecting research fronts This study examined research fronts by using three citation windows, namely fixed citation windows, citing half life, and sliding windows, and compared the evolution and development of the research fronts identified using these citation windows. Comparing the research fronts from the three citation windows reveals that sliding windows were the most effective. Therefore, future studies may use an appropriate combination of sliding and fixed windows to gain a more comprehensive picture of the research fronts in a particular field.
Revisiting an open access monograph experiment: measuring citations and tweets 5 years later Five years later, the freely accessible books had been cited more on average compared to the control group; a result that confirms the hypothesis that open access has an effect on citations.
The contribution of ethnic groups to Malaysian scientific output, 1982-2014, and the effects of the new economic policy The main conclusion is that Malays have greatly increased their participation in research in Malaysia over the last 32 years, from 20 % in 1982–1984 to 65 % in 2012–2014. However this increased participation was much greater on the Peninsula than in the two Borneo states. One consequence is that the balance of Malaysian science has shifted towards engineering and technology, in which the Malays are strong, from chemistry. The pattern of collaboration with foreign countries still strongly reflects the ethnic divisions within Malaysia, with the Malays favouring other Muslim countries, the Indians India and the Chinese, China.
The effect of a country's name in the title of a publication on its visibility and citability The results of the analysis provide general confirmation of the initial hypothesis.
What is co-authorship? In this paper we’ve only tried to unravel what co-authorship is as a social phenomenon. Though our findings suggest co-authorship to be as much relational as resource-based, and perhaps less institutionally-influenced than relational, the typical caveats regarding cross-sectional and self-reported data and omitted variable bias apply. Nonetheless the results reveal there’s still more to learn about authorship ascription as a relational phenomenon, and this knowledge in turn may help to develop better understanding of research collaboration.
The scholarly communication of economic knowledge: a citation analysis of Google Scholar This study provides statistical characteristics of how different features of an article affect the number of citations. In addition, it provides statistical evidence that the number of citations of a scientific article depends on the number of citations of the articles it cites. First, the impact factor, the number of versions, the age of paper, and the author score all seem to contribute to the number of citations positively.
Does the average JIF percentile make a difference? Firstly, average JIF percentile had changed the statistical characteristics of impact factor.
Detecting impact factor manipulation with data mining techniques The purpose of this paper is to exhibit how to use data mining techniques to detect IF manipulation.
Can alternative indicators overcome language biases in citation counts? A comparison of Spanish and UK research In response to the first research question, Mendeley is the altmetric source with the highest coverage for the sampled articles, with over three quarters (80 %) of articles having one or more Mendeley readers, followed by Twitter, with a third (34%) of articles tweeted at least once. In response to the second research question, all of the indicators checked for the subject fields chosen either have too little data (i.e., too many 0 values) or increase the overall difference between Spain and the UK and so none can be suggested as alternatives to reduce the bias against Spain in traditional citation indexes. Thus, unless in the long term international use of key social websites becomes equalised, it seems unlikely that any web-based indicator would be free of international biases.
Designing a model to evaluate scholarly publications with special reference to social sciences in India So, we can conclude that IF may not be an important factor to be considered for measuring the quality of a journal.
Refrain from adopting the combination of citation and journal metrics to grade publications, as used in the Italian national research assessment exercise (VQR 2011-2014) In this paper we have seen that in spite of the short citation window, the simple count of the citations still showed greater predictive power of the long-term impact of the publications than that of the ANVUR combined indicator.
Cited references and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) as two different knowledge representations: clustering and mappings at the paper level Further analysis leads to the conclusion that the abbreviated journal names in the cited references indicate a core structure of the set, whereas the MeSH are attributed regarding to their relevance to current research options.
The north-south divide in the Italian higher education system The north-south gap in research productivity of Italian professors and universities in the sciences is a fact. The challenge for the policy maker is how to introduce competitive mechanisms and incentive systems that could stimulate the upgrading of the country's universities, while at the same time reducing the qualitative gap between the northern universities and those of the south. Given the fundamental socio-economic role of the universities within their territories, reducing the north-south gap in higher education (and the overall education system) is a necessary structural intervention, for the hope of also reducing the national socio-economic divide.
Are two authors better than one? Can writing in pairs affect the readability of academic blogs? However, based on the results presented here, we do not anticipate that blogs written by joint authors will be any easier to read than those written by single ones!
The challenges to expand bibliometric studies from periodical literature to monographic literature with a new data source: the book citation index The results of these studies indicate a clear boundary between books and journals in terms of the ageing of periodical and monographic literature. Advanced models and indicators which have been developed for periodicals, such as the method of Characteristic Scores and Scales (Glänzel 2007; Glänzel and Schubert 1988), proved to work also for books—however with some limitations. Data coverage and quality, the lacking information on author affiliation (Gorraiz et al. 2013) and the impossibility to consequently apply citation counts at the chapter level seem to be the main obstacles for the reliable use citation-based indicators in research evaluation.
How collaboration impacts citation flows within the German science system As the results of this study show, all research organizations are successful in reaching their goals. They are interconnected, co-publish extensively with international partners and reach high citation impact. On top of that, inter-organizational publications reach outstanding impact measures as compared to intra-organizational publications. In applied research, publications are only one means of scientific transfer and utilization next to patents, spin-offs, and acquisition of orders. Thus, a careful interpretation of the data is required.
Assessing the effects of the German Excellence Initiative with bibliometric methods The bibliometric analysis gives evidence that the funding program has succeeded in concentrating excellent research and fostering collaborations between universities and the non-university research sector, but has not caused massive changes to the overall German research system.
The information value of early career productivity in mathematics: a ROC analysis of prediction errors in bibliometricly informed decision making The purpose of this study was to present an analytical framework that can be used to examine the information value of early career productivity in a binary decision situation and to investigate the potential consequences, in terms of prediction errors, of using early career productivity to predict future productivity in the mathematical sub field of number theory.
How can differences in international university rankings be explained? The overall aim of this paper is to provide a methodology that can be used in understanding universities' different ranks in global university rankings.
The dynamics of university units as a multi-level process. Credibility cycles and resource dependencies The data we have gathered provides empirical evidence on some key elements of the model.
International Collaboration Patterns and Effecting Factors of Emerging Technologies First, international innovation collaboration patterns across 20 countries exist striking heterogeneities: developed countries, like the US and Germany, tend to have more international cooperation with other countries.
Orthopedics research output from China, USA, UK, Japan, Germany and France: A 10-year survey of the literature According to this study, we can conclude that the USA has had been leading the orthopedics research in the past 10 years. Although China still falls behind, it has made considerable progress in the orthopedics research, not only in quantity but also quality. With respect to future research, scientists from mainland China should take effective measures and strive to improve the quality of research.
A comparison of university performance scores and ranks by MNCS and FSS The correlations are strong in many cases but weak in others, especially at SDS level. A very high number of universities experience a shift in ranking both at SDS and UDA level, with extreme cases of maximum shift not passing unnoticed: at UDA level not less than one third of universities shift from top to non-top quartile ranks. In the light of the findings of this work, we hope that scientometricians now have more information to assess the trade-off between the costs of acquiring input data and the benefits of more valid research performance measures.
Construction of a pragmatic base line for journal classifications and maps based on aggregated journal-journal citation relations As these points reveal, the results on the basis of the aggregated journal-journal citation data can be considered as providing a base line for more precise and informed classification.
Hybrid open access-A longitudinal study The study provides an experimental methodology for taking a measurement of the state of hybrid OA through a bottom-up approach. The relationship between hybrid OA uptake and journal impact (as operationalized by SNIP) proved to be weak on the total sample of journals. The study surfaces the many methodological challenges involved in obtaining metrics regarding hybrid OA, a growing business for journal publishers as science policy pressures for reduced access barriers to research publications.
Empirical analysis and classification of database errors in Scopus and Web of Science "This section sums up and discusses the results of this research from the perspective of the previously formulated research questions."
Content- and proximity-based author co-citation analysis using citation sentences The study results showed that CPACA provided a new, distinct perspective from the other two, TACA and CACA.
Properties of an index of citation durability of an article D shows the following properties: reflects information on the entire citation life-time of an article; lies between 0 and 1, getting near to 1 as citations become delayed; follows the normal distribution fairly closely, particularly for articles with citation counts greater than a certain level; and is not so much dependent on the subject field as the citation count.
Is this conference a top-tier? ConfAssist: An assistive conflict resolution framework for conference categorization From an analysis of the fluctuation patterns, top-tier conferences were indeed found to be much more stable than the non-top-tier ones.
The world network of scientific collaborations between cities: domestic or international dynamics? All of these results suggest that the worldwide growth of scientific collaborations, referred to as "globalization", did not develop at the expense of national systems of science.
A critical cluster analysis of 44 indicators of author-level performance "Our study revealed several critical concerns that should be investigated in the application of statistics in research evaluation."
Scientific influence is not always visible: The phenomenon of under-cited influential publications In this article we considered the question if a ground-breaking scientific contribution is always visible through citations and pointed out a new type of scientific contributions referred to as under-cited influential publications. Our work shows that scientific contributions are not always what they look as seen from a direct citation perspective. Taking more than one citation generation into account may help peers to recognize true originality and find the linchpin of a network of new developments.
A longitudinal study of the bookmarking of library and information science literature in Mendeley This study provides evidence to support the validity of two suggested advantages of bookmarks over citations in esti- mating the impact of scientific literature. Papers are bookmarked immediately after publication, whereas citations need much more time to accrue. Thus, nearly nine of every ten LIS papers are bookmarked in Mendeley in the year following publication, a figure that greatly exceeds that of articles cited.
Towards field-adjusted production: Estimating research productivity from a zero-truncated distribution The results presented in this paper indicate that Waring based estimation of the zero-class of a zero-truncated paper frequency distribution (and estimates of publications per researcher based thereon) bear real significance and that the estimates are reasonably stable (given a sufficiently large data set).
Measuring delayed recognition for papers: Uneven weighted summation and total citations This paper studies the less common phenomenon of delayed recognition in bibliometrics and suggests an approach for understanding and measuring this phenomenon.
The impact of author-selected keywords on citation counts This study found that some statistical characteristics of keywords (i.e., keyword growth, number of keywords and percentage of new keywords) and a network property of the underlying keyword co-occurrence network (i.e., network centrality of keywords) have significant relations with citation counts. From this perspective, researchers should find it easier to understand the implications of the findings of this study. This method will assist researchers to smartly select keywords to disseminate their research findings and will help them to attract more citations.
Constructing bibliometric networks: A comparison between full and fractional counting Based on theoretical considerations and on the empirical analyses, we conclude that for many purposes the fractional counting approach is preferable over the full counting one.
Interfield equality: Journals versus researchers Tubitak's formulation is simple because it uses the basic bibliometric indicators and easy statistical formulas.
Identification of milestone papers through time-balanced network centrality Our results indicate that network centrality and time-balance are two essential ingredients – though neglected by popular bibliometric indicators such as the h-index for scholars (Hirsch, 2005) and impact factor for journals (Garfield, 1972) - for an effective detection of significant papers.
Sampling issues in bibliometric analysis Bibliometricians will sometimes enjoy the luxury of having complete records for an institution. However, even in such cases the use of inferential statistics is appropriate and helpful.
What's in a Number? Examining the Effect of a Dedicated Research Year on H-Index and Fellowship Decision-making Urology residents with a dedicated research year have almost 2 times the h-indices of their counterparts.
The 100 top-cited articles published in emergency medicine journals: a bibliometric analysis The bibliometric analysis on the 100 top-cited articles in EM journals from WoS demonstrates some significant points, which can have important implications for researchers in evaluating and orienting their research. These topics reflect the focuses of EM development and research trends in recent years, which have important implications both to journal editors and researchers in evaluating and orienting their research.
Making Professional Decisions in Research: Measurement and Key Predictors In summary, this study suggests that the use of good decision-making strategies in the research context is associated with greater RCR knowledge, lower moral disengagement, and identifying the United States as one's nation of origin.
Exploring Possibilities for Transforming Established Subscription-based Scientific Journals into Open Access Journals Present Situation, Transformation Criteria, and Exemplary Implementation within Trans-O-MIM Within Trans-O-MIM we will reach at least nine of the sixteen criteria for adequate transformation.
The Factors Affecting Basic Research Performance Funded by Government: "Creative Research Program' Case in South Korea The analysis shows that CRP was found to be an efficient programme among the basic research programme in South Korea.
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Science: A Dialectic of Scientific Fame Understand that doing high quality (i.e., successful) work and being famous in science (like most any profession) are not perfectly synonymous.
Toward the Discovery of Citation Cartels in Citation Networks Today, citation cartels, where members of these mutually cited papers of authors with which they are known or not known, have become reality in the research domain.
Providing open access to PhD theses: visibility and citation benefits Benefits as visibility and impact are sufficiently demonstrated by the results obtained in the analysis.
Does a research group increase impact on the scientific community or general public discussion? Alternative metric-based evaluation These results support the importance of multidisciplinary research groups in the impact of scientific literature; the interaction and synergy among the research participants allowed the obtainment of high impact-literature in the field of personalized pain medicine. Finally, our findings demonstrate the potential of altmetrics in estimating the value of the research products of a group. Hopefully, other pain researchers will choose to follow our lead.
TARGETS FOR HONESTY: HOW PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SHAPE INTEGRITY IN DUTCH HIGHER EDUCATION In this study we aimed to establish a theoretical and empirical link between the use of performance targets in higher education and academic integrity. Our results showed a clear positive effect of performance measurement and perception of integrity in employees' work environment. This supports the hypothesis based on the mechanism of psychological ownership and refutes the crowding out hypothesis.
Funding Australian economics research: Local benefits? Our findings based on a survey of all articles published in the Diamond list of economic journals over the period 2001–2010 is that about 4.3% of articles addressed an Australian issue or used Australian data in their study. The two highest ranked economics departments during that time produced over 40% of the relevant articles but also had the lowest number of staff possessing an Australian doctoral qualification. Furthermore, staff with overseas doctorates comprised 50% or more of all staff in seven of the nine economics departments which received an ERA ranking of 4 or 5 in 2012.
'DIRTY WORK', BUT SOMEONE HAS TO DO IT: HOWARD P. ROBERTSON AND THE REFEREEING PRACTICES OF PHYSICAL REVIEW IN THE 1930S In the 1930s, Physical Review was establishing a form of refereeing system under the assumption that this practice would eventually be accepted by all members of the American physics community. In implementing the practice, both Tate and Robertson followed an implicit agenda. Because the editor tended to follow the advice of the only referee called to evaluate the manuscript, it seems that the refereeing practice of the time could hardly be called peer review if the egalitarian meaning of the word ‘peer’ in the Mertonian sense is to be maintained.
Gender differences in performance-based pay: Evidence from a Chinese University We found that male professors earned more from research and less from teaching than did comparable female professors even though male and female professors showed no statistically significant difference in the total performance-based pay.
Scientific Performance of Brazilian Researchers in Pharmacology with grants from CNPq: A comparative study within the Brazilian categories In summary, the present study evaluated and compared the profile of CNPq researchers receiving grant productivity 1A, 1B, 1C and 1D, in the area of Pharmacology, based on their total production (i.e., throughout their scientific career) as indexed in the Scopus database.
Trends in Multiple Authorship among Papers in Astronomy The figures presented in this paper provide a graphical demonstration that astronomers have become increasingly collaborative over the past 50 years. The general situation for f (n > 4) is the same in all four journals considered here, the fraction of such papers has been increasing steadily since 1980 for all values of n in the range 5-10. Perhaps the most notable result from Table 2 is that regardless of journal, year, or number of authors, in more than 50% of the papers considered the first and second co-authors have shared a joint institution.
Five-Year Institutional Bibliometric Profiles for 119 North American Neurosurgical Residency Programs: An Update This is the most accurate comprehen- sive analysis to date of contemporary bibliometrics among North American neurosurgery departments. Using the ih(5)-index for institutional ranking allows for informative comparison of recent scholarly efforts.
Bombs, Brains, and Science: The Role of Human and Physical Capital for the Creation of Scientific Knowledge In the short-run, before departments could fully respond, the human capital shock caused a four times larger decline in output than the physical capital shock.
Assessing the ICT innovative position of India based on patent data and research publications The results show that India is comparatively strong in Vertical Specialization, possibly due to collaboration in providing R&D with other problem-oriented solutions in advanced countries. The VSS value for India is closer to unity, indicating that although India has emerged as a strong country in terms of patent filing and has rooted itself in the ICT sector, most of its innovation is still the result of collaboration. Thus, we can conclude that developing countries like India thrive in sectors that require less capital, while India has proved its capability to emerge as a global player in ICT.
A Systematic Overview of Operations Research/Management Science Research in Mainland China: Bibliometric Analysis of the Period 2001-2013 The results show that although the number of OR/MS papers from Mainland China scholars has grown exponentially during this period, the quality of papers needs to be further improved in future.
Research performance and degree centrality in co-authorship networks The moderating role of homophily This study offers important implications for researchers. In opposition to prior research, this study contests the conjecture that centrality leads to researcher performance (Kumar, 2015b); instead, this study explored researcher's performance as an antecedent of network centrality (degree centrality).
Ready for the future? A survey on open access with scientists from the French National Research Center (CNRS) The CNRS senior research managers (laboratory directors) globally share the positive opinion towards open access revealed by other studies with researchers from the UK, Germany, the United States and other countries. The response patterns reveal a gap between generally positive opinions about open access and less supportive behaviours, principally publishing articles with APCs. Seeking to impose the same approach to open access may lead to a dead end or simply elsewhere and definitely not to Open Science.
Interdisciplinarity in ferment: The role of knowledge networks and department affiliation The main issue addressed in this paper is the relation between the role of the departments and its relation to interdisciplinarity in terms of knowledge creation at the interpersonal level. Egonetwork analysis proved to be a suitable contribution to the understanding of interdisciplinarity in today's universities. This study has made use of personal network analysis to examine in more detail aspects of social interaction that affect interdisciplinarity.
The role of academic inbreeding in developing higher education systems: Challenges and possible solutions This article contributes to knowledge on academic inbreeding by comparing inbreeding in two higher education systems that have more differences than similarities.
Social network utilization and the impact of academic research in marketing This study sheds light on a key resource that may help academic researchers enhance the impact of their publications: professional social networks. Our findings suggest that some researchers, such as women authors and authors from less economically advanced countries are more likely to utilize their professional social networks. Finally, we demonstrate that social network utilization, in turn, enhances the impact of research articles.
Fragmentation or cohesion? Visualizing the process and consequences of information system diversity, 1993-2012 Findings from this study suggest that the evolution of the research topics and themes in the IS field should be seen as part of the natural metabolism of the field, rather than a process of fragmentation or disintegration.
Sustainability in latin America: An analysis of the academic discursive field Our three broad hypotheses were validated. Latin American intellectuals participate actively and critically in the academic discursive field of sustainable development. Its meanings are culturally situated and reflect, among others, debates derived from post-Eurocentric criticism. The discursive interactions reflect the main trends of broader scientific connections between countries and regions.
The emergence and evolution of cross-boundary research collaborations: An explanatory study of social dynamics in a digital government working group Using a mixed-method approach, we explored how an interdisciplinary, inter-organizational, and transnational digital government research team was formed and evolved into an integrated and productive network.
Top classic citations in pancreatic cancer research The top-cited articles identify topics, authors, and institutions that contributed to major advances in the speciality of PC research.
A bibliometric analysis of drinking water research in Africa An overview of drinking water research in Africa during the 1991-2013 period has been presented with respect to annual publication outputs, Web of Science subject categories, research areas, journals, institutions, countries, and trends in collabora-tion, research emphases and tendencies. The publication out-put in this field increased at exponential rates over the entire study period. It has been adduced therefore that drinking water research in Africa is a developing field of study.
Scientific research output in orthopaedics from China and other top-ranking countries: a 10-year survey of the literature The USA has occupied the dominant place in orthopaedics-related research for the last 10 years.
Why articles are retracted: a retrospective cross-sectional study of retraction notices at BioMed Central We found that COPE guidelines on retraction were adhered to in that an explicit reason for retraction was given in all cases of retraction evaluated from 2000–2015. Retractions were also readily identifiable, linked to the retracted article and identified the retracted article in the heading.
Analysis of citation networks as a new tool for scientific research The analysis of citation networks and term lists, discussed here for four distinct fields of varying sizes, shows that a great deal of information pertaining to field directions, author networks, collaborations, and field popular-ity can be gained, going far beyond the basic analysis of the number of citations per given year. Nonetheless, these tools offer practicing scientists and researchers a detailed window into their own fields, as well as the capability to identify potential opportunities in related areas.
H-Index and Other Sugeno Integrals: Some Defects and Their Compensation All of them have a clear, intuitive interpretation and are very easy to compute.
Bibliometric analysis of medicine-related publications on poverty (2005-2015) Data indicated that articles on poverty were published in high influential medical journals indicative of the importance of poverty as a global health problem. However, the number publications and the extent of international collaborations was lower than expected given the huge burden of poverty-related health problems.
Influence of physician years on urological journal publication productivity among Japanese urologists The present study revealed that from 11 to 15 post-graduate years was the most productive time for Japanese urologists as the first author of urological publications and also that the role in manuscript preparation changed with increases in physician years. These results provide an insight into reconstructing future post-graduate training and educational urological programs in Japan.
A Study on Research Trends in Public Library Research in Korea Using Keyword Networks Through a keywords analysis of public library studies in Korea, the research trends and network structure of the keywords have been found. The most important research trend in public library studies in Korea is that much research is only focused on a specific number of issues. In other words, there is not a wide variety of research topics. Korean public library studies are required to become more diverse.
Outcomes From the NIH Clinical Research Training Program: A Mentored Research Experience to Enhance Career Development of Clinician-Scientists Data suggest that the CRTP helped foster the careers of research-oriented medical and dental students as measured by time conducting research, successful competition for federal funding, and the publication of their research.
Differences in Collaboration Patterns across Discipline, Career Stage, and Gender Our present analysis conclusively shows that females do have fewer distinct co-authors over their careers, but that this gap can be accounted for by differences in number of publications.
Approach to self-publishing with a combination of bibliometric study and social network analysis techniques Self-publishing is a phenomenon that is being studied by the scientific community.
Library Consortia and Article Processing Charges: An International Survey One of the key findings of our survey was the low level of priority for negotiating APCs among library consortia.
Analyzing Consortial "Big Deals" via a Cost-Per-Cited-Reference (CPCR) Metric In the end, they believe they can comfortably say it was a valuable endeavor.
A bibliometric assessment of energy research in South Africa The South African national research system is producing a relatively small number of research publications in the international energy core literature.
Productivity of R&D institution: The case of Indonesia This study finds new evidence and enhances previous findings related to the determinants of research productivity, especially for R&D institutions in developing countries.
Will China's quest for indigenous innovation succeed? Some lessons from nanotechnology We have found that while there are many hints of progress, they have yet to turn China into the nanotechnology innovator it hopes to become.
The visible hand of research performance assessment The paper argues that stratification and standardization are symptoms of a visible hand of performance assessment. The empirical evidence suggests that analytical heuristics of power are better equipped to explain symptoms of research assessments. With the link between status groups and actual research performance weakened like that, it seems unlikely that an invisible hand could lift the quality of research as is desired by the assessments.
Does Size Matter? The Multipolar International Landscape of Nanoscience In the present application to nanoscience, we have shown that the country size does not contain much information about its position in the nanoscape. Instead of a universal pattern of specialisation, homothetic of that of a single global leader (the US), we find a multipolar world with four distinctive profiles.
On the e-commercialization of science: A step toward the future? The characteristics of science advancement suggest the emergence of a new electronic market for scientific knowledge with all of the typical positive and negative developments that are associated with the emergence of new markets.
Beyond Academia - Interrogating Research Impact in the Research Excellence Framework This paper set out to understand how researchers and institutions interpreted impact, and how these interpretations affected performance in the REF process. In keeping with previous studies, we have found that impact is interpreted broadly by researchers via impact case studies depicting a range of impact types and beneficiaries (or sectors). Finally, we have identified a positive correlation between research quality and research impact at institutional level, which suggests that there is little evidence that the pursuit of impact detracts from the quality of research.
An analysis of orthopaedic theses in Turkey: Evidence levels and publication rates The quantity and quality of published theses need to be improved and effective measures should be taken to promote quality of theses.
BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF RESEARCH ON WASTEWATER IRRIGATION DURING 1991-2014 From the bibliometric analysis of 5699 publications, research trends, hot topics and important regions for various aspects of wastewater irrigation research were obtained. Research trends showed that micropollutants have great potential to become a hot topic in the future of wastewater irrigation research. Furthermore, international research on wastewater irrigation would benefit from expanding the scientific exchange on this topic, in particular between emerging and industrial countries, between the agricultural and wastewater scientific community as well as between stakeholders and scientists.
An Analysis of Award-Winning Refereed Articles From the Journals Sponsored by the Academy of Human Resource Development In terms of research, the award-winning articles have contributed tremendously to expand the knowledge base by integrating knowledge across various disciplines such as management, economics, psychology, education, and other closely related disciplines.
Novel bibliometric scores for evaluating research quality and output: a correlation study with established indexes The novel bibliographic index altmetrics is consistent and reliable and can complement or be considered a valid alternative to standard bibliometric indexes to benchmark output and quality of research for academic and funding purposes.
The 50 Most Cited Articles in Rotator Cuff Repair Research This article detailed the 50 most cited articles on rotator cuff repair. The most common article subtype was the case series, showing the effect that articles on preliminary outcomes and new surgical techniques have had on rotator cuff repair.
Control Model for the Alignment of the Quality Assessment of Scientific Documents Based on the Analysis of Content-Related Context As a part of an analysis of the content-related context of a document, various situations of the mutual behavior of the measures of the quality of a scientific or technical document are considered and compared.
Dueling Co-Authors: How Collaborators Create and Sometimes Solve Contributorship Conflicts The results of this work lead to the conclusion that researchers, especially those leading projects or laboratories, should communicate more and earlier in the process of developing articles.
Academic Evaluation: Universal Instrument? Tool for Development? However difficult it may be, it is important to keep on searching for research evaluation systems able to encourage more inclusive and contextualized research agendas where all knowledge needed to foster development processes can have a space to grow in quality and in scope.
SPORT SCIENCES' SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION PUBLISHED IN CHILE (1912-2014): A BIBLIOMETRIC APPROACH The Chilean scientific production about Sport Sciences began in 1912 with the appearance of the first specialized journal, six years after the establishment of the Physical Education and Manual Institute.
The combined effects of age and seniority on research performance of full professors Our analyses show that as age increases there is a high decline in full professors' productivity which is measured, for the first time in studies on the subject, by an indicator that embeds both quantity and impact. In addition, our findings show that to some extent, seniority within the rank of full professor bears positively on researchers' productivity. These results, witnessed both generally and at the level of the in-dividual disciplines, offer useful insights for policy makers and administrators in academia on the role of older professors.
Gender and patterns of temporary mobility among researchers Given the paucity of empirical research on gender and international research mobility, the patterns reported here are sound data points for continuing comparative, cross-national investigations, and point to consequential considerations for gender equity and science and public policy.
Exploring the Top-Cited and Most Influential Articles in Medical Education The analysis shows that the higher number of citations received are not necessarily related to funding, working collaboratively with a big team from several institutes or from several countries. The finding that authors of more than one top-cited article received the Karolinska Institutet Prize for research in medical education indicates that this could be a parameter in selecting the candidates for the award. In conclusion, top-cited articles are not necessarily the most influential, and the number does not tell us why these articles have been highly cited.
The proof of the pudding: University responses to the European Research Council This article has explored the adaptive responses of Spanish universities to the existence of the ERC.
Performance-based funding models and researcher behavior: An analysis of the influence of the Norwegian Publication Indicator at the individual level While both increased publications and collaboration would appear to be viewed as positive developments from a policy standpoint, the model's point system risks discouraging collaboration. In contrast, we are more confident in concluding that the Publication Indicator has been successful in activating a larger share of researchers either to begin publishing on a regular basis or to shift publication activity toward the types of scientific channels covered by the Indicator. We are unable to think of any other factor that could have led to such a large increase in the number of publishing researchers.
Do public R&D funds affect the location choices of elite scientists in Europe? Public investments in R&D shape the patterns of cross-border mobility among elite scientists in Europe that applied for support grants by the ERC. Rather, we identify a high quality and performance of science systems as the main determinant for the location choices of elite scientists in Europe. Notably, we also find preliminary evidence on the effectiveness of national REIs policies as regards their ability to attract scientific tal-ent from abroad in the observation period.
Concentration of research funding leads to decreasing marginal returns Our results show that in terms of both the quantity of papers produced and their scientific impact, the concentration of research funding in the hands of the so-called ‘elite’ of researchers produces diminishing marginal returns.
Funding decision-making systems: An empirical comparison of continuous and dichotomous approaches based on psychometric theory In conclusion, we would like to point out that it is not our objective in this study to explicitly vote for one or the other funding decision system. Our goal was to present empirical results on the possible systems that can serve as an empirical basis for discussion on alternative funding procedures. We hope that in the future especially aspects of the lack of reliability of peer review ratings will be taken into account in the examination of funding organizations.
Machine-learning-based classification of research grant award records Our results showed that this method worked particularly well for associating abstracts with scientific disciplines. Our analysis suggests that this approach can be used to classify large corpora of scientific awards into desired categories, which may be of use for monitoring R&D trends and for identifying portfolios of grant projects for evaluation. The socioeconomic experiment shows that sparse and not well-formed language models do not result in the same assurance of reliability in tagging, hence the relatively poor precision and recall of the socioeconomic objective data.
Integrating metrics to measure research performance in social sciences and humanities: The case of the Spanish CSIC Our study provides a comprehensive picture of the activity of SSH CSIC researchers from a micro-level perspective. Accordingly, including other types of output beyond the scope of WoS-articles is essential to obtain a true and accurate picture of the activity of SSH researchers. Finally, a series of recommendations to consider output beyond the boundaries of WoS articles, and develop more accurate indicators for assessing the prestige of publication channels is expounded.
Literature segmentation in management and organization studies: The case of Spanish-speaking countries (2000-10) In this article, we have dealt with an overlooked topic in the study of the creation of management knowledge: the comparison between scientific works written in vernacular language (either at a domestic or regional level) and the so-called international literature.
Collaboration and change in the research networks of five Energy Frontier Research Centers Overall, we find a great deal of evidence for hypothesis H6, that the EFRCs would increase coauthorship among their members.
A Bayesian h-index: How to measure research impact In this paper, we have addressed the topic of correctly measuring quality of scientific research, taking statistical variability into proper account. The application of the methodology shows that our proposed Bayesian h index can boost the descriptive power of the measure proposed by Hirsch, taking citations variability into proper account, and allowing a fairer comparison between scientists of different seniority. Another extension would be to introduce covariate effects letting the h index to depend on the age of a scientist.
First citation speed for articles in Psychology of Music Overall, the speed of a first citation to a POM article originating from any journal and discipline was fastest during the initial 7 years after publication with the cumulative proportion of POM articles receiving a first citation exceeding .25 after 2 years, .50 after 4 years, and .75 after 7; this was followed by a falling-off in the year-to-year probability of a first citation over the next 8 years. Results confirm the importance of recent POM articles to journals in the discipline of music psychology and earlier articles to journals in the field of music education. Pursuing bibliometrics can help us to understand the role of similar and related journals, along with internal fields and beyond them.
Impact of research investment on scientific productivity of junior researchers These findings suggest the effectiveness of research investment as small as seed funding for scientific productivity and professional growth of novice investigators and production of research with new initiatives and innovations. Further efforts are recommended to enhance the support of small grant funding programs.
Research funding and national academic performance: Examination of a Danish success story Overall, our analysis highlights the difficulties in explaining per-formance (i.e. publication productivity and citation impact) as a lin-ear function of input factors.
Tapping into intra- and international collaborations of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation states across science and technology disciplines The findings indicate that the intra-collaboration between the OIC states has strengthened over the years.
Simultaneous and comparable numerical indicators of international, national and local collaboration practices in English-medium astrophysics research papers Our study provides a global picture of collaboration practices in astrophysics and its possible application to many other sciences and fields would undoubtedly help bring into focus the really big issues for overall research management and policy.
Survey on inadequate and omitted citations in manuscripts: a precursory study in identification of tasks for a literature review and manuscript writing assistive system The findings may benefit subsequent studies conducted to solve the issue of inadequate and omitted citations through process improvements and technological interventions.
Bibliometric analysis of the journal Izvestiya Akademii Nauk. Seriya Khimicheskaya (Russian Chemical Bulletin) Based on the above mentioned data, we can conclude that the journal Izvestiya Akademii Nauk. Seriya Khimicheskaya (Russian Chemical Bulletin) is in great demand both in Russia and abroad.
Zonal text processing The results of preliminary analysis were rather promising and proved that for the purposes of authorship attribution and text classification it is possible to match J₁ zones of texts using metrics (probability values) of lexical units that are simpler than traditional vector space modeling.
The Early Impact of an Administrative Processing Fee on Manuscript Submissions at The Journal of Bone & Joint Surgery The administrative processing fee at JBJS has been associated with a decrease in submission volume, but, overall, there has not been a change in the characteristics of studies submitted. Administrative processing fees at high-volume journals may be a financially viable way to offset high administrative costs without substantially changing the characteristics of submitted articles.
Assessing global, regional, national and sub-national capacity for public health research: a bibliometric analysis of the Web of Science™ in 1996-2010 1. This study was successful in devel-oping a methodology, based on the h-index, which provides an assessment of capacity for public health re-search from 1996–2010.
Scholarly Communication in AERA Journals, 1931 to 2014 The figures presented on the foregoing pages indicate how the AERA journals RER and AERJ organized communication around education in the period between 1931 and 2014. Seen from this perspective, the changing forms and formats of scholarly communication in the AERA journals also shed light on the evolution of the expectations regarding how education research is to be conducted.
Academic Productivity of Interventional Pulmonology Training Programs For academic interventional pulmonologists, h-index rises with increasing academic rank and possession of an advanced degree.The h-index is for interventional pulmonology is roughly comparable to that for other surgical and procedural-based specialties.The h-index may be useful as one benchmark to measure future academic growth of the fledgling field of interventional pulmonology.
Evaluating the Productivity of VA, NIH, and AHRQ Health Services Research Career Development Awardees Findings show that all three HSR career development programs are successfully selecting and mentoring awardees, ensuring additional HSR capacity to improve the quality and delivery of high-value care.
Researchers' Adoption of an Institutional Central Fund for Open-Access Article-Processing Charges: A Case Study Using Innovation Diffusion Theory The ways in which Gold OA in general and its funding through an institutional central fund in particular have diffused through the organization at Nottingham provide some useful perspectives on the acceptance of OA in the scholarly community. The payment of APCs rose from 28 in 2006-2007 to 481 in 2013-2014: from representing less than 1% of the published outputs of the institution to more than 12%. Ongoing research is needed to track and explain these developments to inform future policy development and service implementation at institutional, disciplinary, and national levels.
Academic Productivity of Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education-Accredited Critical Care Fellowship Program Directors This study demonstrates that one’s specialty area in critical care is an independent predictor of academic productivity, with surgery having the highest productivity.
Universality of Citation Distributions for Academic Institutions and Journals Our results indicate that dividing citation counts by their average indeed helps to get closer to universal citation distributions. The k index values suggest that the top 25% of the articles hold about 75% of the total citations for institutions and the top 29% of the articles hold about 71% of the total citations for journals. This indicates that the universality is not very strong, and holds only in an approximate sense.
Academic Cross-Pollination: The Role of Disciplinary Affiliation in Research Collaboration "Disciplinary affiliation independently predicted collaboration in grant and publication networks, particularly in the later years."
Research competitiveness of Indian institutes of science education and research This article presents a scientometric assessment of research potential and competitiveness of IISERs. The quantity of research output (measured per capita) and quality of research output of IISERs is congruent and comparable to research output from well-established and premier Indian institutions in scientific research. The future of IISERs in terms of their contribu-tion to scientific research in India looks promising.
Peer Review Quality and Transparency of the Peer-Review Process in Open Access and Subscription Journals The tool to assess transparency of the peer-review process at academic journals shows promising reliability and validity.
A Theoretical Model for the Associative Nature of Conference Participation An active participation in a conference series strengthens the scientist's association with that particular conference community and thus increases the probability of future participations.
Size, Accumulation and Performance for Research Grants: Examining the Role of Size for Centres of Excellence In general, performance for these CoEs has been very high.
Open Access Meets Discoverability: Citations to Articles Posted to Academia.edu "We have analyzed the effect of open access on citations using a novel venue for free-to-access articles, Academia.edu."
Use of H-Index and Other Bibliometric Indicators to Evaluate Research Productivity Outcome on Swine Diseases In general, H-index can be used to prioritize the impact of swine pathogens at least for scientific interest. Also, individual evolution of H-index may be useful because reveals important events related to pig production or zoonotic outbreaks. As a final contribution, the Dcos index was proposed, which aims to reflect in just two figures the contribution in a specific research area or subject according to H-index cores of this subject, and if this contribution is focused or diversified.
Has Concentration in the Top Accounting Journals Changed Over Time? Our results suggest that the number of publications have increased over time for accounting and for other business disciplines. Concentration measures show an overall decreasing trend for accounting and for other disciplines. This finding has significant implications for accounting faculty who face cross-disciplinary promotion and tenure committees who may (and often will) ask: “Why do accounting professors have fewer publications in top journals?"
NIH peer review percentile scores are poorly predictive of grant productivity These observations suggest that despite the overall ability of reviewers to discriminate between extremely strong grant applications and the remainder, they have limited ability to accurately predict future productivity of meritorious applications in the range relevant to current paylines.
Initial Results from the Survey of Organizational Research Climates (SOuRCe) in the US Department of Veterans Affairs Healthcare System Our findings indicate that in terms of SOuRCe scale score means and the relative rankings of these scales, and the internal reliability measures for the scales, research climates in VA appear quite similar in the aggregate to those we have previously documented in more traditional academic research settings.
Genealogical Trees of Scientific Papers Departing from an old but important initial paper, our proposed approach might allow any researcher to recapitulate the history of his research field by tracing the successive published milestones.
Researchers' Individual Publication Rate Has Not Increased in a Century Therefore, the widespread belief that pressures to publish are causing the scientific literature to be flooded with salami-sliced, trivial, incomplete, duplicated, plagiarized and false results is likely to be incorrect or at least exaggerated. Therefore, future research should confirm our observations about national differences and further examine the link between publication patterns, nationality and research policies.
Journal Impact Factor: Do the Numerator and Denominator Need Correction? In conclusion, not all disciplinary journal IF need correction. The results in the current paper show that to correct the IF of ophthalmologic journals may be valuable, but it seems to be meaningless for mathematic journals. In conclusion, although the assumptions behind correcting traditional IF are reasonable in theory, our empirical study finds that not all subjects need to correct their journal IF.
Scientific publications in nursing journals from Mainland China, Taiwan, and Hong Kong: a 10-year survey of the literature Chinese contributions to the field of nursing have significantly increased in the past ten years, particularly from Mainland China. Taiwan is the most productive region in China. Hong Kong had the highest-quality research output, according to mean journal impact factor and mean citation count.
Open Access in the Developing Regions: Situating the Altercations About Predatory Publishing Information production and dissemination, as well as access to information, have increased globally.
Importance of being indexed in important databases - effect on the quantity of published articles in JBUON The progressing covering of JBUON in important biomedical databases and its visibility on international level attracted the attention of a large readership, and submission rate and the number of published articles grew significantly, particularly the number of original papers. This is the most important consequence of the editorial policy which will hopefully lead to even more progress of JBUON in the near future.
The Scientific Impact of Developing Nations Since the early nineties, nine of the most dynamic developing economies have reduced the gap with the more developed world, both in terms of R&D investment and scientific impact.
Scientometrics of rare earths research in India The scientometric study of rare earths research identified a total of 188,877 papers as global output published during a period of 27 years (1987–2013).
Evolving strategies of the predatory journals In summary, the pressure to publish and metrics-based career advancement procedures are the main attractors driving authors to predatory journals, despite the efforts of scientists and Internet-based means of identifying these journals and publicizing their dishonest practices. Nevertheless, predatory publishers and journals have responded with new strategies; to name one of them, hijacking seemed to have deceived authors who were already immune to calls from the 'Global Journal of...'. If this is the case, a return to the science for the sake of science or the benefit of society is a possible solution.
Structural assessment of Iranian scholarly journals Unconformity of the features discussed in this study would undoubtedly causes loss of journal quality and is not an acceptable performance from the scientific community perspective. The significant point is that on the digital environment ignoring each studied features would affect the manuscript visibility, access, readership, and research impact.
China's scientific footprint in the global HIV/AIDS research: Productivity, impact and collaboration Analysis of research productivity and impact revealed higher-than-average research performance of China in the global HIV/AIDS research. However, China still has a great potential in HIV/AIDS research if more China's institutions are involved in studying this disease. In the present study, combinations of related issues show that the HIV/AIDS research of China is currently focused on the “epidemiology of HIV/AIDS in China" and "molecular mechanisms of HIV/AIDS infection".
How Multidisciplinary Are the Multidisciplinary Journals Science and Nature? Our exploratory paper has produced findings that are at once both consistent and at odds with the reputation of Nature and Science.
A bibliometric analysis of research on Ebola in Science Citation Index Expanded The results of the investigation could possibly constitute benchmarks for monitoring the evolution of the research in this field and the impact of the outbreak on research efforts internationally.
Scientific publications in critical care medicine journals from East Asia: A 10-year survey of the literature China and South Korea's contributions to critical care medicine had significant increases during the past 10 years, while Japan had a significant decrease. China was the most productive region in East Asia since 2006. Japan had the highest quality research output.
Auto-correlation of journal impact factor for consensus research reporting statements: a cohort study In this study, the impact factor of the journal in which a consensus reporting statement was published was shown to correlate with the number of citations that statement will gather over time. Similarly, the number of article accesses also influenced the number of citations, although to a lesser extent than the impact factor. These findings suggest that citation counts are not purely a reflection of scientific merit, and the journal impact factor is, in fact, auto-correlated.
Biases in grant proposal success rates, funding rates and award sizes affect the geographical distribution of funding for biomedical research This study revealed that geographical biases in the way that NIH RPG funding is allocated contribute significantly to vast disparities (> 100-fold range per capita) in the amount of funding to each state (Fig. 2, Table 1). The findings provide an explanation for why legislative and administrative efforts to address such disparities have been ineffective. They also support evidence-based recommendations for how the NIH could better utilize the scientific talent and capacity that is present throughout the United States.
Reasons for Journal Impact Factor Changes: Influence of Changing Source Items The results of this analysis point out the potentially delusive effect of IF increases gained through effective shrinkage of publication output.
INFORMETRICS FOR LIBRARIANS: DESCRIBING THEIR IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE EVALUATION PROCESS Librarians are playing a secondary role in the process of evaluating research activities, usually as auxiliary providers of raw data extracted from pre-selected sources. Given the subjective nature of the decision committees, there is a strong need for unbiased and objective procedures guaranteed by independent professionals. A neutral, comprehensive, modern, quanti-tative approach guided by academic librarians is proposed, including closeness to applicants, anonymity of their identities in the reports, contextualization (academic age, gender, and discipline) of data, usage of relative non-central values with indication of thresholds, and incorporation of new bibliometric and non-bibliometric sources.
PROPOSAL OF USING SCALING FOR CALCULATING FIELD-NORMALIZED CITATION SCORES After demonstrating in this study that the MNCS does not lead to exactly MNCS=1 on the level of all papers within a publication year, we have proposed to scale each NCS value obtaining a slightly different NCI value for each individual paper to reach exactly an average MNCI value of 1 for each publication year.
BIBLIOMETRIC AND BENCHMARK ANALYSIS OF GOLD OPEN ACCESS IN SPAIN: BIG OUTPUT AND LITTLE IMPACT In general, the results shown here work against those shown in other studies in which a certain citation advantage is observed for OA papers (i.e., Gargouri, et al., 2010), although they seem consistent with those described by Solomon, Laakso, and Björk (2013) who showed that subscription-based journals performed better than born OA journals or converted OA journals. Further analyses are still needed to deepen the understanding of the characteristics of OA journals and determine key variables that influence impact.
REGIONAL AND GLOBAL SCIENCE: PUBLICATIONS FROM LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN IN THE SCIELO CITATION INDEX AND THE WEB OF SCIENCE Our results suggest that SciELO CI integrates a scientific production which otherwise remains invisible in the mainstream journals contained in WoS.
Clustering Scientific Publications Based on Citation Relations: A Systematic Comparison of Different Methods Our analysis seems to provide most support for the use of Infomap and related methods such as Metimap to cluster the publications in a citation network.
Research Activity in Canadian Developmental Psychology Programs Despite the limitations, our study provides a number of different metrics that give a clearer picture of how developmental psychol-ogy programs compare across Canada.
Visibility of University of Zululand and Moi University Researchers in Web of Science and Scopus from 2003 to 2013 Notably, the publications of most of the researchers (approximately 70%) were not indexed in the databases for the research period, as noted in section 4.1.
Research Support and Open Access: Notes from Nigeria This paper concluded on the need for increased funding for research by the Nigerian government as well as both for-profit and not-for-profit organisations within the country as a way to achieving any developmental objectives set by the government. This paper concludes that the progress of the research communities across Nigeria’s higher institutions is centred on the provision of appropriate funding. Research and innovation are the bedrock for a country’s development.
Classifying Universities in Turkey by Hierarchical Cluster Analysis The results showed that in the analysis of universities, capacity and performance analysis should be conducted for better generalizations and policy development in practice.
The correlation among Y-index and other scientometric indicators This indicates that Y-index can be a po-tential proper index, for qualitative and quantitative evaluation of universities along with other scientific and research institutions.
Trends in scientific publications of Indian spine surgeons over 14 years (2000u2013) The current study shows that publications in the field of spine surgery have been increasing in the last few years, although it is less. Further efforts such as research training of spine surgeons, inducing collaborations and formulation of multicenter projects and periodically allocating adequate funds are key factors to improve the scientific publications from India.
Assessing Individual Intellectual Output in Scientific Research: Mexico's National System for Evaluating Scholars Performance in the Humanities and the Behavioral Sciences As it currently stands SNI is not a model for efficient and effectual national systems of research assessment.
Usage Trends of Open Access and Local Journals: A Korean Case Study We think that the publishing / citing mismatch is a term to describe this difference, which is an issue at Seoul National University, where the number of published papers at open access or local journals is increasing but the number of citations is not.
A longitudinal study of independent scholar-published open access journals The quantitative study shows that even successful 'indie' journals tend to be rather small, the median being 18 articles per year. Looking at the mortality rate of journals, it is evident that the years 6-9 are crucial. The initial enthusiasm can sustain even a very low volume journal for a while, but after the journal has to have a reasonably good inflow of manuscripts, both to be able to ensure the quality of published articles as well as credible article numbers.
Brazilian Science between National and Foreign Journals: Methodology for Analyzing the Production and Impact in Emerging Scientific Communities The present study analyzed Brazil's scientific production and its impact, taking into consideration certain issues that are particularly important to the least developed countries.
How Does National Scientific Funding Support Emerging Interdisciplinary Research: A Comparison Study of Big Data Research in the US and China The proposal activity analysis concluded that both the number and the funding amount of awards are increasing in the US and China. Our results provide some evidences of the notion that different funding agencies use differ-ent approaches to ramp-up funding for emerging technologies. Building on the logic and meth-ods in this paper, future research could pursue the question of how to further assess the relationships between research funding and research output, and, considerably more challeng-ing, track the interactions between funding and innovation.
Measuring the university-industry-government collaboration in Indian research output We have successfully measured and characterized the patterns of UIG network collaborations in Indian research output during 2005-2014.
How Criterion Scores Predict the Overall Impact Score and Funding Outcomes for National Institutes of Health Peer-Reviewed Applications The research criterion scores, specifically the Approach and, to a lesser extent, the Significance score, are the most important predictors of an R01 application's Overall Impact score and its likelihood of being funded.
Measuring the Impact of Research: Lessons from the UK's Research Excellence Framework 2014 The outcome of this study is thus a set of impact indicators, and their relationship with the overall score of impact of research in different disciplines as determined in REF2014, which would in the first instance provide some answers to impact measures that would be useful for researchers in different disciplines.
Research on Biodiversity and Climate Change at a Distance: Collaboration Networks between Europe and Latin America and the Caribbean Further scientific collaborations should be promoted 1) to prevent less developed countries from being isolated from the global cooperation network, 2) to ensure that scientists from these countries are trained to lead visible and recognized biodiversity and climate change research, and 3) to develop common study models that better integrate multiple scientific disciplines and better support decision-making. Overall, countries like Brazil, France, the UK and Germany mostly develop bilateral cooperation with poor regional integration, and further efforts should be made to foster cooperation within LAC if regional integration is viewed as a key target. It is a daunting task, but the recent calls launched by ERA-LAC networking projects such as the ERANet-LAC (http://eranet-lac.eu, €6 millions in 2015–2016) are promising advances to address this issue.
The Impact of Administrative Academic Units (AAU) Grants on the Family Medicine Research Enterprise in the United States In the absence of substantial NIH support for family medicine departments, the AAU funding mechanism remains a crucial, but often overlooked, factor in facilitating scholarly activity in departments of family medicine.
Life Science's Average Publishable Unit (APU) Has Increased over the Past Two Decades In summary, our data shows that the APU has significantly changed during the past two decades and that in 2013, the APU for the sampled population consisted of approximately 14 data items (+SM), 4 panels per figure ratio (-SM), 10 pages of length (-SM), 56 references (+SM) and 8 authors.
Ideational Influence, Connectedness, and Venue Representation: Making an Assessment of Scholarly Capital We show how one might use the measures to evaluate scholarly research activity.
Mapping the literature of hospital pharmacy Hospital pharmacy literature draws heavily from its own discipline-specific sources but equally from core general and specialty medical journals. Indexing of cited journals is complete in PubMed and EMBASE but lacking in International Pharmaceutical Abstracts. Gray literature is a significant information source in the field.
Variation in number of hits for complex searches in Google Scholar The number of hits reported in Google Scholar is an unreliable measure.
THE NEXT BIBLIOMETRICS: ALMETRICS (AUTHOR LEVEL METRICS) AND THE MULTIPLE FACES OF AUTHOR IMPACT The use of these measures as new mirrors in which authors can look at themselves is the foundation of the new ALMetrics: the assessment of all dimensions and sides of an author's scientific performance through metrics (Author Level Metrics) available in new sources. In spite of everything, the new bibliometrics have a bright future. And, as Robert K. Merton wisely taught us, it all comes from the desire scientists have for knowledge, and especially nowadays, for acknowledgement.
Research productivity of Indian physiotherapists - a review of MEDLINE A gradual increase in research productivity in physiother-apy is observed, particularly in the last 5 years.
Exploring the h-type measure and its theoretical model in the context of e-commerce This shows that the existing theo-retical bibliometric model which was originally used in the scientific literature, could be helpful in the broader social or information systems.
Academic work A tale of essential tension between research and teaching Starting from the antinomy of complementarity and substitution, I have suggested that the solution consist of recasting complementarity and of putting it under asym- metry. Asymmetry is fractal: it pervades the task design and the management of careers, but also plays a major role at the institutional level, where differentiation is a strategic concern. The coupling design helps explain how inequality may be tolerated even when reaching astonishingly high levels, as the Paretian profile of performance in research demonstrates. It also works as an insurance mechanism on a collective level (teaching provides outcomes of a more certain social value in the short term, whereas research appears both more uncertain and more valuable when we take the long-term perspective), and it provides self-insurance to the individual faculty against downswings, discontinuities and declining productivity in research over the course of a career.
Article processing charges for open access publication-the situation for research intensive universities in the USA and Canada Full OA journal APCs average a little under 2,000 USD while hybrid articles average about 3,000 USD for publications by researchers at research intensive universities. Despite these difficulties we found a pattern in APC list prices and APC payments by universities and funding agencies that were fairly consistent in all 3 sources of data we used in the study. Having reasonable estimates of the likely costs of APCs is essential for modeling the cost of this large scale transition to OA scholarly publishing.
Comparing the Publication Process in Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management, Marketing, Psychology, and the Natural Sciences The results provide useful information for individuals in each area to discuss ways their discipline can improve the knowledge production process in their discipline. I now take some license to make several observations about the results of the study and how they might be used in the accounting discipline. Enhancing the knowledge production process has the potential to make meaningful differences in the lives of students, faculty, the profession, and society.
Mapping excellence and diversity of research performance in India It would seem from this that India concentrates its strengths and its research institutions in the physical sciences and engineering sectors, and only a token presence is seen in the life sciences, medical and biotechnology sectors.
A study of institutional spending on open access publication fees in Germany In Germany, institutional spending on publication fees charged by open access journals has increased over the years. Similar to the expenditures on publication fees at an institutional level in the UK (Pinfield, Salter & Bath, 2015), spending volume varies across German universities and research organisations. This complex situation of fee-based open access publishing needs to be better understood by both researchers and practitioners.
The Circulation of Scientific Articles in the Sphere of Web-Based Media: Citation Practices, Communities of Interests and Local Ties Although our study shows that the media circulation of scientific papers operates in a traditional way, the intertextual analysis underlines the great variety of participants involved in the diffusion of this information, each of them mobilizing different intertextual strategies, according to their various targets.
Climate Change Research in View of Bibliometrics "The discussion of the question of human induced climate change towards a clear fact (for the majority of the scientific community) stimulated research on future pathways for adaptation and mitigation."
A Large-Scale Analysis of Impact Factor Biased Journal Self-Citations Taken together, this suggests a trend of increasingly pervasive journal self-citation malpractices, with all due unwanted consequences such as inflated perceived importance of journals and biased journal rankings.
Majority of the most-cited articles on cutaneous malignant melanoma are published in non-dermatology/melanoma specialized journals Majority of the MCAs on CMM were published in non-dermatology/melanoma specialized journals.
Are conference special issues worthwhile? We conclude that papers inside special issues are doing nearly as well, and sometimes better, than papers outside special issues in a given journal/year. More importantly, conference special issues mean that journals are supporting a collective scientific endeavour that brings researchers together in a shared arena to exchange ideas, which benefits the field even if it doesn't directly benefit the journal. Surely this service to the scientific community is something that all journals should promote.
The Impact of Fellowship Training on Scholarly Productivity in Academic Dermatology "Our findings demonstrate that there is greater scholarly productivity among fellowship-trained dermatologists compared to non-fellowship-trained dermatologists."
Identifying Anomalous Citations for Objective Evaluation of Scholarly Article Impact Our proposed method is promising and can be considered complementary to the existing citation metrics, such as IF, H-index, and g-index.
Scientometric analysis and mapping of 20 years of glaucoma research This was the first scientometric report on glaucoma, analyzing the characteristics of papers and the trends in scientific production.
t factor: A metric for measuring impact on Twitter Twitter data is an interesting data source for measuring the impact of publications on Twitter: "Citations from Twitter are a particularly interesting data source, since they capture the sort of informal discussion that accompanies early important work."
The interdisciplinarity of iSchools: An analysis and visualization of research publications From a macroscopic perspective, iSchools can be seen as interdisciplinary environments, not only because they are home of academics from multiple disciplinary backgrounds, but also because the research productivity distributes over journals and disciplines. The 'i' in 'iSchools' as a whole can be interpreted as either 'information' or 'interdisciplinary', but the ‘I' in the individual ‘iSchool' can only be interpreted as 'information' in many cases. Many other aspects, such as education and research projects, should also be integrated into future investigation.
Ten years of biomedical research in West Africa (2005-14): A study of the ten most productive countries This study reinforces the need for improved research production and collaboration between the big and small countries.
Publication and citation patterns of Korean LIS research by subject areas Despite the limitations, we have observed the publication and citation trends of LIS papers in Korea for the past decade and found evidences of differences in bibliometric patterns across subject areas that argue against a uniform approach to research evaluation.
Methodology of calculation and structural analysis of Journal Impact Factor based on the Web of Science: A case study of Nature The study has taken Nature as a case to present a new method for calculating and analyzing the structure of the Impact Factor (IF) using the Web of Science (WoS) database and the definition of IF. Through a structural analysis of the highly cited papers, authors, and institutions in Nature, we found that the magnitude of Nature's IF for 2013 is made up of the combined contributions from many highly cited papers, authors, and institutions, and that the highly cited papers, authors, and institutions are distributed relatively evenly. Similarly, different countries and regions made entirely different contributions to Nature's IF for 2013; countries making the greatest contributions are mainly distributed in Europe, Asia, and America.
PR-Index: Using the h-Index and PageRank for Determining True Impact In conclusion, this paper proposes a new variant of h-index, PR-index, and also discusses the features of such indicator.
On the orthogonality of indicators of journal performance One, the power-weakness ratio, is a size-independent recursive proxy for specific impact or specific influence (quality) of the journal’s performance in the network.
How Many Is Too Many? On the Relationship between Research Productivity and Impact On the whole, these results suggest that for established researchers, the strategy of publishing as many papers as possible did not yield lower shares of highly cited publications, but such a pattern is not always observed for younger scholars.
Social Network Analysis of Iranian Researchers on Medical Parasitology: A 41 Year Co-Authorship Survey Bringing forth density degree (is 0.57) showed that this network has an almost medium density. The findings of this study can be identified aspects of scientific collaboration, and help policy makers of Parasitology field research.
Map of Scientific Publication in the field of Educational Sciences and Teacher Education in Turkey: A Bibliometric Study Findings suggest that ULAKBIM social sciences database needs to be updated in a way that it can provide detailed data; and offer a more user friendly interface and better visuality.
State of clinical neuroscience research in Saudi Arabia: where do we rank in the world? In conclusion, KSA is ranked fortieth in the world, fourth in the Middle East in clinical neuroscience research during the period 1996-2014. KSA needs to promote “research culture” and to establish clinical academic departments staffed by Saudi PhD-holders. KSA universities need to create strong PhD programs that are liked to highly ranked international universities.
Leading by Example? ALA Division Publications, Open Access, and Sustainability Some ALA divisions prioritized the costs associated with changing business models, including hard-to-estimate costs such as the labor of volunteers. For other divisions, the financial aspects are less important than maintaining core values, such as those defined in ALA's Core Values in Librarianship. Considering the core values of librarianship, there should be no question of whether or not an ALA journal should be OA. While these journals have successfully managed a transition to OA, it is too early to know whether their new business models are sustainable.
Journal Lists: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis Few departments have formal rankings of journals. Only 12% of responding institutions in the US had formal lists but 54% of Non-US did.
Characteristics of Retractions from Korean Medical Journals in the KoreaMed Database: A Bibliometric Analysis The major reason for retraction in Korean medical journals is duplicate publication.
Classic articles published by American scientists (1900-2014): a bibliometric analysis Thus, 4909 US independent classic articles published from 1916 to 2013 were found in SCI-EXPANDED.
Excellence mapping of successful universities and research-focused institutions in India Only in five out of twenty-two subject areas does India have a presence among global institutions that is larger than its share of nominal GDP. These are in the traditional areas of phys-ics, chemistry and applications of the same like materials science and chemical engineering. It has a poor presence in life and medical sciences, an even poorer participation in earth and environmental sciences, and has no institu-tion which can be counted globally in seven areas: arts and humanities, business, management and accounting, health professions, neuroscience, nursing, psychology and social science.
Health Research Governance: Introduction of a New Web-based Research Evaluation Model in Iran: One-decade Experience Web based research evaluation model is a comprehensive and integrated system for data collection in research.
Research productivity of Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries in science and social sciences Among Gulf Cooperation Council countries, Saudi Arabia was the most productive country producing adequate number of research publications, citations and holding the highest Hirsch index value.
The Influence of Peer Reviewer Expertise on the Evaluation of Research Funding Applications Overall, these results highlight the need to explore how reviewers utilize their expertise to gather and weight information from the application in making their evaluations.
Academic software downloads from Google Code: useful usage indicators? Download counts can give evidence of wider non-academic uses of software. Overall, download counts can be used as an indicator of academic value, but only if contextualised with the purpose of the program. In terms of future work, finding out more about the types of software that are used by researchers would enable guidelines to be built to encourage the sharing of useful code.
Twitter conversation patterns related to research papers Digital object identifiers were mainly referred to for self-promotion, as conversation starters or as arguments in discussions. Our findings suggest that for judging scholarly impact, Twitter data and conversations should be used with caution but that it might have a potential for gauging social impact. Hence, we propose that some research on Twitter activity in relation to research can be shifted towards analysing how the public reacts to scientific reports, or what the public seems to find interesting.
Impact of mutual influence while ranking authors in a co-authorship network The effect of MI of authors when they participate as collaborators has been studied in this research. The results show that it is not only the publications and citations of the authors that can be used as a weighing criteria, the impact of co-authorship also has a great influence and significance; and hence, it should also be considered for the ranking of researchers. In future, we intend to find the MI based ranking of other academic entities like the publications and the venue of publications that may include the conferences as well as the journals.
Trends in ophthalmology journals: a five-year bibliometric analysis (2009-2013) "While the USA and European countries are major contributors of ophthalmic research, the productivity of some Asian countries is growing impressively."
Initial Results of a Doctorate in Medical Sciences Program at a Regional University In conclusion, the initial results of the Doctorate in Medical Sciences program at the Universidad de La Frontera are presented, which emphasize the graduation and acceptance rate, and the scientific productivity of both the graduates and the academic faculty.
The Global Burden of Journal Peer Review in the Biomedical Literature: Strong Imbalance in the Collective Enterprise Our results support that the system is sustainable in terms of volume but emphasizes a considerable imbalance in the distribution of the peer-review effort across the scientific community.
Twitter Predicts Citation Rates of Ecological Research Our research demonstrates that altmetrics and traditional metrics can be closely related, but not identical.
Open access journals in educational technology: Results of a survey of experienced users Based on data gathered, we present below what we have determined to be the top 25 OAJs in educational technology.
DOES ASTRONOMY RESEARCH BECOME TOO DATED FOR THE PUBLIC? WIKIPEDIA CITATIONS TO ASTRONOMY AND ASTROPHYSICS JOURNAL ARTICLES 1996-2014 "The results suggest, but do not prove, that older Astronomy and Astrophysics articles tend to carry information that is of less current interest to the public than that of newer articles."
INDIVIDUAL BIBLIOMETRIC ASSESSMENT AT UNIVERSITY OF VIENNA: FROM NUMBERS TO MULTIDIMENSIONAL PROFILES The usefulness of the bibliometric assessment has been confirmed by all the positive feedback obtained from researchers, research managers and peers on the one hand, and by an increasing demand on the other hand.
Factors Affecting Researchers' Collaborative Patterns: A Case Study from Maghreb Universities This article advocates for a stronger convergence between researchers' expecta-tions and universities' collaboration agreements and the development of a "legal" framework enhancing scientific collaboration.
Subject analysis of cancer research: Procedure and identification of core literature This study proposes a structure for the subject analysis of e-resources.
Quantity and/or Quality? The Importance of Publishing Many Papers As the above results show, there is not only a strong correlation between productivity (number of papers) and impact (number of citations), that also holds for the production of high impact papers: the more papers, the more high impact papers.
The Effect of Gender in the Publication Patterns in Mathematics Our study is based on comprehensive data from publications in all areas of mathematics research between 1970 and 2013.
Trends in impact factors of ophthalmology journals Our findings suggest that the variation in the IF can be explained by the number of journals in the field of ophthalmology.
Bibliographic Analysis of Nature Based on Twitter and Facebook Altmetrics Data Overall, our research presents a generic analysis of representativeness and validity of altmetrics data sources and relation between citation and altmetrics based on discipline, publications date and Twitter user type.
Evolution of Communities in the Medical Sciences: Evidence from the Medical Words Network Our analysis provides a tool to assess growth, merging, splitting and contraction of research communities and can thereby serve as a guide to inform policymakers about funding and training in healthcare.
A Survey of Sustainable Curation in Research Repositories of Higher Education Institutions in Southern Africa The empirical study reveals a number of gaps affecting the effectiveness of institutional repositories in higher education institutions in Southern Africa.
Doctoral Dissertations on Tourism in China: A Co-Word Analysis On this basis, we have identified some clear and reasonable research results about doctoral dissertation on tourism in China so that this study succeeds in identifying the major research focuses, the interactions among different research topics, and the current situation in this research area.
Journal of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Pakistan: Five Years Bibliometric Analysis The scholars of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan should give due attention to contribute more to this Journal. The female doctors should also be encouraged for contribution in this Journal. It is also suggested that writers should also address other important sub-fields of medical science like Neurology, Nephrology, Anatomy and Pharmacology to address the scarcity of local literature in these fields.
ENERGY SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION IN THE CONTEXT OF THE GREEN DEVELOPMENT MODELS The findings suggest slightly different approaches of the scientific production on sustainable-related energy, green-related energy and renewable related-energy.
India's scientific publication in predatory journals: need for regulating quality of Indian science and education From the present quantitative study it is evident that India is lacking in monitoring the research being conducted at different higher educational and research institutes. Thus there is an urgent need to develop a mechanism both by institutes and funding agencies to identify the quality of the articles published by the respective institutes and researchers. Also, researchers with enough scientific pas-sion at second-level educational institutes should be encouraged to improve their quality of research and submit their publications to recognized scientific peer-reviewed journals.
An alternative size-independent journal performance indicator for science on the periphery This indicator is a more meaningful measure of the standing of each journal in the cross-citation activity within the ecosystem than the well-known JIF which is a global measure.
A two-sided academic landscape: snapshot of highly-cited documents in Google Scholar (1950-2013) In light of the results obtained, we can conclude that Google Scholar offers an original and different vision of the most influential documents in the academic/scientific environment (measured from the perspective of their citation count).
Scientometric Analysis of the Researches About Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge and Scholarly Communication This similarity points out the consistency between bibliometric results and content analysis results.
Bibliometrics for Social Validation This paper has introduced a method for quantitatively assessing the social validation of a body of research using an iteratively-constructed citation network. This method was applied to the case of high-throughput toxicology research, showing that this research enjoys high social validation. The analytical approach presented in this paper could be extended in several ways in future work.
Publication delay of manuscripts in periodicals published by CSIR-NISCAIR Based on the study it can be concluded that there is a remarkable difference between total time delay for different journals. In most of the journals, TD mainly causes large total delay. The present study may help the management of CSIR-NISCAIR to take the necessary steps in order to reduce the time gap between receipt and subsequent publication of manuscripts.
Mapping the literature of pediatric nursing: update and implications for library services Compared with the 2006 study, the list of top-cited journals referenced by pediatric nursing researchers has remained relatively stable, but the number of cited journal titles has increased.
Sleeping beauties in pediatrics SBs in pediatrics are rare.
The Power to Influence: An Informetric Analysis of the Works of Hope Olson The use of informetric techniques that rely on publication, citation and textual data of authors can shed light not only on larger entities of analysis such as disciplines but also can be revealing of the contributions and impact of individu-als. Dr. Olson's contributions demonstrate that one individual can indeed influence (or inspire) researchers within and across disciplines.
Performance of Reference Analysis on Papers in Single Subject Category Journals Correctly classifying research papers is important for in-formation retrieval and investigations on research activity, and thus it can provide useful information for academic administration offices. This work is the first to focus on the application of reference analysis to papers in single subject category journals, and it concludes that threshold-setting method 2 outperforms threshold-setting method 1. This study suggests incorporating reference analysis in an indexing database that has an existing sub-ject classification system.
Research Productivity of Sports Medicine Fellowship Faculty Higher cumulative h index and more years in practice were the best correlates of higher academic rank among AOSSM sports medicine fellowship faculty.
Portraying the Landscape of Canadian Library and Information Science Research This article provides a global portrait of the current LIS research in Canada looking more specifically at the various communities that emerge from the collaborative knowledge production faculty members. Our findings show a highly national and interdisciplinary network, with many collaborators affiliated to fields outside of LIS. In that line, the analysis of self-declared research and teaching topics of interest of Canadian LIS faculty members (Figure 1) shows a highly interconnected network that demonstrates that LIS does form a coherent but multifaceted field and not a simple combination of heterogeneous topics.
Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal (EMHJ): a 20-year overview (1995-2014) In line with EMHJ's mission, continue to focus on publishing public health focused research related the SPHA, especially in the area of emergency preparedness and response, ensuring policy implications are highlighted;
Production and trends of scientific research on cactus pear in mainstream journals The analysis of the bibliographical records indexed in the Science Citation Index Expanded (SCIE), Social Sciences Citation Index (SCIE) databases, complemented with the keywords of CAB abstracts for the documents published from 1900-1990, allowed identifying the productivity and tendencies of scientific activity about Opuntia in mainstream journals. The research published during the latest ten years are focused on determining properties and applications of its functional compounds and on its biological activity on health. The results obtained will allow the researcher to make decisions regarding from where and in which journals to publish, what researchers to interact with, as well as the recommended language based on the research area of the contribution.
Metrics in academic profiles: a new addictive game for researchers? By gamifying scientific impact using techniques originally developed for videogames, these platforms may get users hooked on them, like addicted academics, transforming what should only be a means into an end in itself.
Fairer Citation Based Metrics In this paper I described a general modification which can be applied to any citation based metric of an individual's research output.
Quality weighted citations versus total citations in the sciences and social sciences, with an application to finance and accounting It was shown that ICQ is a useful additional RAM to 2YIF and other well-known RAMS for the purpose of evaluating the impact and quality, as well as ranking, of journals as it contains information that has very low correlations with the information contained in the existing well-known RAMs for both the Sciences and Social Sciences, as well as the leading journals in Finance and Accounting.
Electronic Journal of Information Systems in Developing Countries (2000 – 2013): A Bibliometric Study A bibliometric profile of the EJISDC, an open access peer-reviewed e-journal and primary resource in the information systems and ICT4D scholarly literature was created.
Identifying seminal works most important for research fields: Software for the Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy (RPYS) The toolbox can be used very flexibly in different contexts: (1) historical roots of research fields can be identified; (2) scientific myths can be uncovered (Marx & Bornmann, 2014, [17]); (3) most important publications for authors of specific journals can be identified (e.g. Leydesdorff, et al., 2014); (4) importance of single publications can be compared between different research fields, journals, and researchers.
UK theses and the British Library EThOS service: from supply on demand to repository linking The launch of ETHOS in 2009 was the culmination of years of hard work and commitment by a small project team to a belief that opening up access to doctoral theses would be a good thing for individual researchers, the authors of the theses themselves and for participating institutions.
Gender and the Publication Output of Graduate Students: A Case Study We find the direct relationship between gender and publications to be relatively small: women PhD students write approximately 8.5% fewer papers than their male counter-parts during their doctoral studies. We also find gender differences to be mediated by the gender of the advisor. We hope that other researchers will take up the issue of gender differences among doctoral students, as UMETRICS data, which include an increasing number of research institutions and links to Census data, become available to the research community through the new Institute for Research on Innovation and Science and through Census Research Data Centers.
Linking as voting: how the Condorcet jury theorem in political science is relevant to webometrics The theorems show that in circumstances that are parallel to the conditions of the jury theorem, link-based ranking in accordance with In-Degree or PageRank converges to full reliability in the limit as the web-graph grows.
Review time in peer review: quantitative analysis and modelling of editorial workflows Our results may be of great importance for editors and act as a guide in determining the optimal number of reviewers.
Estimating search engine index size variability: a 9-year longitudinal study This casts further doubt on whether Web search engines can be used reliably for cross-sectional webometric studies. Important future work lies in solving this unwanted lack of control over gathering data for scientific purpose.
Application of word co-occurrence analysis method in mapping of the scientific fields (case study: the field of Informetrics) In this study, co-word analysis was conducted using Vosviewer and NodeXL in order to map the structure of the field of informetrics. The results of this analysis show that the structure of subject categories in the field of informetrics, and the relationships between these categories, have changed over time, and have dynamically expanded. However, we believe that this study could be useful for a wide range of users, notably scientists, researchers and librarians.
A Novel Assessment Tool for Quantitative Evaluation of Science Literature Search Performance: Application to First-Year and Senior Undergraduate Biology Majors In this cross-sectional comparison, seniors clearly outperformed first-year students in finding relevant, peer-reviewed scientific journal articles, citing the articles appro- priately and answering general questions about the nature of scientific literature. The large differences in scores between seniors and first-year students suggest that most senior participants had received effective basic training in finding and evaluating scientific literature. While the present study measures the improvement of one institution's undergradu- ate biological sciences majors at finding, selecting, and citing relevant peer-reviewed journal articles, its broader aim is to demonstrate a generalizable model for quantitative assessment of differences in information-seeking behavior between groups or over time.
A survey of using multiple affiliations by scholars in scientific articles To summarize it, we can conclude that it is not moral to apply various affiliations in the papers by the scholars only due to financial support and without a real contribution. However, acknowledging of different institutes is highly recommended.
Priority criteria in peer review of scientific articles Peer review is the essential part of science, but the process itself has limitations and unresolved issues.
Evaluating the impact of interdisciplinary research: A multilayer network approach The proposed method could be used by funding agencies, universities and scientific policy decision makers for hiring and funding purposes, and to complement existing methods to rank universities and countries.
Publish Unexpected Results That Conflict with Assumptions Novel observations, even if different from results in the literature or not thoroughly explained, should be appropriate material for a journal paper (Webster and Yaalon, 1994).
Faculty information behaviour in the electronic environment The results of this study show that journal articles are by far the most relevant information resource for research purposes.
Inciting the metric oriented humanist: Teaching bibliometrics in a faculty of humanities The complementary value of training a new breed of humanistic bibliometrician is that it will give humanists a greater feeling of control over their research potential and impact, thus contribute more to education as a whole and the grander scheme of scholarly communication.
An analysis of management and economics journals at the University of Lethbridge: Beyond usage data Now that this data has been compiled, when questions regarding the importance of a particular title arise it will be possible to look at these results at a glance and assess the journal in question in a more complete way. Likewise, they may want to use this model of a relatively quick method to evaluate journals using something other than usage data. While surveying faculty, instructors, and staff on journal importance was deemed impossible for this phase of the study it is planned in the future, which will add an important layer to this analysis (Dawson, 2015).
Internationality of Publications, Co-Authorship, References and Citations in Brazilian Evolutionary Biology Based on the analysis of the results of this study and in line with data from previous research, we have concluded that Brazilian Evolutionary Biology is a predominantly international field, integrated into global science. The internationality of the indicators enhances the dissemination and impact of Brazilian articles on the global stage.
Research metrics: What about weighted citations? However, if we continue to measure journal impacts [ISI Journal Citation Reports] and count citations, combining the two metrics may provide additional context (Wendl 2007) for judging scientific merits.
Quantifying the Impact of Research for Tenure and Promotion in Family and Consumer Sciences In conclusion, this paper discussed traditional research productivity metrics, in addition to author-level metrics and other quantifiable criteria to demonstrate the impact of scholarly work. These metrics can be useful for tenure and promotion in FCS. Because recently published articles may not have had enough time to be cited, this paper presented an alternative method to demonstrate impact by using statistics on the number of times a paper is read downloaded.
How do you write and present research well? 7-Cite to get cited Every paper requires a critical literature review to establish its ethos.
Mapping an audience-centric World Wide Web: A departure from hyperlink analysis In other words, this analysis confirms the hypothesis that maps of Web based on actual usage do not mirror the structure of hyperlinks.
A business citation analysis: A local follow-up study Although there were small differences in the findings of this study and that of Dewland (2011), no significant change in faculty citation or research behavior could be noted. Business faculty at the UM produce a vast amount of research; for this reason citation analyses will continue to be used as an assessment and collection development tool so UM Libraries can best serve the research needs of the university.
Relationship between citation counts and Mendeley readership metrics The Mendeley readership counts correlated nearly strongly with the citation counts for papers published during the year 2010, whereas for 2005, it showed moderate positive correlation. For both the years, positive correlation has been found which indicates that Mendeley readership counts are higher for papers that gain higher citations. It is suggested that the Mendeley readership counts should be used along with traditional metrics, as Mendeley does not provide statistics for articles with zero readership, whereas citation databases do provide records for even those articles that may have not received even a single citation.
Impact of country-specific characteristics on scientific productivity in clinical neurology research The number of universities in the world top 500 and the number of clinical neurology journals enlisted in SCR appear to have a strong impact on scientific productivity. GDP per capita and spending on R & D appear to have a moderate impact on productivity that is influenced by the indicator used. Furthermore, population size appears to have no significant impact on productivity in clinical neurology research.
The stratified H-index To nourish a healthy dialog in the scientific community about the very meaning of being an author, we recommend supplementing the conventional H-index with the "stratified H-index" as an easily applicable and transparent measure of scientists' cumulative research contribution—taking scientific output, quality, and individual author contributions into account.
Data Policies, Data Management, and the Quality of Academic Writing&lt;xref ref-type="fn" rid="ekv014-FN1" /&gt; This test clearly shows that general replication environment and RDM expectations have a positive impact on the quality of methods sections. What we also find is that journal data policies as they now stand do not improve replication standards. The ideal of replicable behavioral political science is far from realized.
Another social science looks at itself This proportion is somewhat lower than unaffiliated experts were willing to bet in an associated prediction market, but roughly in line with expectations from sam-ple sizes and P values.
The correlation between editorial delay and the ratio of highly cited papers in Nature, Science and Physical Review Letters In this paper, we investigated the correlation between the editorial delay and the number of received citations of papers published in Nature, Science and Physical Review Letters (PRL). The correlation analysis clearly shows a strong correlation between the two. This means that on average, a paper published with relatively shorter editorial delay has a greater probability of becoming a highly cited paper. It should be interesting to include papers that are rejected by some journals, particularly those rejected papers that were later accepted for publication by another journal.
Assessing collaboration networks in educational research In this paper, the authors illustrate the potential applicability and benefits of social network analysis to evaluate collaboration. The proposed SNA methodology could serve to: visualize collaboration networks, diagnose collaborative issues, identify structural collaborative holes, support the design of collaborative programs by understanding the key elements in the network (leaders, bridgers, clusters), and evaluate educational program effectiveness, among others. In summary, the SNA approach is a powerful decision making support tool to inform educational management at various organizational levels (department, institution, country, and region).
Journal features and impact factor The findings offer valuable information for researchers, editors, and publishers.
Ranking Predatory Journals; Solve the Problem Instead of Removing It! In this paper, we introduce a new metric, the Predatory Rate, PR, for ranking journals.
Citations: Indicators of Quality? The Impact Fallacy We argue that the measurement of "quality" in terms of citations can further be qualified: one can, and probably should, distinguish between short-term citation currency at the research front and longer term processes of the incorporation and codification of knowledge claims into bodies of knowledge.
An Effective Web Presence for Substance Abuse Treatment Facilities The low mean scores on these dimensions indicate that that substance abuse centers have significant room for improvement of their website's.
Do Peer Reviews Predict Impact? Evidence from the <i>American Sociological Review</i>, 1978 to 1982 In this study we focused on the evaluation of sociological manuscripts, a crucial and understudied research practice (Leahey 2008). The chief empirical finding is a null one: reviews do not pre-dict citations in a number of plausible specifications. If a journal prioritizes citation impact, review-ers should be explicitly instructed to evaluate on this dimension.
Author‐suggested reviewers: gender differences and influences on the peer review process at an ecology journal Suggesting preferred reviewers benefits authors because preferred reviewers rate papers significantly more positively than do editor-selected reviewers, improving the chances that a paper will be published.
Electronic Theses and Dissertations and the Promotion of Scholarship in African Universities: Prospects and Challenges A major challenge facing research and scholarship in Africa is the poor dissemination of research findings embedded in theses and dissertations.
Publication Productivity for Academic Ophthalmologists and Academic Ophthalmology Departments in the United States: an Analytical Report This report includes detailed information about publication productivity in academic ophthalmology across academic rank, departmental rankings, gender, region, and subspecialty.
Conceptions and expectations of research collaboration in the European social sciences: Research policies, institutional contexts and the autonomy of the scientific field The paper argues that the ORA introduced novel mechanisms of power sharing and answerability in social sciences research capable of unsettling the autonomy of the scientific field. This analysis offers a new perspective on the often unquestioned superiority of the model of international collaboration induced by schemes such as the ORA. Hence, a perceptible ambivalence in the researchers' views about a “non-interventionist” scheme that, although ostensibly embracing their collaborative doxa, introduces mechanisms of power sharing and answerability which in turn challenge their capacity to regulate internally the individual roles and relationships at work in research collaboration.
Institutional Research Evaluation Model (IREM): A framework for measuring organizational research trends and impact and its application in medical academia in Saudi Arabia This study shows that the IREM can be applied for institutional research impact and trend evaluation in a systematic way.
Open Access Article Processing Charges (OA APC) Longitudinal Study 2015 Preliminary Dataset For this reason, we are posting this preliminary dataset in case it might be helpful to others working in this area.
Faculty members’ perceptions and use of open access journals Based on the results, this study suggests that faculty members and researchers prefer to publish in OA journals that possess qualities of prestige and editorial practice associated with traditional international journals. This study has attempted to fill some gaps in research on OA journals, in particular faculty members' awareness, perceptions, understanding, and use of OA journals in developing countries. It is expected that this study will help to guide future research on this specific area.
Proposal of a minimum constraint for indicators based on means or averages Focal papers with at least one citation and e less or equal to 1 can't be assigned a meaningful MNCS value.
The OpenAIRE2020 FP7 Post-Grant Open Access Pilot: Implementing a European-wide funding initiative for Open Access publishing costs The strengthening of their technical publishing workflows will certainly be part of this effort to be increasingly perceived as interesting options to submit manuscripts to, but the objective of this alternative funding mechanism is also to make them more proactive with regard to their potential authors. By bringing together different stakeholders involved in the ongoing discussion around funding models for non-APC-based Open Access journals, this APC-equivalent funding initiative aims to explore yet another opportunity to promote technical and policy alignment. The work leading to the definition and implementation of this APC-equivalent funding mechanism will be particularly useful within the remit this FP7 Post-Grant Open Access Pilot has to gather evidence to create a roadmap for fostering a sustainable and competitive market for Open Access publishing.
Africa-based scholars publishing It is, therefore, important to recognize scholarly output that is coming from Africa. The high percentage of collaborations with institutions in Europe and North America has been a contributing factor.
Evaluating research organizations’ contribution to science is not the same task as evaluating the performance of their scientists I will conclude by proposing that evaluating a research organization's contribution to science is not the same task as evaluating the performance of its scientists. An important task for evaluative scientometric research is to assess the value of scientific contributions.
Bibliometric Analysis and Comparison of Two STEM LIS Journals:<i>Science &amp; Technology Libraries</i>and<i>Issues in Science &amp; Technology Librarianship</i>(2005–2014) The data compiled by the authors show that the number of publications for the two journals over the 10-year period is comparable (STL: n = 163; ISTL: n = 175).
The elephant in the room: The problem of quantifying productivity in evaluative scientometrics AA draw attention to the elephant in the room of evaluative scientometrics: Productivity is one of the key aspects of scientific performance, but it is not taken into account in commonly used scientometric indicators such as the MNCS. The community should create more awareness of the productivity problem and should study the consequences of the problem. Moreover, possibilities for more frequent use of input data should be explored.
W-tree This article presents the w-tree, a compact representation for webgraphs designed specifically for external memory. The results obtained demonstrate that the w-tree is competitive in terms of compression time and rate and in terms of query execution time. The w-tree has two main advantages over other representations. First, it can efficiently represent a larger webgraph because it is only limited by external memory size rather than main memory size. Second, it efficiently runs more types of queries.
Communicating the Value of an Institutional Repository: Experiences at Ghana's University for Development Studies This study found that though the UDS IR team implemented a number of marketing strategies to communicate the IR to the university community, the expected results were mostly not achieved. The results indicate that continuous marketing of the IR using multiple strategies might be more effective in reaching out to the university community and might yield better output from faculty. The marketing of the IR should therefore be an ongoing process that should be tailored to suit the UDS community and reexamined on a constant and continuous basis.
Are you overpaying your academic executive team? A method for detecting unmerited academic executive compensation The results of this preliminary study showed that half of the ten largest US public universities showed an indication of inappropriate executive compensation, based on the investment per academic impact of their VPR.
A welcome to methodological pragmatism Although I disagree with their call for abandoning the alternatives, I welcome the introduction of the 'FSS' indicator by Abramo and D'Angelo as an important step towards advancing the measurement of research productivity.
Comment to: Do they agree? Bibliometric evaluation versus informed peer review in the Italian research assessment exercise To conclude, the claim of BD (the experiment is “fatally flawed”) is not supported by evidence.
Positive correlation between journal production and journal impact factors I conclude this letter by recognizing that the author introduced a new method to investigate the positive correlation between number of received citations and number of publications and that by doing so, he corroborated the findings of Rousseau and Van Hooydonk (1996).
STEM Training and Early Career Outcomes of Female and Male Graduate Students: Evidence from UMETRICS Data Linked to the 2010 Census The results show gender separation in training, but no clear gender disadvantages in training envi-ronments.
Open Access Publishing: A Study of Current Practice in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Research These findings should send clear messages to both clinicians and researchers and should re- assure readers that scientific findings that are disseminated in open access form do not differ in quality to those in subscription-only format.
Characteristics of Hijacked Journals and Predatory Publishers: Our Observations in the Academic World "Here we discussed shared characteristics of hijacked journals and predatory publishers."
Exploring the information behaviour of users of Welsh Newspapers Online through web log analysis This paper demonstrates that content log analysis can enrich our understanding of users of digitised newspaper collections.
Open access and the Caribbean academic In spite of the fact that it is now two decades since the emergence of the first OA journal, that concerns about quality have lessened, that many OA titles are now being indexed by major citation indexes like Web of Science and Scopus, OA in the English-speaking Caribbean is still at infancy level.
Response to the Letter to the Editor by Gangan Prathap on the article: Designing a composite index for research performance evaluation at the national or regional level: ranking Central Universities in India Our response to Prathap would be to say that since both X and QQCI(1) are performance indicators, and it may not be surprising that they have a similar relationship to h. This also clearly confirms that QQCI(1) is not a proxy of X, but a generalization that includes a contribution from highly cited and internationally collaborative papers.
Understanding the relative valuation of research impact: a best–worst scaling experiment of the general public and biomedical and health researchers We can identify three key findings from this study.
Meritocracy in the awarding of research grants? Evidence from Social Science Korea Overall, our analyses suggest that number of publications in KCI journals significantly escalates the likelihood of passing the stage evaluation, though the number of publications in SSCI journals does not.
Journal usage at department and research group level Examining serials usage at the level of the research group gives librarians better guidance for collection development decisions than examining the department as a whole.
Measuring production and scholarly use of National Center for Health Statistics publications: a citation analysis in US government information This study is consistent with a previous citation analysis of federal statistics in identifying mortality as a predominant topic for production and use of NCHS publications.
Is Science Built on the Shoulders of Women? A Study of Gender Differences in Contributorship These disparities have implications for the production of scholarly knowledge, the evaluation of scholars, and the ethical conduct of science. Adopting the practice of identifying contributorship rather than authorship in scientific journals will allow for greater transparency, accountability, and equitable allocation of resources.
Growth versus scientific collaboration in the field of genetics: A scientometrics analysis The relative growth rate and the doubling time are inversely proportional in both India and the World.
E-Journal Metrics for Collection Management: Exploring Disciplinary Usage Differences in Scopus and Web of Science Collecting and correlating authorship and citation data allows patterns of use to emerge, resulting in a more accurate picture of use activity than the more often used cost-per-use.
Mobile Web Adoption in Top Ranked University Libraries: A Preliminary Study A good proportion of the university libraries studied 88% (44) are accessible through mobile devices (through an app or mobile web), showing a high level of mobile web adoption in universities. As a final conclusion, a high level of mobile web adoption in the world's best universities is notable, although the quality does not reach the general level of excellence of these institutions. The results of this study have demonstrated that the quality of university libraries' mobile websites does not correlate with the overall web impact of the universities.
Co-authorship Network Dynamics and Geographical Trajectories - What Part Does Mobility Play? The study of two researchers provides new empirical evidence on the relationship between scientist trajectories and their collaborations. We have highlighted that co-authorship networks are composed of very heterogeneous relationships: some ties are strong and renewed over time, while others are weak and transient as a result of an intermediation.
Scientometric profile of an Indian state: The case study of Odisha Bibliometric analysis of the State of Odisha based on the papers published during 2010-2014 indicates a continuous rise in output. The average value of CPP for the state was 4.3 and it was highest in the discipline of physical sciences. Most of the prolific authors belonged to prolific institutions.
Revealing future research capacity from an analysis of a national database of discipline-coded Australian PhD thesis records This article has demonstrated that, in many cases, there is hidden research capacity as a result of PhD research and this capacity is often multidisciplinary in nature.
The changing landscape of JIBS authorship Consistent with the editorial policy of JIBS, the journal is now more open and accessible than at any time in its history.
How Well Do They Convert? Trending ASAPS Presentations to Publication From 1995-2010 While the number of presentations and publications declined, the time to publication, and conversion rate remained largely the same. Despite its short existence, ASJ became the predominant journal publishing ASAPS abstracts by the end of the study period.
Exploring the relationship between web presence and web usability for universities Evaluation and correlation analysis results revealed a set of notable findings. First, a highly significant positive correlation has been found between the web presence and usability of university websites.
Characteristics of Articles Coauthored by Researchers and Practitioners in Library and Information Science Journals The longitudinal trend analysis of LIS articles published between 1995 and 2014 evidenced a clear change in various types of research collaborations, particularly between researchers and practitioners, which served as the focus of this study. A decreasing research-practice divide was identified in LIS, as indicated by an increasing trend among coauthored articles resulting from researcher-practitioner collaborations. This finding confirms the assumption of this study that research-practice divides could be improved, although only a slight increasing trend appeared.
New features of CitedReferencesExplorer (CRExplorer) Since the transformation from the WoS to the Scopus format (and vice versa) and the disambiguation of CRs in-between are important tools for the preparation of data, which can then also be used in other bibliometric programs, we decided to signal the new features in a Letter to the Editor. We will continuously extend the features of CRExplorer.
Twenty-first century macro-trends in the institutional fabric of science: bibliometric monitoring and analysis We find signs of a possible structural change in favor of HRO, which may imply an institutional shift towards general hospitals and clinics as an scientific knowledge production environment.
Arab authors’ perceptions about the scholarly publishing and refereeing system used in Emerald’s library and information science journals The Arab authors in this study have shown considerable positive attitude and perceptions towards the publishing in Emerald's LIS journals because all of them, at least, agree that publishing in Emerald can increase the speed of finding information and reduce the use of papers. Overall, this small percentage did not affect the rest of the authors who described their concerns about this obstacle as modest to some extent. Although there is much enthusiasm for publication in Emerald showed by the Arab authors, there have been also some concerns expressed by them towards that goal. The findings of this study revealed several areas that need to be addressed by further studies. Further studies may be needed to compare the experiences of different authors in different academic disciplines regarding the peer-review system.
How do you write and present research well? 16-Target an audience and promote Innovative research (data, analysis, and mechanistic insights[10]), a relevant journal, and writing well are necessary factors to ensure that your work will be appreciated and cited. However, these factors are insufficient. You must take responsibility to get your work noticed by:
Open Access, Innovation, and Research Infrastructure We conclude that, in addition to a business model and licensing debate, scholarly publishing in a digital age requires a discussion about innovation and infrastructure.
The Complexity of Measuring the Impact of Books Measuring the scholarly impact of books remains a challenge as each metric highlights different book titles in various disciplines. Therefore, we believe that in order to capture such impact, it will be important to use a variety of measures. Our analysis shows, however, that text books are the most captured, reviewed, linked and discussed.
Inequalities in scholarly knowledge: Public value failures and their impact on global science Our public values failure analysis shows that there are public failures in scholarly research in three areas: values articulation, legitimate monopolies and ensuring human dignity. (see Table 11).
The Heart of the University: Library Link Location on Doctoral Granting Institutions Webpages and Correlation with Research Output There was a significant difference found for each group in the analysis of the page number of the libraries and in the number of clicks to the library.
Reply to the comment of Bertocchi et al. In sum, the modifications of the protocol introduced in Area 13 possibly introduced a bias toward agreement between bibliometrics and informed peer review.
Predatory Journals in the Criminal Justices Sciences: Getting our Cite on the Target It appears that predatory journals continue to troll for unsuspecting victims and, if the volume of efforts at contacting potential victims is indicative of ongoing successes by these journals, the problem is rampant and something needs to be done. Criminal justice and criminology researchers are being contacted by, and are published in, predatory journals, which hold little scholarly value or credibility. Adding to the potential for further victimization, at the university level, little is being done to prevent the practice from occurring, which could result in wasted funds, and adverse impacts on the scholarly reputations of those who fall prey to this type of ploy.
Decision Theoretic Model of the Productivity Gap If the model is capturing the publication decisions of scientists, the simultaneous truth of claims (a)–(c) can create a situation where there is a demographic skew in whose ideas are entered into the public domain of science, and therefore available to be taken up by others.
Scientometric assessment of selected R&amp;D priority areas in South Africa: A comparison with other BRICS countries The findings of this study indicate that some priority areas are doing well, while others are not progressing as well. What is positive about all of this is that despite varying levels of outputs across the different fields, the work from South Africa is highly regarded, as shown by the level of citations it attracts. Collaboration among the BRICS countries is an area that will also need to be considered in future since these countries have been developing structures to ensure closer cooperation in science.
A 23-Year Bibliometric Study of the<i>Journal of Food Products Marketing</i> In conclusion, the Journal of Food Products Marketing has expanded its publication considerably in all respects since 1992.
How to Combine Research Guarantor and Collaboration Patterns to Measure Scientific Performance of Countries in Scientific Fields: Nanoscience and Nanotechnology as a Case Study This paper has evaluated and updated information about research in the field of NST over the period 2003–2013, with a focus on the top producers of knowledge.
Reframing the relevance of research to practice Previously, the complexity of relevance has not been addressed, however, the framing of relevance has been skewed and indistinct.
What Motivates Authors of Scholarly Articles? The Importance of Journal Attributes and Potential Audience on Publication Choice Our findings have implications for understanding the adoption of open access publishing models.
Toward New Indicators of a Journal’s Manuscript Peer Review Process The outcomes of the proposed study could further enhance the transparency of the manuscript referee process, also for submitting authors. Most importantly, in my view, they could help educating and training new reviewers. In this way, these indicators could potentially be used as an alternative of the JIF as a more direct measurement of the quality of a journal's manuscript peer review process.
Mapping the Research Trends by Co-word Analysis Based on Keywords from Funded Project In this study, we achieved research hot topics analysis of Management Science and Engineering in Chian using co-word analysis, which based on the data of Fund Project.
Open Research Data in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Bibliometric Study Using the Data Citation Index Data sharing in SSA can be said to be at its “initial formation stage” in which, as Crane [12] (cited in [17]) opines, the absolute number of publications is small and the growth rate shows signs of increasing. South Africa has continued to dominate research activities in the region, both in research output and data sharing. We recommend that similar research is conducted in the future to examine the correlation between data citations and article citations of research conducted in the region.
Open data in Nepal: a webometric network analysis This study focuses on the webometric dimension of open data portals and portals of other sectors in Nepal that are fostering open data in the country, as well as on the international community that is helping in the development of this open data ecosystem.
How do you write and present research well? 18-Publish and flourish Bibliometric indicators, such as number of publications, h-index, h-5 and Φτ,ε, gauge the citation impact of scientific categories, papers and researchers. The number of citations (quality) correlates with scientific productivity-number of articles (quantity). Chemical engineering is ranked among the top 10% with respect to produc-tivity. Chemical engineers are productive, but we must continue to demonstrate this by publishing original work that will have a high scientific impact.
A Comparative Study of the Citation Impact of Chinese Journals with Government Priority Support The results show that journals included in the CIUP perform better than those not included.
A Global Approach to the Spatial Diversity and Dynamics of Internet Domains Firstly, the clear U.S. dominance over other countries in relation to the World Wide Web manifests in both the relative and absolute measures of the most popular domains and IP addresses. In conclusion, the primary contribution of this study is not to establish the dominant role of the United States in the area of domain geography, but to observe manifestations of the increasing importance of other countries as part of the process of Internet balkanization. Future studies should also take into account the cultural aspects and the “rebirth” of borders as coexisting with the globalization of the Internet.
Structure and dynamics of European sports science textual contents: Analysis of ECSS abstracts (1996–2014) This circular causality between both hierarchical levels and functioning on separate characteristic time scales is crucial for understanding how stable research traditions self-maintain and self-procreate through innovative contingencies.
The Young Scholars from the “Hit Parade”: Where Are They Now? First, the prevailing evidence indicates that all of these scholars have contin-ued to be very active in terms of their publication productivity, and their "elite" productivity has been recognized and rewarded as all but one of these scholars have since been promoted to Associate Professor with tenure.
What’s wrong with Science? The Nobel game is a generic model for thinking about the effects of scientific policies on science dynamics.
Ranking of Design Journals Based on Results of the UK Research Excellence Framework: Using REF as Referee By using REF as the referee, it is clear that the most commonly used journal metrics (SNIP score and Impact Factor) do not provide an unambiguous indication of the ‘originality, significance and rigour’ of research outputs in design, according to the independent review panel of UoA34.
Examining Characteristics of Traditional and Twitter Citation This study demonstrates a weak correlation between traditional and Twitter citations in information science. Our results show that the traditional citations and the Twitter citations are different statistically, structurally, and contextually. We guess that the main factor for discrepancy between the two kinds of citations is citing behavior with different motivations.
NIH biomedical funding: evidence of executive dominance in swing-voter states during presidential elections "Summing up, this paper fills a gap left in the literature on the political economy of the NIH, which focused heretofore on the sole role of representation on the appropriations committees of Congress, and finds that the importance of states to presidential elections is a key, if not a predominant political factor steering NIH funding towards so-called battleground states in contests for the White House."
Few Journal Article Organizational Structure Characteristics Affect Article Citation Rate: A Look at Agricultural Economics Articles Using Regression Analysis We had expected that characteristics of journal article organizational structure would influence citation rates.
Gendermetrics.NET: a novel software for analyzing the gender representation in scientific authoring In summary, a new software suite for analyzing gender representations in scientific articles was established.
Scholarly Publishing’s Evolving Landscape Nonetheless, the data suggest that electronic-only journals and open-access journals are not at a disadvantage with regard to impact measures.
Exploiting Data Reliability and Fuzzy Clustering for Journal Ranking This paper has presented a fuzzy aggregation and clustering based method for academic journal ranking, focusing on the aggregated use of the impact indicators that appear in the Journal Citation Report provided by the Web of Science.
Mapping and Bibliometric Analysis of <i>American Historical Review</i> Citations and Its Contribution to the Field of History These findings may be interpreted as an indication that traditional historical scholarly communication is increasingly changing toward interdisciplinarity.
Institutional Repositories, Open Access and Copyright: What Are the Practices and Implications? This study provides an environmental scan of policies and procedures that many repositories have adopted.
Relationship between electronic journal downloads and citations in library consortia The present study on electronic journal usage behaviour in UGC-Infonet consortia endorses the confidence that downloads result in citation. Download metrics in a publishing industry is now a well-accepted yardstick/measure in academia. Overall, in the case of the present study the relationship between download and citation appears to be moderate according to correlation coefficients result.
Measuring Scholarly Productivity of Long Island Educational Institutions: Using Web of Science and Scopus as a Tool Due to the different coverage and scope of Web of Science and Scopus, institutions should use both databases to examine their scholarly output. Furthermore, institutions should consider using altmetrics to capture various impacts of the scholarly output to complement the traditional metrics. Educational institutions would find it beneficial to use WoS and Scopus more systematically to obtain scholarly productivity data on student, faculty, and staff engagement in research activities.
Evolution of the International Hyperlink Network This article shows how the structure of the international hyperlink network has changed since 1998. Overall, despite the growth of over five billion hyperlinks between 2009 and 2010, the network's structure is quite stable. Finally, by using multiple measures (e.g., keyword searches of online documents through Google Maps) to identify pairs of countries, it would be possible to triangulate the social structure of the international Internet and provide a more robust description of the network and its evolution, which could facilitate better predictions regarding the role of the Internet in the global community.
Generation and management of scholarly content in Nigerian universities Nigerian scholars and their universities are grossly under-represented in the global information and knowledge industry because scholarly content in the country has remained poorly developed and disseminated, owing to the decline in the research culture, poor infrastructure and the perennial funding problems for universities and other research centres. There should be a deliberate policy by the Nigerian Government through its universities for rejuve-nating research culture among academics to engage in the massive production of scholarly output by providing them with an enabling envi-ronment, research funds and other incentives. University administrations should prioritize research management and infrastructural upgrade in order to facilitate scholarly content generation and dis-semination via the universities' websites and related information and knowledge repositories to the global community.
Qualitative Inquiry and the Research Marketplace: Putting Some +s (Pluses) in Our Thinking, and Why This Matters Freeing ourselves from forms of boxed-in thinking will not mean that we will be entirely free of the influence of the research marketplace and the neoliberal thought that sustains it, but it might mean that we can imagine a politics of possibility (Madison, 2003) in which we learn to coexist with this thought and this research marketplace in a way that does not involve outsourcing our thinking about qualitative inquiry to them.
A scientometric analysis of <i>DESIDOC Journal of Library &amp; Information Technology</i> (2010-2014) An observation of the scientometric analysis of the publication of 307 contributions in the five volumes (from Volume No. 30 to 34) from the year 2010 to 2014 of DJLIT covering thirty issues has been presented in the study.
Development of a software for metric studies of transportation engineering journals Artificial intelligence has shown that this software will be an ally to perform scientometric, informetric and bibliometric studies over large datasets. The MetrIA software found that the publications have coherence to the reality of the historical moment in which they are inserted, confirming that science and technology in general, does accompany the political and social context in which they were developed. It is noteworthy that the MetrIA software is versatile, allowing the creation of new queries and reports, in order to adapt its usage to others areas of knowledge and databases.
New Scientometric‐Based Knowledge Map of Food Science Research (2003 to 2014) The co-word analysis and the generation of the corresponding maps for the specific subject area of FS have made clearly observable a structural division of this area into 5 major clusters, conforming the 5 general areas of FS. Right from the beginning of the study, subcluster 5.1, dedicated to Antioxidants and their Effects, appeared to begin to break away from the rest. The theme corresponding to this subcluster 5.1 had the best results in all the indicators studied-evidence of its solidity, specialization, and high internal cohesion.
On the Cost of Knowledge: Evaluating the Boycott against Elsevier It is hard to live up to the "won't publish" commitment, just like any other resolution. That said, the Cost of Knowledge petition partly misses its goal if, after only 4 years, 38% of the publishing signatories have in fact published in an Elsevier journal since signing. Taken together, the Cost of Knowledge petition is a noble initiative that fits into a broad movement to make research accessible and transparent.
The Impact of Gold Open Access Journals in Aggregators and Abstracting/Indexing Services The open access movement certainly will continue to expand as mandates for publishing research funded by the government expands in many disciplines. This has implications for how libraries and consortia spend their collection budgets and what finding tools libraries license to provide access to quality research.
Is it becoming harder to secure reviewers for peer review? A test with data from five ecology journals Overall, our data suggest that reviewer agreement rates have probably declined slightly but not to the extent suggested by the anecdotal and rhetorical evidence. Future research could extend this type of analysis to a broader range of journals, investigate trends over longer time periods, and include more detail about reviewer and editorial characteristics to better control for these factors when making comparisons among journals.
The Poor Altmetric Performance of Publications Authored by Researchers in Mainland China The absence of Chinese people on the international mainstream social web does indeed negatively influence the altmetric performance of Chinese publications. The reasons for China's lack of social media presence include limitations of language and internet, yet the inaccessibility of mainstream social media platforms is the greatest barrier for the Chinese general public and researchers, and this inaccessibility has produced the extended downturn in Chinese publications' altmetric performance. The connection between altmetric performance and the geolocation of author's affiliation is so strong that the accuracy and credibility of altmetrics on the global level should be carefully evaluated – especially when the evaluation objects come from mainland China, the world's second-largest producer of scientific publications.
Publication Anxiety, Quality, and Journal Rankings: Researcher Views Overall, it would seem that academics believe the journal ranking systems and associated performative measures and recruitment and retention processes will lead to the impoverishment of research. The results suggest that the intrinsic benefits to research are small: a handy guide to the literature and the absence of poor quality papers. From such investigations a better system may be created; one controlled by the discipline itself rather than to any particular groupings within or outside of the discipline.
The changing role of metrics in research institute evaluations undertaken by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) It is concluded that institute evaluation has played a significant role not only in promoting scientific progress but also in guiding the direction and focus of the institutes' development, thereby aligning it with the CAS's strategy at different phases.
Sampling issues in bibliometric analysis: Response to discussants We find ourselves in substantial agreement with the discussants on many points. Indeed, many of the comments strike us as being enhancements or extensions of the techniques we propose.
The imaginarium of statistical inference when data are the population: Comments to Williams and Bornmann The fact that we can calculate standard errors, confidence intervals and p values despite having an apparent population confuses matters because data from a population cannot have a standard error, by definition.
Fewer numbers, better science Scientific quality is hard to define, and numbers are easy to look at. But bibliometrics are warping science – encouraging quantity over quality.
Analyzing Funding Patterns and Their Evolution in Two Medical Research Topics In this paper, we have analyzed the patterns of co-funded research in two medical topics and demonstrated how this pattern varies depending on cross-agencies and cross-national collaboration in funding.
A comparative citation analysis study of master’s theses at the American University of Beirut, Lebanon As the authors' main purpose was to find out what is being used and cited by those who use the AUB libraries, this study provides invaluable and previously unavailable insight into the strengths and weaknesses of the UL collection. The results show that the needs of graduate students in political science are better met than those of their peers in biology and mechanical engineering. This paper's findings will prove useful to develop lists of core journals for the AUB University Libraries (UL).
An evaluation study of research efficiency of the Guangzhou institute of respiratory diseases based on malmquist index To achieve higher scientific research innovation, GIRD not only needs to further improve the management level and introduce advanced management mode, but also needs to focus on optimization of resource allocation, as well as to strengthen the talent introduction, and continue to maintain the absorption of new technologies and innovation.
Signature scientifique et collaborations internationales: l’inflation du nombre de coauteurs en physique des particules The article concludes that the inflation in the number of authors in particle physics is an emergent (not additive) process, proved, in particular, by the normative activity engaged in the field.
Citation Indexes Accounting for Authorship Order in Coauthored Research—Review and New Proposal The present work reminds the scientific community about the need of change of the actual assessment paradigm by providing a review of the main bibliometric index and authorship credit model proposals found in the literature as well as an original scientific performance evaluation method suggested by the authors. For scientific performance evaluation of researchers, the authors propose the use of two citation indexes based on the aforementioned authorship credit models: a novel weighted citation aggregate and the i100-index (number of papers with at least 100 weighted citations each), which might be used complementarily or alternatively.
Evaluating Iranian state university websites using WebQEM The results showed that findings of WebQEM were in “good” condition (mean 0.63).
A Social Epistemological Inquiry into Biases in Journal Peer Review In this paper, I have argued that the pool of published scientific literature is not only skewed by the individual level biases of reviewers acting as gatekeepers, but also by the institutional context in which peer review operates. The impact of the steering effect of institutional factors becomes more notable especially when the focus is shifted from the assessment of the fate of individual submissions to evaluating the influence of peer review practices on the published literature as a whole. Because of the publish or perish culture, it is rational for individual authors to adjust their manuscript to match the preferences of potential reviewers, i.e., to act in a way that may hinder the development of science.
Reviewers’ scores do not predict impact: bibliometric analysis of the proceedings of the human–robot interaction conference The results show that the HRI review process is unable to predict future impact and that even the HRI conference has many papers that are rarely cited.
Comment on ‘Are physicists afraid of mathematics?’ This indicates that a negative relationship between equation density and citations may extend across the breadth of the sciences, even those in which researchers are well accustomed to mathematical descriptions of natural phenomena. We restate our assessment that this is a genuine problem and discuss what we think should be done about it. We reiterate our view that all scientists aiming to communicate theory in the most effective way should take this issue seriously, rather than claiming it does not exist.
The Analysis of Processes of New Knowledge Production in Key World Regions and Russia Benchmarking on the country level shows that China and Russia have the shortage of input parameters of the system of new knowledge production (financial and human resources), but due to China's importer strategy, the quality of produced knowledge in the region is higher than that of the quality of Russian knowledge.
The establishment of formal research groups in higher education institutions This study provides evidence that formalised research groups can have a positive effect on the quality of individual research and that they contribute to more institution-based research, also in subjects and qualifications where the research has primarily been conducted on an individual basis. Research groups can also benefit educational activities. A relevant question is: 'how the new organisational contexts might change the traditional significance of disciplines and basic units at the universities as a basis for identity and research communities?'
Understanding the geographical development of social movements: a web-link analysis of Slow Food Since its emergence in the late 1980s, Slow Food has developed into a dynamic and well-connected body of collective action that is now able to make an impact in more than 150 countries across the world.
Are Researchers Reading the Journals they Publish in? A Case Study of Icahn School of Medicine Therefore, based on our results, a decision regarding collection development, based solely on views and downloads, would not be complete without knowing which journals scientists publish-in.
Altmetrics of South African Journals: Implications for Scholarly Impact of South African Research In conclusion, South African journals' impact on SM, just as is the case with countries with similar economies, is minimal but has shown signs of growth.
Bibliometric study of biochemistry literature in North Eastern Hill university during 2000 to 2010 The period 2005 to 2006 the faculty members of Biochemistry produced maximum research papers with 14.47 percent out of the total publication. The most common type of authorship pattern is two in which 34 percent collaboration is seen. After following Leimkuhler model the following relation-ship of each zone is 17.11 : 76.31 : 340.34 » 433.76 which fit into Bradford's distribution.
Google scholar citation in retrospect: Visibility and contributions of African scholars This study has evaluated both usability of Google Scholar Citation (GSC) and its usefulness in measuring e-visibility of African scholars and African Universities. This study has also established the relevance of GSC as an open source material that can be used to evaluate and enhance productivity and visibility of African scholars, thereby further reinforcing its appropriateness as evaluation tool in assessing University scholars.
Citation Analysis of <i>Science</i> The current study shows the importance of research articles of Science in the scientific community as we have seen the immediacy index of the articles is very high (highest 7.41, table 2). Researches published in Science are highly collaborative (degree of collaboration >0.96) and average authorship is in increasing trend (Fig 3). USA remained the top contributing country in terms of article contribution to Science in the period 2006-2015 and University of California System is the top organization with most research article contribution.
Advancing the cause of research registration: The first 500 registrations of the ResearchRegistry.com The experience of UK-based trainee research collaboratives provides useful insights for surgeons and policy makers in global
Scholarly communication and practices in the world of metrics: An exploratory study Some important themes pertaining to scholarly communication and practices based on researchers' perception and understanding of bibliometrics have emerged from the pilot study: (a) active use of Google Scholar and ResearchGate for self-monitoring, as well as tracking and evaluating colleagues and potential collaborators; (b) using bibliometric measures as indicators of achievements for funding applications, administrative reporting, and recruitment and promotion criteria; and (c) publishing in high impact journals for increasing visibility, impact, and citation counts.
The Macro and Micro Scale of Open Access Predation While predatory publishers can be easily spotted by inexperienced authors given the macro scale of their predatory practices such as mega and multiple journals and conferences, the case we present in this paper demonstrates that detecting and identifying predatory practices at a micro scale, i.e., at the journal level, may be a very difficult and time wasting or fruitless mission.
The 50 Most Cited Papers in Craniofacial Anomalies and Craniofacial Surgery This citation analysis provides a summary of the current most popular trends in craniofacial literature. These esteemed papers aid to direct our decision making today.
Book Publishers Cited in Science Dissertations: Are Commercial Publishers Worth the Hype? While there was some variation in the types of book publishers cited by PhD students in civil engineering, computer science, mathematics, and physics, it appears that commercial book publishers remain highly popular for dissertations in these disciplines.
Publication Productivity in Central Asia and Countries of the Former Soviet Union We identified large gaps in publication productivity among the Central Asian countries.
Changing approaches to research synthesis affect social and intellectual structures of science Adoption of systematic approaches to research synthesis has had a profound impact on how researchers interact with prior research in the medical and health sciences, psychology, education, and at least to an extent in other fields, including Social Work and increasingly, Conservation Biology.
The co-first and co-corresponding author phenomenon in the pharmacy and anesthesia journals This poster describes the initial findings from a larger study that explore the co-first and co-corresponding author phenomenon in two biomedical research areas.
The colors of the national Web: visual data analysis of the historical Yugoslav Web domain Web archives are valuable and unique historical resources rich with multimodal elements that can be used to analyze both the history of the Web as well as social history using the Web as its primary source. Nevertheless, our analysis of the colors of the .yu domain, as it was archived by the Internet Archive, shows that color plays a non-arbitrary role as a characterizing element of a national Web domain. In particular, the combination of color and other structural elements of the domain (distribution of sub-domains and hyperlink topology) reveals patterns that distinguish between Websites and yields a dynamic view of the changes in the visual appeal of the national domain over time.
Investigating singapore's altmetric landscape Results show that there has been an increase in altmetrics coverage across most disciplines between 2009 and 2013, with an overall 18% coverage of altmetrics.
Will Web Search Engines Replace Bibliographic Databases in the Systematic Identification of Research? It is apparent as a major finding that web search engines are not at a stage of development where they could replace bibliographic databases.
On Trial: the Compatibility of Measurement in the Physical and Social Sciences We conclude by proposing a way forward potentially applicable to both physical and social measurement, in which inferences are modelled in terms of a measurement system, where specifically the output of the instrument in response to probing the object ('entity') is a performance metric, i.e. how well the set-up performs the assessment.
A study on the academic and research impact of shared contents in institutional repositories in related to performance indicators of university rankings The amount of contents in institutional repositories had been independent from the other indicators.
Revealing academic web interlinking motives through webometrics and statistical techniques: Nigerian university websites as a case study Academic interlinking motives are completely different among Nigerian universities located in different ethno-geographical regions. The attention of university administrators and developers of Nigerian university sites should focus more on interlinking university web pages to educational materials. The results could modify their work towards improving the use of hyperlinks as a major communication tool on the web.
Science transformed? A comparative analysis of ‘societal relevance’ rhetoric and practices in 14 Canadian Networks of Centres of Excellence We conclude by arguing that the NCE programme is having an observable impact on the rhetoric of science, but any resulting transformations in practice are incremental rather than radical.
Automatic extraction of academic collaborations in neuroimaging Accuracy results suggest a sufficient number of individuals are regis-tered through GS to make it a useful platform of discovery.
DSRS: Estimation and forecasting of journal influence in the science and technology domain via a lightweight quantitative approach In this paper, a regression analysis based method is proposed to calculate the Journal Influence Score.
Not dead, just resting: The practical value of per publication citation indicators In the final analysis citation-based indicators are inferior to effective peer review and even peer review is flawed.
Homophily and missing links in citation networks Our study has important implications for authors, editors and reviewers of scientific journals, as well as public preprint repositories, as it provides a procedure for recommending relevant yet missing references and properly integrating bibliographies of papers.
Conceptual difficulties in the use of statistical inference in citation analysis However, as I have pointed out in this comment, the use of statistical inference in citation analysis involves major conceptual difficulties.
Efficiency of research performance and the glass researcher In order to test the predictive or convergent validity of the FSS, Abramo and D'Angelo (in this issue) need at least one other indicator which measures research performance validly.
Can Scientific Impact Be Predicted? Overall, our work demonstrates the predictability of scientific impact, and can help researchers to effectively leverage their scholarly position of “standing on the shoulders of giants."
Measuring metrics ‐ a 40‐year longitudinal cross‐validation of citations, downloads, and peer review in astrophysics We have found that the three methods, peer review, citation ranking, and download ranking are approximately equally effective, but have quite different properties, and yield different results (in terms of the exact individuals chosen).
Academic research groups: evaluation of their quality and quality of their evaluation We showed that concentrating more staffing resources into already-large research groups does not lift the quality of those groups significantly, especially if the discipline has a high Dunbar number.
The determinants of open access publishing: survey evidence from countries in the Mediterranean Open Access Network (MedOANet) We conclude by discussing our results in the light of the MedOANet policies which seek to foster open access publishing. This suggests that differences in the publishing culture between countries as well as between disciplines substantially affect the behavior of researchers. Policy makers and research sponsors, who are thinking of introducing OA mandates, would be well advised to take the discipline-specific reputation of OA journals and the traditional journals' policies towards post-print uploads in OA repositories into account.
Reimagining Internet Geographies: A User-Centric Ethnological Mapping of the World Wide Web Our study contributes, conceptually and methodologically, to the research, documentation and evaluation of the development of the WWW.
Measuring the impact of scholarly articles Altmetrics is designed to supplement bibliometrics in measuring the social impact of scholarly articles.
Author׳s gender affects rating of academic articles: Evidence from an incentivized, deception-free laboratory experiment "The main finding of our study is that the gender of the author, but seemingly not his or her age, matters when it comes to the evaluation of a research paper."
Three decades of publishing research in population economics The Journal of Population Economics has experienced very successful 30 years of publishing high-quality research in population economics.
On the inauspicious incentives of the scholar-level h-index: an economist's take on collusive and coercive citation This article highlights some of the behavioural shortcomings that can arise when applying the scholar-level h-index.
Citations, journal ranking and multiple authorships: evidence based on the top 300 papers in economics The results show that while there is significant correlation between the quality of the journal (measured by citation indices) and the number of top papers published in that journal, the correlation is far away from being perfect.
The impact of public research contracts on scientific productivity Overall, the results provided by the two methods are similar. They indicate that the RyC contract allowed their recipients to achieve a quality level above that of comparable applicants not selected by the pro-gramme, both in terms of the quantity (number of papers) and, more importantly, the quality (average and maximum impact). This is an important result, which supports policies designed to increase the stock of human resources in scientific research to raise the international impact of the Spanish R&D system.
Southern knowledge online? Climate change research discoverability and communication practices The results of online searches are therefore far from trivial as the most highly ranked results are likely to have real influence. In this paper, we have seen how the visibility of certain perspectives and discourses from the global North – through largely Northern authorship and editorial overnight are the ones that dominate in the search results in climate change. Southern climate change researchers do have a discoverable online presence, but it is uneven, and (in this case) limited in the social media. This is not to say that their work is unimportant or unnoticed, but probably does suggest that thus far their voice is still on the margins (although it has not been silenced).
In the spirit of William Georgetti: scrutiny of a prestigious national scholarship selection process "The empirical results suggest that current systems and processes are consistent with the scholarship's deed, although the difference in GPA scores between female and male applicants is of concern."
Disciplinarity and sport science in Europe: A statistical and sociological study of ECSS conference abstracts The scientific field theory enables us to describe external forces, internal tensions, and struggles concerning the accumulation of scientific, professional, and temporal capitals.
Crossing disciplinary boundaries in environmental research: Interdisciplinary engagement across the Slovene research community The results that emerge allowed us to identify an academic community which is very active in crossing disciplinary boundaries, but this mostly into neighbouring disciplines, prevalently with natural and the life sciences, to borrow methods for data collection and analysis, but seems not so much engaged with humanities and social sciences.
A Bayesian approach for the reliability of scientific co-authorship networks with emphasis on nodes Current investigation proposes a Bayesian inference approach for the reliability of a co-authorship network with a specific focus on nodes, that represent the researchers, and considering perfectly reliable edges, which represent the co-authorship relations.
"$100 Is Not Much To You': Open Science and neglected accessibilities for scientific research in Africa This paper demonstrates that effective engagement with online resources is not simply a matter of access to ICT infrastructure and resources – a concern which, up to this point, has dominated OS discussions.
Day of the week effect in paper submission/acceptance/rejection to/in/by peer review journals. II. An ARCH econometric-like modeling To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that one quantifies the submission of scientific papers, thus the behavior of scientific agents in such a process, i.e. considering some author's brain work and scientific activity content, depending on the day-of-the-week.
Measuring the social influences of scientist groups based on multiple types of collaboration relations The advantage of our model is that the assessment results can comprehensively consider the effects of different collaboration relations. In the future, we will explore two aspects. First, dynamic groups will be addressed. Second, in the future we may investigate the comparison between groups on unrelated different topics, which will be implemented by crossing the unrelated different topics through other intermediary topics.
Knowledge mapping of hospitality research - A visual analysis using CiteSpace With the assistance of the CiteSpace software, we found that the founding knowledge and theories of hospitality research are mainly from the business and economics and management disciplines.
Peer Review and Scholarly Originality: Let 1,000 Flowers Bloom, but Don't Step on Any Regardless of the mechanism involved, the end result is a literature where the diversity of theoretical arguments tends to expand over time, with few ideas winnowed out via direct challenge.
Impact of Alumni Connections on Peer Review Ratings and Selection Success Rate in National Research Devising alternative funding strategies for research projects to control biases based on alumni connections is necessary but challenging, particularly because it must balance expertise and fairness. A possible alternative to biases based on alumni connections is to explicitly identify and state potential conflicts, based on data available to the funding agency, and to ask reviewers to self-declare conflicts. Then ask all reviewers to sign a statement declaring that, in their judgment, no improper influences shaped the outcome.
Determinants of citation impact: A comparative analysis of the Global South versus the Global North These findings imply that most lower- and middle-income countries would better concentrate their resources in generating higher critical masses in specific fields, in addition to pursuing long-lasting international collaboration partnerships, as these actions may lead to higher impact research.
Evaluating the non-academic impact of academic research: design considerations Including research impact within mainstream processes of academic research evaluation is in its infancy.
Honorary Authorship Practices in Environmental Science Teams: Structural and Cultural Factors and Solutions To the extent that our results reflect practices and motivating factors in other large interdisciplinary teams, they suggest that solutions to honorary authorship should take account of the interplay between structural issues (i.e., policies and procedures) and cultural ones (i.e., norms and values). To address this array of interconnected structural and cultural factors, we provide seven recommendations that cover multiple organizational levels: (1) journals should develop contributorship policies, (2) funding agencies should require authorship policies to be included with grant proposals, (3) universities should provide training in personnel management and collaboration skills for researchers, (4) teams should draft written authorship policies at the beginning of their projects and revise them regularly, (5) teams should develop authorship committees, (6) teams should engage in team-building activities to promote positive dynamics, and (7) lead authors should be clear about authorship qualifications as early as possible in the research process.
Citations for Randomized Controlled Trials in Sepsis Literature: The Halo Effect Caused by Journal Impact Factor The study demonstrated that the journal IF was a major determinant of the RCT's total citation number.
The Research Focus of Nations: Economic vs. Altruistic Motivations "We suggest that non-economic motives should be explicitly considered when addressing national research strategy. This variety suggests that each nation pursues research to address its own set of needs, and that these needs reflect a variety of motives, only one of which is the economic motive. We urge policy and decision makers to consider that valuable outcomes result from more altruistically oriented research, and that metrics need to be devised to capture this properly."
Academic Research in the 21st Century: Maintaining Scientific Integrity in a Climate of Perverse Incentives and Hypercompetition Academia and federal agencies should better support science as a public good, and incentivize altruistic and ethical outcomes, while de-emphasizing output. We hope to begin a conversation among all stakeholders who acknowledge perverse incentives throughout academia, consider changes to increase scientific progress, and uphold "high ethical standards" in the profession (NAE, 2004). As stewards of the profession, we should continually consider whether our collective actions will leave our field in a state that is better or worse than when we entered it.
The 100 most-cited articles on aortic dissection Our study provides a historical perspective on the progress of dissection research, and helps to identify the quality of the work, the discoveries made, and the trends steering the studies.
The Role of PhD Faculty in Advancing Research in Departments of Surgery The presence of dedicated research faculty with PhDs supports the academic mission of surgery departments by increasing both NIH funding and scholarly productivity. In contrast to MDs and MD/PhDs, PhDs seem to have similar levels of academic output and funding independent of the overall NIH funding environment of their department.
Relationship of a Second Professional Degree to Research Productivity of General Surgery Residents Despite the increased time requirement for a surgical resident to complete a postgraduate degree during DRT, publication productivity is not hindered.
NLP-driven citation analysis for scientometrics Using citations and citing sentences for analyzing and understanding the impact of research publications is an illustration of the idea of collective intelligence (Surowiecki 2004): how collecting independent, diverse perspectives from several different sources and aggregating them can lead to a much better picture than any single one of them can provide. In this paper, we argue that NLP-driven methods allow us to build innovative methods to achieve this goal. Thus, future research should be geared towards building integrated datasets and pipelines that can help us create and evaluate these different tasks together.
Publish (in English) or perish: The effect on citation rate of using languages other than English in scientific publications We showed that articles written in English have a higher chance of being cited and a higher number of citations than those published in other languages.
Ethics: An Indispensable Dimension in the University Rankings Ethics should be a new dimension added into the university ranking systems, as it is an undisputable right of the public and all the parties involved in higher education to have an ethical evaluation of the university's achievements.
Research Misconduct in the Croatian Scientific Community: A Survey Assessing the Forms and Characteristics of Research Misconduct The results of our study indicate that the efficacy of the system for managing research misconduct in the Croatian scientific community is poor.
Online-Based Approaches to Identify Real Journals and Publishers from Hijacked Ones It can be concluded that regarding the fact that hijacked journals and publishers are flourishing and booming day by day, researchers must take certain steps toward improving their knowledge of these types of journals and the possible ways through which they can recognize and differentiate them.
Shedding the Light on the Stability of University Rankings in the ICT Field Based on the results presented in the paper, we found that, comparing to the QS ICT ranking, there was a lower level of uncertainty and sensitivity in the results of URAP ICT ranking.
Academics as rent seekers: distorted incentives in higher education, with reference to the South African case The paper concludes by sketching an outline of some possible solutions.
Higher education research in Hong Kong, Japan, China, and Malaysia: exploring research community cohesion and the integration of thematic approaches This study analyzed international higher education publications in the past three decades by researchers in the four most productive Asian countries to assess the research engagement and integration among thematic approaches and the cohesion of higher education research communities.
Patent Citation Analysis With Google In answer to the first research question, the new method automates the process of identifying patent citations to aca- demic papers with a high degree of accuracy (98%) and coverage.
Using Course-Subject Co-Occurrence (CSCO) to Reveal the Structure of an Academic Discipline: A Framework to Evaluate Different Inputs of a Domain Map Course-subject co-occurrence (CSCO) can be used to produce topic maps that are consistent with expert opinion and other indicators of the topical similarity of law school course-subjects.
Can "Hot Spots" in the Sciences Be Mapped Using the Dynamics of Aggregated Journal-Journal Citation Relations? "In summary, we did not solve the problem that we originally wished to address, namely, to use the annual JCR data as a potential source for the indication of new developments that require further attention. The proposed methodology provides us with a list of candidate journals in local minima outside the main component, but important developments are also taking place within the main component. The original question of using yearly updates of JCR data as potential indicators of new developments may therefore be increasingly unanswerable using aggregated journal-journal relations."
Strategic Intelligence on Emerging Technologies: Scientometric Overlay Mapping In this article we examined the use of scientometric overlay mapping as a tool for strategic intelligence in relation to emerging technologies.
Core Indicators and Professional Recognition of Scientometricians From this observation, of the core indicators studied, the g-index may best predict the standing of a scientist in a manifested pro-fessional hierarchy.
Scholarly Publication and Collaboration in Brazil: The Role of Geography "Understanding the spatial patterns of Brazilian scholarly publication and scientific collaboration over six triennia (1992-2009) revealed some important issues."
Ovarian cancer: density equalizing mapping of the global research architecture Overall, the USA and Western European nations, China and Japan constituted the scientific power players publishing the majority of highly cited ovarian cancer-related articles and dominated international collaborative efforts. African, Asian and South American countries played almost no visible role in the scientific community. Hence, worldwide collaborative efforts with the aim to exchange epidemiologic data, resources and knowledge have to be strengthened in the future to successfully alleviate the global burden related to ovarian cancer.
Association of h-index of Editorial Board Members and Impact Factor among Radiology Journals Our data indicate that board members of Radiology journals with higher IF have greater h-indices compared to lower IF journals.
International diversity of authorship in advertising research To conclude, this simple analysis shows that international diversity of author teams has a positive impact on citations, confirming the benefits of diversity for teams as suggested by information and decision-making accounts.
Productivity and impact in advertising research since the millennium: a profiling and investigation of drivers of impact In this study, we had two objectives. First, in light of the growing trend and pressure to use research productivity and impact as benchmarks for gauging individual scholarly performance, we set out to build upon previous productivity studies by employing the most recent data to establish an updated and objective benchmark for top advertising research since the millennium. We find that certain universalistic and particularistic factors do predict citations. Specifically, article quality, certain facets within article domain, and top-scholar visibility, all play a role in driving citations in advertising research. This should offer continual inspiration for international scholars to forge collaborations and conduct research in international contexts, but the results from our analyses should ultimately remind all scholars that the key to citation impact still lies in performing high-quality research.
Agribusiness: An International Journal's First 30 Volumes Looking forward, the new editorial team of Agribusiness inaugurated in 2015 for volumes 31 onward, consists of tri-editors representing three continents: Rigoberto A. Lopez (University of Connecticut, USA), Monika Hartmann (University of Bonn, Germany), and Nobuhiro Suzuki (University of Tokyo, Japan). The new editorial team will further globalize the journal and expand its disciplinary boundaries to take the journal to the next level of excellence, impact, and relevance to academia, industry, and practitioners and to raise its profile and continue nearly three decades of success and the legacy it has already achieved.
Mapping sustainability in pig farming research using keyword network analysis In agreement with the concept of strong sustainability, a large number of clusters covering environmental issues in the network underlines the importance of environmental research topics in this research area. Furthermore, the network emphasizes animal health and welfare as essential part of sustainable pig farming. However, socio-economic subjects, which also present an important aspect of sustainability in livestock farming, have been less well addressed.
Patterns of Publishing in Political Science Journals: An Overview of Our Profession Using Bibliographic Data and a Co-Authorship Network Whereas publishing without co-authors was more common during the 1990s, the current standard for many journals is to publish the work of multiple authors working together.
No scholar is an island: The impact of sharing in the work life of scholars Sharing scholarly articles is a central and an important part of research. Sharing articles is so indelibly linked to the research process itself that scholars may not always think about their sharing habits or the associative potential issues. Scholars will continue to share – regardless of embargoes and regardless of whether publishers want them to or not.
Where and how early career researchers find scholarly information The popularity of Google/GS can come as no surprise, but the fact that it is universally so (even when banned in China), and in most cases, ECRs' most popular source, has to be. The fact that physical libraries are hardly used at all, and the library has become invisible to most ECRs, looks like bad news for university libraries. This paper is the first report from this project and has provided us with valuable insights into the ways in which ECRs search and discover scholarly information.
Breaking It Down: A Brief Exploration of Institutional Repository Submission Agreements Sharing submission agreements publicly may lead to simplified and standardized language and reduce barriers to submitters.
Comparison of the Accuracy of Bibliographical References Generated for Medical Citation Styles by EndNote, Mendeley, RefWorks and Zotero Although this study has led us to recommend Mendeley or Zotero, the conclusion is not a definitive one. Both reference managers and ref-erence styles are under continual development and the next test might show a different level of generated bibliographical references as well as the functionality offered by the reference managers. These tests should be performed primarily by librarians who, as information professionals, can best work with the structure of bibliographical records and data created from them.
Research impact and productivity of Southeast Asian countries in language and linguistics The current study provided up-to-date information on the research performance of SEA countries and universities in the SEA region during the period from 1996–2015. As a way to extend the value of this study, further investigations are needed regarding national and institutional research policies of highly productive countries and institutions and how these policies can be applied to less productive countries and institutions to help them improve their productivity and impact. Finally, for future studies, it is recommended that similar analysis for other disciplines be conducted.
Dancing with the academic elite: a promotion or hindrance of research production? First, our definition of the academic elite in this study follows a certain appropriate rationale.
Neophilia ranking of scientific journals By contrast, adoption of the neophilia index as part of journal-ranking procedures by funding agencies and university administrators would provide an explicit incentive for journals to publish innovative work and thus help solve the coordination problem by increasing scientists' incentives to pursue innovative work.
To include or not: the role of review papers in citation-based analysis When using citation information in analysis, scholars must consider the purpose of the study and treat review papers distinctly to avoid bias when using certain analysis methods and datasets.
Multiparametric characterization of scientometric performance profiles assisted by neural networks: a study of Mexican higher education institutions The artificial intelligence procedure that we devised has been successfully applied here for scientometric data mining.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific publications in endocrinology and metabolism from China, Japan, and South Korea The increase in endocrinology and metabolism articles during 2005–2014 in China and South Korea was associated with improved socioeconomic conditions.
Scientific relatedness and intellectual base: a citation analysis of un-cited and highly-cited papers in the solar energy field Overall, this paper provides important insights into the determinant factors of a paper's citation levels, which is helpful for researchers maximizing the scientific impact of their efforts. Third, this paper makes both theoretical and policy contributions that stem from our research findings.
The size and impact of the elite set of publications in scientometric assessments Of the impact indicators studied the Percentage Rank Position (PRP) index proved to be relatively independent of the field. The impact indices in Table 1 (h, g, π, PRP, WCS) calculated from the data of the elite sets of different size show good agreement. From the presented results, it may be concluded that the number of the elite papers should be seven, at least.
Analysis of intra-institutional research collaboration: a case of a Serbian faculty of sciences Using the proposed methodology, we analyzed the intra-institutional co-authorship network extracted from the institutional CRIS system of the Faculty of Sciences, University of Novi Sad (FS-UNS).
Explaining the transatlantic gap in research excellence In the light of these arguments, the picture we obtain is problematic for Europe. Our dataset shows a discomforting truth: Asian universities have already outpaced Euro-pean ones in many fields. The subjective perception of excellence is high, while the hard data on the actual impact on the world scientific system tell a much less comforting story.
The effect of keyword repetition in abstract and keyword frequency per journal in predicting citation counts The current study investigated the effect of two variables in predicting citation counts: keyword repetition in abstract and keyword frequency per journal. The current study contributes to the body of knowledge by revealing the importance of keywords in citation counts in academic journals. In a nutshell, authors can boost the citation by carefully written abstract and keywords and editors can help make abstract and keywords as relevant as possible.
C<SUP>3</SUP>-index: a PageRank based multi-faceted metric for authors' performance measurement In our present work, we proposed a PageRank based multi-featured author ranking metric, C³-index, that we expect would resolve some of the limitations that popular author ranking strategies such as h-index and its variants (g-index, ħ-index, etc.) usually suffer from. We may claim that C³-index ranks an author not only on the basis of his/her present but also on his/her future prospect. We shall also check the results on other datasets from different domains such as Physics, Biology to strengthen our claims.
What publications metadata tell us about the evolution of a scientific community: the case of the Brazilian human-computer interaction conference series Understanding how a scientific community changes over time may provide invaluable insights to devise and promote actions to further its steady development. As our data analysis of both language and topics indicate, we identified that the community has managed to keep a balance between reaching out to international research work and preserving and advancing our cultural and local research production, demonstrating a growing maturity in the field.
Sleeping beauties in psychology However, what we have not shown in this article is why these particular papers were awakened after such delays, and who by.
Avoiding obscure topics and generalising findings produces higher impact research Focusing on the end of the time period examined, the data suggests that in all subject areas except one, if a new article is published with a title that includes at least one term that has not been used in a title in the subject area within the previous 6 years then this article can be expected to receive fewer citations than average for its subject and year. A simple conclusion from this research is that, except perhaps in the arts, humanities and social sciences, researchers should avoid creating titles that make their research seem obscure (i.e., rarely researched) because they may not be read. This strategy should lead to research that is more useful to more people and may result in more citations.
Which early works are cited most frequently in climate change research literature? A bibliometric approach based on Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy By using different RPYS approaches in this study, we were able to identify the complete range of works of the celebrated icons as well as many less known works relevant for the history of climate change research.
Book reviews in academic journals: patterns and dynamics By using book reviews in SCIE, SSCI, and A&HCI, this study depicted time dynamics, discipline and country distribution of scholarly book reviews over the past decade. Even though book reviews are lowly regarded, large shares of book reviews can still be witnessed in the social sciences especially in the arts and humanities. Future research can further probe the role of book reviews within arts and humanities.
Why do some retracted papers continue to be cited? Solving this problem needs the close attention of everybody involved in the publishing process: authors, reviewers, and publishers.
Microsoft Academic: is the phoenix getting wings? Overall, this first large-scale comparative study suggests that the new incarnation of Microsoft Academic presents us with an excellent alternative for citation analysis. We therefore conclude that the Microsoft Academic Phoenix is undeniably growing wings; it might be ready to fly off and start its adult life in the field of research evaluation soon.
Towards the discovery of scientific revolutions in scientometric data Detection of these different statistical distributions would support the distinction between normal and revolutionary science.
An efficient system to fund science: from proposal review to peer-to-peer distributions These results suggest that our proposed system would lead to funding distributions that are highly similar in shape and individual level of funding to those of the NIH and NSF, if scientists are compelled to redistribute 50 % of their funding each year—but at a fraction of the time and cost of the current peer-review system.
What can new technology tell us about the reviewing process for journal submissions in BJET? The data provided above show no regular patterns in terms of submission, distribution, referee's reports and recommendations for BJET, and there is no evidence to show that referees' reports submitted later are any different from those submitted earlier in terms of their recommendations.
The Drivers of Academic Success in Cleft and Craniofacial Centers: A 10-Year Analysis of over 2000 Publications Participation in both craniofacial surgery and orthodontics fellowships demonstrates the strongest association with academic success; craniofa-cial surgery fellowship, university affiliation, and number of surgeons are also predictive.
Inequality in the scientific community: the effects of cumulative advantage among social scientists and humanities scholars in Korea The results of this study have important implications for inequality within the Korean scientific community. The results imply that the incentive structure in Korean academia does not necessarily lead to an increase in the number of publications. Rather, it appears that, in the later career stages, activities outside the university become more important than scholarly performance, perhaps due to the tradition of basing wage and promotion systems on seniority.
A model of scholarly publishing with hybrid academic journals Increasing income for MPHs and increasing publication costs for authors and their institutions is the sign of the excessive market power of MPHs; this trend can be interpreted as negative in terms of knowledge dissemination.
Evolution in the number of authors of computer science publications This article presents an analysis of the evolution in the number of authors of scientific publications in computer science (CS), based on a framework that structures CS into 17 constituent areas (Wainer et al. 2013).
Sleeping Beauties and their princes in innovation studies In the present study we proposed a new indicator for finding SBs, which comparatively to existing metrics (e.g., van Raan 2004; Ke et al. 2015), has the advantage of identifying the papers that in the future present a higher scientific impact (i.e., receive more citations). The discovery of SBs, and their PRs, in the innovation field, as well as the analysis of the reasons for their emergence/awakening, provides us with a distinct and rich overview of the evolution of the literature in the area, offering a better understanding of the reasons for their late recognition and why the ‘information sleeps’. Notwithstanding, further work is necessary to apprehend some particular cases where citation and co-citations patterns do not greatly illuminate the SBs awakening processes.
Disciplinarity and interdisciplinarity in citation and reference dimensions: knowledge importation and exportation taxonomy of journals The use of easily available data in a straight-forward computation indicator such as EBDI might be considered a desirable property.
Maturity models: identifying the state-of-the-art and the scientific gaps from a bibliometric study Therefore, the main contribution of this paper is to make the evolution of this subject and its importance better known, thus encouraging the use of maturity model in future researches, seeking the improvement of the current model. As the main scientific contribution of this paper, the presentation of the theme of maturity model, its applications and its increasing importance yet to be explored in the scientific community could be enumerated, in the hope of encouraging further study and research on the subject.
National ties of international scientific collaboration and researcher mobility found in Nature and Science The results show that the researchers' intrinsic motivation and their international migration explain international collaboration. It also supports the conclusion that researchers move to the countries with more research expenditure and performance, regardless of the collaboration as network factor. Considering these results, we assume a possible convergence of qualified research outputs in advanced scientific countries.
Change in the publishing regime in Latin America: from a local to universal journal, Archivos de investigacin Medica/Archives of Medical Research (1970-2014) The results have important implications for local journals in the LA-C region. Under the existing conception of the IF as a mechanism of international competitiveness, regional journals will continue to be sites of rupture between local and universal objectives. In this sense, journals such as the Gaceta Médica de México and the Revista Medica de Chile have retained the current aims of regional journals over 150 years, which have been converted, usefully, into the cultural scientific heritage of the region and into generous sources of information on medical research, written in Spanish, at an international level.
Contextual productivity assessment of authors and journals: a network scientometric approach It is concluded that the proposed indicators for the assessment of productivity of authors and journals are highly useful, as they provide more insight to the decision makers. The presence of technology management journals in the top list indicates the industrial and business potential of the research context of our interest—‘Biotechnology for Engineering'. While the Injected Directed approach is found to be very useful, one of its critical pre-requisite is that, the affiliation networks should be free from any author disambiguation problems.
Academic performance and institutional resources: a cross-country analysis of research universities Our findings indicate that each research university’s research performance is influenced by the jointness of its research and education, as well as its resourcing levels. Also of importance are differences between institutional histories and national funding policies that relate to readily measurable differences in research performance indicators. These factors apply limits to the potential to understand between-institution and cross-nation differences in research performance solely from scientometric information.
Ruling out static latent homophily in citation networks Citation and coauthor networks offer an insight into the dynamics of scientific progress. To understand this dynamics, we treated such a network as the representation of a causal structure, a logical process captured in a graph, and inquired from a causal perspective if authors form groups primarily due to their prior shared interest, or if their favourite topics are 'contagious' and spread through co-authorship.
Mapping research spotlights for different regions in China By bibliometric analysis on CNKI, all 31 Chinese regions' performance in research areas were recorded and analyzed.
Analysis of Slovenian research community through bibliographic networks To sum up, the main conclusion is that the historical milestones have reflection in the performance of the research community.
Reviewing the transport domain: an evolutionary bibliometrics and network analysis This paper aimed at reviewing the progress in transport operations and management area and also opening an avenue to predict the future research trends in this domain. The review depicted that while the transport topic is not a relatively “young” field of study, there is a significant growth in productivity of researchers in this field. We see room in five directions for pursuing the work: (1) expanding the descriptive and qualitative analysis as it was presented in the paper (2) analyzing the network of scholars (3) examining the interrelationship between transport sub-fields and other scientific areas (4) using different datasets for the analysis and (5) studying the influential factors in development of knowledge in the domain of transport in different institutes.
How long do top scientists maintain their stardom? An analysis by region, gender and discipline: evidence from Italy The findings reveal that over 12 years, 35% of top scientists retain their star status for three consecutive four-year periods, and 55% for two periods.
Visualizing the knowledge domain of sustainable development research between 1987 and 2015: a bibliometric analysis As a worldview, sustainable development spans nearly 30 years and its concept has gradually extended on almost every aspect of our lives.
A new bibliographic coupling measure with descriptive capability We present a novel measure DescriptiveBC that is an enhanced version of the bibliographic coupling measure.
Does evaluative scientometrics lose its main focus on scientific quality by the new orientation towards societal impact? In this Short Communication, we have outlined that the current revolution in scientometrics does not only imply a broadening of the impact perspective, but also the devaluation of quality considerations in evaluative contexts. This is an alarming development, because fraudulent research is definitely of low quality, but is expected to have great resonance if measured in terms of altmetrics.
A critical comparative analysis of five world university rankings The overlap analysis clearly illustrates that there is no such set as ‘the' top 100 universities in terms of excellence: it depends on the ranking system one uses which universities constitute the top 100. Through the selection of institutions covered, the definition of how to derive ratings from raw data, the choice of indicators and the application of normalization or weighting methodologies, a ranking system distinguishes itself from other rankings. Each system has its proper orientation or ‘profile', and there is no 'perfect' system.
A multivariate model for evaluating emergency medicine journals "This paper demonstrates that it is feasible to conduct a multivariate evaluation of EM journals based on multiple highly correlated evaluation indicators (in this case, seven) to generate a meta-index based on the factor score taken from a general factor."
Research integrity in China: precautions when searching the Chinese literature In conclusion, our search showed a considerably larger and more rapidly increasing number of publications devoted to research integrity over the past decades in the CNKI compared to the WoS.
Impact evaluation of open source software: an Altmetrics perspective The development of Altmetrics has brought new vitality to the evaluation of academic impact achieved.
International collaboration in scientific research in Vietnam: an analysis of patterns and impact These data suggest that the vast majority of scientific papers from Vietnam was attributable to international collaboration, and this had a positive impact on the quality and visibility of Vietnam science. The data also indicate that Vietnam is in the growth phase of building up research capacity.
Nobel Prize winners 2016: Igniting or sparking foundational publications? The results of our work show that the Sparking Indices developed in this study, reveal fundamental work in the transitional process of scientific progress and do this better than just direct citations.
Highly cited publications in World War II: a bibliometric analysis In World War II, 3767 highly cited documents including 3523 articles were listed in SCI-EXPANDED, and English was the dominant language. Thus, we remain indebted to these scientists who worked during World War II, and it is a pleasure here to be able to recall their contributions.
A three-dimensional bibliometric evaluation of recent research in India The conventional 2D approach shows that India underperforms on size (quantity) and impact (proxy for quality). The addition of the 3D indicator now shows that even with regard to diversity, India underperforms. It is seen that although India has the highest GDP among the four countries, its performance lags considerably behind due to the very low expenditure on R&D.
Research collaboration in Ghana: patterns, motives and roles It is believed that enhanced research collaboration in Ghana has the potential to contribute, either directly or indirectly, to regional integration and the building of a skilled Ghanaian scientific workforce. It is therefore important that the sustainability of the two sectors' collaboration efforts be scrutinised and prioritised. In practical terms, such stimulation may imply the creation of networking opportunities for researchers to interact more, in order for ‘individual chemistry’ to play its role in how people form connections and relate to each other emotionally and psychologically.
Sleeping beauties cited in patents: Is there also a dormitory of inventions? We investigated characteristics of Sleeping Beauties that are cited in patents (SB-SNPRs). In this way we explore the existence of a dormitory of inventions.
Overview of the scientific production in the Pharmacy area in Brazil: profile and productivity of researchers granted with fellowships by the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development In the Pharmacy area, only 156 currently active researchers were granted with productivity fellowships in 2015.
Disciplinary dimensions and social relevance in the scientific communications on biofuels In our analysis, it was possible to identify the academic disciplines that constitute biofuels research and to uncover a high degree of interdisciplinarity and social relevance.
The effect of document types and sizes on the scaling relationship between citations and co-authorship patterns in management journals The Matthew Effect for CBP for article papers increased 21.67±0.05 or 3.18 times when the number of articles published in a year doubled while the CBP for reviews increased non-linearly 21.29±0.05 or 2.45 times when the number of reviews published in a year doubled. The hypothesis on the common believe across scientific disciplines on the citations advantages of reviews over articles is not supported with the data analyzed. This research suggests possible new lines of investigation.
How many scientific papers are mentioned in policy-related documents? An empirical investigation using Web of Science and Altmetric data Based on our results, we recommend that the analysis of (WoS) publications with at least one policy-related mention is repeated regularly (annually) in order to check the usefulness of the data.
Bibliometric spectroscopy of Russia's nanotechnology: 2000-2014 The Russian government has greatly invested in nanotechnology to become part of a group of leading nations in this field. A citation-based analysis indicates that Russia is not yet capable to produce widely the higher-impact nanoscience, staying in one competitive niche with latecomer Iran. Nevertheless, till no grounds to talk about an appearance of the second competitive center for fundamental research within the domestic scientific system.
The relationship between the author byline and contribution lists: a comparison of three general medical journals This study has systematically analyzed the relationship between the author byline and contribution list using three general medical journals, and draws some consistent conclusions.
Catching up or falling behind? Promising changes and persistent patterns across cohorts of economics PhDs in German-speaking countries from 1991 to 2008 We find that the publishing activity of German-speaking PhDs has increased substantially, from only 18% in 1991 to 46% in 2008, while publication quality remained stable.
Characterisation of academic journals in the digital age To develop attributes for a consolidated dataset of academic journals in digital age, we downloaded and consolidated data from the five major bibliographic data sources of Ulrichs, JCR, SJR, GS, and Cabells.
Citation regression analysis of computer science publications in different ranking categories and subfields To summarize: (1) for Q1, a conference publication's impact is greater than that of a journal publication when taking into account conference citation rates (CR_AC, CR_BC, CR_CC). (2) Regarding Q2, as expected, citation rate data varies greatly in different subfields of computer science. Our work opens several interesting new directions for future work.
Evolving importance of anticancer research using herbal medicine: a scientometric analysis In this study, it was observed that research in the field of herbal medicine with a vision to cure cancer has gradually increased and showed an exponential progress in the later time frames considered.
Are all researchers male? Gender misattributions in citations Overall, few gender misattributions are made. The plausible explanation is that the gender-science cliche remains strong in (some) authors, so that they do not feel the need to check. On the bright side, as the prevalence is low, these mistakes per se probably do not significantly contribute to lower awareness of female researchers' achievements.
Promoting diversity in science in Japan through mission-oriented research grants The average treatment effect on the treated after propensity score matching strongly suggests that participation in the CREST program had a positive impact on publication performance during and after completion of the award period.
Exploration into the evolution and historical roots of citation analysis by referenced publication year spectroscopy By using long-term citation analysis, the overall evolution (1900–2016) of citation analysis study was explored.
Availability of digital object identifiers in publications archived by PubMed Thus, if the scientific community aims to increase the number and the usefulness of services rendered by DOIs, efforts must be made to generalize their use by all persons involved in scientific publication, particularly publishers. In the future, DOIs should become increasingly helpful tools. For this to continue, efforts must be made to generalize their use by publishers, without exception, and in all countries and continents.
Striking similarities between publications from China describing single gene knockdown experiments in human cancer cell lines In summary, we report preliminary evidence that education/biotechnology companies may be providing content pertaining to gene knockdown experiments in human cancer cell lines to researchers based in China, who then publish these results without disclosing their origin.
Citation algorithms for identifying research milestones driving biomedical innovation We demonstrate the application of new analytic techniques to connect major scientific discoveries with medical innovation.
Analyzing readers behavior in downloading articles from IEEE digital library: a study of two selected journals in the field of education In this study, we analyzed the downloads behavior of readers for two IEEE journals in the field of education, i.e., IEEE TLT and IEEE TOE. We found that the articles in both journals do not get much attention in earlier months.
Exploratory search of academic publication and citation data using interactive tag cloud visualizations In this paper we have presented and evaluated an exploratory search tool for a large academic publication collection. Our approach supports exploration of a publication dataset and does not require users to conduct a free-text search of the dataset but rather allows them to dynamically refine the set of publications by selecting tags of interest. Our user study shows that users are able to answer complex scientometric questions using our browser with a mean correctness percentage of 73%.
Title characteristics and citations in economics While previous studies found mixed evidence on the relationship between title length and the success of a publication, we find that a short title is clearly preferable in economics.
Geographies of influence: a citation network analysis of Higher Education 1972-2014 On the basis of available data drawn from 42 years of the journal, Higher Education, can indeed lay claim to be ‘recognised as [one of] the leading journal of higher education studies' ('About this journal' 2015).
Generating clustered journal maps: an automated system for hierarchical classification Within this context of uncertainty and complexity, the proposed routine provides a means for testing one's assumptions against a baseline without claiming authority; but with the advantage of reproducibility and the possibility of rich visualizations. The results may raise further questions and thus help to shape research ideas and agendas.
Measuring the contributions of Chinese scholars to the research field of systems biology from 2005 to 2013 Our comparative study focusing on publications in systems biology by Chinese authors offers a number of suggestions for science policy in China.
Growth of international collaboration in science: revisiting six specialties International collaboration in science continues to grow as a whole and within the six specialties studied. The growth reflects the fact that as more nations have capacity to enter the global network, they do so. Supporting expectations, all specialties are more connected over time. Against expectations, the network measures suggest that the specialties appear to be converging towards similar levels of international activity, as shown in Fig. 3, where the number of nations participating are shown as growing towards a saturation level.
Highly cited retracted papers Despite this rationale, there is documented evidence that several highly cited papers continue to be handsomely cited, even after retraction. A wide mixture of reasons exist, some of which may be easier to repair than others. Ultimately, however, how does this downstream citation of retracted papers get processed and corrected, and whose responsibility is it to correct the citation of “invalid” literature (Teixeira da Silva 2015a, b)?
Life cycle assessment research in Brazil: characteristics, interdiciplinarity, and applications The number of research groups related to LCA has grown in Brazil. This growth is important, especially for a country such as Brazil, which has continental dimensions and a number of regional specificities. However, a vast field of study remains to be explored, and this assessment method needs to be disseminated more widely in some regions of the country.
Conceptualizing Fraudulent Studies as Viruses: New Models for Handling Retractions We have presented an ambitious new model for dealing with retractions of studies with bad data, which deviates substantially from the long-established model of professional self-regulation.
Calibration with confidence: a principled method for panel assessment We have presented and tested a method to calibrate assessors in a panel, taking account of differences in confidence that they express in their assessments.
Characteristics and trends in global tea research: a Science Citation Index Expanded-based analysis This study explored bibliometric analysis of tea research in the world.
First and Others credit-assignment schema for evaluating the academic contribution of coauthors We proposed a First and Others (F&O) schema and introduced the tuning parameter a and weight ẞ to make the evaluation model more attuned to actual contribution levels. As is shown in Table 9, F&O counting presents new properties in five aspects: (1) generalization of two existing schemas including straight and harmonic counting, (2) flexibility of the application by introducing both flexible formula and weight preference, (3) innovation by revealing the inflection point of the credit distribution, (4) performance improvement to reduce the over-fitting problem in the study of credit-assignment schemas, and (5) a simple F&O formula applicable for big data from the scholar information database. To advance this research, the adaptive determination of the values of the tuning parameter a and weight ẞ needs to be studied to establish a reasonable mechanism for using the F&O approach.
Inaccurate Citations in Biomedical Journalism: Effect on the Impact Factor of the American Journal of Roentgenology Inaccurate citations are not infrequent in biomedical journals, yet they can be detected and corrected using the Web of Science database.
Publishing and perishing: an academic literacies framework for investigating research productivity The negotiations described by the PRIO researchers illustrate how they weigh (potentially conflicting) messages from their institutional environment(s) against (potentially conflicting) personal goals.
Is there a first mover advantage in science? Pioneering behavior and scientific production in nanotechnology Our main results are two-fold.
Analysis of h-index and other bibliometric markers of productivity and repercussion of a selected sample of worldwide emergency medicine researchers Dynamic analysis of every individual author indicator over time has a very good fit with a quadratic model, with the h-index achieving the best R².
Cross-cultural differences in self-promotion: A study of self-citations in management journals Our study contributes to the literature by for the first time estimating the effect of culture on self-citations. Our findings indicate that individualist cultures are more conducive to self-promoting behaviour than collectivist cultures. Until such unbiased measures are available, both academic departments and employers in general should be aware of the cultural and gendered nature of self-promoting behaviour when making hiring and promotion decisions.
Trends in publication of general surgical research in New Zealand, 1996-2015 "The quality and quantity of surgical research in New Zealand has substantially increased over the past two decades."
Academic judgments under uncertainty: A study of collective anchoring effects in Swedish Research Council panel groups I identified anchoring effects at the aggregate group level and in relation to conditions of social interaction.
Prominent but Less Productive: The Impact of Interdisciplinarity on Scientists' Research Our results demonstrate that IDR does benefit scientists: it improves their visibility in the scientific community, as indicated by cumulative citation counts.
Does Formal Research Training Lead to Academic Success in Otolaryngology? Formalized research training is associated with academic success in otolaryngology. Such dedicated research training accompanies greater scholarly impact, acquisition of NIH funding, and a higher academic rank. However, completion of other non-PhD advanced degrees was not found to be associated with these measures of academic success.
Faculty Performance Evaluation Using Citation Analysis: An Update The article concludes by encouraging planning scholars and administrators to undertake more analysis of planning scholarship to understand scholarly performance and impact.
Author publication preferences and journal competition "This study applied two diversity indicators to quantify the long-term publishing choices of academic authors. A t threshold value and a shareness indicator created by the author were applied to quantify and visualize journal characteristics as core/periphery targets and in terms of author coverage."
Impact in interdisciplinary and cross-sector research: Opportunities and challenges In conclusion, in this article we reported on a case study of an interdisciplinary and cross-sector research project. Our analysis highlights three areas for further attention in impact planning: exploiting the differ-ent identities of researchers to produce multilevel impact, promoting accountability by ensuring that anticipated cross-discipline impacts align with a shared goal across the project, and exploiting the range of sustainable outcomes that can emerge as a result of an interdisciplinary research process.
Dimensions of trust in scholarly communication: Problematizing peer review in the aftermath of John Bohannon's "Sting" in science These debates, interests, and standpoints are also inter-esting as projection screens regarding questions of how society values science and academic research and positions scholarly journals as institutions and attributes trust to them through their various systems of quality control and gate-keeping, most notably, peer review in its various forms. Today, with Internet-based digital technologies readily available, these systems have become visible and also open to criticism as never before. Traces of this criticism, and the ongoing dialog, are also more readily available, thus material as the one analyzed here can give us a glimpse into a field at this particular moment in time.
ResearchGate articles: Age, discipline, audience size, and impact ResearchGate seems to have a wide coverage of articles from different disciplines and years, although its coverage of recent years is more substantial than its coverage of older years and some disciplines, such as the arts and humanities and some areas of the social sciences, are poorly covered.
Beyond university rankings? Generating new indicators on universities by linking data in open platforms The power of the approach derives from the ability to combine heterogeneous sources of data to generate indicators that address a variety of user requirements without the need to design indicators on a custom basis. We claim that an intelligent integration of existing data in an open-linked data platform may permit the construction of new indicators, without having to design the indicators on a custom basis. The integration of existing heterogeneous data in the frame of an ontology-based data management approach, which we advocate here, could be the basis for the development of a full-scale ontology to produce new indicators on higher education and research, according to a broad set of users' requirements.
Honorary authorship and symbolic violence Honorary authorship in the currents system of multiauthor articles is doomed to prevail unless special precautions are taken to prevent it, because the "publication market" in itself is unable to solve this problem.
On the Nature and Role of Peer Review in Mathematics In this paper I have argued that the common practice of mathematical journals of using just one referee is justified when we consider peer review as a test of proof validity.
Training Patterns and Lifetime Career Achievements of US Academic Cardiothoracic Surgeons Among cardiothoracic surgeons, devoting time during the training years exclusively to research might be associated with higher career-long academic productivity in terms of annual number new publications and ability to get NIH funding, but without significant impact in terms of academic rank or institutional role advancement.
Knowing what research organizations actually do, with whom, where, how and for what purpose: Monitoring research portfolios and collaborations The system presented in this paper shows how this information can be collected and analyzed, identifying emerging research topics and partnerships, areas of strong or weak collaboration, and how organizational changes influence them.
Scientific publications in gastroenterology and hepatology in Taiwan: An analysis of Web of Science from 1993 to 2013 Scientific publications from departments/institutes of gastroenterology and hepatology in Taiwan increased rapidly from 1993 to 2013. However, there were decreasing trends in the number of articles cited and journal impact factors. In conclusion, the number of publications in journals from the departments/institutes of gastroenterology and hepatology in Taiwan significantly increased from 1993 to 2013. However, the decreasing trends in citation number of articles and journal impact factor deserve our attention.
It's Good to Be First: Order Bias in Reading and Citing NBER Working Papers To summarize, our findings suggest that presentation order can be a powerful determinant of choice in a list-based environment more generally – and that this can have strong downstream effects, such as through paper citations in our sample. Fortunately, in the wake of the findings reported in this paper, the NBER has recently moved to a randomization process for the presentation of working papers in the NTW email, which will at least remove this potential source of bias towards evaluating paper quality.
Meta-analysis of business-related research in the former Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union countries A battery of tests and techniques applied in this study revealed that there is a growing trend in the quantity of publications in all investigated countries. The results not only extend the existing body of knowledge in the business-oriented research domain, but they can also support decision making or evaluation activities in practice.
Trends in scientific research on climate change in agriculture and forestry subject areas (2005-2014) This work has provided helpful insights into climate change research in agricultural subject areas.
How complex international partnerships shape domestic research clusters: Difference-in-difference network formation and research re-orientation in the MIT Portugal Program Overall, we find strong evidence that the MIT Portugal Program has indeed had a large impact and achieved many of its idiosyncratic program objectives.
The mobility of elite life scientists: Professional and personal determinants In this paper, we examine the factors that shape the mobility of elite academics within the life sciences, including individual productivity measures and for the first time, measures of the peer environment and family determinants. Strikingly, we show that family structure is also important. Scientists appear to be unwilling to move when their children are in high school, suggesting that even elite scientists find it costly to disrupt the social networks of their children and take these costs into account when making career decisions.
Top Altmetric Scores in the Parkinson's Disease Literature This finding emphasizes that altmetrics is particularly sensitive to recent news.
Cross-Field Comparison of Ethics Education: Golden Rules and Particulars Research misconduct is a continuing concern for all fields. In the present study, we discussed two general "golden rules" to ethics education as well as field-specific concerns for ethics instructors and trainees. We hope the findings presented here offer a platform for instructors educating young researchers and scholars investigating further inquiries in ethics education.
Best Practice to Order Authors in Multi/Interdisciplinary Health Sciences Research Publications In this paper, we discuss authorship guidance in relation to the renewed interest in detailed contributorship declarations.
Examining the Performance of the South African Economics Departments, 2005-2014 Regarding the teaching activities, some interesting findings deserve attention: not all departments offer Microeconomics and Macroeconomics at undergraduate third-year level; not all departments teach the Honours and Masters Research Methods modules to the postgraduate students; some institutions offer the specialised programs other than the general stream at Honours and Master levels; and few departments offer two separate Econometrics modules (time-series econometrics and cross-sectional econometrics) at Masters level. As far as research activities are concerned, research output in general has increased in 2009-2013 (compared to the 2004-2007 period as examined by the 2009 Luiz study). In particular, publications in accredited non-South African international journals increased in both absolute and relative terms in some institutions.
A Dynamic Network Measure of Technological Change The measurement approach presented here offers empirical insights that support theoretical development in studies of innovation, entrepreneurship, technology strategy, science policy, and social network theory. In addition to their methodological benefits, the CD and mCD; indexes may also help to facilitate theoretical development in some areas by clarifying conflicting empirical findings. Together, these indexes capture the positive and negative dimensions of technological change.
Comparative study of characteristics of authors between open access and non-open access journals in library and information science This study contributes to the understanding of differences between authors in OA and non-OA journals in the LIS field from 2008 to 2013.
Fear and loathing in the academy? The role of emotion in response to an impact agenda in the UK and Australia Our interviews reveal a community with strong emotional reactions towards impact. For many of our interviewees, an impact agenda disrupted their sense of purpose as academic researchers – where panic was induced in terms of how they might maintain coherence with an adjusted version of their professional selves. The need for recognition rather than dismissal of the role of emotion and affect appears therefore increasingly significant for an emotionally coherent academic community (Hey & Leathwood, 2009).
The Rewards of Predatory Publications at a Small Business School This paper finds that, at least at one university, there are few incentives not to publish in predatory journals. In addition, when the opportunity cost of forgone income from extra teaching is significant, publishing in ranked journals is costly. Given the increasing number of predatory journals and the problems associated with them, a better understanding of the incentives for those who publish in them is needed.
Tracing Technological Development Trajectories: A Genetic Knowledge Persistence-Based Main Path Approach Our results for the solar PV and the desalination domains clearly show that our proposed new approach (genetic backward-forward main path analysis or GBFP) is a significant step towards this ideal compared to the existing approaches represented by the baseline approach. In the two cases, the GBFP networks are about 10 times smaller and also contain about 20% more of the dominant genetic knowledge in the domain. However, there exist some issues that would be improved in further research.
Analysing Institutions Interdisciplinarity by Extensive Use of Rao-Stirling Diversity Index Based on the Rao-Stirling diversity index, this work proposes a new way to scrutinize interdisci-plinary practices. The two components of the overall diversity of sources of the publications of an institution can be interpreted as proxies for the interdisciplinary integrated component of this diversity and its not yet integrated or multidisciplinary component. The application of this tool to neuroscience research in French universities shows that it is appropriate to reveal a diversity of practice in terms of interdisciplinarity in a field.
New promotion patterns in Italian universities: Less seniority and more productivity? Data from ASN As a result, the traditional seniority pattern appears to be yielding place before quicker and steeper career paths for the more productive.
Academics' Attitudes toward the Utilization of Institutional Repositories in Nigerian Universities The implication of this study is that academics' support of institutional repositories favors the growth of IRs in Nigeria.
Supporting Research Impact Metrics in Academic Libraries: A Case Study The University of Minnesota Libraries’ work on the Manifold project has served as a litmus test for possible directions in which further campus partnerships might grow. As new roles continue to emerge in academic librarianship at the intersection of data, technology, and education, more opportunities will form organically out of new partnerships and endeavors in which libraries can demonstrate value in unexpected ways.
Factors associated with increased academic productivity among US academic radiation oncology faculty Current academic RO departments have relatively high objective metrics of scholastic productivity compared with prior benchmarking analyses of RO departments and compared with published metrics from other academic medicine subspecialties.
Information Exchange on an Academic Social Networking Site: A Multidiscipline Comparison on ResearchGate Q&A Our results show that there are similarities and differences among scholars' information exchange behaviors in the three disciplines.
An Empirical Look at the Nature Index Thus, the use of the NI is questioned by the empirical results.
Identifying Potential "Breakthrough" Publications Using Refined Citation Analyses: Three Related Explorative Approaches Overall we find the advanced citation methods promising.
Mapping Science Through Bibliometric Triangulation: An Experimental Approach Applied to Water Research Overall, our triangulation method successfully integrated the results from multiple maps and enabled a meaningful interpretation that adds to the findings from the individual maps at the different levels.
Are Wikipedia Citations Important Evidence of the Impact of Scholarly Articles and Books? Hence, Wikipedia citations can provide extra impact evidence for academic monographs.
A Journal's Impact Factor Is Influenced by Changes in Publication Delays of Citing Journals We have shown that the impact factor of a journal is determined not only by the quality of its articles, the visibility, and prestige of the journal itself and of its editorial board but also by the publication delay of other journals that cite it.
Funding Acknowledgment Analysis: Queries and Caveats To conclude, although FA analysis opens a wide range of possibilities for linking scientific input and output (such as the correlation between funding with collaboration and research performance), we argue that the pitfalls and potential impacts on the results of bibliometric analysis of FA should be taken into account when undertaking this type of analysis. These caveats are particularly important when using bibliometric analysis to make comparisons across different countries and research disciplines.
The Effect of Social Media Promotion on Academic Article Uptake These preliminary results suggest that promotion of academic articles via social media may enhance download and citation rate and that this has implications for impact strategies.
Knowledge-Dissemination Channels: Analytics of Stature Evaluation This study introduces the concept of gauging relative statures of alternative knowledge-dissemination channels by integrating their attractiveness to knowledge generators together with the value of contents they deliver to knowledge consumers.
Understanding and Supporting Anonymity Policies in Peer Review After decades of criticizing the traditional scientific peer-review process, several publication venues have successfully implemented variations of the process, many of which would not have been practical without the help of computer-supported information and communication systems.
Which Type of Citation Analysis Generates the Most Accurate Taxonomy of Scientific and Technical Knowledge? This article shows that direct cita- tion produces a very accurate taxonomy of all of science from socio-cognitive and historical perspectives.
Funding Data from Publication Acknowledgments: Coverage, Uses, and Limitations "This article has addressed a series of questions related to the use of this bottom-up approach to gathering funding data."
Publication Boost in Web of Science Journals and Its Effect on Citation Distributions Therefore, the key message of our analysis is that the publication boost in WoS journals does indeed alter commonly studied citation distributions, but the overall citation behavior of researchers seems to remain unchanged when citation counts are normalized with respect to the growing number of articles.
Co-word Maps and Topic Modeling: A Comparison Using Small and Medium-Sized Corpora (N < 1,000) In other words, topic modeling does not replace co-word mapping in small and medium-sized sets; but the paper leaves open the possibility that topic modeling would work well for the semantic mapping of large sets.
Is Collaboration Among Scientists Related to the Citation Impact of Papers Because Their Quality Increases With Collaboration? An Analysis Based on Data From F1000Prime and Normalized Citation Scores The results point out that the effect of collaboration activities on citation impact is largely independent of the papers' quality. The citation advantage is apparently scarcely quality related; citation-specific factors (e.g., self-citations) seem to be important here. Thus, the results question the use of collaboration activities as a research performance indicator that is mainly based on the assumption that collaborations increase the quality of research per se.
Metrics for Openness A set of metrics allows researchers to view authors through different lenses; the metrics introduced here allow additional complementary views of scholarly communica-tion.
Relative Citation Ratio (RCR): An Empirical Attempt to Study a New Field-Normalized Bibliometric Indicator Our results show that RCR correlates highest with MNCS, closely followed by CP and SNCS(2).
'Your comments are meaner than your score': score calibration talk influences intra-and inter-panel variability during scientific grant peer review This investigation found that there is little agreement among individual reviewers in how they independently score scientific grant applications, but that collaboration during peer review facilitates score convergence.
Assessing research performance in UK universities using the case of the economics and econometrics unit of assessment in the 1992-2014 research evaluation exercises The information is being used by universities in ways that appear to have had far-reaching consequences for research and researchers. It is thus not how well a unit has done relative to its internal peers but rather how it has done against other institutions that really matters. It will be interesting to see if the model stands up when predicting withdrawal from other UOAs.
Assessing publications through a bibliometric indicator: The case of comprehensive evaluation of scientific units in Poland The local use of the CESU for evaluating an individual researcher has destructive consequences, i.e. focusing rather on the researchers’ productivity (i.e. quantity) and not on the quality of their works.
The 50 most-cited articles in Gastroenterology and Hepatology from Mainland China Although a large gap remains between mainland China and the global community, the gastroenterology and hepatology research from China is gradually recognized by the world.
The management of nanotechnology: analysis of technology linkages and the regional nanotechnology competencies The theoretical contribution of this study is the theoretical framework that has been adapted and tested in this research. Practical contributions consist of descriptive and analytical findings based on actors' performances and the regions' competencies. The research offers a useful insight for academic and research practitioners on how an emerging field such as nanotechnology can be analysed, and a way forward for materialising science and technol-ogy policies in this field.
The 100 most cited manuscripts in emergency abdominal surgery: A bibliometric analysis Vascular surgery, risk assessment and gastrointestinal surgery were the areas of focus for 59% of the contemporary most cited emergency abdominal surgery manuscripts. Emergency surgery for cancer and intra-abdominal sepsis are relatively poorly represented. Nevertheless, EGS is an emerging specialty and this work provides the most influential references serving as a guide as to what makes a citable emergency surgery paper.
Academic productivity in the field of ecology Thus, our findings fill an important gap for ecology as a discipline.
Publications in Linguistics Journals from Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Macau (2003-2012): A Bibliometric Analysis Reasons for China's rapid progress in linguistics research are explained and suggestions for future research are also proposed. First, the numbers of scientific publications in linguistics journals from Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau have significantly increased in the decade examined. Second, it may be of interest to examine China's scientific publications in linguistics in a global context.
A FRAMEWORK FOR THE MEASUREMENT AND PREDICTION OF AN INDIVIDUAL SCIENTIST'S PERFORMANCE This study proposed a measure of an individual scientist's performance that is based on plausible theoretical assumptions, takes into account the main regularities of publication and citation processes, and meets practical goals of the measurement of scientific performance.
The Brazilian scientific output published in journals: A study based on a large CV database This study looks into the factors explaining scholarly publishing in Brazil. Its main contribution relates to the quality and reach of the data considered. An important public policy implication from these results is that Brazilian research will gain more impact as potential researchers continue to be sent to foreign institutions. This effect clearly justifies the investment in international PhD scholarships provided by the Brazilian government agencies such as CNPQ and CAPES.
A comparison of the Web of Science and publication-level classification systems of science Nevertheless, we find reasons to recommend the publication-level option.
Discovering discoveries: Identifying biomedical discoveries using citation contexts We have explored the use of citation contexts, or more precisely citances, in the identification of discoveries in biomedical science using full text from the PMC database.
The sum of it all: Revealing collaboration patterns by combining authorship and acknowledgements Broadening the measurement of collaboration beyond co-authorship by including individuals credited in the acknowledgements allows for an assessment of collaboration practices and team work that might be closer to the reality of contemporary research, especially in the social sciences and humanities.
The specific shapes of gender imbalance in scientific authorships: A network approach Our main contribution relies in the adoption of a network approach allowing to uncover the emergence of a specific pattern when the network of scientific subjects is induced from a set of papers exclusively authored by men.
The role of guarantor in scientific collaboration: The neighbourhood matters There are relevant positive correlations between all the indicators analysed.
Does your surname affect the citability of your publications? In the sciences, findings show that researchers with the alphabetically higher surnames do not result as gathering more citations.
Three practical field normalised alternative indicator formulae for research evaluation This article introduced new field (and year) normalised formulae for indicators, MNLCS, MNPC and EMNPC, all of which can be used to generate estimates of how far above or below the world average a set of articles is.
Can we use Google Scholar to identify highly-cited documents? A significant and high correlation between the number of citations and the ranking of the documents retrieved by Google Scholar was obtained for a generic query filtered only by year.
Skewness of citation impact data and covariates of citation distributions: A large-scale empirical analysis based on Web of Science data The comparison of the correlations between the different FICs and citation impact in this study shows (in agreement with the results of previous studies) that the JIF has a stronger correlation than the other FICs in most of the disciplines and publication years.
Introducing metaknowledge: Software for computational research in information science, network analysis, and science of science This article introduced metaknowledge, a Python package for computational research in information science, network analysis, and science of science.
Detecting rising stars in dynamic collaborative networks In this work we presented a novel methodology for extracting and analyzing profiles of scholars based on bibliometric and collaborative information between the scholars.
Citation success index - An intuitive pair-wise journal comparison metric Our measure, the citation success index, addresses this concern and allows for an intuitive comparison of citation distributions of pairs of journals.
Research production in high-impact journals of contemporary neuroscience: A gender analysis The current gender gap in neuroscience -and science in general- is a complex and multi-causal phenomenon, but evidence suggests that age undoubtedly plays a role.
Exploring paper characteristics that facilitate the knowledge flow from science to technology Some policy implications are discussed.
The need to quantify authors' relative intellectual contributions in a multi-author paper The proposed approach can be used to measure the impact of an author of a multi-authored paper in a more accurate way than either giving each author full credit or dividing credit equally.
Toward an excellence-based research funding system: Evidence from Poland Our analyses revealed that many of the parameters taken into account in the evaluation are closely correlated (especially within Metric 2) and that many of the parameters are not significant in regard to the category assignment.
Bibliometric author evaluation through linear regression on the coauthor network While the na-ranks agree rather well with traditional measures of high-level scientific productivity, contrary to the traditional approach which is purely ad hoc, the proposed model of this paper is based on the assumption that the underlying scientific productivity is governed by a factor that can be estimated from regression analysis. Nevertheless, the results support the view that fractional citation counting is a fair way to distribute credit, at least within the computer science field. This is an interesting avenue for further development.
Standing on the shoulders of giants Comprehensive analysis of the results led us to conclude that among junior researchers, there are hidden gems who can become visible in future if their capabilities are polished by a senior researcher. If junior researchers, in early part of their career, have a chance to get benefit from the experience of a senior researcher, they can become a rising star early in their career. However, this is not the only way of being successful.
An investigation on the skewness patterns and fractal nature of research productivity distributions at field and discipline level Results obtained for the population of Italian professors show that, on average, research productivity distribution for all fields is highly skewed to the right, both at overall level and within the upper tail. However, the wide range of GM index values suggests substantial differences in the degree of skewness, and therefore inequality. At the same time the results aggregated at discipline level and total reveal analogous highly skewed partition patterns in both populations: overall and above μ₁.
UK university policy approaches towards the copyright ownership of scholarly works and the future of open access The paper concludes that open access may still be best served by joint ownership of scholarly works. A joint ownership approach has the benefit of reframing the whole scholarly communication debate. The evidence presented in this paper suggests that universities and academics are beginning to recognise that a shared approach to copyright ownership is the best way to enable the effective communication and consumption of scholarship on scholars' own terms, and that a move along these lines has a greater chance of success than ever before.
The Price of Journals in Geography Our study of the price of journals in geography considered a broad set of titles where human and physical geographers publish their research, and sought to discern the relative importance of publisher conduct and journal quality in determining price.
The Role of Research Strategies and Professional Networks in Management Scholars' Productivity Our findings contribute to theory and research on organizational knowledge, creativity, and models of scholarly productivity.
Attributing credit to coauthors in academic publishing: The 1/n rule, parallelization, and team bonuses This new approach is feasible. It can be applied to past and present papers regardless of the agreement of publishing houses. It is fair and it rewards genuine cooperation in academic publishing.
Scientific collaboration in indigenous knowledge in context: Insights from publication and co-publication network analysis In this study we have explored the intensity of research being done in traditional medicine and have identified China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia and Japan as countries who are actively researching traditional medicine. Our notion of three separate network models has been demonstrated in China (PRI-centric), Hong Kong (university-centric) and Japan (firm-centric) with each showing their own characteristics in terms of resource allocation and contribution to research volume and capability. We propose this methodology as a means to explore the scientific infrastructure of a specific sector, thereby acting as a precursor to forecast- ing potential technological spill-over and growth in specific sectors.
Leveraging Librarian Liaison Expertise in a New Consultancy Role Our case study demonstrates that current expertise among academic librarians and library staff can be applied effectively to a new kind of advisory role in support of faculty research and open access journal publication.
Intellectual structure of knowledge in iMetrics: A co-word analysis Through co-word analysis one can quantitatively recognize the knowledge domain of a certain research field, and explain the existing relations among its subjects. Analysis of the strategic diagram showed that themes 'Citation Analysis and Theoretical Foundations', and 'Scientific Collaboration in Universities' are two most comprehensive subject areas in iMetrics, and that they are more developed than other related subjects in the field. Given that the field of iMetrics has achieved its specific cognitive framework and in a way it has separated itself from the area of Information Science, it is anticipated that the current study be able to help identify discussions relating to this field.
The Changing Landscape of Neuroscience Research, 2006-2015: A Bibliometric Study To conclude, our findings revealed changes in the landscape of neuroscience research over the study period and provided a contemporary overview of neuroscience research for researchers and health care workers interested in this field. Brain imaging and brain connectivity have been shown to be hot topics, and Alzheimer's disease and associated topics have recently gained traction. By considering the specific hot topics having high relative citation scores altogether, future work may focus on utilizing brain imaging and connectivity analyses to identify biomarkers that may signify neurodegenerative or neuroinflammatory tendency among the aging population.
Comparison of the time-to-indexing in PubMed between biomedical journals according to impact factor, discipline, and focus Study results identified a significant delay between entry of articles into the PubMed database and time-to-indexing with MeSH terms across journals of varying impact factor, discipline, and focus.
Departmental h-Index: Evidence for Publishing Less? Our study suggests that to increase a department's h-index, it is important to foster impactful research from within the faculty ranks of the department.
Collaboration in science and technology organizations of the public sector: A network perspective The method applied in this study allowed us to analyze the existing networks in which S&T organizations are engaged, as well as to identify their overlaps and differences.
International collaboration and knowledge creation: Evidence from economics in Portuguese academia Its findings provide useful guidance to promote further scientific advance, in particular within lagging research environments. The impact factor of the journals where articles are published can be increased by means of collaboration, but only when this spans institutions located in different countries. Earning a PhD abroad also enhances the productivity of domestically affiliated researchers.
Studies of national research performance: A case of `methodological nationalism' and `zombie science'? Our findings demonstrate that these questions are difficult to answer precisely.
Construction of Hierarchical Cognitive Academic Map In this paper, we have proposed hierarchical cognitive academic map (HCAM) to represent the research knowledge for a specific domain, which can reflect the three basic levels of Bloom's cognition taxonomy.
A bibliometric-based evaluation on environmental research in the Arab world In the conclusion, the study reveals a clear gap in terms of research productivity between Arab countries and other Middle Eastern countries, precisely Israel and Turkey. More research efforts through optimizing investments in environmental research, developing regional experiences and fostering international collaboration are required to eliminate these lags.
Worldwide research productivity in the field of psychiatry The authorship of most of the psychiatry articles was from high-income countries and few papers came from low-income countries. The most productive country was the United States. However, when normalized to population size and GDP, some European and Oceania countries were most productive.
Fast and Furious (at Publishers): The Motivations behind Crowdsourced Research Sharing Peer-to-peer article sharing is a multicausal scholarly communication dilemma with roots that go beyond document delivery to the legal bedrock that is our current copyright and intellectual property system.
Thirty years of the Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing: a bibliometric analysis Figure 1 shows an increasing trend in the number of publications from the creation of the magazine, which demonstrates the growing interest in this area of marketing by the academic community. It is also of interest, as shown in Table III, the buyer/seller relationships are of enormous interest to the authors of the journal as they are second, third and sixth among the most used keywords (Relationship Marketing, Buyer-seller relationship, Channel relationship), and in fourth place is innovation. Among the most prominent authors, according to Table V (and by the number of publications and citations) we must undoubtedly mention: Wesley Johnston, Archie G. Woodside and Roger Calantone, all from American universities, all occupying the first positions in the universities, as seen in Table VI, which contribute most to the magazine (Georgia State University and Michigan State University).
Life After Research Misconduct: Punishments and the Pursuit of Second Chances The data here reveal several items of note. First, research misconduct is not a career-ending event.
European Universities' Guidance on Research Integrity and Misconduct: Accessibility, Approaches, and Content As a result, we propose that guidance on research integrity should at the same time reaffirm broad values of integrity for the whole research community and exemplify unambig- uous norms, behaviors, and consequences.
At the origins of learning: Absorbing knowledge flows from within the team This paper contributes to the SciTS literature by identifying the factors that promote the learning of individuals from their team members when working in a scientific research team. Our results have a direct implication for the SciTS literature. It is important to maintain a common knowledge base among team members in order to guarantee knowledge flow absorption.
Searching the Footprints of Pioneers on Neurology: A Bibliometric Analysis In conclusion, our bibliometric analysis has yielded 2 detailed lists of the top 100 cited articles that were listed separately using different methods.
Diversity of the Information Systems Research Field: A Journal Governance Perspective Overall, we have identified a position that fits with the Taylor et al. (2010) polycentric view of focus and diversity in the IS field. Furthermore, we have demonstrated grounds for separating the IS field into a more focused business-school-related core set of journals and a more diverse technical periphery. This division goes to the heart of the identity of the IS research field, a topic that King and Lyytinen (2006) show is closely coupled with its diversity.
Use of Google Scholar public profiles in orthopedics: Rate of growth and changing international patterns This study suggests an exponential growth in the number of authors in the field of orthopedic surgery creating a Google Scholar public profile, and at the current rate participation doubles every 10.6 months.
Transformative science: a new index and the impact of non-funding, private funding, and public funding As an attempt to define and assess transformational science, we developed a new measure of how structurally significant (i.e. its relation to new branches of knowledge) a scientific work is, namely "generativity." In short, generativity appears to be a valid new index of structurally significant science.
Psychological Meaning of "Coauthorship" Among Scientists Using the Natural Semantic Networks Technique We propose a model in which coauthorship represents the result of the experience, attitudes and behavior of a group process concerning collaboration and teamwork in science.
Outsiders enabling scientific change: learning from the sociohistory of a mathematical proof On this basis, I offer an argument against Margaret Gilbert's account of why a scientist's outsider status can be effective in enabling scientific change.
Evaluation of the evolution of relationships between topics over time The above-mentioned examples illustrate that the suggested methodology, which combines text processing, information clustering, and the visualization of topic relationships over time with the help of graph-theoretical tools in time-importance diagrams, works well and can reveal overriding topic trends.
Plagiarism in Manuscripts Submitted to the AJR: Development of an Optimal Screening Algorithm and Management Pathways Plagiarism is an important ethical and misconduct issue underappreciated by both authors and institutions, and dedicated edu- cation programs are needed. The current methods for detecting plagiarism are suboptimal. A new screening algorithm is proposed.
National Institutes of Health Funding to Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery at US Medical Schools The percentage increase of NIH funding to departments of orthopaedic surgery from 2005 to 2014 was not significantly greater than that of total NIH extramural research funding. Funding levels to orthopaedic surgery departments lag behind funding to departments of other surgical disciplines. Funding levels may not match the academic potential of orthopaedic faculty, and interventions may be needed to increase NIH grant procurement.
Potential predatory and legitimate biomedical journals: can you tell the difference? A cross-sectional comparison We identified 13 evidence-based characteristics by which predatory journals may potentially be distinguished from presumed legitimate journals.
Sport communication research: A social network analysis The current study examined the sport communication field over 36 years from January 1980 to June 2015. SNA helped map the sport communication researchers and their research activity, operationalised through academic publications. The findings link to previous work using SNA to assess the evolution of research fields (Endersby, 1996; Martins et al., 2012; Moody, 2004). The findings suggest an opportunity for more sport communication studies to inform sport management research and the sport industry. They also highlight the need for continued research in efforts to expand the field's development.
Global cocaine intoxication research trends during 1975-2015: a bibliometric analysis of Web of Science publications Research progress related to cocaine intoxication has been assessed for the first time based on a bibliometric approach. The main topics have consistently been reproductive toxicity, cocaine exposure and clinical management, laboratory methods for detection of exposure to cocaine, cocaine metabolism, and cocaine toxicity in animals. These findings may provide a valuable basis for identifying important topics for future research, and create opportunities for collaboration between research groups with complementary scientific interest in the field of cocaine toxicity.
Citation Rate Predictrs in the Pi Surery Literture "We have found that higher level of evidence (or other study methodology factors) is not associated with higher citation rates."
Does the H Index Correlate With Academic Rank Among Full-Time Academic Craniofacial Surgeons? Among full-time academic craniofacial surgeons, the H index is strongly correlated with the academic rank. Promotions committees should consider using the H index specific for craniofacial surgeons when assessing subspecialist candidates for promotion.
Performance curves of medical researchers during their career: analysis of scientific production from a retrospective cohort Compared to full professors, non-academic physicians had a poor capacity to publish, indicating a low productivity when medical doctors have limited time or little interest in undertaking research. This finding highlights the potential for rethinking the missions of medical doctors towards an enlargement of scientific prerogatives in favour of progress in global knowledge.
The Most Frequently Cited 100 Articles in Liver Transplantation Literature Bibliometric analysis highlights the key topics and publications that have shaped the understanding and management of liver transplantation.
Prominent retailing authors and institutions: 2009-2015 This finding has important potential impact for both individuals and institutions. Finally and most importantly, while the results offer a clear picture of top scholars and institutions based on the algorithm specified above, the findings raise an important implication for the relationship between academia and practice. We contend that while scholars can be productive in terms of journal citations and journal quality, research that successfully connects academia and practice should also be considered in the evaluation of author/institution productivity.
RAMP - the Repository Analytics and Metrics Portal A prototype web service that accurately counts item downloads from institutional repositories This paper proposes that IR managers adopt a new reporting framework that classifies IR page views and download activity into three categories that communicate metrics about user activity related to the research process.
Accounting Research: A Bibliometric Analysis This paper presented a general updated picture of accounting research in the last decades by using bibliometric indicators. The main findings of this paper are useful for obtaining a general overview of the state of the art in accounting research according to bibliometric information. Therefore, this paper only provides general information that may be useful to help understand the field of accounting, but many other issues should be taken into account in order to get a complete picture of the state of the art.
Improving Publication Quality and Quantity for Acute Care Authors From Low- and Middle-Income Settings Author Assist reversed 1 in 4 rejection decisions through a process that unavoidably but minimally biases peer review.
Hirschsprung Disease: Critical Evaluation of the Global Research Architecture Employing Scientometrics and Density-Equalizing Mapping We conclude that the field of HD is constantly progressing.
Expertise versus Bias in Evaluation: Evidence from the NIH My results show that the preferences of influential review-ers matters for the funding outcomes of otherwise similar grant applications: being evaluated by an intellectually related reviewer increases an applicant's chances of funding by 2.2 percent, or the equivalent of a one-quarter standard deviation increase in application quality itself.
Saving Soviet Science: The Impact of Grants When Government R& D Funding Disappears This analysis shows that during the crisis period following the Soviet collapse, Soros' historic ISF program had a significant impact on scientists' decisions by inducing them to remain in science and maintaining scientific productivity, with long-lasting effects.
Personalizing papers using Altmetrics: comparing paper 'Quality' or 'Impact' to person 'Intelligence' or 'Personality' In sum, we have found evidence that not all proposed metrics measure the same underlying construct; in fact, our analyses suggest that there are three componenents in the data; one concerning Academic Attention as indicated by citations, one concerning General Attention as indicated best by viewcounts, and a final one concerning Media Interest, best indicated by counts of news articles.
Geographic mobility and research productivity in a selection of top world economics departments The study of the national origins and destinations of elite scientists constitute a key topic in understanding the workings of the academic profession in any discipline.
Context of altmetrics data matters: an investigation of count type and user category Significant difference is found between NP and NUU, both in coverage and extent, demanding future studies to consider carefully which count to use.
A first look at multiple institutional affiliations: a study of authors in Germany, Japan and the UK This paper studied multiple affiliations of authors in research publications.
Do interdisciplinary research teams deliver higher gains to science? The question of interest is whether interdisciplinary research teams achieve knowledge gains of greater impact. The answer is mixed.
What we can learn from tweets linking to research papers According to the findings and discussions in this paper, we suggest that evaluation of a research paper's Twitter mentions should also consider the content type of the tweets linking to the paper. Tweets having nothing to do with the content of the paper to be evaluated, self-tweets, and tweets somewhat supporting and negating the paper are excluded in evaluating the paper. Finally, we can utilize comments in social media to identify ethical problems with research and avoid adverse consequences.
Citation analysis with microsoft academic We showed that average-based indicators as well as distribution-based indicators can be calculated with MA and that normalization of citation counts is therefore feasible with MA.
Do types of collaboration change citation? A scientometric analysis of social science publications in South Africa The analysis presented in this paper considered the situation of the social sciences in terms of three relevant research questions.
Identity and publication in non-university settings: academic co-authorship and collaboration Our survey revealed that the vast majority of researchers who publish consider themselves academics.
Does an expert-based evaluation allow us to go beyond the Impact Factor? Experiences from building a ranking of national journals in Poland In conclusion, our findings show that the multidimensional ranking of local journals should not be constructed only on the basis of the bibliometric evaluation.
Evolutionary patterns of national disciplinary profiles in research: 1996-2015 Overall, a converging process is confirmed in the disciplinary structure of worldwide scientific outputs. The above findings have important implications in science policy. First, as disciplinary profiles differ greatly across nations, there should be no single pattern that fits all nations, and a ‘one size fits all' research policy that ignores national differences may not lead to the desired results. The foregoing interrelated points lead to an important research question: what are the major determinants of a nation's research profile?
A multiple-link, mutually reinforced journal-ranking model to measure the prestige of journals This study presents a new model for ranking journals, named the MLMRJR model, which is based on the mutual reinforcement among the multiple links of a network, which were combined with the PageRank and HITS algorithm. Based on the two benchmarks discussed in this paper, the experimental results suggest that the proposed MLMRJR model can obtain reasonable journal ranking results. The proposed journal-ranking model can be useful for researchers, journal editors, and organizations.
Characteristics of highly cited researchers 2015 in Germany As the findings of our small study on a subgroup of HCR have shown, the researching of additional data can provide interesting insights into HCR.
Nested self-citation: the citation of a paper's least divisible unit Given the attention given in recent times to citation manipulation, citation rings and inappropriate citations, the risks of nested self-citations, including the skewing of citation counts, and of not correcting potentially misleading information, need to be explored. Publications are the de facto academic currency of science and academia. However, with an increasing search for transparency and accountability in publishing, all sorts of aspects that suggest an abuse of the publishing medium to favor an author over another are coming increasingly under the microscope, including, among a wealth of other factors, unfair citations, and abuse of the peer review process (Teixeira da Silva 2016).
CiteScore: A cite for sore eyes, or a valuable, transparent metric? Even though metrics have come to represent a somewhat vilified concept in academia, which has increasingly become shackled to and weighed down by the JIF for decades, misconstruing the concepts of quantity and quality, the CS may offer a more balanced (wider spread) of the influence or weighting of a journal, whether it will be simply another gaming factor in a highly competitive publishing market, or whether it will evolve into a more meaningful and trustworthy metric that can be used by academics and their institutions to measure the academic value of a scientist, or journal, only time will tell.
Negating the Gender Citation Advantage in Political Science Thus, OA negates the gender citation advantage that typically accrues to male political scientists.
Best one hundred papers of International Orthopaedics: a bibliometric analysis This article identifies topics, authors and institutions that contributed with their high-quality work in the journal's development over time. International Orthopaedics remains faithful to its authors and readers by publishing topical, well-written articles in excellent English. Although the measurement of scientific quality should not be uniquely based on citation metrics [111], the more times a paper or a journal is cited certainly reflects its overall impact on the scientific community.
Notices and Policies for Retractions, Expressions of Concern, Errata and Corrigenda: Their Importance, Content, and Context Even though in practice, editors and publishers may deviate from these written definitions when dealing with case-by-case issues, we believe that it is essential, to serve as a consistent guide for authors and editors, that the wording be standardized across these entities.
Scientific networks and research groups development. Educational Psychology case in Spain during the five-year periods 2004-2008 and 2009-2013 "The results obtained in this study show an increase in the number of researchers working in educational psychology in Spanish institutions, together with an increase in the number of articles published in educational psychology journals in the Web of Science (WoS) databases."
The top 100 cited neurorehabilitation papers "Treatment studies, often focused on stroke, appear to have the highest impact in the field of neurorehabilitation."
Creation of knowledge-added concept maps: time augmention via pairwise temporal analysis The innovation of this research is evident in terms of theory and practice, especially to management.
Gender consequences of a national performance-based funding model: new pieces in an old puzzle Male researchers...receive more BRI points for their scholarly publications than their female colleagues. The article suggests two probable systemic explanations for this finding. The paper concludes that the BRI, despite its official intention of measuring research quality at aggregated levels, can be expected to influence the evaluative practices of department heads, thus entailing gender effects in relation to career advancement and salary increments. Finally, it lends support to Acker's (1990) aformentioned assertion that transparent and formalised organisational evaluation criteria, when taking as default the work-behaviour of dominant groups, will not necessarily counter gender inequality.
Interdisciplinary Collaborator Recommendation Based on Research Content Similarity In this paper, we present an interdisciplinary collaborator recommendation method based on research content similar-ity. From the results, we conclude that the research content sim-ilarity has a significant influence on interdisciplinary collab-orator recommendation beyond the existing social relation-ship. Our future work also includes recommending interdisciplinary research groups and research themes.
Collaboration patterns in the German political science co-authorship network In this contribution, we identified the cores of the ten most distinct research clusters in German political science. We also highlighted the most central researchers in this collaboration network, who are likely able to exert influence by connecting otherwise disconnected clusters. Finally, we analyzed the role of geographic location in the co-authorship network.
Continuity and Change: Fifty Years of the Journal/Revue It is trite to conclude by observing that the CJPS/RCSP has experienced both significant continuities and changes in 50 years: all institutions change and all exhibit continuity. Finally, recognition of a critically important continuity rests not, as do the observations above, on hard evidence but on impressionistic reading; in my view, it is no less valid. The very first issue was characterized by research of the highest quality and for half a century the CJPS/RCSP has maintained the tradition of publishing the very best research by Canadians and about Canadian politics.
Journal Publishing and Marketing in an Age of Digital Media, Open Access and Impact Factors Editors of academic journals such as this one need to take bold action to ensure that flagship publications cannot only survive but thrive in the digital age.
The Use of the h-Index in Academic Orthopaedic Surgery Scholarly impact, as defined by academic productivity and scientific relevance, can be classified by the h-index and supplemented by the m and e-indices. This study has revealed well-defined differences in h, m, and e-indices with regard to academic rank among orthopaedic surgeons. Although the h, m, and e-indices may be of value as adjunct assessment devices for scholarly merit, careful consideration of their limitations must be maintained.
Citations, journal ranking and multiple authorships reconsidered: evidence from almost one million articles We find a positive corre-lation between the quality of a paper, measured by the number of citations, and the quality of the journal, measured by the IF and the h-index. In contrast to Moosa (2016), the correlation becomes almost perfect when a larger data set is considered and when a non-linear model is used. Controlling for possible time effects and including more cohorts lead to a positive influence of co-authorship on citations.
Individual Factors Influencing Citation Competence in L2 Academic Writing It is concluded that the model of citation competence constructed in this study identified the first three as major impact factors, which reveals the acquisition process and features of citation competence for L2 novice writers.
Determinants of PhD holders' use of social networking sites: An analysis based on LinkedIn In this study, we have focused on determinants that lead PhD holders to register and develop wider or narrower networks on LinkedIn. We have found that PhD holders who move to industry, go abroad, and have international collaborations are more likely to use LinkedIn. The fact that some of our most intuitive hypothe-ses have been verified suggests that LinkedIn may be used as a reliable data source in future studies.
How stars matter: Recruiting and peer effects in evolutionary biology The effects of star location are economically significant but subtle.
Curricular Approaches in Research Ethics Education: Reflecting on More and Less Effective Practices in Instructional Content Distinct content themes emerged from our qualitative review of ethics instruction indicating that the types of instructional content selected for a training program could lead to differences in training effectiveness. While deviations in instructional content are necessary as a single curriculum is unlikely to be suitable for all researchers (Kalichman, 2014), the themes uncovered here can serve as a foundation for constructing and selecting effective content for research ethics education. Ethics education is one viable approach to improving the knowledge, awareness, skills, and attitudes associated with ethical behavior (Watts et al., 2016) and we hope this review on instructional content can further the progress being made in RCR education.
Adding the Dimension of Knowledge Trading to Source Impact Assessment: Approaches, Indicators, and Implications These results inform the understanding of source-level impact assessment and knowledge diffusion.
Academics' Behaviors and Attitudes Towards Open Access Publishing in Scholarly Journals This article draws on data from a major international survey, based on the database of authors and reviewers of a major publisher, Taylor & Francis. It offers insights into various aspects of academics' behavior and attitudes towards OAP in OAJs.
Identification of Long-Term Concept-Symbols Among Citations: Do Common Intellectual Histories Structure Citation Behavior? It follows that RPYS can not only be used for retrieving roots of sets under study (cited), but also for algorithmic historiogra-phy of the citing sets.
The Scaling Relationship Between Citation-Based Performance and Coauthorship Patterns in Natural Sciences We found that the distribution of the citations to overall/coauthored/single-authored peer-reviewed articles in the natural sciences followed a power-law distribution with exponential cutoff.
Citation Behavior: A Large-Scale Test of the Persuasion by Name-Dropping Hypothesis The results demonstrate that authors in the field of Healthcare tend to cite highly cited documents when they have a choice. This is more likely caused by differences related to quality than differences related to status of the publications cited.
A Webometric Analysis of the Online Vaccination Debate The study suggests ways that professional information can be promoted more effectively on the web. The study demonstrates that webometrics analysis is effective in studying online information dissemination. In this sense, the approach taken in this study can be applied to analyze not only health information but other information as well.
Comparative Evaluation of Bibliometric Content Networks by Tomographic Content Analysis: An Application to Parkinson's Disease The present study contributes a new understanding of how to evaluate the local and global position of an entity at a layer. The overall contribution of this study is the application of tomographic content analysis to the bibliometric networks to provide a comprehensive evaluation. This study provides a new way to understand the current knowledge on a certain topic, which requires developing a new knowledge across fields associated with the topic and the tertiary network is appropriate for outlining the current knowledge of the topic and relevant studies.
Gender divergence in academics' representation and research productivity: a Nigerian case study The results of this study show that women are under-represented in the Faculty of Science, University of Ibadan, a phenomenon that is common among previous findings.
Playing the ranking game: media coverage of the evaluation of the quality of research in Italy The media exerts a tremendously selective impact on research evaluation information by focusing only on rankings and ignoring all other kinds of information. At the same time, it is dangerous to play the ranking game, because it tends to absorb all kinds of information, irrespective of the intentions of evaluation agencies and the content of the official communications. The article concludes by suggesting implications for future evaluation exercises and related communication strategy.
Open Access Publishing in the Field of Medical Informatics However, one result of this investigation is that it is often quite hard to find information on open access within the websites of the journals.
Partnerships in Agricultural Publications: University of Florida's Marston Science Library and the Florida State Horticultural Society LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES
Intergenerational field transitions in economics This note has documented trends of socialization and inter-generational mobility within research fields in economics.
Who support open access publishing? Gender, discipline, seniority and other factors associated with academics' OA practice This paper has shown that whilst most academics agreed with the principle of making knowledge freely available to everyone, the use of OA publishing by UK based academics was still limited despite relevant established OA policies.
Improving the publication delay model to characterize the patent granting process In this paper, we quantitatively investigated the process of patent granting. Our study makes both empirical and theoretical contributions to the current understanding of patent granting. In terms of empirical contribution, using the improved model, we explored the changing rules of granting delay in the field of transgenics and energy in the last two decades. In the future, we will make a study of evaluating differences of granting process and delay between USPTO and EPO.
Multi-source data fusion study in scientometrics This paper provided an introduction to MSDF.
Improved author profiling through the use of citation classes In the present study we showed the general applicability of the CSS-method to the indi- vidual level and to author profiling of candidates with scientific excellence, in particular.
Difficulty in finding manuscript reviewers is not associated with manuscript acceptance rates: a study of the peer-review process at the journal Radiology Our study, based on the lack of correlation between agreement to review rate and acceptance rate to Radiology and the direct correlation between agreement to review rate and manuscript citation rate, suggests that reviewers may have a preference for manuscripts with greater potential scientific relevance, but that reviewer motivation to agree to review does not include the expectation of manuscript acceptance.
Investigating the effect of global data on topic detection This work has located a journal-based set of astronomy and astrophysics papers in a global model of science created from the full Scopus database.
Clustering articles based on semantic similarity Our experiments show that such integration of the semantics of the individual entities reflects the semantics of articles and the clustering results are competitive with other clustering solutions which are mainly based on citation information.
Mapping the cognitive structure of astrophysics by infomap clustering of the citation network and topic affinity analysis The topology of the affinity network suggests cognitive links between the document clusters extracted by our method from the Astro Data Set. The organization of the network matches intuitively a cognitive map of the discipline that is based on distinctions in the scale or space-time context of the research object being studied, from large (universe) to small (our solar system).
Citation-based clustering of publications using CitNetExplorer and VOSviewer We have demonstrated the use of CitNetExplorer and VOSviewer for clustering publications based on direct citation relations and for analyzing the resulting clustering solutions. Using these tools, publications can be clustered without the need to have a deep knowledge of clustering techniques. In addition, no advanced computer skills are required. In future research, we therefore plan to work on the development of a single integrated software tool in which many of the key features of CitNetExplorer and VOSviewer are brought together.
Using hybrid methods and 'core documents' for the representation of clusters and topics: the astronomy dataset Our main conclusions refer to two issues, firstly to the clustering results and secondly to the role of core documents.
Memetic search for overlapping topics based on a local evaluation of link communities The algorithm we developed and used constructs link communities by evolving populations of subgraphs in runs that are independent of each other.
Contextualization of topics: browsing through the universe of bibliographic information We present a method implemented in an interface that allows browsing through the context of entities, such as topical terms, authors, journals, subjects and citations associated with a set of articles.
Thesaurus-based methods for mapping contents of publication sets This paper introduces two methods for creating maps of thesaurus terms that can then be used as templates or basemaps on which to display the contents of publication sets. This map can be used for several purposes, including mapping of subsets of PLOS content, and the identification of thesaurus terms whose rule bases may need to be changed. We suggest that the methods described here should be generally applicable to other thesauri and use cases, and that care should be taken to make sure the level of visualization matches the level of detail required for the desired analysis.
Mutual information based labelling and comparing clusters In this paper, we showed that using Normalized Mutual Information between clusters and topical terms extracted from titles and abstracts is an effective way to identify important topical terms to describe clusters.
Comparison of topic extraction approaches and their results On a general level, as for instance relevant to information retrieval, we found that there is a big overlap in the representations delivered by the different approaches, especially if one views the topical structure of a field as a continuum (a cognitive landscape) rather than a discrete categorization, and focuses less on the rather artificially drawn borders of topics and more on their relative distance, as visualized e.g. by topic affinity networks. It seems evident that uncertainty about the appropriateness of a topical structure constructed by a topic extraction approach cannot be removed. We would like to encourage future work on topic identification to re-use part of the framework developed here to better describe and distinguish approaches (raw data, data model, algorithm, parameters).
The manipulation of scholarly rating and measurement systems: constructing excellence in an era of academic stardom Discussions of these gaming and manipulation efforts provide a useful launching place for discourse on the use of metrics for evaluation and funding in higher education; they can introduce the concern that there are few real 'winners' in these configurations.
An analysis of the fate of 917 manuscripts rejected from Clinical Otolaryngology Rejection from Clinical Otolaryngology certainly does not prevent subsequent publication, although the papers tend to be published after a lengthy delay and in journals with a lower impact factor than Clinical Otolaryngology. When performing literature searches, it is important to search more than one database to ensure as many of the relevant articles are found as possible. However, 55.7% of papers will go on to be published, which represents a high probability of future publication.
A systematic identification and analysis of scientists on Twitter Our work contributes to the literature both methodologically and conceptually—we provide new methods for disambiguating and identifying particular actors on social media and describing the behaviors of scientists, thus providing foundational information for the construction and use of indicators on the basis of social media metrics. Our disciplinary analyses suggest that Twitter is employed by scholars across the disciplinary spectrum—historians were widely represented, as were physicists, political scientists, computer scientists, biologists, economists, and sociologists. Future work is needed to examine the use of machine learning methods [9] by leveraging information from retweet and mention networks to improve our identification method, to investigate the degree to which a more equal representation of women is due to age, status, or the representation of practitioners in our dataset, and to ascertain to what extent altmetric communities (i.e., follow, retweet, and mention networks) align with or differ from bibliometrically-derived communities (i.e., citation and collaboration networks).
Characteristics and quality of published animal research in the field of radiology The quantity and quality of radiological animal research has increased over the last two decades; however, methodological and ethical quality remains suboptimal. Our results highlight the need for further efforts to improve methodological and ethical quality of radiological animal research publications.
Highlights in bioethics through 40 years: a quantitative analysis of top-cited journal articles In sum, the forefront of bioethics is getting more diversified, collaborative and international.
Knowledge Flows Between Advertising and Other Disciplines: A Social Exchange Perspective Our cocitation analysis reveals several findings that offer insight into the future of the field of advertising. As a whole, the field of advertising appears to be building a stable body of research that is being cited in advertising. We predict that this transformation in business will also be reflected in academic advertising research.
How open access is crucial to the future of science We respectfully suggest that The Wildlife Society consider a transition from closed access to open access for The Journal of Wildlife Management, as a means of optimizing and maximizing its role in communications in the field.
Instructions to Prospective Authors by Indian Biomedical Journals: An Opportunity to Promote Responsible Conduct of Research RCR could be promoted if journals provided detailed information to prospective authors under the "instructions to authors" section.
A need to accelerate health research productivity in an African University: the case of Makerere University College of Health Sciences Faculty research productivity was low and dominated by infectious diseases and non-communicable disease research. There is a need for structured institutional support to optimise faculty research outputs. Only with increased research productivity will MakCHS and other academic institutions be able to make a significant contribution in addressing national health challenges.
Mapping cross-border collaboration and communication in cardiovascular research from 1992 to 2012 Participation in cardiovascular research is growing but growth and impact show wide variability between countries. Cross-border collaboration is increasing, in particular within the EU, and is associated with greater citation impact. Future research will refine the evolution within the field regarding topics studied and relation to journals and publication forums.
Analysis of technological innovation based on citation information By exploiting this citation information, not olny the relationships between patents but also between technologies can be analyzed.
Predatory Open Access in Rehabilitation The data indicate that the threat of predatory publishing in rehabilitation is real.
Engaging scientometrics in information systems With this work, we contribute to revitalizing the understanding and practice of scientometrics in IS, enhance its level of discourse, and describe how the IS field can enhance its conceptual and theoretical development by engaging in scientometric studies.
Fractional Jensen-Shannon Analysis of the Scientific Output of Researchers in Fractional Calculus This paper proposed an approach to compare and visualize the scientific output of researchers in FC that takes into account the complete citation profiles.
Faculty Profile Systems: New Services and Roles for Libraries "At its heart, a faculty profile system is a central database of faculty activities that can be used to showcase the work of the university, produce reports, compare faculty productiv-ity, and assess success, but it must also meet the needs and incentives of the individual faculty members who will use it."
FUTURE CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES IN ACADEMIC PUBLISHING Scholarly publishing could be on the precipice of substantial change; the outcomes of these struggles by conflicting and overlapping interests will determine the future distribution of costs and benefits in academic publishing. Pursuing these ends will require political knowledge, savvy coordination and will among librarians, scholars, funders, university administrators and national governments.
A bibliometric analysis of pediatric liver transplantation publications This article provides an insight into the highly cited and therefore most influential articles in pediatric liver transplantation literature. The evolving research in this specialty is influenced by new surgical tech-niques and case reports/case series to a significant extent. It is encouraging to find a high proportion of influential papers are the result of collaborations and we would support this. The majority of these highly cited articles are found in some of the most influential and prestigious journals.
The Future of Basic Science in Academic Surgery Identifying Barriers to Success for Surgeon-scientists We have identified important barriers that confront academic surgeons pursuing basic research and a perception that success in basic science may no longer be achievable.
Systems of technological innovation: a review of research activities taking the case of nanotechnology and India The research provides rich findings and an approach that can be of value to policy makers, strategists and researchers. The major scale-up in the output of research papers for India is significant, but the scale-up in the next steps such as patents and products, particularly by corporates is not adequate. Innovative policy measures are needed to facilitate transitions in different segments of the vast, emerging and interdisciplinary nano- technology industry with mature industries such as chemicals, electronics, food and pharmaceuticals.
An exploration to visualise the emerging trends of technology foresight based on an improved technique of co-word analysis and relevant literature data of WOS Based on the above analysis, some conclusions can be drawn: (1) the connections between high frequency keywords from the co-occurrence analysis and the burst terms are built based on association rules mining; (2) a new researcher on a certain topic can improve his or her efficiency by exploring the research front; meanwhile, for interdisciplinary researchers, this technique could facilitate the identification of studies that represent new trends and dynamics. Third, association rules mining between high frequency or centrality keywords and burst terms could become a helpful technique for researchers to detect more facets of a research front, especially for new and interdisciplinary researchers.
Authorship of Iranian chemistry articles: an actuarial approach The key conclusion of the article is that there is little continuance in the work of Iranian chemists and many Iranian chemists face transience and gaps in their publication outputs. Life expectancy is very low (less than two years) and the rate of infant mortality is high. The situation in Iranian chemistry is not desirable.
A typology of collaborative research networks This paper contributes to the growing body of literature addressing collaboration and researchers' CANs. One contribution is methodological in nature. Our contributions are not limited to the methodological component. The exploratory typology of co-authorship styles presented in our paper can be helpful in the understanding of researchers' collaboration practices.
Disciplinary differences in altmetrics for social sciences This study investigated the presence, distribution and trend of 10 altmetric measures in 9 selected social science disciplines. Finally, this study revealed a moderate correlation between citation and Mendeley and, significant but weak correlations with Tweets and CiteULike in 7 disciplines. On the whole, this study sheds light on, in a more detailed manner than previous studies, different performance of altmetrics in different disciplines within social sciences.
Citation classics published in knowledge management journals. Part III: author survey This study's findings help to create an archetype of a potential KM citation classic author (see Table III). The good news for current KM researchers is that there are still many opportunities to write future KM citation classics because KM is still at a pre-science stage because many of the citation classic articles are normative studies (Serenko and Dumay, 2015a). The normative nature of many KM citation classics backs up the argument for more practice-based research, and this research needs to critique rather than accept these normative arguments.
Let the crowd be my peers? How researchers assess the prospects of social peer review However, rather than a substitute, SPR is well perceived as a possible supplement to the traditional peer-based review system.
Research output availability on academic social networks: implications for stakeholders in academic publishing This study has shown how ASNs have come to overshadow other online outlets for making research publications available, both through a look at recent previous research as well as through our case study of the Hanken School of Economics in particular. Assuming that ASNs continue to grow on the trajectory they have established so far, both when it comes to registered users and hosted documents, the shift we are witnessing has implications for the major stakeholders in academic publishing. For authors the growing popularity of ASNs have no major immediate implications, and it is hard to argue against something that is convenient and "just works".
A multi-institution analysis of general surgery resident peer-reviewed publication trends Additional research directed at identifying interventions promoting resident publishing and scholastic achievement should benefit all surgery training programs looking to cultivate the next generation of critically thinking surgeons. The ability of surgical residents to develop hypothesis, test them, and explain them to their peers, the public, and hospital administrators is an essential skill set for any surgeon irrespective of ultimate career path.
Authorship Trends in 30 Years of the Journal of Arthroplasty Trends of authorship characteristics in the arthroplasty literature largely mirror those seen in other medical literature including increased number of authors per article over time, changes in author qualifications, and increased contributions from international author groups.
Disseminating High-Impact Social Work Scholarship: A Longitudinal Examination of 5-Year Citation Count Correlates The results raise the possibility that authors interested in high-impact scholarship might benefit from working in authorship teams to cre-ate longer papers containing more original ideas, and then submitting the resulting manuscripts to journals that are indexed in multiple electronic databases. This study sheds lights on three factors that may contribute to the dissemination of highly impactful scholarship in the profession's disciplinary journals: authorship teams, article length, and database indexing. The results indicate that authorship teams of three or more authors, longer articles, and articles indexed in multiple databases predicted higher citation impact 5 years later.
Altmetric analysis of 2015 dental literature: a cross sectional survey In comparison with all science subjects and medical and health sciences, 2015 Altmetric scores in dentistry were very low. Uses of new and emerging scholarly tools such as social media, scientific blogs and post-publication peer-review were not common in the dental science. This negligence may be due to lack of knowledge and attitude. An Altmetric score is dynamic and may fluctuate over time.
Does Mendeley provide evidence of the educational value of journal articles? The overall findings of this study are negative.
The changing role of non-English papers in scholarly communication: Evidence from Web of Science's three journal citation indexes "The analyses show that English is increasingly acting as the dominating language of scholarly communication from natural sciences and social sciences to arts and humanities."
Authors from the periphery countries choose open access more often Authors from the periphery countries publish their articles in gold OA more often.
Practices of quality and trustworthiness in scholarly communication: A case from Pakistan This baseline study establishes that national and local policies have affected the academic scholars' practices of quality and trustworthiness. A comparison of findings shows that some of Pakistani scholars' behaviours are similar to those of the scholars from other less developed countries like India and China, while others are closer to the scholars from highly developed countries like USA and UK. Differences of practices among scholars from various disciplines also need to be addressed.
Openness of Spanish scholarly journals as measured by access and rights A comparison of the results of this study with those obtained in 2013 (Melero et al., 2014) reveals that awareness of reuse and posting rights has improved among Spanish journals.
Early career researchers: Scholarly behaviour and the prospect of change The answer, albeit based on just the first year of the study, is that ECRs do not invariably follow the scholarly practices of their mentors and seniors because that is what they told us and what we observed. True, in the crucially important area of publishing, ECRs still have little choice, but to abide by the established rules - at least until these are changed, which might happen yet, with a nudge from the funders (Nicholas & Herman, 2016).
A data envelopment analysis approach for ranking journals We have used data envelopment analysis to compare and rank journal performance across different business disciplines, which is becoming increasingly important when considering scholarly output. We believe that there is more work that can be done in this domain. At the same time, we acknowledge that eliminating journals with a small number of articles (in our case fewer than 17) is a limitation of our study and that future work should aim to develop a model that can satisfactorily accommodate these lower-volume publication outlets.
ComRank: Joint Weight Technique for the Identification of Influential Communities In this paper, we introduced a new idea by considering joint weight to find out the communities ranking and their influence. Finally, the extracted leading communities revealed their actual influence with respect to many other communities. The comparative analysis presents that ComRank extracted high ranked communities in terms of level and EIC worth, while the PageRank foretold some low level communities at high ranks. Thus, the presented work attempts to highlight the importance of communities from an innovative perspective.
Ireland's contribution to urology and nephrology research in the new millennium: a bibliometric analysis This study provides a novel overview of the current Irish urology- and nephrology-related research, and how our results compare within the international community. These findings may serve as a useful approach to benchmark our scientific output in this area and guide future allocation of research spending. To maintain our publication productivity, academic research should be encouraged at both undergraduate and postgraduate grades, with greater collaboration between institutions at national and international level.
Pattern Analysis of Citation-Anchors in Citing Documents for Accurate Identification of In-Text Citations The proposed model has comprehensively outperformed the state-of-the-art approach by scoring average Fscore of 0.97 as compared to baseline of 0.58.
Ensemble analysis of topical journal ranking in bioinformatics The study results shed a new light for understanding topic specific journal rankings and shifts in journals' concentration on a subject.
On the normalization and distributional adjustment of journal ranking metrics: A simple parametric approach This paper revisits the problem of comparing journal ranking metric scores across fields and across metrics, and proposes a simple parametric adjustment process to facilitate such comparisons.
Highly Cited Articles in Science Citation Index Expanded - Subject Category of Horticulture: A Bibliometric Analysis Most of the highly cited articles were published in Theoretical and Applied Genetics and American Journal of Enology and Viticulture, respectively.
Qualitative Publishing in a Neoliberal Universe and University With all these competing pressures, what keeps the tradi-tional publishing system in place? We can thank the conser-vatism of the tenure system for that.
Incentivizing research collaboration using performance-based reward systems This study suggests that research activities should be understood in line with the scientists' strategic behaviors to maximize their individual interests in addition to advancing their scientific knowledge. The good news for research policy-makers and administrators is that, as this study also suggests, a well-designed team-based reward system could encourage organizational members to make extra efforts to collaborate. The current study has limitations.
Measuring the productivity of national R&D systems: Challenges in cross-national comparisons of R&D input and publication output indicators We therefore conclude that the validity of the measurement has to be discussed before any research-based measurement of productivity or efficiency at national level can be described. We find substantial problems in terms of comparability for all three factors. We conclude that improved data production and coverage, as well as more robust international coordination of statistical practices, will be needed if the R&D statistics produced by the OECD are to be meaningfully combined with bibliometric data in efficiency studies at country level and in country-to-country comparisons.
Quantifying 'Output' for Evaluation: Administrative Knowledge Politics and Changing Epistemic Cultures in Dutch Law Faculties The use of a formal evaluation system in this particular field thus has effectively changed both the site and the style in which knowledge politics are played out.
Antecedents and near-term consequences for interdisciplinary dissertators Our analyses provide significant new insights by (1) exploring factors that appear to contribute to the pursuit of interdisciplinary postgraduate research and (2) estimating the near-term consequences for interdisciplinary dissertators. Beyond contributing to a better understanding of who completes interdisciplinary dis-sertation research and how they fare after graduating, our findings also have clear relevance for broader policy debates concerning academic career paths.
A visualization tool of patent topic evolution using a growing cell structure neural network It is to be hoped that the map of technology constructed in this research provides insights into the history of technological evolution and helps explain the transition patterns through changes in cluster continuity.
Analyzing the time delay between scientific research and technology patents based on the citation distribution model In this study, we investigated the time delay between basic research activities and tech- nology patents.
Experimental evaluation of parameter settings in calculation of hybrid similarities: effects of first- and second-order similarity, edge cutting, and weighting factors Given this, our results can serve the bibliometric community as a guideline for the appropriate application of hybrid measures.
The impact of individual collaborative activities on knowledge creation and transmission Our results demonstrated the critical role of the star scientists and gatekeepers in enriching both the scientific production and knowledge transmission of Canadian nanotechnology network due to their high individual performance as well as their centralized positions. The contributions of this research were the essential first steps towards studying the per-formance of knowledge-based networks at the individual level.
A theoretical model of the relationship between the h-index and other simple citation indicators The Lambert-W formula for the h-index works well (also) for estimating the h-index for journals especially in its improved version (13).
An evolutionary process of global nanotechnology collaboration: a social network analysis of patents at USPTO Our results indicate that evolution of the nanotechnology patenting collaboration network is related to preferential attachment based on betweenness centrality, thus enriching our understanding of the nanotechnology collaboration network.
Improving the co-word analysis method based on semantic distance In summary, the results of semantic matrix have more meaningful content and are easier to explain. This paper proposes a co-word analysis method based on semantic distance and displays advantages for methodology and empirical study, but it still has two limitations. First, this method is highly dependent on domain ontology. Second, mapping efficiency and accuracy during the concept mapping process require further study. In the future, we will explore new deep and multi-dimensional ways in which to combine co-occurrence and distance matrices.
Investigating disciplinary differences in the relationships between citations and downloads The study found disciplinary differences in the relationships between downloads and citations. The disciplinary differences found in the study mean that the accuracy or utility of download data in predicting citation data, or measuring impact in general, are very different for different disciplines. Therefore it is safe to conclude that download data are more useful for social sciences and humanise because they reflect or measure a broader impact rather than just the impact in citing authors.
Gender comparisons of social work faculty using H-Index scores Results support previous studies in which women in the social sciences have lower H-Index scores than men. The diminished gap between men and women at the Associate Professor level may suggest that women get promoted to Full Professor less frequently than men at comparable career milestones. Now that a definitive gender gap has been observed in measuring the productivity and impact of faculty in social work, an important direction for future research is to determine the field-specific causes behind differential scholarly success.
A citation-based cross-disciplinary study on literature ageing: part II-diachronous aspects A positive correlation between the share of recent references and the share of fast response, can be found at both aggregation levels and the individual paper level in the 14 major fields and 64 subfields. For examples, on the level of subject fields, Chemistry, Biology, Neuroscience & Behavior are found with evidently better ranks by Prospective Price Index than Price Index, indicating their faster ageing process in the mirror of citations than references, while Engineering and Social sciences are found with the opposite ageing features. These observations also demonstrate the advantage of conducting both, synchronous and diachronous analysis.
A citation-based cross-disciplinary study on literature aging: part I-the synchronous approach Our results provide a view of the literature aging features in the sciences and social sciences, at different aggregation levels, of major fields, subfields, journals and individual papers and from different perspectives.
A dynamic co-word network-related approach on the evolution of China's urbanization research From the overall attributes of the dynamic co-word network, we find that the development of China's urbanization has the small-world effects and scale-free characteristics. We proposed several practical implications on the development of CUR from the dynamic co-word network measures. Beyond the case of CUR's KS, we hope the versatility of methods in this research also provides enlightenment for other KS studies.
Input-output analysis of international research collaborations: a case study of five US universities Findings should provide international officers and research managers with clear sample data and metrics, and their association to make judgments and decisions on the value and impact of international research collaborations as they relate to overall research progress, productivity and research quality of U.S. universities.
Profiles of monograph authors in the social sciences and humanities: an analysis of productivity, career stage, co-authorship, disciplinary affiliation and gender, based on a regional bibliographic database For the time being, the analysis in this paper of comprehensive publication data registered in the VABB-SHW allows us to identify several key elements of the profiles of monograph authors in Flemish SSH research.
Is there gender gap unequivocally? Evidence from research output 1958-2008 Our evidence suggests that the metric currently being used or considered for use has shortcomings for the evaluation of women's performance. Women authors would benefit from the inclusion of an e index type metric in evaluation exercises that accounted for research profiles with fewer publications but instances of high citations. The inclusion of factors like career breaks, teaching contact hours and gender composition of editorial boards on journals are required for a more comprehensive assessment.
An analysis of international coauthorship networks in the supply chain analytics research area This work characterized the research community of supply chain analytics with respect to coauthorship, a special kind of collaboration. This study opens several possibilities of future work. Studying its evolution and also being able to predict future collaborations is an interesting research avenue.
Identification of successful mentoring communities using network-based analysis of mentor-mentee relationships across Nobel laureates "Using methods of network analysis, Nobel laureates were identified as a highly connected group in The Academic Family Tree network."
The fractal dimension of a citation curve: quantifying an individual's scientific output using the geometry of the entire curve The study showed that the fractal dimension follows a considerably different distribution compared to other bibliometric indices and shifts the focus towards the geometric properties of the citation curve.
Assessing author self-citation as a mechanism of relevant knowledge diffusion Overall, assuming shared content as an indicator of relevance and pertinence of citations, our results indicate that self-citations are, in general, useful as a mechanism of knowledge diffusion.
Publish or perish: how Central and Eastern European economists have dealt with the ever-increasing academic publishing requirements 2000-2015 The toughening academic publishing requirements imposed on CEE economists in the last decade have led to two separate consequences: on one hand, more economists now publish in journals with higher impact factor and they distribute their works across a wider range of journals than before. On the other hand, however, a number of economists have chosen an opposite strategy and publish mostly in local or “predatory" journals. In general, positive trend prevails. Publishing requirements should aim at publishing in internationally recognized high-quality journals. Policies should be established to discourage frequent publishing in low-quality journals.
Standing on the shoulders of giants: the effect of outstanding scientists on young collaborators' careers In this paper, we demonstrate the positive influence of outstanding scientists on young collaborators' future career. Our approach is general, so it is possible to expand this study to other fields when we obtain the relevant databases. These questions call for further research in the future.
How the analysis of transitionary references in knowledge networks and their centrality characteristics helps in understanding the genesis of growing technology areas In conclusion, the analysis showed that at the current stage, existing discussions in both areas cannot be considered separate research fields. Though discussions in both areas demonstrate stochastic referencing and lack replicability of co-citation networks, emerging technologies demonstrate the primary attributes of a developing research field. The suggested approach including the identification and measuring of network characteristics of transitionary references can be used for the analysis and predictive modeling of specific technological domains.
Network analysis to support public health: evolution of collaboration among leishmaniasis researchers Finally, link prediction technique proved to be a very important tool for identifying collaboration pattern changes, which signal evolving collaborations and changing focus of research.
Measuring interdisciplinarity of a research system: detecting distinction between publication categories and citation categories In this study, a new framework for measuring interdisciplinarity of research systems is provided. We consider that this new framework is valid, as we have demonstrated that the results can measure the degree of integration and diffusion well. Thus, it is essential to measure the distinction between publication categories and citation categories.
Early insights on the Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI): an overlay map-based bibliometric study First, this new index is growing, in terms of both the number of articles published and the number of journals included.
Representation of Academics from Developing Countries as Authors and Editorial Board Members in Scientific Journals: Does this Matter to the Field of Development Studies? In this study, we have established that academics in developing countries are marginalised in academic knowledge production as both authors and members of editorial boards.
The nearly universal link between the age of past knowledge and tomorrow's breakthroughs in science and technology: The hotspot Our findings reveal that the age of information is a remarkably powerful and heretofore unknown predictor of high-impact work in science and technology.
Quantifying the negative impact of brain drain on the integration of European science In summary, our analysis reveals the counterintuitive decrease in cross-border activity by the new member states following their entry into the EU.
The intellectual structure of human resource management research: a bibliometric study of the international journal of human resource management, 2000-2012 The present study uses author citation, co-citation analyses (ACAs) and networks analysis applied to the bibliographic references of the research papers published in IJHRM between 2000 and 2012 to analyze and represent the intellectual structure of the HRM scientific domain. The analysis developed also helped us delimit the different research lines or fronts which shape the intellectual structure of the field, thus allowing novice researchers to have a broad and clear vision of the topics and of the knowledge base on which the discipline is built. With regard to possible research lines for the future, it could be of great interest to analyze the changes and evolution in the intellectual structure of the discipline studied to determine whether it is in a 'normal science' period or, alternatively, a change of paradigm is taking place.
Surgery investigators funded through the National Institutes of Health: A rebirth There has been an expansion of outcomes-based surgical research. The most consistently successful institutions are those that actively cultivate MD researchers. Encouragingly, the number of young, independently funded surgeon-scientists in America appears to be increasing.
Finding Matilda: deconstructing women's invisibility in Finding New Zealand's Scientific Heritage Contemporary historiography of science in New Zealand must continue to transition from the collective biography mode Rossiter described in 1982 (a kind of women-telling-their-experience approach) towards a variety of modes that might provide thinking from the perspective of women's lives, and thus work towards a more equitable history of science in New Zealand.
THE SURGE OF PREDATORY OPEN-ACCESS IN NEUROSCIENCES AND NEUROLOGY The findings of the present investigation outline the occurrence of the predatory publishing phenomenon in the fields of neurosciences and neurology.
ARE MIGRANTS MORE PRODUCTIVE THAN STAYERS? SOME EVIDENCE FROM A SET OF HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE ACADEMIC ECONOMISTS Our contributions can be summarized in the following two points. First, controlling for fixed department effects is not enough: productivity comparisons between foreigners and stayers must be done within each subgroup of a relevant partition of U.S. departments.
The medical device development landscape in South Africa: Institutions, sectors and collaboration Results could inform the development of strategies and policies to promote certain types of medical device development. Further studies could identify drivers and barriers to successful medical device development in South Africa. Thus there is room for increased translational collaboration within South Africa, potentially for greater health impact.
Article-level assessment of influence and translation in biomedical research Developing validated methods that quantify scientific progress can help to optimize the management of research investments and accelerate the acquisition of knowledge that improves human health. The summative result of these efforts will be a bright future for the scientific enterprise as we strive together to optimize the rate of scientific discovery and demonstrate the value of investments in research and the resulting impact on human health and beyond.
Bibliometric analysis of worldwide scientific literature in mobile - health: 2006-2016 The size of literature in m-Health showed a noticeable increase in the past decade. Given the large volume of citations received in this field, it is expected that applications of m-Health will be seen into various health aspects and health services. Research in m-Health needs to be encouraged, particularly in the fight against AIDS, poor medication adherence, glycemic control in Africa and other low income world regions where technology can improve health services and decrease disease burden.
Use of Bibliometric Analysis to Assess the Scientific Productivity and Impact of the Global Emerging Infections Surveillance and Response System Program, 2006-2012 The findings of this study demonstrate the utility of biblio-metric analyses for evaluating infectious disease surveillance programs, in particular the scientific productivity and impact of GEIS-funded surveillance. Bibliometric indica-tors are useful to measure scientific productivity and impact in surveillance systems; and this methodology can be utilized as a management tool to assess future changes to GEIS surveillance priorities.
Economic Research Evolves: Fields and Styles Using machine-learning methods to classify economics papers into fields and styles, we document major shifts in research output and the types of papers referenced. The growth in empirical work reflects a substantial shift within rather than across fields. But more empirical papers are being published and they are appearing in more influential journals. Citations to empirical work have grown even more than empirical output, although the empirical share of citations is just now reaching 50 percent.
Otolaryngology Education: Recent Trends in Publication Recent trends in otolaryngology literature reflect an increasing focus on education; however, this work is underfunded and often lacks high-quality evidence.
Exploring University-Industry Collaboration Trends in Computer Science: A Study on Hardware and Architecture and Software Engineering UI papers provide an adequate information source for measuring the scale and strength of UI collaboration. The results of this study provide information on the development of joint contributions between universities and industries in computer science and may serve as a reference for administrative departments involved in policymaking.
Spanish Society of Vascular and Interventional Radiology (SERVEI) Bibliometric Study (2010-2015): What, How, and Where do Spanish Interventional Radiologists Publish? The scientific production of the Spanish IRs in the last 6 years is difficult to interpret. However, more than 50% of IRs published one article in the last 6 years. Finally, it would be advisable to repeat this study over a period of time in order to compare.
A multi-objective decision-making approach to the journal submission problem We use a multi-objective optimization analysis to explicitly illustrate the trade-offs inherent in deciding on which journal(s) to send a manuscript.
Decision quality of the research project evaluation mechanism by using particle swarm optimization Furthermore, this study clearly showed the decision quality perceived by those who are working for the research fund organization. The clustering method proposed in this study, KASA-PSO, will support many researchers and research organizations in charge of performance analysis by providing rational, systematic, clustering of papers for the evaluation of research performance for academic research support projects supported by the KNRF. Lastly, all researchers related to the academic research support projects could be encouraged to publish their papers in academic journals with a high IF and given appropriate policy incentives so that the primary and secondary times cited will increase in the future.
Multidisciplinary research: should effort be the measure of success? The analysis demonstrates that when planning future projects, the tendency can be to underestimate the over-head in maintaining technical data-collection systems.
Radiation Oncology research grants awarded by the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Radiologists: Value for money? This project has identified significant research output and subjective benefit from relatively modest FRO seed grants, implying a favourable cost-benefit ratio.
Ranking predatory journals in dermatology: distinguishing the bad from the ugly The field of dermatology is not immune to predatory publishers. This study validates Beall's list as well as other previous studies. Strategies to a solution include spreading awareness throughout academic institutions and dermatology departments as well as avoiding publishers that are involved in predatory practices. However, some journals may be able to make necessary adjustments and become legitimate contributors to the field.
Coauthorship network in transportation research This study could serve as a tool to qualitatively and quantitatively understand scientific collaborations in transportation research.
Citation classics in neurointerventional research: a bibliometric analysis of the 100 most cited articles This study presents a detailed list of the 100 most cited articles in the field of neurointervention.
Similarity Analysis of Korean Medical Literature and Its Association with Efforts to Improve Research and Publication Ethics The decrease was associated with the introduction of CrossCheck by KoreaMed and the frequent use of similarity check software.
Toward collaborator selection and determination of data ownership and publication authorship in research collaborations The findings of this study can inform the design of best practice guides, policies, and training modules used to manage research collaborations in the CMP community and other related communities. Future related research could investigate the data infrastructure needed for such a registry.
Why do papers have many Mendeley readers but few Scopus-indexed citations and vice versa? Although Mendeley reader counts correlate strongly and positively with Scopus-indexed citation counts in most subject areas, some articles receive disproportionately many or few Mendeley readers in comparison to Scopus- indexed citations.
Stratification of Iranian LIS academics in terms of visibility, effectiveness and scientific and professional performance: Research report Part 1 According to the research findings, it can be said that in stratification of the research community in terms of visibility and effectiveness rates, faculty members of Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Shiraz University, Kharazmi University and Islamic Azad University, have the most visibility in the central stratum.
Publication Patterns of US Academic Librarians and Libraries from 2003 to 2012 The present study provides benchmarks that can apply to evaluation of academic librarians who are assessed for their publication productivity. The study also documents both the substantial contribution of U.S. academic librarians to their field’s literature and a long-term trend of decline in the proportion of that contribution. The results suggest that an increase in coauthorship rates resulted in more articles for individuals (author instances), but not more articles for the profession.
Citation function, polarity and influence classification Our strategy simplifies the annotation process and enables us to obtain better results in terms of the IAA by comparing it with the results we could obtain if we directly classify the terms in all possible classes. These results indicate the feasibility of our citation characterization method using the dimensions FUNCTION, POLARITY, ASPECTS and INFLUENCE in the citation analysis. For future research, we propose that all citation characterizations regarding FUNCTION, POLARITY, ASPECTS and INFLUENCE should be considered to construct a more complete evaluation of the impact of a citation beyond citation counting.
A bibliometric analysis of the Scielo database: a Brazilian portfolio of the solidarity economy The purpose of this article is not to build a theoretical framework; it does, however, seek to map the publications exploring the solidarity economy as indexed on the Scielo database over a fifteen-year period.
Underestimating or overestimating the distribution inequality of research funding? The influence of funding sources and subdivision This paper provides a more accurate calculation of the actual distribution of research funding.
Evolution of three Nobel Prize themes and a Nobel snub theme in chemistry: a bibliometric study with focus on international collaboration In this bibliometric study, we have analyzed three chemistry research themes closely associated with the Nobel Prize—namely Ribozyme, Ozone and Fullerene—as well as a Nobel snub theme, BET equation.
Discovering the interdisciplinary nature of Big Data research through social network analysis and visualization The findings of this study provide a clear, comprehensive understanding of interdisciplinary collaboration in Big Data research. Findings of this study may enhance the definition from more perspectives, especially taking into consideration of its interdisciplinary nature. As the research develops, Big Data will continue to expand in scope and to address new problems, and the intellectual structure and collaboration patterns are expected to be accordingly transformed and constructed.
Cardiovascular disease research in Saudi Arabia: a bibliometric analysis The scientific literature from Saudi Arabia addressed many of the CVD types. However, there were very few experimental studies conducted to date.
The citation-based impact of complex innovation systems scales with the size of the system These scale-invariant emergent properties are a common property of a complex innovation system. These properties can be quantified using the parameters of scale-invariant correlation. These parameters can be used to formulate measures and models useful for informing public policy about scale-invariant emerging properties of a complex innovation system, making comparisons of citation impact between complex systems of vastly different sizes, evaluating citation impact of complex innovation systems according to their size, long range planning, and elaborating rankings across complex innovation systems.
With whom do researchers collaborate and why? These results hold practical implications for policymakers interested in promoting quality research.
Quality assessment of scientific outputs using the BWM Our study contributes to the ongoing debate of measuring the quality of scientific research outputs.
The geography of university scientific production in Europe: an exploration in the field of Food Science and Technology Our main results can be briefly summarized in three points. Firstly, our descriptive analysis shows that the regional pattern of the number of scientific publications presents both a high concentration in few regions and a very slight trend towards more spatial equality.
Copyright compliance and infringement in ResearchGate full-text journal articles ResearchGate has become a massive and rapidly growing source for free access to the full- text of journal articles.
Study on the destination of research via knowledge flows This research aims to detect destination of research with citations and thereby capture the next generation of research topics. The methodology, system and results will contribute to finding future researches and applications as investing candidates. In future research, the following activities will be required: Increasing the data sources (other types of databases) and catching trends before papers are published, Making stories to induce results in innovation strategy and technology management, and Promoting results to policy makers and business planners.
Scientific publication performance in post-communist countries: still lagging far behind Our descriptive evidence implies that when it comes to scientific publication performance measured a quarter of a century after the fall of communism, post-communist CEE EU member states still lag noticeably behind their Western counterparts.
Scientific collaboration patterns vary with scholars' academic ages We believe that academic age, which is a basic demographic characteristic of scholars, should be analyzed extensively.
Highly tweeted science articles: who tweets them? An analysis of Twitter user profile descriptions The most significant observation is that people who share scientific articles that are popular on Twitter tend to describe themselves through their occupation and expertise.
HCI down under: reflecting on a decade of the OzCHI conference Our analysis shows that OzCHI is in general a popular conference as indicated through number of submissions and citations in comparison to other similar conferences—although it is relatively still a smaller conference in comparison to NordiCHI.
Sleeping beauties in meme diffusion The promising results from our model solidly demonstrate that a mechanism behind the dif- ferent memes exists, and its function in driving the formation of popularity dynamics can be reflected by the two sleeping beauties that we reveal.
An empirical investigation of the associations among usage, scientific collaboration and citation impact We found a significant moderate correlation between citations and usage counts in WoS.
Analyzing concept complexity, knowledge ageing and diffusion pattern of Mooc Mooc research has undergone dramatic increases in the number of concepts and their relations. The conceptual complexity is growing considerably. The half-life (3.95) of Mooc research shows that the field is updating techniques rapidly, growing knowledge faster, and experiencing ageing of research publications faster than Education field.
Do ResearchGate Scores create ghost academic reputations? Thus, RG Scores should not be mistaken for academic reputation indicators.
Scientific output: labor or capital intensive? An analysis for selected countries The objective of this paper is to understand the production of scientific output for several countries.
Modeling the coevolution between citations and coauthorship of scientific papers The presented model adopts a viewpoint in focusing on the coevolution of collaborations and citations within scientific research, and particular in reproducing statistical and topological features generated by the interactions between collaborations and citations.
Is medical research informing professional practice more highly cited? Evidence from AHFS DI Essentials in drugs.com The methods show that it is practical to extract AHFS DI Essentials references as evidence of the applied value of medical research.
Do Mendeley reader counts reflect the scholarly impact of conference papers? An investigation of computer science and engineering Based upon high and positive correlations in the subject categories of Computer Science Applications and Computer Software, Mendeley readership counts for conference papers in computer science should be acceptable as scholarly impact indicators. In contrast, the weak correlations between Mendeley readership and citation counts in the subject categories of Building and Construction Engineering and Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering, coupled with low proportions of papers with at least one reader, suggest that conference papers in these types of engineering do not support a similar claim. If this is the case, then new indicators, perhaps including download counts, would be needed to reflect this impact.
Allometric scaling in scientific fields In this paper, we first examined and confirmed the allometric scaling relations between the numbers of papers, citations, and references and numbers of authors in subfields of three disciplines, namely, physics, mathematics and economics, which are analogous to the relation between the numbers of patents and inventors of patents in cities (Bettencourt et al. 2007a) and the relations between various outputs/inputs and population size for cities (Bettencourt et al. 2007a) and countries (Zhang and Yu 2010).
Dynamic credit allocation in scientific literature Our main contributions are two-folds: (1) The reinforcement and time-dependent factors were taken into account in our method. (2) We proposed a flexible and extensible algorithm, being able to incorporate the exogenous information to potentially improve its accuracy.
Do social sciences and humanities behave like life and hard sciences? Our findings may be useful to further develop indirect quali-quantitative comparative analysis across heterogeneous disciplines and, more broadly, to investigate on the generative mechanisms behind the observed empirical regularities.
The decline and fall of book reviews in psychology: a bibliometric analysis The data do indeed show that the number of published book reviews in psychology is declining.
EM-index: a new measure to evaluate the scientific impact of scientists In this article, we have proposed two different indicators EM-index and EM'-index to quantify the scientific impact of individual as well as to compare two different researchers.
Scientific publishing and global university rankings. How well are top publishing universities recognized? In this paper, we have investigated the question to what extent the top 200 universities in scientific publishing in biological sciences, physical sciences, social sciences and life sciences are the very same universities that occupy the top 200 positions in major rankings.
Reflections on how to evaluate the professional value of scientific papers and their corresponding citations "Citations of publications are of great help in improving the efficiency of retrieving information (identification) but are completely unsuitable for the assessment of individual scientists."
Citation classics in central nervous system inflammatory demyelinating disease Our study provides a historical perspective on the research progress on CNS inflammatory demyelinating disease and may serve as a guide for important advances and trends in the field for associated researchers. Although the citation rate does not directly represent the quality of the study, it is one marker used to recognize the importance of studies in the scientific community. We can trace scientific progress and identify seminal articles in a specific field by citation analysis.
The Impact of the Monographs Crisis on the Field of Communication The authors conclude that the monographs crisis is indeed affecting citation patterns in the field of communication. The more recent data collected for this study, when compared to the data collected by Yates and Chapman (2007), clearly demonstrates that references to monographs are indeed declining relative to other formats. As the monographs crisis continues, we watch with interest to see what new and innovative models of publishing and scholarly communication will emerge.
Critical remarks on the Italian research assessment exercise VQR 2011-2014 The major original contribution of this paper is to collect, organize and develop the criticism directed to the bibliometric assessment procedure of the VQR 2011-2014, with the aim of encouraging the debate on how to improve future research assessment exercises in Italy and, maybe, in other countries. We believe that the major vulnerabilities of the VQR 2011–2014 can be (at least partly) solved by (1) extending the bibliometric evaluation procedure to the totality of the papers, (2) avoiding the use of journal metrics in general, and (3) avoiding questionable normalizations/combinations of the indicators in use.
An analysis of the foreign-educated elite academics in the United States The role of foreign education is important for training academics in the prestigious universities in the United States.
Research impact in co-authorship networks: a two-mode analysis The paper provides an insight into the research impact of scholars involved in scientific collaborations, based on the number of citations and the impact factor of published papers.
Uncovering fine-grained research excellence: The global research benchmarking system The Global Research Benchmarking System provides university benchmarking data to support strategic decision making that is sufficiently fine-grained to show variation within a university and to identify focused areas of excellence; is actionable; is objective and verifiable; and provides meaningful comparisons across the diversity of national higher education environments and university structures.
The impact of collaboration and knowledge networks on citations These findings illustrated elements occupying structural holes in the knowledge network which can provide combinatorial opportunities and knowledge flow control advantages and, in turn, lead to higher citation counts of involved papers.
Do researchers pay attention to publication subsidies? We show that because of the 250 TL rule less than half of the articles with a Turkish affiliation receive publication subsidies.
The solitude of stars. An analysis of the distributed excellence model of European universities Our data are consistent with a distinction between countries that have adopted a Anglosaxon model (basically, UK, Netherlands and Switzerland, and part of Scandinavian countries) and countries that follow a Continental model. The Continental European landscape is characterized by a model of distributed excellence. With only few exceptions, excellence is distributed across many universities, each of which is excellent only in 1-2 fields.
An empirical and theoretical critique of the Euclidean index We find that the Euclidean index does not outperform existing indicators on these topics and that the main application of the index would be solely for ranking, which is not seen as a recommended practice.
Global science discussed in local altmetrics: Weibo and its comparison with Twitter The study, based on a large-scale dataset, reveals characteristics of Sina Weibo as an important local altmetrics platform on which global science is discussed. Strong evidence shows that Weibo, as well as Twitter and general altmetrics, have significant immediacy advantage over citations, endorsing earlier claims that altmetrics can potentially detect more realtime impact of research products. The common motivations for posting scientific weibos is to disseminate or discuss the articles because they are interesting, surprising, academically useful, or practically useful.
Patterns of authors contribution in scientific manuscripts In this study, we complemented previous studies on contributorship by treating the relationship between authors and contributions as a bipartite network.
The accuracy of confidence intervals for field normalised indicators Based upon the above results, the follows strategy is recommended for calculating indicator confidence intervals.
On evaluating the quality of a computer science/computer engineering conference We believe that CCA can offer a better and more complete (thus fairer) method for judging the quality of the venue where an author publishes his/her work. Furthermore, with this new approach each conference can make its annual self-evaluation and draw useful conclusions from the gathered data over time. We hope that our approach can bring a fresh look into the current conference evaluation system.
Genealogical index: A metric to analyze advisor-advisee relationships The genealogical index allows mentoring to be carried out at several levels or generations to quantify the propagation of scientific knowledge and assess its impact on the academic community.
Measuring cognitive distance between publication portfolios We showed that, besides using barycenters in a two- and three dimensional base map, it is possible to derive cognitive distances in N dimensions using the SAPVs and WCS methods. Hence, our preference, based on mathematical logic, goes to the SAPVs and WCS methods. Yet, WCS scores badly in the case of chemistry, so that our final preference goes to the SAPV method.
Do mathematicians, economists and biomedical scientists trace large topics more strongly than physicists? In this paper, we investigate the phenomenon of largeness tracing among scientists from four disciplines, namely, physics, mathematics, economics and biomedical science, all of which have yielded a large number of papers with associated subject classification codes.
The time dimension of science: Connecting the past to the future Together this paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the time dimension of science, representing a new empirical and theoretical basis for all future studies in this area.
The Herrero-Villar approach to citation impact The HV method also provides a complete, transitive and cardinal evaluation, without recurring to any external weighting scheme. When there are insufficient reasons to choose a particular weighting system, or when people disagree about the choice of weights, the HV method provides a sound alternative that avoids having to decide on how to ponder different categories.
Examining academic ranking and inequality in library and information science through faculty hiring networks In this paper, we studied academic ranking and inequality in LIS by examining LIS faculty hiring networks.
Disciplinary knowledge diffusion in business research In this paper we studied journal citations among six business disciplines and reveal patterns of the knowledge flows, interdependencies and interdisciplinarity of these six disciplines.
Heterogeneity in an undirected network: Definition and measurement We defined heterogeneity of networks in a precise way and provided a method for its measurement.
Finance conference quality and publication success: A conference ranking In doing so, we provide finance researchers with guidance so they can decide which conferences to attend.
Lotka's Inverse Square Law of Scientific Productivity: Its Methods and Statistics Given the passage of time and the advance in technology, such an outcome seems almost miraculous, and it proves one thing—Lotka based the derivation of his inverse square law of scientific productivity on the very method of identify- ing power-law behavior by the R² fit to the regression line on the log-log plot that Clauset et al. (2009) now consider unreliable.
Discrete Power Law With Exponential Cutoff and Lotka's Law The log likelihood ratio statistic, -2ln(λ)=117.8, is large and the statistical preference is for the power law with exponential cutoff (as is the preference from the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test).
The 300 most cited articles published in periodontology We conclude that scientific evolution in periodontology has been based more on narrative reviews than on reproducible systematic reviews.
The mediating effect of real life encounters in co-writing tourism books The study findings suggest that academic institutions should arrange and support scholarly meetings to fulfill goals such as knowledge building, publication, and networking.
Generating novel research ideas using computational intelligence: A case study involving fuel cells and ammonia synthesis We proposed a method to help researchers create novel research ideas using bibliometrics. Two clusters, with a high level of keyword similarity, generally use similar techniques and are interactive when it comes to techniques. Hence, there is a strong possibility that techniques used in one area can be passed on to the other area. By contrast, our approach combines explicit citation analysis and implicit text analysis, not only to extract common research topics from distant research fields but also to support the development of novel research ideas.
Interdisciplinary and collaborative work: Framing promotion and tenure practices and policies responsibility for change
Retracted Publications in Orthopaedics Prevalence, Characteristics, and Trends While uncommon, the retraction of publications within the field of orthopaedics may be increasing. The most often cited reasons for retraction were plagiarism, misconduct, and redundant publication. Retracted articles continue to be cited in the literature after retraction. Greater awareness of the COPE guidelines within the orthopaedic community and more efficient means to prevent the citation of retracted articles are needed.
Changes in Author, Editor, and Reviewer Genders Over 42 Years in Teaching of Psychology In conclusion, our analysis of ToP author, editor, and reviewer genders revealed some trends that might be expected and some that might not. We are both pleased and impressed that over the history of ToP, the percentages of women authors and first authors have greatly and consistently increased. We hope this study provides a baseline for evaluating the future success of any such effort and for future research examining how ToP contributor genders change over the next 42 years.
Evaluation of research topic evolution in psychiatry using co-word analysis Co-word analysis for the preliminary exploration of research foci and developmental trends in psychiatry is helpful in finding developmental rules, choices of topics, and innovative research.
The 100 Top-Cited Articles in Pulmonary Imaging A Bibliometric Analysis Our study lists the 100 top-cited articles in pulmonary imaging, provides an insight into historical developments, and allows for recognition of advances in this field.
An output evaluation of a health research foundation's enhanced grant review process for new investigators The use of small amounts of seed money for competitive research grants at early stages of an MMSF-funded applicant's career correlates with future short-term success of that applicant.
Global scientific production in the field of knee arthroplasty: A cross-sectional survey of research activities The number of knee arthroplasty publications has rapidly increased in recent years.
Innovation policy configuration - a comparative study of Russia and China It has been demonstrated that supply side instruments were used predominantly rela- tive to demand side instruments in both countries. The revealed similarities and differences in innovation policy configuration between Russia and China have been scrutinized through exploring the causes of the differences and the foundations of the similarities between the two countries. Moreover, the implications beyond Russia and China have been articulated, suggesting that the rest of the world would benefit from a deeper understanding of successes of strategies employed by the Russians and Chinese in the field of innovation management.
Researcher rank stability across alternative output measurement schemes in the context of a time limited research evaluation: the New Zealand case This article focuses on the stability of rankings of academics by research productivity in the context of short-term academic decision-making. Our findings suggest that future movement from a peer-review to a bibliometric-based research evaluation scheme will continue to be plagued by controversy. This applies with particular force to academics working within a NRAE environment based on individual assessment such as New Zealand's PBRF.
The 100 Most-Cited Articles Focused on Ultrasound Imaging: A Bibliometric Analysis Our study presents a detailed list and analysis of the 100 most-cited US articles, which provides a unique insight into the historical development in this field.
Does small equal predatory? Analysis of publication charges and transparency of editorial policies in Croatian open access journals In order to clearly differentiate themselves from predatory journals, it is not enough for journals from small research communities to operate on non-commercial bases, but also to have transparent editorial policies. Our analysis of Croatian OA journals showed that the majority of them did not charge authors or require submission or article processing charges. Finally, the research and academic community should revise criteria for research assessment so that they recognize and honour high-quality authentic OA journals vs. "predatory" journals.
Can Research, Development, and Innovation Policies Cross Borders? The Case of Nordic-Baltic Region This article started by outlining a new analytical framework to look at RDI policy convergence encompassing both the multilevel architecture of RDI governance and direction of coordination and policy convergence. It helps to describe the dynamic nature of policy convergence as a process and not only as an outcome. This on the whole means that RDI policies can indeed cross borders, but under very specific conditions. Thus, the agency executives in the Baltic States in general prefer more top-down, vertical measures that promote policy convergence and coordination.
Top-Cited Articles in Implant Dentistry Citation analysis in the field of implant dentistry reveals interesting information about the topics and trends negotiated by researchers and elucidates which characteristics are required for a paper to attain a "classic" status.
Author contributions to ecological publications: What does it mean to be an author in modern ecological research? Lead author contributions in recent ecological publications are consistent and robust while secondary authors instead show a high level of individual variability in contributions and a low rate of involvement in the writing process. Our results suggest a certain level of ubiquity to observed ambiguities in author contributions given the cross-disciplinary nature of ecological research. Such advances are essential for the restoration of authorship meaning and value given our survey results showing highly variable and often limited author contributions in modern ecological research.
Research methods and techniques in Spanish library and information science journals (2012-2014) In terms of the volume of publication and the research methods and techniques most commonly used, library and information science research in Spain does not generally lag behind research in the international sphere.
Analysis of collaboration and co-citation networks between researchers studying violence involving women This study shows that, in general, women lead research into violence against women; they publish more articles than men; they have a higher degree of collaboration; they occupy positions of centrality in the social network and collaboration groups, and they are closer to other authors.
Research Trends in the Study of ICT Based Learning Communities: A Bibliometric Analysis Learning communities, mediated by ICT have become an increasing trend used to contribute to the educational processes in institutions, which is reflected in the increase of publications in recent years.
Open Access and Promotion and Tenure Evaluation Plans at the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire "UWEC program and department evaluation plans fall silent on the issue of open access publishing as a viable option for tenure line faculty."
Bibliometrics Analysis of Typical SCI Journals in Natural Medicines by Use of WoS In conclusion, the present study proposes some strategies to accelerate journal internationalization and improve international influence through comparative analysis of bibliometric indicators among eight SCI-indexed journals.
Can the Growth of Mega-Journals Affect Authors' Choice of Journal? Through this analysis, the study gained two findings. First, authors have been very active in publishing through SCIE mega-journals for the past few years. Second, authors who are under pressure to publish many articles in SCIE journals within a short time and who thus place greater importance on acceptance rates and speed of publication would favor publishing in mega-journals. This study expects that if mega-journals conduct peer reviews of soundness not significance, and provide open access immediately upon publication as they do now, they will maintain the attention of both authors and readers and continue to garner priority in selection for publication.
Publication lag and early view effects in information science journals Adopting the early view policy may significantly help increase the impact factor and immediacy index values of the journals, as well as the visibility of their contents. This study focuses on early view, which is still a limited feature of contemporary scholarly communication. Some in-depth analysis may be carried out in the future by receiving the opinions of editors, publishers, and authors.
Are Mendeley reader counts high enough for research evaluations when articles are published? The results show that there are more Mendeley readers than Scopus citations per article at the month of publication but there are probably still not enough Mendeley readers for article-level evaluations, however, since the average is under 0.8 for all subjects.
The most influential researchers in information behaviour An integrative view on influence indicators In total, it seems that the single and traditional criteria are increasingly replacing new and integrative ones in measuring researchers' scientific influence in fields including IB studies. It can be, thus, concluded that the use of balanced and compound bibliometric indicators has the capability to provide a relatively fair and clear insight on researchers' influence in a specific field. In this way, it is possible to create individual profiles for all researchers in that field so that the result could be used for important decisions such as tenure and promotion committees, granting research projects, and the like.
Comparison of US and UK rankings of LIS journals Bearing this limitation in mind, the study is in agreement with that of Manzari in highlighting the prominence of JASIST and of the Journal of Documentation, but otherwise reveals differences, some of which are very substantial, in the perceived standings of the other journals that were rated in the two studies. Considering not just the suggested additional journals but also the REF submissions, a further conclusion is that LIS research in the UK is wide-ranging in scope, and certainly much broader than if the discipline is defined by traditional LIS journals.
Bibliometric analysis of the scientific production in implantology (2009-2013) This study revealed a significant growth in implant dentistry literature in terms of the total number of journals, number of authors, organizations, and author collaborations. Most key bibliometric indicators demonstrated upward trends.
The Interdisciplinarity of Collaborations in Cognitive Science From these data and models, we can conclude that CogSci as a whole can be considered a very interdisciplinary journal, showing a higher JSD score than journals from JCR's SOCSCI and SCI database.
Working framework of semantic interoperability for CRIS with heterogeneous data sources The operative framework proposed enhances management of the syntactic and semantic interoperability of the CRIS system designed. At the same time, the stages of the methodological framework would allow data from the information sources used by the Cuban project VLIR to be scaled to other systems. The case of study and the pre-experiment developed here demonstrate the applicability of the proposed model in a real setting of use, achieving very positive results.
Research status, hotspots and trends for information behavior in China using bibliometric and co-word analysis This study provides important insights into the research status and trends on information behavior in China, which might provide a potential guide for the future research.
Citation personal display A case study of personal websites by physicists in 11 well-known universities "The study uncovers that the overall proportion of citation personal display is not high (14.8 percent) among physicists, but there is a significant university difference (p < 0.05) in citation personal display."
Content analysis of scholarly discussions of psychological academic articles on Facebook The study contributes to the literature by enriching the understanding of Facebook metric as an academic and non-academic impact assessment tool for scientific publication. Therefore, Facebook metric reflects not only the general public's attitudes and perception towards academic publications, but also relevant aspects in real life. Along with the traditional citation analysis indicating the academic impact of articles, funding agencies and university administrators are advised to consider altmetrics such as Facebook metric as one of ways to measure societal impacts and practical implications of research.
An indicator of the impact of journals based on the percentage of their highly cited publications The JIF and h index allow comparisons between journals of the same scientific category, but are not valid indicators to compare journals of different categories. The proportion of highly cited articles in a journal (pArt) appears to be an alternative citation impact indicator to achieve this end, since it is a relative measure that lacks the known limitations of other indicators in the literature, such as the journal size or the sensitivity to the high citation of a small number of articles. The main advantage of the proposed index is that, in any case, each of the 20 indicators of the pArt family is a very simple but powerful indicator, that can be intuitively understood, and that enables comparisons between journals of different categories -as well as between journals of the same category- because of its proofed field normalization and validity.
Pakistani LIS scholars' altmetrics in ResearchGate The current research has shown that while the uptake by a designated cohort--Pakistani library and information science scholars-- has been relatively low, the site appears to have offered some benefits for those who have done so.
Allternative Metrics ("Altmetrics") for Assessiing Artricle Impact in Populer General Radiology Journals Although overall online attention to radiology journal content was low, alternative metrics exhibited unique trends, particularly for nonclinical articles, and may provide a complementary measure of radiology research impact compared to traditional citation counts.
Global ranking of knowledge management and intellectual capital academic journals: 2017 update The goal of this study was to update the global rankings of 27 KM/IC academic journals developed previously (see Serenko and Bontis (2009; 2013) and Bontis and Serenko (2009)). The evolution of the KM/IC discipline has made significant strides since its genesis in the 1990s. The increased number of academic refereed journals in the field is positively correlated with the number of graduate programs offering specializations in knowledge management and intellectual capital throughout the world.
An overview of qualitative comparative analysis: A bibliometric analysis The results show an increasing trend in the use of fsQCA at the expense of csQCA due to the advantages offered by the former regarding the inclusion of conditions with a degree of membership in the set. It seems that this methodology has been accepted by the scientific field, evidenced by the number of published articles using this methodology in indexed and high impact journals. In future research, bibliometric analysis could be applied to other methods in development to identify their evolution.
Clinical Pharmacology Research Internships at the Interface between Academia and Industry: Students' Perceptions and Scientific Output In general, student satisfaction was high, and many aspects were reported similar to academic research electives such as focus on research methodology and strictness. However, we identified some differences, i.e. a broader scope and stricter planning at CHDR electives. With proper supervision and management of expectations, effective research internships are possible within the commercial environment of a clinical research organization.
Academic Productivity of US Neurosurgery Residents as Measured by H-Index: Program Ranking with Correlation to Faculty Productivity Resident first-author publications correlated with recently described academic departmental productivity. Resident research and publication is a key metric for assessing the productivity of academic neuro-surgery programs and is consistent with one of the core foci of neurosurgical training. Fostering a program of resident research and publication is imperative in developing an academic neurosurgeon.
Exploring the Questionable Academic Practice of Conference Paper Double Dipping Our findings that double dipping was a more common activity when the paper is authored by junior faculty and those affiliated with research-intensive universities as well as for those who received their highest educational degree in countries with higher levels of corruption, support our arguments. Our study also contributes to a better understanding of contextual factors that can lead individuals to be more likely to engage in questionable academic conduct.
Which Factors Affect Citation Rates in the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Literature? The investigators identified five factors associated with citation rates in OMS. These factors should be considered in context when evaluating citation-based metrics for OMS. Studies that focus on core OMS procedures (e.g. dentoalveolar surgery, dental implant surgery), are published in specialty-specific journals (e.g. JOMS or IJOMS), and have higher levels of evidence are more likely to be cited.
Publication Delay of Korean Medical Journals The Korean medical journals have reduced the total publication delay entirely by means of reducing the lead lag, not by reducing the acceptance lag. This finding warrants a consistent follow-up, driven by the editors.
Predictors of Citation Rate in Psychology: Inconclusive Influence of Effect and Sample Size The partly mixed findings of Study 1 and Study 2 demonstrate that the amount of explained variance of variables which predict CRs do not only vary between numerous scientific fields, but also between topical areas within one scientific field. Given the inconclusive findings of Study 1 and 2 combined, they challenge the widespread use of CRs as a measure of quality because it remains unclear how much bias and error CRs contain. We therefore think a more open and widespread discussion of how to estimate quality, novelty, and importance of research can yield to less biased measures that can complement CRs (e.g., Bornmann and Marx, 2014).
Health care articles with simple and declarative titles were more likely to be in the Altmetric Top 100 An easy-to-understand, informative title may help bridge the gap between scholar and social media dissemination.
Mapping a Twitter scholarly communication network: a case of the association of internet researchers' conference "According to our result, while the Twitter communication network developed into a bigger network, the basic form of the network configuration remained stable as a Tight Crowd structure and the core influential people were not much changed."
Topic scientific community in science: a combined perspective of scientific collaboration and topics This study identified topical scientific communities (TSC) from a research field by combining scientific collaboration and topical features.
Reconsidering the gold open access citation advantage postulate in a multidisciplinary context: an analysis of the subject categories in the Web of Science database 2009-2014 As the main conclusion, there is no generalizable advantage of gold OA in the Web of Science database.
Contradicting incentives for research collaboration But this does not seem to reflect the reality of our case university. The SDU scientific community has apparently remained relatively immune to these measures: The changes in authorship patterns that in our data reflect are few and relatively insignificant, though our data does not allow for statistical significance tests.
Relative visibility of authors' publications in different information services This article introduces a re-interpreted visibility indicator and reveals the publication visibility misbalance in information services.
Understanding the impact change of a highly cited article: a content-based citation analysis In our use of citation context and its features of citation mention, citation location, and citation topic to track how the impact of a Hirsch's highly cited article (2005) changes over time, this study contrasts standard citation research that posits the average citing article count as always one, thus discounting the impact of citation mentions over time.
Are peer-review activities related to reviewer bibliometric performance? A scientometric analysis of Publons Several conclusions can be drawn from the results about the relationship between the bibliometric performance of the Publons’ members and their peer-review activity. Correlations have shown that the relationship between both academic activities is weak and they suggest that the peer-review activity is an independent facet of the scholarly activity. Finally, a third conclusion is that Publons offers interesting information and metrics on the peer-review activity of their members and, just for this reason, this social platform may be considered a promising tool for the exploration of peer-review activities.
Quantity versus impact of software engineering papers: a quantitative study This paper presents an exploratory bibliometrics assessment of the SE research literature in term of quantity versus impact of papers (as measured by citation counts). Our results also have implications for researchers in non-English-speaking countries to help them plan improvement strategies to increase their papers' impact. It would be interesting to investigate whether those determinants are also applicable in the SE domain. We think that other factors should also be added to this list, e.g., writing style and proper usage of English.
Characteristics of papers published in journals: an analysis of open access journals, country of publication, and languages used From this analysis, the author found that papers published in OA journals were cited by more countries and achieved more foreign citations. Although the focus of the study was on the country of publication (i.e., domestic or international) and the wider accessibility resulting from being OA, the results of the study showed that publishing in a competitive environment and in world renowned journals are key when it comes to citations. In particular, international non-OA journals attracted more attention from researchers from countries that publish a significant number of papers than international OA journals did, and could have contributed to the higher citation counts of the former.
Is there a gender-based fragmentation of communication science? An investigation of the reasons for the apparent gender homophily in citations The empirical observation that male scholars cite other male scholars more extensively than female scholars cite male scholars—and vice versa—could also be made for German communication science. However, our model shows only a complementary mediation of the relationship between the gender of citing and cited authors, while the strength of the direct effect is equal to the strength of the indirect effect via research subjects. Therefore, based on the results of our study, a fragmentation of science along gender boundaries cannot be ruled out, meaning that the nonintegration of scientific findings may partly depend on reasons that are essentially irrational.
Who woke the sleeping beauties in psychology? So thus we come full circle: new technology allows researchers today both to detect and predict sleeping beauties more easily than before.
Characteristics of monographic special issues in Ibero-American psychology journals: visibility and relevance for authors and publishers As a conclusion, publishing papers in monographic special issues versus non-monographic in the reviewed journals has some advantages for both journals and authors, such as greater international visibility and shorter publication times. On the basis of this study, we can conclude that the papers published in monographic special issues in the psychology journals analysed receive a higher number of citations than the articles published in non-monographic issues, mainly when the total number of citations in the WoS, Biosis, Scielo and Other databases (Chinese and Russian) is analysed. This study can provide journals with guidelines for their publishing policy, to improve their visibility.
Slow reception and under-citedness in climate change research: A case study of Charles David Keeling, discoverer of the risk of global warming Our case study revealed the discrepancy between the current assessment of Keeling's lifework and the comparatively low citation impact of his decisive papers on CO2 mea-surements in the earth's atmosphere, which are undoubtedly most important for current climate change research and the future climate. We learn from the study of Keeling's contributions to climate change research that (1) a scientific contribution is not always what it looks as seen from a citation perspective, (2) bibliometric data should always be interpreted alongside expert knowledge, and (3) that funding agencies should reconsider their strategy and support long term projects.
Normalizing Google Scholar data for use in research evaluation The main conclusions are that it is indeed possible to normalize papers, book chapters and conference papers although not, at this point, books.
ResearchGate versus Google Scholar: Which finds more early citations? The results are primarily negative because they suggest that ResearchGate cannot yet challenge Google Scholar for early citation impact indicators.
Physician-scientists in obstetrics and gynecology: predictors of success in obtaining independent research funding "Mentored early career development K programs enable aspiring ob/gyn physician-scientists to achieve higher rates of NIH-based independent research funding compared to non-K recipients."
A bibliographic exploration of nursing's scope of practice From a policy perspective, we conclude that bibliographic analysis of the indexed literature is a useful technique that can augment our understanding of key regulatory issues such as scope of practice.
Endangered academia: preserving the pediatric surgeon scientist PS faculty in assistant professor ranks has higher scholarly productivity compared to equivalently ranked general surgeons.
Opportunities and opportunism: Publication outlet selection under pressure to increase research productivity "We discuss the implications of our findings for literature as well as policy."
Scholarly book publishing: Its information sources for evaluation in the social sciences and humanities In the light of the results of this study, it can be concluded that national databases are covering a larger diversity of scholarly publishers.
Who sets up the bridge? Tracking scientific collaborations between China and the European Union First, our results show that the collaboration diversity is increasing, with more and more academic fields involved. Secondly, evidence shows that academic collaborations between China and the EU28 have been mainly set up by Chinese researchers. The third contribution of this study is, from a dynamic perspective, to evaluate the changes of the comparative advantages in the collaborative fields.
The role of the Chinese Key Labs in the international and national scientific arena revisited As such we may conclude that KLs have lived up to their promise and made real impact on the international arena.
Exploring the epistemic impacts of academic performance indicators in the life sciences We understand this trend to be in tension with policy goals that seek to encourage innovative, societally relevant, and responsible research.
Blinding applicants in a first-stage peer-review process of biomedical research grants: An observational study In conclusion, blinding researchers/institutions in the first stage when assessing research grant proposals affects the second assess-ment in an average of 19% of the evaluations, from 10.5 to 27.7% depending on the year of edition. Attending to these rates, from 1 in 10 to 1 in 4, we believe that peer-review procedures that facilitate the focus only on the contents of a research proposal at first consti-tute a promising way to reduce some of the common biases described in the literature regarding researchers' characteristics and research grant decisions. Its implementation would reinforce trans-parency and accountability, so much in need nowadays for charities and public agencies financing research.
Evaluation for the allocation of university research project funding: Can rules improve the peer review? The results show that when government tries to steer the peer-review process by imposing an increasing number of rules to structure the debate among peers and make it more accountable, the peer-review practices remain largely impervious to the change.
Arts and humanities research, redefining public benefit, and research prioritization in Ireland Research policy has to walk a fine line between emphasizing excel-lent research in all its forms, as well as prioritizing certain types of research for economic goals.
Measuring field-normalized impact of papers on specific societal groups: An altmetrics study based on Mendeley Data We extend in this study the field-normalized reader impact indicator based on Mendeley data, MNRS, to a target-oriented field-normalized impact indicator.
Crossing borders: A citation analysis of connections between Cognitive Science and Educational Research ... and the fields in between Our study examined the broad contention that over the past 20 years, there has been a marked increase in the flow of knowledge between the Educational Research literature and Cognitive Science literature, with Border Fields (i.e. Educational Psychology, the Learning Science, Learning Technology, and Applied Linguistics) playing a strong and growing role in bridging Educational Research literature and Cognitive Science literature. A final important contribution of this study is simply to under-score the utility of citation analysis as a tool for research evaluation, for exploring the diffusion of ideas in an especially rich interdiscip-linary context. One potential pathway is to apply co-citation clustering, bibliographic coupling, or other methods at the document level to understand the extent to which particular research topics link the papers in these fields (Boyack and Klavans 2010).
The authorship dilemma: alphabetical or contribution? Our model offers a compelling explanation for several real-world phenomena, showing that alphabetical ordering is positively correlated with research quality in some scenarios, while contribution based ordering results in a larger number of projects completed and denser social networks.
The 100 Most Influential Papers in the Field of Thrombolytic Therapy: A Bibliometric Analysis Our analysis provides insight into the span of research activity and the nature of inquiry dealing with 'thrombolytic therapy,' with the hope that such analysis may help to effectively guide future research. Our analysis also yielded a list of the most highly cited and presumably most impactful guideline articles within this field, for distinct consideration.
Multilevel exploration of the realities of interdisciplinary research centers for the management of knowledge integration The realities of the practices of interdisciplinary research centers display heterogeneous patchworks of research domains driven by multiple research trajectories-some enabling, and others generating interdisciplinary knowledge. The exploration and understanding of these inter- and intra-organizational differences proves crucial for effectively fostering knowledge integration. Our study empirically demonstrates the impact of organizational structures on the effectiveness of IDR centers toward fulfilling the interdisciplinary missions for which they have been established.
Publication patterns in developmental psychology: Trends and social networks Results suggest that patterns are still present in published research in the realm of developmental psychology. To conclude, the potential implications of these patterns within developmental psychology are presented. Future work would encompass an examination of all three types of social ties, formal, informal and intellectual to build a full picture of relationships between researchers.
Last name analysis of mobility, gender imbalance, and nepotism across academic systems Here, we have taken an ostensibly meager source of data—a list of names of professors along with their field of research and geographic information—and used elementary randomizations to investigate differences in academic systems.
Academic Productivity in Psychiatry: Benchmarks for the H-Index This study provides the initial benchmarks for the h-index and total citations in academic psychiatry.
The Association Between NIMH Funding and h-index in Psychiatry A strong relationship was seen between h-index and securing NIMH funding. In conclusion, our study found a strong correlation between a PI's h-index and the amount of NIMH funding. Thus, h-index may be a reliable measure for assessing the impact of scholarly contributions in academic psychiatry and can be used as an adjunct for performance evaluations, appointment, and pro-motions in academia.
Scientific Evolutionary Pathways: Identifying and Visualizing Relationships for Scientific Topics This paper proposed an SEP method to identify and visualize the relationships among scientific topics.
Web citations in patents: Evidence of technological impact? Overall, however, patent URL citations seem to be frequent enough to be useful for ranking major US and the top few UK universities if popular hosted subdomains are filtered out, but the hit count estimates on the first search engine results page should not be relied upon for accuracy. Overall, then, patent URL citations are not a strong new indicator, except for major US and the top few UK universities, and should be filtered for irrelevant influential web domains, if used. This paper has introduced the idea of URL citation analysis for patents.
SlideShare presentations, citations, users, and trends: A professional site with academic and educational uses This analysis of general SlideShare documents and Slide-Share documents cited by, or citing, Scopus articles has shown that the site contains mainly professional users and documents, albeit with a substantial minority of academic and educational content.
Goodreads reviews to assess the wider impacts of books In conclusion, Goodreads metrics are recommended for self-evaluations by publishers and authors in the Arts, Humanities, and perhaps also the Social Sciences.
Call for caution in the use of bibliometric data Then, how can the accuracy and consistency of the information contained within these databases be optimized?
Comparison of UK paediatric consultants' participation in child health research between 2011 and 2015 Research activity among paediatric consultants remains low, particularly among women. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that research capacity among paediatric consultants remains low with women less active than men. The RCPCH remains committed to increasing the involvement of all paediatricians in research.
Gender effects in research evaluation The empirical analysis suggests the existence of a significant gender gap in research evaluation, and supports the hypothesis that the gap is reduced if one controls for the academic rank of researchers.
Manipulation of explicit reputation in innovation and knowledge exchange communities: The example of referencing in science This paper tackled the issue of reputation manipulation in innovation and knowledge exchange communities.
Impact factor distribution revisited We obtain analytically the appropriate frequency-distribution for journal impact factors, where the ranks are fairly described by the Lavalette distribution.
Distribution of Citations Received by Scientific Papers Published in the Imaging Literature From 2001 to 2010: Decreasing Inequality and Polarization Inequality and polarization of citations consistently decreased in the imaging literature from 2001 to 2010.
Worldwide research productivity in fracture surgery: A 10-year survey of publication activity In conclusion, the number of publications in fracture surgery increased from 2005 to 2014, and the majority of fracture papers were published by high-income countries, while few papers were published by low-income countries.
In vitro studies of osteosarcoma: A researcher's perspective of quantity and quality Our analysis of in vitro osteosarcoma studies illustrates the effect of the increased publication pressure since the convenience of osteosarcoma cell lines renders them into low hanging fruit but results in studies with limited scientific value, which constrains solutions for this deadly disease that affects young patients.
Some Problems Connected with "Affiliation Search" in Scopus and a Method for Their Solution. I. Correction of the Institution Profile It has been shown that, as a result of merging different Affiliation IDs of the institution, the difference between the numbers of publications found by Scopus by "Affiliation search" and “Document search" can be reduced.
The fifty highest cited papers in anterior cruciate ligament injury The identification of important papers will help current clinicians and scientists to get an overview on past and current trends in that special field of ACL injury and provides a basis for both further discussion as well as future research. We believe that studies like ours represent a valuable sum- mary of scientific milestones on the topic of ACL injury.
Institutional repositories versus ResearchGate: The depositing habits of Spanish researchers The proportion of articles published by scholars based in top Spanish universities that are available in their IRs is very low.
The performance of Asian S&T journals in international citation indicators Overall, the journals from Japan and China demonstrated stronger impacts than those from the other countries. In the future, the RF indicator can be applied to analyse specific fields or investigate journal self-citation in specific fields to further explore the effects and implications of self-cited rates. The impact of self-citation could also benefit considerably from comparing self-citation rates against both factor of journal size and frequency.
Early career researchers and their publishing and authorship practices ECRs are productive, if not prolific, having published, on average, 10 journal articles and six conference proceedings in their research careers. ECRs think OA publishing is a good idea, but they do not practice what they believe, unless mandated to do so and, even then, not all abide by them – depositing papers in IRs is a case in point. Most ECRs profess to having a publishing strategy, but this strategy boils down to publishing as many articles as they can in high IF journals because that is what enhances their reputation and increases the probability of them obtaining tenure.
Gender differences in providing peer review to two behavioural science journals, 2006-2015 We discuss the implications of these results in terms of concerns about obtaining peer review and for future research on peer review. Given the results of the current study, we would add inviting more women reviewers irrespective of author nomination to these suggested strategies to ensure sufficient peer reviewers. Other questions of interest for future research include gender differences in review quality, and in reviewer gender and editorial decisions, for example, are the reviews by reviewers of one gender more closely associated with editor decisions above and beyond the contribution of review quality?
An appealing prospect? A survey into the numbers, outcomes, and editorial policies for appeals of rejected biomedical manuscripts The credibility of an appeal process relies on robust, reproducible, and evidence-based policies, which do not seem to be currently established amongst biomedical journals.
Sleeping Beauties of Political Science: The Case of AF Bentley We believe that The Process of Government citation trend will continue to rise in the future due to the neutrality of its style and the theoretical debate of its context, which can suit any period of modern history in any country.
At the Leading Front of Neuroscience: A Bibliometric Study of the 100 Most-Cited Articles The current study compiles a comprehensive list and analysis of the 100 most-cited articles relevant to neuroscience that enables the comprehensive identification and recognition of the most important and relevant research topics concerned.
Thinker, Soldier, Scribe: cross-sectional study of researchers' roles and author order in the Annals of Internal Medicine First, second and last authors of research articles made distinct contributions to published research.
The determinants of research performance in European universities: a large scale multilevel analysis From a substantive point of view, we find a rich multilevel explanation of research quality in the medical field.
Comparative analysis of the factors associated with citation and media coverage of clinical research While correlation magnitudes were weak, the predictors of biomedical literature citation and non-academic media coverage were different. These predictors may affect editorial decisions and, given the rising influence of health journalism, further study is warranted. Given this fact, the medical community can benefit from a greater understanding of the predictors of attention within the biomedical research community and in both new and old media.
The scaling relationship between degree centrality of countries and their citation-based performance on Management Information Systems Policies that encourage a country to increase its degree centrality in a collaboration network can disproportionately increase the impact of its research.
Exploring time factors in measuring the scientific impact of scholars In this paper, we devote to measuring the scientific impact of scholars based on utilizing scholarly big data and heterogeneous academic network topology.
The role of public policies in the decentralization process of Mexican science and the formation of new researchers in institutions outside the Mexico City area Our findings conclude that most of their research production has been published with other local groups, mainly those located in the Mexico City institutions.
Specialization versus diversification in research activities: the extent, intensity and relatedness of field diversification by individual scientists We found that the extent of diversification (number of topics covered by the scientist's research portfolio, different than the dominant one) varies among fields within individual disciplines and among disciplines, and is highly correlated to the intensity of publication. Intensity of diversification (share of publications outside the academic's dominant topic of research) is lowest in Earth sciences and highest in Industrial and information engineering, but differences are generally less notable among disciplines. Degree of relatedness (share of publications falling in the same discipline) is lowest in Earth sciences and highest in Chemistry.
Evolution of connected health: a network perspective The present study demonstrated that the recent concept “connected health" is rooted in the development of electronic health record, telemedicine, and telehealth. The trends obtained through the analysis provide insights about the future of healthcare and technology relationship particularly with rising importance of privacy, personalized care along with mobile networks and mobile infrastructure. Finally, three issues are considered to require further analysis to create future healthcare environments.
Tracking the emergence of synthetic biology The search strategy described in this paper is positioned as a public tool that is available for use and refinement by the research community. The analysis in this paper details the rapid growth and international spread of research in synthetic biology in recent years, with an expansion of research nodes in the US and Canada, Europe, and East Asia. Inherently, further questions arise from the analyses reported in the paper.
Wind power research in Wikipedia: Does Wikipedia demonstrate direct influence of research publications and can it be used as adequate source in research evaluation? The main conclusion is that the share of scholarly papers which are mentioned in Wikipedia entry references on Wind Power is not substantial [25.4% (set A); 10.4% (set B)].
Mapping the evolution of library and information science (1978-2014) using topic modeling on LISA Research has shown how the field of Library and Information Science has grown, and how its respective subdisciplines have evolved, both in absolute and relative terms, as well as the interaction between them.
Online distribution channel increases article usage on Mendeley: a randomized controlled trial While replication and further study are needed, these data suggest that cross-publisher article recommendations via TrendMD may enhance citations of scholarly articles.
Detecting latent referential articles based on their vitality performance in the latest 2 years In this paper, we investigate the mechanisms of governing the selection of references in a new framework by considering the articles' dynamic vitality performance.
Mapping patent classifications: portfolio and statistical analysis, and the comparison of strengths and weaknesses One of our objectives has been to show how sensitive the maps and overlays are to choices of parameters. Visualization is a strong instrument because maps can be provided with an interpretation more easily than numerical statistics. A direct comparison between two units (e.g., competing firms) using a map, however, can provide a first orientation to their differences in terms of strengths and weaknesses.
Editorial governance and journal impact: a study of management and business journals Overall, our results provide no evidence for a positive relationship between editorial team diversity and journal impact when measures for editors' reputation and journal characteristics are considered.
Production of educational theory doctoral theses in Spain (2001-2015) In conclusion, we can identify an ever greater intention to provide the area with more scientific content but little concern with increasing this content's visibility in databases such as TESEO.
Social network analytics for advanced bibliometrics: referring to actor roles of management journals instead of journal rankings This study addresses several problems widely acknowledged when assessing the impact of scientific journals in interdisciplinary research fields utilizing only simple indicators, e.g. number of citations or impact factors.
Measuring, analysis and visualization of research capacity of university at the level of departments and staff members In the current paper we run the detailed analysis of the publication activity of a Russian university. Our main goal was to show how different aspects of university research potential can be measured and visualized.
Tracing the knowledge-building dynamics in new stem cell technologies through techno-scientific networks Our study demonstrates the need for bibliometric assessment studies to account for S&T co-evolution.
Power positions in cardiology publications In this study, we confirmed again that the editors are prominent members of the research community both as their publication productivity and their citation impact are concerned. It was also confirmed that the publication and citation excellence of the editors and, even more, the Editors-in-Chief is positively correlated with the standing of the journal as measured, e.g., by the impact factor. Similar studies in other fields of science, social science and humanities are planned to reveal the general and particular features of the present findings.
Download patterns of journal papers and their influencing factors With two-step cluster analysis, article downloads can be distinguished as varying patterns.
Academic impact evaluation of Wechat in view of social media perspective In short, Wechat is greatly supplement the offline methods of research dissemination and networking.
Funding acknowledgments in the Web of Science: completeness and accuracy of collected data We propose and discuss the need to develop more detailed guidelines on how to acknowledge funding.
How do NIHR peer review panels use bibliometric information to support their decisions? Based on the evidence around panel behaviour and concerns, we set out guidance around providing bibliometrics to research funding panels.
Scholarly impact and the timing of major awards in economics In fact, our results indicate that an increase of one standard deviation in the impact of a Clark Medalist's research portfolio is enough to reduce this timespan by almost 10 years.
Does China need to rethink its metrics- and citation-based research rewards policies? Academic, research and publishing landscapes are evolving rapidly at a global level, with new measures of quality and/or productivity constantly evolving.
Calculating the excellence shift: How efficiently do institutions produce highly cited papers? Although the excellence shift solves the problem of the lack of comparability between universities by making the incomparable comparable, the approach has two disadvantages: (1) since the approach is based on percentages for a certain total, the definition for pro- ducing the indicator values should be the same (or similar) at each university. (2) The excellence shift needs a differentiation between the total and a specific upper portion of the total.
Citations to chemical resources in scholarly articles: CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics and The Merck Index Citations to the CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics and The Merck Index in scholarly articles are regularly assimilated throughout the scientific literature.
Microsoft Academic is one year old: the Phoenix is ready to leave the nest We showed that for the most important academic publications, journal articles and books, GS and MA displayed very similar publication and citation coverage, leaving both Scopus and WoS far behind, especially in terms of citation counts.
Gender of Personality and Individual Differences (PAID) contributors: An analysis of recent years (2008-2016) In summary, our results show a slight gender imbalance in favor of men that tends to diminish over the years, almost reaching parity in the last three years.
Increasing health policy and systems research capacity in low- and middle-income countries: results from a bibliometric analysis In looking back via bibliometric analysis, there is a correlation between the timing of specific initiatives resulting from major meetings or reports and increases in the published literature on HPSR that follow. The progressive advocacy for meaningful participation contributed support for the exponential increase in LMIC authors publishing in the life and biomedical sciences. These findings provide strong evidence that continued support is key to the longevity and enhancement of HPSR toward its mandate.
Editorial boards of accounting journals: gender diversity and internationalisation Editorial boards are an extremely important institutional mechanism in accounting and offer a rich and interesting context in which to study the social characteristics of the academic accounting community. This exploratory paper contributes to the limited research in this area by examining two diversity characteristics of the editorial boards of accounting journals. There are several implications of our results for both journal practice and academia as a whole.
Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences: A bibliometric assessment 2001-2010 This study reveals that the participation of 32 countries in the PJMS publications proves it to be an internationally circulated journal to support research with the constant approach of publishing articles to each volume in basic medical sciences, biomedical, clinical and public health sciences.
Solar energy technologies and open innovation: A study based on bibliometric and social network analysis Therefore, it may be concluded that the assumption made holds, as it is possible to identify indirect evidence of OI in publications about the development of SE technologies in references to collabora- tion and cooperation between entities. Secondly, a set of recommendations based on previous results should be provided to construct a better environment for cooperation and to improve Solar Energy researches. It is important to mention that shortcomings of the present analysis should be investigated in further studies, as the investigation was limited to data obtained from Web of Science and this electronic search may indirectly have a selection bias.
Characteristics of retractions related to faked peer reviews: an overview In conclusion, there is a disproportionate distribution of retracted papers due to faked peer reviews among different jour-nals and countries. Journal editors should greatly improve the peer review mechanism, and researchers, especially Chinese researchers, should be more frequently educated regarding the publishing ethics. Given the number of retracted papers by pub-lication and retraction year, retractions due to faked peer reviews have been increasingly recognised by journal editors and will disappear in future.
Assessment of global law and psychiatry research in the period of 1993-2012 A bibliometric analysis (Part-I) This study showed some significant points on the worldwide research performance and international collaboration. In conclusion, by bibliometric methodology, the findings and results of this study can help scientific researchers understand the performance of L&P globally. Overall, this bibliometric study calls for more research aimed specifically at strengthening coverage of L&P research topics and improving cooperation between L&P authors, institutions, and countries.
Evaluation of citations: a proposition to supplement the corresponding rule book in Serbia The present work gives a proposition of a similar system for evaluation of citations of published scientific results of the researchers.
Academic Inbreeding in Portugal: Does Insularity Play a Role? Insularity is, in fact, a condition which fosters academic inbreeding in Portugal, as Azores, UTAD and UBI, located in peripheral areas, had significant higher levels of inbreeding than universities such as Aveiro and Minho, located in larger and more dynamic urban centres in the coast, near Porto metropolitan area. Therefore, insularity emerged as a significant factor for institutions located in peripheral areas, although its effect, hidden by the disparity between the stages of development of each disciplinary area, was not immediately visible.
The extent of South African authored articles in predatory journals The results of our study have consequences at the systemic, institutional and individual levels. In the final analysis, it is clear that predatory publishing poses a serious challenge to science in South Africa. If it continues to increase at the rate of growth seen in the past 5 years, predatory publishing may well become accepted practice in some disciplines and at some universities. Not only will it affect the very fabric of the science system (our confidence in the peer-review system), but it will also undermine the trust and confidence of the general public in science and its products.
Synthesis Centers as Critical Research Infrastructure We argue here that synthesis centers play such a unique role in science that continued long-term public investment to maximize benefits to science and society is justified.
Paper recommendation using citation proximity in bibliographic coupling Our experiments show that the accuracy of the recommendations, produced by DBSCAN-based proximity analysis of in-text citations, increased substantially, compared to traditional bibliographic coupling and content-based approaches.
Latin American triple-A journals 1: A quality roadmap from the quality indicators and journals' presence in Web of Science and Scopus "Latin America has a relatively good standing with the number of journals included in the indexes discussed in this work, which are the most demanding in the world and are an indicator of the quality and quantity of the scientific production in the region."
Network analysis for science and technology management: Evidence from tuberculosis research in Fiocruz, Brazil Network analysis proved to be a useful mechanism for assessing collaboration performance and supporting S&T management in research institutions by pinpointing: (1) key central institutions maintaining network connectivity; (2) most influential researchers that can act as advi-sors/experts for investment and induction policies; (3) key Fiocruz researchers that could improve information exchange, systems integration and innovation within the institution; (4) opportunities for synergy between internal research groups working in complementary areas.
Dominance and leadership in research activities: Collaboration between countries of differing human development is reflected through authorship order and designation as corresponding authors in scientific publications The order of signatures and the address for correspondence in scientific publications are bibliographic characteristics that facilitate a precise, in-depth analysis of cooperative practices and their associations with concepts like dominance or leadership.
Authorship Norms and Project Structures in Science These results suggest that authorship lists are the result of a complicated process involving negotiations, field norms, and differences in visibility and that these vary across projects in systematic ways.
Designing a national science and technology evaluation system based on a new typology of international practices In this paper, we showed that the systematic approach is the most recent and modern approach to the development of national level S & T evaluations.
From sociability to creditability for academics The authors conclude that metrics used on ResearchGate have the potential to become formal research performance evaluation tools.
Credit allocation for research institutes In this letter, we presented a credit allocation algorithm for multiple institutes, namely, credit allocation method (CAM).
Mapping the operations and supply chain management field: a journal governance perspective The study has identified journal groupings that mark out linked, but separable, academic communities within OSCM. The study demonstrates the dominance of males in EABs and the influence of affiliation to USA-located institutions and to business schools. The study provides evidence of the lack of diversity within the OSCM field by showing how low female representation and US domination is embedded within the field's journal governance structures.
Starry-eyed II: the logistics journal ranking debate revisited The paper may help logistics/SCM scholars to defend the position of their discipline and resist journal-ranking-induced pressures to marginalise it and devalue its outputs.
What's Your Identification Strategy? Innovation in Corporate Finance Research This study documents a secular rise of the identification technology in corporate finance research as of the mid-1990s.
A comparison of 17 article-level bibliometric indicators of institutional research productivity: Evidence from the information management literature of China This paper proposes an indicator framework, which consists of article count indexes and quality weighted indexes, to rank institutional research performance. The result shows that, among article count indicators, the Straight count indicator is significantly different from the others. Given the limitations of the citation indicator, we suggest that more broad quality-related indicators should be used to evaluate institutional productivity ranking.
An IR-Based Approach Utilizing Query Expansion for Plagiarism Detection in MEDLINE This paper describes and evaluates a new query expansion approach to the problem of candidate document selection for extrinsic plagiarism detection.
No Uniform Culture: Patterns of Collaborative Research in the Humanities Publication type, departmental home, and timing of publication production all have a correlation with the rate of coauthorship. It also appears that there is an upward trend toward coauthorship over time. If organizations want to foster the inclusion of early-career faculty members in institutional team research efforts, then changes in standards for promotion and tenure or other incentives may be required. With librarians' expertise in cross-discipline dialogue and ability to connect people and resources, we can play a similar role.
From "just the facts' to "more theory and methods, please': The evolution of the research article in Administrative Science Quarterly, 1956-2008 The surface structure of ASQ articles has changed radically over its fifty-year history. The growth in theoretical and methodological text reflects the evolution of organization studies from a small emerging research area to a large and highly competitive professional community. Most striking, however, is the distinctiveness of the discursive trajectory of ASQ – and by extension, much social science – relative to the physical sciences.
Trends in global acupuncture publications: An analysis of the Web of Science database from 1988 to 2015 Publications associated with acupuncture increased rapidly from 1988 to 2015. The different applications of acupuncture were extensive in multiple fields of medicine. It is important to maintain and even nourish a certain quantity and quality of published acupuncture papers, which can play an important role in developing a medical discipline for acupuncture.
Institutional Repository in Nigerian Universities: Trends and Development Building an IR is important to showcase the research output of a university, to create access to and ensure preservation of its enduring heritage. Universities in Nigeria, like other developing countries, should do their best to build their IR to enhance the global visibility and utilization of research outputs generated. Based on the study results, the following recommendations are offered.
Emerging trends: Inflation Neutral: Inflation is a fact of life. There are long-term macro trends on publication rates that are beyond our control.
Academic tenure, risk-taking and the diversification of scientific research In this paper, we wished to investigate the degree to which the relative job security offered by tenure affects the choices of diversification vs. specialization in scientists' research themes.
Open access increases citations of papers in ecology Therefore, in ecology journals OA confers articles with citation advantages and such an impact accumulates with years and independent of the economic status of the countries. This information may guide decisions of scientific societies, journals, and individual authors as they weigh the relative costs and benefits of open electronic accessibility of scientific research. While controlling for journal impact and publication date, we find that the OA status of an article increases the citation rate for that article by approximately one citation per year.
Statistical characteristics of breakthrough discoveries in science using the metaphor of black and white swans The black-white swan metaphor allows us to identify important scientific discoveries and measure the effects of scientific progress qualitatively and quantitatively.
Newsworthiness vs scientific impact: are the most highly cited urology papers the most widely disseminated in the media? There is discordance between traditional scientific markers of quality and Altmetric scores, which capture the wider influence of an article in mainstream digital media. The top articles based on Altmetric scores were not highly cited, suggesting that publications receiving the most media attention may not be the most scientifically rigorous, or that this audience places greater value on different subjects than the scientific community. There is scope for a wider use of Altmetric scores in the professional setting as social media use has become an important facet of medical practice and publishing; however the traditional metrics remain important predictors of scientific quality.
Citation classics in neuro-oncology: assessment of historical trends and scientific progress The majority of citation classics in neuro-oncology are related to gliomas and pertain to tumor pathogenesis and treatment. The rise in citation classics in recent years investigating tumor biology, new treatment agents, and chemotherapeutics may reflect increasing scientific interest in nonsurgical treatments for CNS tumors and the need for fundamental investigations into disease processes. Our findings suggest that there is currently significant interest among the scientific community in better understanding tumor pathogenesis along with developing nonsurgical therapies for the treatment of CNS tumors with great value placed on high-quality clinical trials and fundamental laboratory investigations.
Amplifying the Impact of Open Access: Wikipedia and the Diffusion of Science This article examined in unprecedented detail and scale how the English language Wikipedia references the scientific literature. We found that a journal’s academic status (impact factor) routinely predicts its appearance on Wikipedia. Our research shifts focus to diffusion, showing that open access policies have a tremendous impact on the diffusion of science to the broader general public through an intermediary like Wikipedia.
The Effect of the " Very Important Paper" ( VIP) Designation in Angewandte Chemie International Edition on Citation Impact: A Propensity Score Matching Analysis In summary, we can state the following four results regarding our three research questions:
Matched Control Groups for Modeling Events in Citation Data: An Illustration of Nobel Prize Effects in Citation Networks The main aim of this article was to make a methodo-logical contribution to the literature on events in citation data.
A Multidimensional Investigation of the Effects of Publication Retraction on Scholarly Impact Our findings may provide useful insights for scholars or science committees to evaluate the scholarly value of papers, authors, or institutions related to retractions. Overall, our experimental results confirmed the previous studies that articles and scholars that are directly involved in retractions will be penalized in terms of their citation rate by academia, through using a larger scope of dataset and different statistical inference methodology. All these results strongly suggest that the penalty effect of paper retractions is quite localized to the authors who are mainly responsible for the retraction and does not extend to the wider scientific community.
A "Gold-Centric" Implementation of Open Access: Hybrid Journals, the "Total Cost of Publication," and Policy Development in the UK and Beyond This study demonstrates that the APC market is currently complex, with variable pricing, discounts, and other addi-tional charges contributing to institutional costs.
Analysing researchers' outreach efforts and the association with publication metrics: A case study of Kudos The results show that Facebook is the most popular channel, but that links shared on Twitter are more likely to be clicked on.
Sorting and agglomeration economies in French economics departments "Location matters for the publication performance of French economists and economics departments."
What Do They Use? Where Do They Get It? An Interdisciplinary Citation Analysis of Latin American Studies Faculty Monographs, 2004-2013 As in other citation analyses, the results indicated that the monograph remains a dominant research format in scholarly communication across disciplines in areas related to Latin America. This confirms that there is a clear need for continued support of monograph collections in all relevant disciplines. Ultimately, this study contributes to a general understanding of faculty research trends and the library's role in supporting the areas of Latin American studies across disciplines and academic units.
A Comparison of Nursing and Teacher Education Students' Information Literacy Learning: Results from Norway, 2016 Survey results from HUAS indicate that students' IL skills increased substantially in all three topics-evaluating sources, avoiding plagiarism, and citing sources-with the greatest improvements in the latter two areas. Students' levels of confidence in all three topics increased as well, seemingly to a greater extent than their actual abilities. Results also give indications about which areas librarians should devote more time to in their instruction.
The Relationship Between OREF Grants and Future NIH Funding Success The OREF grant awardee conversion rate of 22% and, particularly, the 46% for Career Development Grant winners compares favorably with the overall NIH funding success rate (18% in 2014).
Measures of greatness: A Lotkaian approach to literary authors using OCLC WorldCat This study demonstrates the applicability of the same laws to publications by non-scientific authors with a general readership.
Reverberation index: a novel metric by which to quantify the impact of a scientific entity on a given field Effective comparison across scientific fields requires a novel bibliometric index which transcends the specific citation patterns of any single field.
Health policy and systems research collaboration pathways: lessons from a network science analysis Complexity science and network analysis add tremendous value to our understanding of the growth in HPSR.
Wikiometrics: a Wikipedia based ranking system Our proposed Wikiometrics ratings were able to obtain highly correlative results with established and widely-accepted rankings.
Research Trend Analysis of Geospatial Information in South Korea Using Text-Mining Technology These results will be useful in GI-based interdisciplinary research and the selection of new research themes.
A generational divide in the academic profession: A mixed quantitative and qualitative approach to the Polish case Different generations of academics exhibit different academic behaviours and attitudes – and react differently to ongoing structural reforms in higher education. It shows the power of research at a micro-level of individuals, complementing the traditional research at aggregated institutional and national levels. The findings presented here have wider implications for Central Europe.
Knowledge sharing in global health research - the impact, uptake and cost of open access to scholarly literature Although OA may help in building global research capacity in GHR, the majority of publications remain subscription only. It is logical and cost-efficient for institutions and researchers to promote OA by self- archiving publications of restricted access, as it not only allows research to be cited by a broader audience, it also augments citation rates. When researchers are to publish their work in an accessible format it is important to choose an OA type that best suits their needs and not assume that the most expensive APC has the best impact, reach and citability.
Research productivity of doctor of physical therapy faculty promoted in the southeastern United States While faculty unsuccessful in promotion were not identifiable using this method, this research can be used by faculty and committees to evaluate research productivity against regional data and promote competitive standards with peer institutions.The results of this study describe the average research productivity of DPT faculty who have successfully attained promotion in the southeastern region of the USA.This data can also be used by tenure-track faculty planning to apply for promotion and/or tenure to gauge how their current research productivity compares to previously successful applicants in the region.
Exploring an Unknown Territory "Sleeping Beauties" in the Nursing Research Literature SBs in nursing research confirmed that the phenomenon is similar to those found in other academic disciplines. Our study identified nine nursing SBs and showed that their appearance distribution is spread between different journals and geographical entities. This means that the knowledge accumulation is supported by comparable research and professional processes.
Radiology research in mainland China in the past 10 years: a survey of original articles published in Radiology and European Radiology In conclusion, this bibliometry study shows that Radiology research in Mainland China has seen substantial growth in the past 5 years.
Epistemic Cultures in Conflict: The Case of Astronomy and High Energy Physics The conclusion of this study is that the catalyst for this conflict, the scientific breakthrough of AEU, led to an increase of mutual dependency on a strategic and functional level.
The Evolution of a National Research Funding System: Transformative Change Through Layering and Displacement Overall, the present analysis has shown the development of a Danish research funding system largely mirroring the international trends outlined in the literature. Overall, the analysis thus shows that while there is a high degree of path dependence in the funding system and while central institutions have been very resistant to change, it is still possible for reform advocates to implement transformative changes as long as they apply more gradual layering and displacement strategies. So far the evidence of these trends is mostly anecdotal but the discussions clearly underline the need for systematic investigations of the ways in which changes in the funding system affect the production of knowledge.
How do National Career Systems Promote or Hinder the Emergence of New Research Lines? The empirical investigation reported in this article could establish causal links between national career systems and opportunities for early career researchers to begin new lines of research.
Ranking Economics Journals Using Data From a National Research Evaluation Exercise This paper has described an algorithm for creating a ranking of economics journals using data from the 2014 UK REF exercise. The ranking generated by the algorithm can be viewed as a measure of the average quality of the papers published in the journal, as judged by the REF Economics and Econometrics sub-panel, based on the outputs submitted to the REF. The ranking produced is broadly in line with citation-based rankings of economics journals, such as Kalaitzidakis, Mamuneas and Stengos (2011).
Imagining a Gold Open Access Future: Attitudes, Behaviors, and Funding Scenarios among Authors of Academic Scholarship The proliferation of open access provides opportunities for academic libraries to forge new relationships with their research communities and institutions and to develop services and outreach uniquely suited to the changing scholarly communication landscape.
Journal portals - an important infrastructure for non-commercial scholarly open access publishing Together with Open Source publishing software like OJS, and often in a combination of both, the portals have contributed a highly cost effective infrastructure leveraging the starting of new OA journals and in particular the conversion of older society and university journals to OA for the electronic version. Despite such difficulties this author is fairly convinced that more of these portals will emerge, in particular in European countries. OA portals offer a very cost effective solution for this, compared to journals trying to do it on their own.
Social networking for scientists: an analysis on how and why academics use ResearchGate "Overall, the results have practical implications, especially for American and European scholars."
Orthopaedic research in Australia: a bibliographic analysis of the publication rates in the top 15 journals "The results of this study demonstrate that the minority (23%) of the publica-tions originating from Australia in the 15 highest-ranking orthopaedic journals were princi-pally authored by either an Australian trained surgeon or a trainee surgeon."
Implicit Multi-Feature Learning for Dynamic Time Series Prediction of the Impact of Institutions In this paper, we study a data-driven method for predicting the contributions of different institutions in eight top conferences.
Do not feed the predators Publishing in these predatory journals is a serious and widespread problem in South Africa.
Scholarly productivity and citation impact of academic psychologists in Group of Eight universities Norms for scholarly productivity and citation impact among Australian psychology academics have undergone substantial change in recent years.
Measuring the Impact of Gold and Green Open Access Our study shows that green open access is the most economical method for researchers to comply with funder open access policies, and that it provides researchers with at least as much research impact as does gold open access.
How much would each researcher receive if competitive government research funding were distributed equally among researchers? This suggests that the worry that egalitarian sharing leads to unacceptable dilution of resources is unjustified.
Why discrepancies in searching the conservation biology literature matter "Researchers seeking comprehensive literature reviews should consult multiple databases, with online searches using GS important for locating books, book chapters and grey literature. Comparative evaluations of publication outputs of researchers or departments are susceptible to variations in content between databases and different subscriptions of the same database, so researchers should justify the databases used and, if applicable, the subscriptions. Students value convenience over thoroughness in literature searches, so relevant education is needed."
Accounting for Multiplicity in Inference on Economics Journal Rankings This study has extended the work of Stern (2013) to account for multiplicity, as well as uncertainty in the ranking of economics journals. We see that accounting for multiplicity produces several distinct groups of journals which are statistically equivalent in their rankings. An interesting extension would be to map the uncertainty in journal rankings into uncertainty into department rankings.
International publication trends originating from anaesthetic departments from 2001 to 2015 The main finding of this study is that against a background of increasing article publications, China and India have increased their publications the most (11- and 9-fold, respectively), and are now among the top five countries regarding number of published articles.
Analyzing the field of bioinformatics with the multi-faceted topic modeling technique The results of our analysis implies that overtime the field of bioinformatics becomes more interdisciplinary where there is a steady increase in peripheral fields such as conceptual, mathematical, and system biology. These results are confirmed by integrated analysis of topic distribution as well as top ranked keyphrases, authors, and journals. This characteristic of bioinformatics has driven the field to become interdisciplinary, combining approaches from various fields to make use of a large amount of data.
The Top 10 Most Cited Indian Articles in Arthroscopy in Last 10 Years In this paper, we have briefly discussed the most cited papers in arthroscopy from India.
Evolution of interdisciplinary collaboration: what are stimulating conditions? In this paper, we wanted to contribute to the evolutionary understanding and explanation of interdisciplinary working, as this is a relatively undiscussed topic.
The effects of funding and co-authorship on research performance in a small scientific community "We confirmed that in Slovenia the fragmentation of funding and the collaboration (as observed through the co-authorship of publications) of scientists within and beyond national borders both have a very strong positive effect on SE. But only the collaboration of scientists has a strong positive effect on SP."
Quality monitoring in transition: The challenge of evaluating translational research programs in academic biomedicine Having reported some of the challenges that emerged in this shaken-up version of the Dutch evaluation format, we shall now outline our contributions to emerging interests in the challenge of evaluating translational research initiatives.
Search for evergreens in science: A functional data analysis The clustering result clearly suggests the existence of evergreens as a general type of citation trajectory, in addition to previously documented normal and delayed documents.
The geotemporal demographics of academic journals from 1950 to 2013 according to Ulrich's database There are tremendous disparities in the distribution of academic journals at the country level from 1950 to 2013. The US, Eastern Asia and Europe are the central regions while Africa and Central Asia are lagging behind. At last, there was a significant tendency towards geographical clustering in academic journals during the whole period.
A categorization of arguments for counting methods for publication and citation indicators In this paper, I present a categorization of arguments for counting methods for publication and citation indicators.
Measuring the citation impact of journals with generalized Lorenz curves We proposed different dominance relations with which to rank citation distributions journals in terms of impact.
Quantifying perceived impact of scientific publications We conclude that, when scientists have full information and are making unbiased choices, expert opinion on impact is congruent with citation numbers.
Predicting the age of researchers using bibliometric data In conclusion, the year of first publication is the best single linear estimator of the ages of individual researchers.
Do subjective journal ratings represent whole journals or typical articles? Unweighted or weighted citation impact? This paper presents modest evidence that stated preference journal ratings are more closely related to size-independent citation metrics (those that represent the impact of a typical article) than to size-dependent citation metrics (those that represent the impact of the journal as a whole). It also shows, more conclusively, that stated preference journal ratings are more closely related to weighted citation metrics (those that account for the impact of the citing journal) than to unweighted citation metrics (those that do not account for the impact of the citing journal). If, as this study suggests, weighted citation metrics correspond more closely than unweighted metrics to the journal ratings assigned by subject experts, we can conclude that weighted metrics (1) demonstrate the convergent validity of both weighted metrics and stated preference metrics; (2) better incorporate the perspectives and judgments that respondents rely on, consciously or unconsciously, when assigning journal ratings; (3) raise the possibility that citation metrics or other revealed preference indicators might eventually be used to replicate the results of stated preference surveys without the cost of large-scale surveys; (4) may help provide insight into the ways in which experts assess journal quality, especially with regard to poorly understood issues such as the assignment of journal ratings in the arts and humanities.
Disaggregated research evaluation through median-based characteristic scores and scales: a comparison with the mean-based approach While both CSS versions share the fundamental commonality of promoting a disaggregated perspective on research evaluation they differ with regard to emphasis: mean-based CSS promote a more exclusive view of excellence; the median-based approach promotes a more inclusive outlook.
Quantifying and suppressing ranking bias in a large citation network To summarize, in this paper we have analyzed a large citation network from the Microsoft Academic Graph to show that the rankings of papers by well-known indicators are extremely biased by age and field. We have also introduced two new indicators of paper impact, rescaled citation count RAF(c) and rescaled PageRank RAF(p) that produce much less biased rankings than existing indicators. By reducing the age and field biases from indicators of scientific impact and by extending the existing statistical tests for biases, we contribute to the challenge of quantifying and suppressing biases of rankings in information systems.
Can the journal impact factor be used as a criterion for the selection of junior researchers? A large-scale empirical study based on ResearcherID data Our study shows that early success in publishing in high-impact journals is related to later success with individual-level citations.
Who is the 'Journal Grand Master'? A new ranking based on the Elo rating system The Elo ranking system seems to be a promising alternative to rank scientific journals compared to existing ones.
Combining multiple scholarly relationships with author cocitation analysis: A preliminary exploration on improving knowledge domain mappings As a result, the proposed method offers a good choice to understand researchers and to map knowledge domains in a study field for integrating more scholarly relationships at the same time.
What drives university research performance? An analysis using the CWTS Leiden Ranking data This suggests that simple global benchmarking can be misleading; rather, benchmarking is most meaningful between universities of a similar size supplemented with contextual information on a university's specific mission, orientation and national institutions.
Detecting the emergence of new scientific collaboration links in Africa: A comparison of expected and realized collaboration intensities Our results show that African countries tend to collaborate with countries outside of Africa more than could be expected based on the intrinsic features of the earlier network, with the exception of Western Africa in 2007-2014.
Perverse effects of output-based research funding? Butler's Australian case revisited Our findings show that if output based research funding has an effect on research quality, it is positive and not negative.
A bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Advanced Nursing, 1976-2015 Journal of Advanced Nursing contributes to advances in nursing research, practice and education as well as the quality of health care, teamwork and family care, with an emphasis on knowledge transfer and partnership between various health care professionals.
The CDM framework: knowledge recombination from an evolutionary viewpoint Our results clearly confirm our premise that the authors of the articles citing CDM and/or CDM cited articles, which form CDM universe, constitute such colleges. More work would be necessary to better assess what these characteristics are, and how they interact with the knowledge diffusion dynamics, facilitating or impeding it, and orienting it. Further research is also needed to interpret better our present results in their cognitive dimension.
Peer-review for selection of oral presentations for conferences: Are we reliable? Peer-review of submissions for conferences are, in accordance with the literature, unreliable.
Research output: evidence from economics departments in the Asia-Pacific region This paper provided a survey of research output trends in top economics journals in economics departments in institutions in the Asia-Pacific region over the previous decade.
Academic career intentions in the life sciences: Can research self-efficacy beliefs explain low numbers of aspiring physician and female scientists? "The results of the study suggest that research self-efficacy beliefs are an important predictor of academic career intentions and, further, that medical doctoral graduates have a lower interest in academic research careers in comparison to their counterparts from basic life sciences."
The rise of the middle author: Investigating collaboration and division of labor in biomedical research using partial alphabetical authorship In this research, we demonstrated that the listing of middle authors alphabetically is a practice used frequently in biomedical research, especially in articles with a large number of authors. We also showed that when middle authors are identified alphabetically, they represent on aver-age more than half of the research team. This indicates that the author inflation might be due in part to increased division of labor which may be associated to the increased size and com-plexity of research.
Impelling research productivity and impact through collaboration: a scientometric case study of knowledge management "In this research, data suggest that knowledge management at a university increases research collaboration and thereby increases research quantity and quality."
The study on the core personality trait words of Chinese medical university students based on social network analysis This study of personality not only can prevent disease, but also provide a scientific basis for students' psychological healthy education. This study may provide the new ideas and methods for the research of personality structure.
Exploring the Social Effect of Outstanding Scholars on Future Research Accomplishments This study investigates the associations between the social effect of outstanding scholars, network structures, and future research accomplishments. The findings contribute certain theoretical and practical implications. Finally, due to the negative impact of closeness centrality, this study found that the social effect of an outstanding scholar is a double-edged sword.
Citations, Mandates, and Money: Author Motivations to Publish in Chemistry Hybrid Open Access Journals Based on this study, an author would benefit from making a paper open access in a low to medium IF journal, but that benefit disappears when published in a high IF journal.
Mendeley Readership as a Filtering Tool to Identify Highly Cited Publications The results of this study show that Mendeley readership scores are an effective tool to filter highly cited publications.
European diabetes research and its funding, 2002-2013 The European diabetes burden in disability-adjusted life years increased by one third between 2002 and 2012, but its output of research papers has decreased from 44% to 36% of the world total.
Research evaluation of author's citation-based performance through the relative author superiority index The results obtained suggest that Cuban researchers in biotechnology have achieved a high citation-based performance in the period analyzed.
Knowledge evolution in physics research: An analysis of bibliographic coupling networks In this paper we have studied the knowledge evolution in physics restricted to the APS citation network. Overall, we find that the sizes of TCs are governed by a simple linear combination law. We find that merging events are highly correlated with inter-TC connections, making it possible to statistically predict merging events, while splitting events are more complex, as they are weakly correlated with the sizes or internal structures of the TCs.
Investigating the Reliability and Factor Structure of Kalichman's "Survey 2: Research Misconduct" Questionnaire: A Post Hoc Analysis Among Biomedical Doctoral Students in Scandinavia Our results indicate that Kalichman's "Survey 2: research misconduct" questionnaire is a statistically reliable tool for investigating general attitudes toward scientific misconduct.
Publication trends of research on diabetes mellitus and T cells (1997-2016): A 20-year bibliometric study The quantity of publications on DM and T cells grew rapidly around year 2000, but has relatively decreased recently. The United States had the leading position in global research. T2DM, TIM and obesity are becoming popular research topics in this field.
Academic productivity of faculty associated with microsurgery fellowships The h-index is a powerful tool in determining academic throughput and research strength.
The 50 Most Cited Articles in Facial Plastic Surgery This analysis provides an overview of the most cited articles in facial plastic surgery, many of which introduced some of the most fundamental principles and techniques in the field.
Artificial intelligence in peer review: How can evolutionary computation support journal editors? Evolutionary computation has typically been used in technological processes or biological ecosystems. Our results demonstrate that genetic programs can improve real-world social systems that are usually much harder to understand and control than physical systems. However, the method used is universal. As long as editors are able to perform a statistical analysis of the peer review process of their journal and use the results to create simulations of the process with artificial review threads, they can employ CGP to improve their workflow.
The Role of Positive and Negative Citationsin Scientific Evaluation In summary, we have proposed a COI-based method to give the audiences a deeper insight into the impact of papers, insti- tutions and countries.
Factors Associated With Publication impact at Shoulder and Elbow surgery Fellowships Total years of experience of a faculty in a fellowship program and medical school affiliation appear to be the most significant factors associated with increased publication citation frequency among many others. These data may be useful for prospective applicants evaluating fellowships and program leadership seeking to improve their academic productivity.
The lost academic home: institutional affiliation links in Google Scholar Citations The discovered affiliation link errors prevent institutions from being able to access the profiles of all their respective authors using the institutions lists offered by GSC. Additionally, it introduces a shortcoming in the navigation features of Google Scholar which may impair web user experience. Some institutions (mainly universities) are under-represented in the affiliation feature provided by GSC. This fact might jeopardize the visibility of institutions as well as the use of this feature in bibliometric or webometric analyses. These findings do not compromise the usefulness of this new tool in scientific resource discovering processes, but jeopardize its direct use as a source for quantitative analyses unless data cleansing processes are applied beforehand. Finally, we deem it necessary to formulate a series of recommendations to profile users and other actors involved with this product, which are only aimed at improving and to make the most of it.
Toward a homogenization of academic social sites A longitudinal study of profiles in Academia.edu, Google Scholar Citations and ResearchGate RG is the platform that most CSIC's profiles have (4,001), far from GSC (2,036) and Academia.edu (1,156). Disciplinary distributions are the most unbalanced aspect of each academic social site and they are the characteristic that distinguish academic platforms most. This homogenization and stability in the distribution of profiles of the academic social sites have important implications for research evaluation and altmetrics.
Author Impact Metrics in Communication Sciences and Disorder Research These author-level metrics may serve as a benchmark for scholarly production of those in the field of communication sciences and disorders and may assist with professional identity management, tenure and promotion review, grant applications, and employment.
Co-authorship and research productivity in economics: Assessing the assortative matching hypothesis Our key finding is the existence of a positive and robust relationship between an academic individual productivity and the quality of his/her co-authors network. This confirms the assortative matching hypothesis in the French case.
Do Standard Bibliometric Measures Correlate with Academic Rank of Full-Time Pediatric Dentistry Faculty Members? This study found that the h-index, number of publications, number of citations, and maximum number of citations for a single work were associated with academic rank for full-time pediatric dentistry faculty members. The h-index was strongly correlated with the academic rank of these pediatric dental faculty members, suggesting that this index may be considered a measure for promotion, along with a faculty member's quality and quantity of research, teaching, service, and clinical activities.
Transnational Research Networks in Chinese Scientific Production. An Investigation on Health-Industry Related Sectors The analysis carried out in this work had the aim to shed some light on the evolution over time of Chinese TRN in gerontology and on the possible determinants of research quality in the field.
A bibliometric analysis of leading universities in innovation research The results show that the most prestigious American universities are not only the most influential, taking into account the number of citations of their publications, but are also highly productive universities in this area, given the greater number of publications that they have accumulated on innovation research in the last twenty five years. There are also some universities in the UK, France and the Netherlands which are worth mentioning. They not only appear in the top 20 of our ranking, but their presence increases as we reach the list of top 100 universities, especially those in the UK and Netherlands.
Detecting and predicting the topic change of Knowledge-based Systems: A topic-based bibliometric analysis from 1991 to 2016 This paper specifically focuses on the change of these research topics in KnoSys by conducting a topic-based bibliometric study to address two questions "What is the KnoSys community interested in?" and "How does such interest change over the time?". The empirical insights provide a systematic overview to track the trend of KnoSys topics and uncover related research frontiers, with the answers of questions such as "what are happening in this research area" and "what will happen in the near future". Such empirical insights can be used as a guide for KnoSys submissions.
Open access to journal articles in oncology: current situation and citation impact Based on our sample, in the field of oncology, 42% of recent journal articles are behind the pay-wall (non-OA) one year after publication; the "Green road" of providing OA is more common than the "Gold road"; OA is associated with higher citation counts.
From Inputs to Impacts: Assessing and Communicating the Full Value of Biomedical Research Despite these potential barriers, the results of the UWM pilot not only demonstrate that research evaluation is possible but also provide a more holistic view of the many ways in which research benefits institutions, learners, communities, and the country.
History and Outcomes of 50 Years of Physician-Scientist Training in Medical Scientist Training Programs Physician-scientists, who have clinical understanding coupled with the scientific skills to conduct state-of-the art research, are needed for both disease mechanism research and bench-to-bedside translation.
Catalyzing Interdisciplinary Research and Training: Initial Outcomes and Evolution of the Affinity Research Collaboratives Model The outcomes described above demonstrate that the ARC mechanism represents an effective model for catalyzing new interdisciplinary research.
Beyond Citation Rates: A Real-Time Impact Analysis of Health Professions Education Research Using Altmetrics Increasing altmetrics attention signals interest in HPE research and the need for further investigation. Knowledge of popular and underused outlets may help investigators strategically share research for broader dissemination. Growing attention to HPE scholarship, as measured by the increase in the number of altmetrics events, signals a broad interest in HPE research and the need for further investigation.
Do Neuroscience Journals Accept Replications? A Survey of Literature The neuroscience journals that welcomed replications and published replications were reported.
Bias against novelty in science: A cautionary tale for users of bibliometric indicators We propose that a way to measure the potential an article has to advance the knowledge frontier is to examine the combinatorial novelty of its references.
The career effects of scandal: Evidence from scientific retractions Overall, the community's response is consistent with Bayesian learning under the assumptions that high-status scientists have a better initial reputation, and that misconduct is a more revealing signal, compared to an honest mistake.
International knowledge flows and the administrative barriers to mobility The results obtained using three independent sources of data (Web of Science, DEMIG POLICY and IATA) suggest that the administrative barriers to mobility are associated with reduced bilateral knowledge flows.
Why researchers publish in non-mainstream journals: Training, knowledge bridging, and gap filling In this article we have examined the functions that non-mainstream journals, i.e. journals not indexed by WoS and Scopus play in communication practices of Colombian researchers. We found that training in article writing, knowledge bridging, and knowledge gap-filling were the roles of publishing in non-mainstream journals. These results suggest that research evaluation policy in low and middle-income countries should consider assigning greater value to non-mainstream journals given their role in bridging and disseminating potentially useful and novel knowledge.
Institutionalization of international university research ventures Institutionalization is not a benefit without limits; nevertheless, an institutionalized structure may be necessary if ambitious research-driven goals are to be achieved.
A Field Experiment on Search Costs and the Formation of Scientific Collaborations We interpret these large effects as showing that even when working in relatively favorable conditions, search costs and frictions continue to powerfully shape (and limit) the formation of collaborations between scientists.
Scholarly communication and open access: Perspectives from Korea By examining OA initiatives in Korea, including both OAP and OARs, this article offers a holistic perspective on progress with OA in a country that is committed to the development of a model of scholarly communication, which includes a significant OA element.
Peer review: The experience and views of early career researchers Peer review can be seen as a form of schooling, which all ECRs have to endure in order to obtain security and to progress in their career.
New web services that help authors choose journals While authors seek to publish the results of their research in the best sources they can, that fit their topic the most closely, and will have the biggest impact, author motivations for seeking a journal to submit to are complex and require information about journals that may be difficult to obtain.
Journal selection criteria in an open access environment: A comparison between the medicine and social sciences The editors and publishers can use these findings to attract the best manuscripts as the study reveals the author's perception of the journal's status. The results can also be used to design recommender systems for journal submission for new authors in a discipline. In conclusion, we suggest extending this current research in two potential ways.
Open access megajournals: The publisher perspective (Part 1: Motivations) "These results suggest that the often polarized debate surrounding OAMJs is a consequence of the extent to which observers perceive publishers to be motivated by these societal or business benefits."
Open access megajournals: The publisher perspective (Part 2: Operational realities) The results presented in this paper, when combined with those discussed in paper one (Wakeling et al., 2017), reveal a complex and sometimes contradictory picture of megajournal publishing. There are significant cultural, operational, and technical challenges associated with megajournals. Running a successful megajournal requires significant investment, combined with an ongoing commitment to the megajournal model.
Do Economics Departments Improve after They Appoint a Top Scholar as Chairperson? We find that departments tend to increase their productivity after the appointment of a distinguished chairperson (and that this does not seem to be because top-scholar Chairs join departments that have already begun to flourish).
Composite journal rankings in library and information science: A factor analytic approach Within this set of 55 LIS journals, three composite factors-citation impact per article (size-independent), subjective reputation, and total citation impact (size-dependent)-account for 77% of the common variance within a balanced set of 11 journal ranking metrics (five stated preference metrics and six citation metrics).
Six-fold over-representation of graduates from prestigious universities does not necessitate unmeritocratic selection in the faculty hiring process We have shown that similarly productive cohorts will produce very different rates of faculty hires simply because of a high hiring threshold, by demonstrating the predictions of a theoretical model with a realistic dataset.
Non-communicable diseases: mapping research funding organisations, funding mechanisms and research practices in Italy and Germany This analysis of Italian and German research funding structures revealed substantial differences between the two systems.
The Most Productive Years of Average Astronomers Therefore the average astronomers' output peaked in their mid-40s and they did half of their important work after the age of 50 years. For the Russell Lecturers only 20% of their important output occurred after the age of 50 years.
Information sciences 1968-2016: A retrospective analysis with text mining and bibliometric In this study, we have provided a comprehensive perspective at the evolution and development of INS. The research results have suggested that the co-operations among different institutions are essential to highly cited papers. It provides an important reference for scholars to capture the current situations and influential trends in this field.
Integrating IR with CRIS - a novel researcher-centric approach During its few years of use by WUT, the system Ω-Ψ₨ has proven to be a comprehensive, helpful and reliable tool to support the management of current research activities of universities, playing at the same time the role of a complete institutional repository.
Use, knowledge, and perception of the scientific contribution of Sci-Hub in medical students: Study in six countries in Latin America Latin American students who are aware of Sci-Hub often find what they want using this database and the average use of this site is twice a month. Membership in a SSMS and participation in a curricular or extracurricular project are characteristics associated to knowing this research portal. Despite the contested ethics behind this site, this portal still provides an alternative for access to valuable, updated scientific information for the student population.
How prevalent is academic misconduct in management research? In this work, we document evidence that views on self-plagiarism and the way reviewing processes are organized in management research are problematic.
STRATEGY: a tool for the formulation of peer-review strategies Our work defines a peer review strategy as the smallest set of editorial decisions to optimally guide the other review processes.
Internal migration of scientists in Russia and the USA: the case of physicists The hypotheses put forward in this study is that both the intensity and diffusion of mobility flows are positively related to the performance of the whole system of knowledge production. In order to confirm or reject these assumptions, as well as to estimate the scale of the effect, further research is needed. Still, it was conducted with the hope that existing scientific resources in Russia can be organized more effectively, and that mobilizing (in both senses of the word) regional science could be one of the solutions to this task.
Women, peace and security state-of-art: a bibliometric analysis in social sciences based on SCOPUS database This work contributes a comprehensive review of the scientific production in WPS, combining previously segregated approaches from a scientific viewpoint. The proposed approach allows an in-depth analysis of publications in WPS and, at the same time, it identifies opportunities for further research. The inclusion of a gender perspective also identifies opportunities.
From triadic closure to conference closure: the role of academic conferences in promoting scientific collaborations We found that conferences do promote new collaborations from the individual and community levels. We believe that the conference closure proposed in this paper can better evaluate the goodness of a conference from the perspective of social functions. A good conference should not only be a venue for publication, but also a nursery room for new scientific encounters.
Co-word analysis and thematic landscapes in Spanish information science literature, 1985-2014 The present analysis reveals that in Spain, all the sub-specialities and hot topics fall under one of those three categories, with no deviations relative to the worldwide domain. The intellectual content of the oldest 'scientific literature' research fronts (
Document type assignment accuracy in the journal citation index data of Web of Science Document type assignments were found to be correct in Web of Science in 94% of cases, when using the four DT categories of this study (article, letter, review, other). Significant proportions of publications may be missed when making selections of records from these data sources constrained to particular document types. Because of different citation distributions of publications of different document types, the normalized citations scores of publications with incorrect DTs become systematically distorted.
A profile analysis of the top Brazilian Computer Science graduate programs Overall, our results show that the best performance-related indicators, according to various analyses, are associated with the higher ranked programs. In terms of career length, the highest-ranked graduate programs have more experienced faculty members. In general, intra-program collaborations occur quite naturally whereas inter-program collaborations are still very incipient.
The law of limited excellence: publication productivity of Israel Prize laureates in the life and exact sciences By exposing the rarity of excellence even in this extreme end of publication productivity we extend the generality of Lotka's theorem and expose that—like a fractal—the tail of excellence behaves as the entire distribution.
The "space of physics journals": topological structure and the Journal Impact Factor The system of four clusters (Clj)j=1, i.e. I on S, serves as the conditions for and means of explanation and it is within the framework of this structure that the properties of physics journals (and the differences between them) are formulated and described.
Discovering interdisciplinary interactions between two research fields using citation networks In this paper, we introduced a framework that addresses both quantitative assessment of interdisciplinary interactions between a pair of research fields as well as the qualitative assessment that could identify the specific developments that played crucial role in interdisciplinary interactions. Quantitative as well as qualitative methods devised in this paper form a framework for interdisciplinarity assessment that can be used by various decision makers. The current study explores discovery of interdisciplinary interactions between two disciplines using citation networks.
Impact of Ph.D. training: a comprehensive analysis based on a Japanese national doctoral survey The result first shows that most Ph.D.s received instructions by their official supervisors, and that half of them received additional instruction by internal faculty members.
On academic reading: citation patterns and beyond Our study suggests that deep reading (as opposed to perfunctory reading) leads to the discovery of new ideas in addition to the ideas that the Author initially intended to convey.
Tracking researchers and their outputs: new insights from ORCIDs These results suggest that systematic variations in adoption and integration of ORCID into publication metadata should be considered in any bibliometric analysis based on it.
Methodological issues in measuring citations in Wikipedia: a case study in Library and Information Science However, the results of this study reveal severe limitations in the use of Wikipedia citations for research evaluation purposes. The lack of standardization of Wikipedia references makes it difficult to measure them with a minimum level of precision. The number of Wikipedia citations is also too small to be used in research evaluation.
The global geography of scientific visibility: a deconcentration process (1999-2011) The evolution of the distribution of citations received by publications listed in the Web of Science between 2000 and 2007 shows a growing convergence between the geography of scientific production and that of scientific citations.
Some indices violating the basic domination relation This study demonstrates that the a-index, m-index, e-index and q²-index do violate the basic domination relation given the same number of papers, implying these latter four indices should be used with caution. Evaluators of scholars should note that these four indicators are not unbiased and should not be used independently. Therefore, future research may be done to see whether using a padded vector (by padding the shorter vector using fictitious papers having zero citations) for the basic domination relation test is appropriate.
The emergence of a field: a network analysis of research on peer review With all these caveats, our study allowed us to circumscribe the field, capture its emergence and evolution and identify the most influential publications. They could be considered as the main corpus of knowledge for any newcomer in the field. This typology indicates the emergence and evolution of peer review as a research field.
Assessing peer review by gauging the fate of rejected manuscripts: the case of the Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation These findings indicate that JASSS did not lose many potentially influential articles when rejecting submissions.
Post retraction citations in context: a case study In light of these results, we listed some recommendations for publishers that could potentially minimize the referral to retracted studies as valid.
Does single blind peer review hinder newcomers? This article investigated whether revealing the identity of authors to referees is related to shares of publications from newcomers, as referees' evaluation may be affected by authors' track record of publications. Overall, the results suggest that by knowing the identity of the authors, reviewers may be biased towards authors that are not sufficiently embedded in their research community. We identify some promising directions for future research.
The miracle of peer review and development in science: an agent-based model We have labeled this puzzle as the miracle of peer review and scientific development. We showed that a high value of the public good of science maintains scientific development. Reputational systems that are heavily building on author contributions might be partially sucessful, especially if the reputational hierarchy is directly used for selecting between similarly rated submissions.
Quantifying the effect of editor-author relations on manuscript handling times The results of this study remind us that editors are humans, and as such they are subject to introduce a social bias in the functioning of the scientific community at large.
Duration and quality of the peer review process: the author's perspective We find considerable variation between the ten scientific fields distinguished.
Evaluating alternative systems of peer review: a large-scale agent-based modelling approach to scientific publication In our simulations, cascade peer review was the only alternative more efficient than the conventional one.
The Top 100 Articles in the Medical Informatics: a Bibliometric Analysis Our bibliometric analysis illustrated a historical perspective on the progress of scientific research on Medical Informatics.
A measure of knowledge flow between specific fields: Implications of interdisciplinarity for impact and funding Through the case of CogSci and ED, we show that KMED articles offer influential knowledge. Accordingly, we conclude that the research outputs that mediate knowledge flow between two mutually relevant disciplines may exert more influence than those that focus within-field. Our findings support the notion that funding decisions implicitly favor research within the "silo" of specific disciplines (here, CogSci and ED, also the Border field that we composed).
Can editors save peer review from peer reviewers? We have shown that the brunt of this impact is due to their willingness to accept low-quality manuscripts, as opposed to their tendency to reject high-quality manuscripts perceived as competition. In sum, strategies that succeeded in improving quality did so at the expense of punishing authors of above-average papers or overtaxing good referees, while strategies that minimized these problems did little to improve quality. Editors can help, but structural changes are more likely to have a stronger impact.
The evaluation of scientific productivity A new evaluation agenda therefore requires an “anti-reductionist" posture: scientific evaluation cannot be reduced to an analysis of scientific literature; the usefulness of an article cannot be reduced to its visibility within the scientific community; and the excellence of scientific production cannot be reduced to international similarity.
Measuring the social impact of dental research: An insight into the most influential articles on the Web Increased social impact of dental articles is not significantly associated with high citation rates. Combining new and traditional metrics provides a more comprehensive picture of research impact. Further comparative studies on the traditional and new metrics will enable our understanding on the scientific and social impact of research output, and its relevance to the larger society.
The Handelsblatt Rankings 2.0: Research Rankings for the Economics Profession in Austria, Germany, and Switzerland The Handelsblatt Rankings of university departments and individual economists have had a lasting influence on the economics profession in the German-speaking countries.
DS-Index: Ranking Authors Distinctively in an Academic Network This paper presents an academic index, DS-index, to rank the authors distinctively. It differentiates the authors even having same publication count, but the slight different citation pattern and outperforms the existing indices. The experiments performed on a huge dataset of DBLP confirm that the DS-index assigns a unique rank to each author and no two authors are assigned the same rank.
Breaking up friendships in exams: A case study for minimizing student cheating in higher education using social network analysis In this paper, we proposed to analyze whether student seating rearrangement can be made more effective, compared to existing solutions that are already being applied in some educational environments.
Human and social capital determinants of translational activity in medical sciences Overall our conclusion is that translational innovation outcomes have much more to do with the relationships among different researchers than with the level of any individual's expertise and skills.
Island plus Bridge: how transformative innovation is organized in the federal government This study builds upon a lineage of prior studies of the DARPA-model by Ree et al. (1990), Fong (2001), Van Atta et al. (2003), Bonvillian (2006, 2009), and Bonvillian and Van Atta (2011). It confirms that factors identified by Bonvillian and Van Atta (2011) are present at DARPA, ARPA-E, and ATP. Island + Bridge is offered as a framework for understanding a range of organizational patterns for those agencies that aim for radical change in society and economy.
Measuring global research activities using geographic data of scholarly article visits This study measured the research activity of scientific papers by examining use data. Finally, for new and old papers, visiting patterns from a geographical perspective are different. It is hoped that further research will dig deeper into this topic and continue to investigate the patterns and mechanism of knowledge diffusion.
Structure and patterns of cross-national Big Data research collaborations "The analysis shows the international collaboration structure and patterns in Big Data research, including basic descriptive statistics of nations contributing to Big Data research in recent years, network structure of collaborations among nations, patterns of collaboration communities, and visualized topological and geographical maps that vividly display the global collaboration structure and patterns."
Understanding researchers' intention to publish in open access journals This research contributes with a deeper understanding of what drives the intention to publish OA research articles, and how innovativeness affects attitudes and PBC autonomy.
Changing styles of informal academic communication in the age of the web Orthodox, moderate and heterodox responses This paper discussed the impact of new information technologies on scholarly communication practice and expands our understanding of how developments in information and communication technologies have changed the scholarly communication practice and informal scholarly communication activities in particular.
A Further Survey of Multiple Authorship in the Astronomical Literature Most of the J11 journals show a trend toward increasing collaboration among their authors since 1990 on the basis of the following: (i) they are all characterized by A(1 + 2) = df (1 + 2)/dt < 0 between 1991 and 2015 (Table 2), and (ii) in most cases they exhibit A(6-10) > 0 and A(>10) > 0 over the same period. The trends at high and low numbers of authors evinced so markedly by the A2M journals are therefore not unique to these journals, but instead reflect a general pattern in a wide variety of refereed journals of astronomy. The international diversity of an author pool does not seem to be a factor in either limiting or enhancing the level of collaboration among the researchers that contributed to the J11 journals.
Bibliometric analysis of the journal literature on women's studies The present work explores the characteristics of women's studies literature from 1900 to 2013 based on the database of Web of Science. The women's studies literature has grown exponentially, with an annual growth rate of 10.6% in number of articles published for over one century. Future studies covering these two issues for a more comprehensive insight into women's studies and its literature are highly desirable and currently undergoing.
Identifying economics' place amongst academic disciplines: a science or a social science? On the basis of our analysis, it seems possible that most of economics does not closely link with any of the other disciplines. With respect to the question posed in the title of this paper, our view, in part informed by these results, is that the subject matter of economics places it clearly as a social science, but many in the discipline act as if it were a science.
Network structure of scientific collaborations between China and the EU member states Our results show that the new China-EU collaboration network has been reshaped in particular by a number of new EU member states that have middle or low research capacities. This study provides interesting evidence on the dynamic change of collaborations between the old and new EU member states. One limitation of this study is that the networks are mapped based on full count, using one type of collaboration measure (i.e. the Jaccard index).
Development of a semi-automatic bibliometric system for publications on animal health and welfare: a methodological study In conclusion, this study represents, to our knowledge, the first attempt to propose a semi-automatic method of extraction to elaborate the most holistic scientific DB in both animal health and welfare.
How to standardize (if you must) Theorem 1 is, at the same time, bad news and good news. It is bad news because it shows that standardization is confined by the straight-jacket of set-ups containing no more than two statistics. It is good news because it shows that a small set of natural requirements on standardization allows us to obtain a quite sharp characterization of its mathematical form.
Community evolution analysis based on co-author network: a case study of academic communities of the journal of "Annals of the Association of American Geographers" In terms of the result analysis, our proposed index can be demonstrated to be efficient to find more representative authors than traditional H index, which is different from many previous studies. Our work however, is conducted in a more detail-level to close look in the evolution of the selected communities. Therefore, in the future work, we can consider the collaboration patterns in the discipline “Geography” by collecting articles from all the top eight Geography journals.
Oncology research in late twentieth century and turn of the century Portugal: a scientometric approach to its institutional and semantic dimensions We present a portrait of oncology research in Portugal from 1976 to 2015, focusing on several aspects that can be derived from the investigation of publication patterns and the network analysis of institutional collaborations and thematic domains. In particular, we have shown that the dynamics of Portuguese oncology research was closely related to the developments in the policies for science and technology in the country. The collaboration networks revealed a strong connection between the laboratory and the clinic with a balanced number of non-clinical institutions (universities, research centers and associate laboratories) and clinical institutions conducting research and consistently working together.
Measuring the publishing productivity of economics departments in Europe The findings of this study can serve as a useful guider for research-oriented post-graduate students with focus on economic who are looking to pursue or broaden their interests at leading research departments in Europe.
Mapping farm animal welfare research in an enlarged Europe: international collaboration, bibliometric output, research resources and relation to economic indices The mapping of FAW research and its scientific networks showed clear geographical patterns across an enlarged Europe with higher activities and stronger linked partners in the Western region.
Scientific collaboration in Brazilian researches: a comparative study in the information science, mathematics and dentistry fields We have concluded that scientific collaboration and co-authorship are terms assigned to different activities for the analyzed fields.
Research collaboration in groups and networks: differences across academic fields At the system level, conducting research in groups in the university department and in international networks are equally common, but there are large differences between academic fields.
Quantitative study on Australian academic science In this paper, we have presented the results of analysis of scholars and their publication data over the period from 1974 to 2014 for three different Australian universities.
Measuring social media activity of scientific literature: an exhaustive comparison of scopus and novel altmetrics big data Overall, findings suggest that altmetrics can be used to distinguish highly cited publications.
Inter-rater reliability and validity of peer reviews in an interdisciplinary field In sum, our results demonstrated the predictive power of reviewers' relevance and novelty ratings, provided that each reviewer belonged to the same discipline as the paper. Despite the limitations of our study, we regard the results to be worrisome. Not only did we find little agreement among reviewers, our findings also argue for little convergent as well as discriminant construct validity.
A quantitative analysis of researcher citation personal display considering disciplinary differences and influence factors This paper analyzed and compared the extent to which researchers had citation personal display in three major disciplines by taking advantage of data collected from researchers' personal websites as well as Elsevier's Scopus.
Language and socioeconomics predict geographic variation in peer review outcomes at an ecology journal Though we cannot exclude a role for editor and reviewer biases against authors based on their geographic location, variation in socioeconomics and language explain much of the variation in manuscript editorial and peer review outcomes among authors from different regions of the world.
China's international research collaboration: evidence from a panel gravity model Our empirical results, based on a gravity econometric model, show that the publication activities of China and other countries, similarity in disciplinary specialization and language are important factors that affect China's international research collaboration.
JIF-Plots: using plots of citations versus citable items as a tool to study journals and subject categories and discover new scientometric relationships The results and examples presented above illustrate how JIF-Plots can provide interesting data that complement the information provided in the JCR from Web of Science. These plots do not require sophisticated statistical techniques, yet they can help further the study some aspects of science dynamics and scientific stratification. The kind of plots described in this article could be easily implemented with the Web of Science database, and their interpretation is highly intuitive.
Evaluating journal impact based on weighted citations We proposed a measuring method where the authors' prestige level is considered towards the accumulative scores iteratively. Our experimental analysis shows that for the purpose of quantifying the scholarly impact objectively, previous structured measures suffer from flaws such as ignoring the authors' prestige and the relevance of citing paper and cited paper. In the future, we intend to explore inherent relationships between papers, authors and journals in heterogeneous networks toward an objective and reasonable assessment of scientific outputs.
Reviewer interest in a manuscript may predict its future citation potential We hypothesize that reviewer interest in a manuscript may serve as a predictor of the potential citations an article will receive, and could be one of many mechanisms behind the editorial delay-eventual citation relationship.
Country over-citation ratios OCR is much greater for countries with small scientific output.
The h-index as an almost-exact function of some basic statistics We conclude that, in addition to its own interest, as an effective proxy representation of the h-index, the formula introduced may provide new insights into “factors” determining the value of the h-index, and how they interact with each other.
A bibliometric analysis of operations research and management science A general bibliometric overview of OR-MS was presented.
A Theoretical Foundation for the Ethical Distribution of Authorship in Multidisciplinary Publications I have argued that Thomas Scanlon’s contractualism provides a useful theoretical foundation to justify principles that would contribute to the ethical distribution of authorship in multiauthored publications, and especially in multidisciplinary teams. The result would be a decision-making framework that is sufficiently flexible so as to be meaningful to users across diverse contexts (e.g., field, size, methods), while remaining ethically reasonable. Along with the detailed theoretical foundations provided in this paper, such empirical data would provide the basis for the development of a practical framework to support ethical and nonarbitrary decision-making concerning authorship distribution in multidisciplinary team publications.
Exploring research impact in the assessment of leadership, governance and management research This study of a subsample of REF impact case studies identifies the contributions of UK higher education institutions to a range of types of impact from LGM research, timescales to impact and spread.
Seeing is believing: A graphical reference framework for multi-criteria evaluation The present work deals with an important topic on the use of multiple indicators in evaluation systems: how can ‘objective’ measurable and so-called ‘policy’ criteria be combined in an evaluation system?
Laying the Foundations for Scientometric Research: A Data Science Approach The population list of social work journals, database of article records, and customized software builds the foundation for future scientometric studies in social work.
Reference Accuracy Among Research Articles Published in Research on Social Work Practice APA (2009, p. 180) informs us that reference accuracy helps establish one’s “credibility as a careful researcher.” The current study examined and revealed the carefulness, or lack thereof, among published research articles—specifically among reference content—in RSWP. Conversely, the potential reward of exposing reference errors in social work research, we feel, is greater: increased awareness of the problem that leads to genuine self-reflection and corresponding enhanced editing skills from social work scholars.
Benchmarking the research track record and level of appointment of Australian occupational therapy academics This study of occupational therapy faculty research track records, relationship to level of appointment and doctoral status provides a current benchmark for the profession in Australia.
Open Publication, Digital Abundance, and Scarce Labour "Imagining that vast amounts of labour can be willed away by the introduction of new technologies, in scholarly communications as I have demonstrated here or in other areas, is unrealistic; it is a huge social problem that will likely meet with resistance since what is really at stake is a challenging redistribution of labour."
Journal rankings in management and business studies: What rules do we play by? This paper examined how some important characteristics of research papers vary with the rating categories of journals. Our findings, which draw a more detailed and balanced picture than was available before, allow for conclusions about the characteristics of papers which are incentivized when papers in management and business studies are weighted with ratings of the journal in which they are published. Some of this evidence is contradictory to often repeated criticisms of journal rankings, but this is not necessarily surprising.
Exploring preferences for impact versus publications among UK business and management academics Overall, it was clear that for most business and management academics, impact was considered more valuable than any level of publication that we offered, indicating a strong preference for impact among our population.
Hybrid self-optimized clustering model based on citation links and textual features to detect research topics The results show that the proposed model can obtain reasonable and effective clustering results, and the research topics of data envelopment analysis field are also analyzed based on the proposed model.
Publish or impoverish An investigation of the monetary reward system of science in China (1999-2016) In this study, after investigating 168 cash-per-publication reward policies from 100 Chinese universities, we described the landscape of the cash-per-publication reward policy in China and revealed its trends since the late 1990s. Chinese universities apply the monetary reward incentive used in business to promote scientific publication productivity, which lead to a radical increase in China's international scholarly publication. The landscape presented in this study could form a foundation for future studies that investigates the determinants and consequences of monetary reward policies.
Hobson's choice: the effects of research evaluation on academics' writing practices in England This study has shown that writing is not only a key activity in the day-to-day business of being an academic, but also a means by which academics' professional competence is assessed. In order to succeed on the terms dictated by research evaluation systems driven by the REF, academics in England are forced to align their practices with a neoliberal culture that fundamentally misunderstands the nature of the scholarly writing process as an easily reproducible technical skill rather than a difficult, creative and rather unpredictable endeavour. The demands of the REF and the internal policies that institutions put in place in response to it are shaping academics' writing practices in contradictory ways, since the definition of success engendered therein excludes many valued knowledge creation practices and limits the options available to academics in carving out their scholarly niche.
Academic stratospheres-cum-underworlds: when highs and lows of publication cultures meet We argued in this article that the flourishing of predatory publications needs to be considered in relation to two issues.
Why do you publish? On the tensions between generating scientific knowledge and publication pressure Motivations why researchers publish at all have not yet been subject to thorough examination. Analyzing the answers to this seemingly obvious question provides valuable insights concerning intertwined epistemic, pragmatic, and personal motives for publishing an essential part of scientific practice. Sparking occasions for critical reflection – which remains rare in our sample and beyond is a task not only of researchers themselves, but also of administrators, funders and other stakeholders.
On the quest for currencies of science Field "exchange rates" for citations and Mendeley readership Thus, the most important conclusion of the paper is that field normalization procedures for Mendeley readership can be fully applied in the same terms as for citations, empirically supporting the development of field-normalized indicators based on readership. The above discussion clearly suggests that further research is necessary in order to disentangle the potential values of the two metrics (as well as any other new metric) in their ability to measure scientific recognition.
Making visible the invisible through the analysis of acknowledgements in the humanities Studying acknowledgements is necessary since they provide valuable information about the interactions, influences and collaborations that take place within the scientific process and that, otherwise, would be neglected. The notion of acknowledgements as "super-citations", originally prompted by Edge (1979), is certainly a suggestive and rational proposal in the humanities that relies on the assumption that acknowledgements reflect intellectual influence that might be greater than that of some referenced authors. The need to encourage research on acknowledgements is a basic conclusion that can be drawn from this study.
The many hands of science Commonalities and differences in the research contributions of authors and subauthors The aim of this paper is to explore the research contributions made by authors and acknowledgees in order to outline how authorship, and acknowledgement, is awarded in the lab-oriented life sciences. In summary, of the 2163 authorships, 941 (43.5%) belong to the core layer, 956 (44.2%) belong to the middle layer and 266 (12.3%) belong to the outer layer. Although such differences can be identified, the findings of this paper reinforce the conclusions made in Yank and Rennie (1999, p. 667), namely that the contributions of individuals 'exist along a continuum of activities and that researchers may be applying idiosyncratic criteria when they draw a line between the ‘authors' and ‘acknowledgees' on their teams.'
Recognition and reward in the academy Valuing publication oeuvres in biomedicine, economics and history This study offers a novel perspective on how publications are valued when assessing academic careers. Especially striking is how research across different fields is evaluated through different time horizons. This finding is significant in the debate on more overarching and formal systems of research evaluation.
The presence of academic journals on Twitter and its relationship with dissemination (tweets) and research impact (citations) Setting up one's own account is the best way for journals to participate on Twitter because this decision improves the visibility of their articles, increasing the number of tweets and, in consequence, enlarging the chance of being cited.
Citation impact of health and medical journals in Africa: does open accessibility matter? In conclusion, and to answer the research question on whether open accessibility matters as far as citation and research impact of health and medical journals in Africa is concerned, this study has revealed that OA access publishing of the journals greatly influences the citation and research impact of the journals. The three null hypotheses tested were rejected showing a high significance difference in research impact and citation penetration of the two publication outlets. These findings have far-reaching implications for health and medical scholarly communications in Africa.
Point of View: Motivating participation in open science by examining researcher incentives Ultimately, our analysis underlines that open science should not impose extra burdens on researchers.
Global network centrality of university rankings The impact of this research is that we have determined the importance of the centrality of global connectivity and, hence, established initial evidence for further exploring potential connections between university ranking and regional investment policies on improving global connectivity.
The impact of subsidies on researcher's productivity: Evidence from a developing country We find results that suggest that the short-term effects for the entry level to the programme (Candidates) is mainly on the production of higher quality literature, that is, in the publication of articles in scientific journals and articles indexed in Scopus. Still, it is important to underline that a more definitive evaluation of the programme will need to take into account the long-term effects that can only be observed after many more years. However we found a couple of exceptions.
An evolving research culture: Analysis of biomedical publications from Libya, 2003-13 Improving biomedical research output in Libya will require not only advantageous collaborations with researchers abroad but careful reconstruction of scientific infrastructures, including new laws and guidelines, carefully designed to enhance their society’s strengths and use them to overcome the weaknesses. The next generations of Libyan researchers have the burden of overcoming these challenges and working productively with authorities to construct a motivated, competitive, and optimistic environment.
Qualitative network analysis tools for the configurative articulation of cultural value and impact from research Subject to further testing and refinement and to critical understanding of the conceptual, technical, practical, and political limitations of measurement in this area, the approach that we have developed can be adapted for use in research, evaluation, communication, engagement, knowledge exchange, and developmental work in higher education institutions and funding organizations.
Social network analysis of a scientist-practitioner research initiative established to facilitate science dissemination and implementation within states and communities This finding suggests a novel way for dissemination-focused research programs to identify super-connector investigators to foster practitioner linkages.
A Question of Social Justice: How Policies of Profit Negate Engagement of Developing World Bioethicists and Undermine Global Bioethics Mechanisms for addressing this inequity are long overdue.
Bibliometrics of social media research: A co-citation and co-word analysis The current study applied multiple bibliometric analysis methods (citation, co-citation, keyword, and co-word analyses) to review social media research published in eight top business journals (JA, JAMS, JAR, JCR, JM, JMR, JR, and MS) and eight top hospitality and tourism journals (ATR, CHQ, IJCHM, IJHM, JHTR, JTR, JTTM, and TM) between 2007 and 2016.
Avoiding erroneous citations in ecological research: read before you apply The Shannon-Wiener diversity index is commonly mislabeled, especially in applied disciplines, which probably stems from using secondary sources without consulting the primary literature. Scientists dealing with applied research thus should take care to select and consult the basic research literature for their discipline before they apply methods to their own research. To improve this communication, theoretical ecologists should raise public awareness of frequent errors by including mention of them in general, widely used, and popular textbooks as well as in specialized literature.
The misleading narrative of the canonical faculty productivity trajectory "These results demonstrate the unpredictability of productivity over time and open the door for new efforts to understand how environmental and individual factors shape scientific productivity."
Analysing published global Ebola Virus Disease research using social network analysis Research output on EVD has increased over time and surged during the 2014/2015 outbreak.
Network proximity in the geography of research collaboration Notably, a clear substitutability pattern with geography was revealed: the strength of net- work proximity rises when the benefits induced by geographic proximity wane.
Academic impact and rankings of neuroendovascular fellowship programs across the United States The departmental h index and analysis of its publication topics can be used to calculate the h index of an associated subspecialty. The research interests of individual faculty members are directly reflected in the research productivity of a department. The current systems for the accreditation of neuroendovascular fellowship programs do not have a meaningful impact on academic productivity.
Altmetrics of Papers From Scientific Periphery Reflect Global Trends: A Case Study of Publications by Zagreb University School of Medicine Our results confirm the findings of larger studies that altmetric indicators can shed light on dissemination of scientific literature among the general public and on the attention some research findings receive by the professional community.
Impact factor evolution of nursing research journals: 2009 to 2014 Although IF and other bibliometric indicators have their limitations, it is nonetheless true that bibliometry is now the most widely used tool for evaluating scientific output in all disciplines, including nursing, highlighting the importance of being familiar with how they are calculated and their significance when deciding the journal or journals in which to publish the results of our research.
Coverage and quality: A comparison of Web of Science and Scopus databases for reporting faculty nursing publication metrics This investigation shows that for the generalized field of nursing, as well as for our specific nursing faculty publications, Scopus outperformed or showed no significant difference from Web of Science. Other academic nursing programs should consider Scopus when reporting faculty publications in terms of journal quality, and researcher impact. Further research would be required to see if these results could be generalized outside the field of nursing or to other cross-disciplinary applications.
International research collaboration among women engineers: frequency and perceived barriers, by regions First, the frequency of international research collaboration clearly varies by region, with revealing patterns.
Explicit Bias Toward High-Income-Country Research: A Randomized, Blinded, Crossover Experiment Of English Clinicians Unconscious bias can have far-reaching implications for the diffusion of knowledge and innovations from low-income countries.
The argument for diversifying the NIH grant portfolio My own goal is to see NIH develop a more diverse portfolio of NIH-funded research, opening up the field to a larger number of talented folks of all ages, while ensuring that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. I continue to support the GSI, which provided a route forward. All solutions need to recognize that different sorts of science are more or less expensive, but a concrete mechanism of diversifying our research dollar investment to include more labs is, in my mind, essential.
International perspective on nanotechnology papers, patents, and NSF awards (2000-2016) The number of nanotechnology-related scientific papers, patents, and NSF awards increased significantly during 2000-2016, with an average annual rate of increase for papers and patent publications of about 15%. The US continues to be the dominant player in terms of the number of publications in the top-three-journals (about 65% in 2016) and the number of USPTO patents (43% in 2016), even if its share is decreasing. P.R. China and South Korea have expanded faster in the total number of papers and international patents, while the US, EU27, and Japan maintain the lead in fundamental discovery with larger foundational impact.
The Effect of International Joint Research to the Research Performance: The Case of the Global Research Laboratory and the Basic Research Laboratory Programme The main finding is that the research capacity is a basic requirement to improve the research performance, and the main factors influencing research performance through IJR are the network size and the number of contacts.
A study on the author collaboration network in big data<SUP>*</SUP> The results of this study can be useful for researchers interested in finding suitable partners in the big data field.
How does research evaluation impact educational research? Exploring intended and unintended consequences of research assessment in the United Kingdom, 1986-2014 Our analysis of the institutionalisation of the UK's research evaluation system from 1986 to 2014 confirms that research assessment has been firmly established within UK higher education as a strong system, increasingly formalised and standardised. We conclude that as the research evaluation system became more formalised, standardised and transparent, both departments and individual scholars found ways to maximise their ‘research power' and their positioning via the rating scale. Policymakers in other countries should be aware of the intended and unintended consequences shown here as they model and reform their evaluation systems and attempt to measure the results of their investments in educational research.
A bibliometric view on the internationalization of European educational research Many European countries increased their publication output through the journals of the WoS considerably.
Last and corresponding authorship practices in ecology Given these results, I suggest that discussions of authorship have as their starting point that the first author will be corresponding author and the senior author will be last author.
Research performance as a quality signal in international labor markets: Visibility of business schools worldwide through a global research performance system In summary, GRP offers several contributions for IB research and practice. First, by using signaling theory as a conceptual framework, it enables us to leverage insights from the literature on international academic careers and from scientometric research into research on the internationalization of business schools. Second, for IB researchers in non-globally prominent institutions, it provides a signaling tool that can communicate the impact of their research in local, regional, and global contexts.
Bibliometric trends of South African environmental health articles between 1998 and 2015: Making local research visible and retrievable Environmental health research in SA and beyond spans a range of complex subjects and fields. The steady growth in research output, particularly in the past 3 years, is promising.
The use and analysis of anti-plagiarism software: Turnitin tool for formative assessment and feedback Turnitin is a valuable software tool that helps to identify plagiarism or the ownership of written work. The results indicated that, especially, during the second half of the semester, plagiarism rates were lesser, by using Turnitin as a formative writing tool (p=0.002). There is a substantial benefit in using Turnitin as an educational writing tool rather than a punitive tool, and student learning outcomes can be significantly improved, and this process becomes a learning curve to acquire academic writing skills. Based on these findings, the article suggests a need for further surveys to be conducted with larger sample sizes and independent surveys to verify our observations.
Anaesthesiology research in the European Union and the European Free Trade Association: An overview from 2001 to 2015 Between 2001 and 2015, in the EU and EFTA countries, the number of publications increased, whereas the number of original articles decreased.
Academic Productivity of Faculty Associated With Craniofacial Surgery Fellowship Programs Variables associated with seniority were positively associated with the H-index.
Academic superstars: competent or lucky? I have used a formal model to show that a preference for reading papers of high epistemic value is sufficient to produce social stratification in science.
Redefining the pharmacology and pharmacy subject category in the journal citation reports using medical subject headings (MeSH) The reformulation of the Pharmacology and Pharmacy category into three categories was demonstrated by the consistent results obtained from testing nine different clustering models using the MeSH terms assigned to their articles.
From Eminent Men to Excellent Universities: University Rankings as Calculative Devices The rationale of the first university ranking was based on theoretical and methodological considerations from a long tradition of measuring eminence in the eugenicist tradition.
Science Production in Germany, France, Belgium, and Luxembourg: Comparing the Contributions of Research Universities and Institutes to Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, and Health "Comparing the institutionalization pathways that created the conditions necessary for continuous and strong growth in scientific productivity in the European center of global science emphasizes that the research university is the key organizational form across countries."
The Scientific Research Output of US Research Universities, 1980-2010: Continuing Dispersion, Increasing Concentration, or Stable Inequality? Our analyses reveal an increasingly productive system of U.S. research universities, with very robust growth rates throughout the period on all three measures examined.
Gender Differences in Publication Productivity Among Academic Scientists and Engineers in the US and China: Similarities and Differences This paper is among the first to systematically examine and compare gender differences in publication productivity among academic scientists and engineers in the U.S. and China.
An overview of the Web of Science record of scientific publications (2004-2013) from Nepal: focus on disciplinary diversity and international collaboration Based on the analysis of the disciplinary diversity and the national versus global relative disciplinary shares, Nepal's publication profile is inferred to be a hybrid of the ‘bio-environmental' and ‘western' models.
Global mapping of artificial intelligence in Google and Google Scholar Consistent policies are needed to smooth out future economic cycles in the AI field.
Filling the citation gap: measuring the multidimensional impact of the academic book at institutional level with PlumX Usage indicators and specifically, library holdings were found to be the most comprehensive indicator for monographs. The results shown here explore the potential interest on the variety of indicators offered by PlumX. Many of them need to be studied in more detail, especially the ones concerning the correctness, validity and stability of the resulting data.
Does academic collaboration equally benefit impact of research across topics? The case of agricultural, resource, environmental and ecological economics We found that, other factors being equal, collaboration has a positive impact on citation counts with different types of collaboration having different impacts.
Using PageRank in the analysis of technological progress through patents: an illustration for biotechnological inventions The results show that with minor modifications PageRank can be used to construct valid time consistent rankings on the importance of inventions in a specific technological field and characterise the contribution of a country (or any other unit of observation) to its development over time.
Understanding scientific communities: a social network approach to collaborations in Talent Management research Overall, the results in this study demonstrate the rapid evolution of the network despite it cannot be considered a full community as it is highly fragmented and the groups of reference are many and usually not connected to each other. Finally, we understand there is a great potential for greater cohesion in the TM research network.
Promoting scientodiversity inspired by biodiversity Comparison of our characterization of the distribution of research subjects over countries with the distribution of biological species suggests that scientodiversity is analogous structurally to biodiversity. This structural similarity between two empirical patterns in scientodiversity and two in biodiversity strongly suggests that the mechanisms underlying them should be similar. The observed change of slope of subject-budget plot (see Fig. 4) suggests that the mechanism for determining diversity varies depending on the scale of research.
Are predatory journals undermining the credibility of science? A bibliometric analysis of citers The results of the present study confirm the profile of citing authors being comparable to that of publishing authors in potential predatory journals and potential poor scientific standards journals. The citing authors tend to be inexperienced authors from Africa, Southeast Asia or South Asia and to a lesser extent experienced authors from the rest of the world. Finally, bibliographic databases should play an active role in strengthening the quality control of indexed articles and journals.
Scholarly publications beyond pay-walls: increased citation advantage for open publishing We find a clear citation advantage for open publishing; on average, these documents received twice as many citations, indicating that open access is the future in publishing.
The roles of geographic distance and socioeconomic factors on international collaboration among ecologists Thus, international collaboration will continue increasing, and young ecologists will experience international collaboration, even with distant countries (both geographical and socioeconomic).
The coverage of Microsoft Academic: analyzing the publication output of a university Given the fast and ongoing development of MA, we conclude that MA is on the verge of becoming a bibliometric superpower.
Sequential order as an extraneous factor in editorial decision The analysis presented in this paper shows that first submissions on a given day are more likely to be desk rejected. There is no doubt that manuscript's content is the primary determinant of editorial decisions, but the sequential order appears to also matter. The evidence presented in this paper is consistent with the decision fatigue interpretation, although of course other explanations are also possible. Editorial decision fatigue suggests that the manuscript review process could be improved by allocating only a specific number of manuscripts per editor or to permit a degree of randomisation in presentation order of submitted manuscripts to the editor.
Using Google Scholar institutional level data to evaluate the quality of university research In this paper, we explore the extent to which readily available citation data from Google Scholar can be used to form a credible evaluation of a university's research and compare this with the UK Research Excellence Framework results.
Sleeping beauties in Computer Science: characterization and early identification We performed an empirical analysis of a massive Computer Science publication dataset to understand and predict delayed recognition aka sleeping beauties.
Sequence analysis of annually normalized citation counts: an empirical analysis based on the characteristic scores and scales (CSS) method This study was a first attempt to use sequence analyses with bibliometric data. We think that this statistical approach can lead to interesting insights in citation histories. The application of this approach can be further extended beyond the analyses in our study.
Types of evidence cited in Australian Government publications By analysing a small set of references from government publications, we have shown that despite the criticisms of citation analysis as an impact measure, at least in the field of research utilisation we cannot solely rely on interview or survey data, as cited evidence use differs from reported evidence use. Both the characteristics of evidence sources in policy and the effect of open access publishing on research use in policy are clearly worth investigating further, particularly longitudinally, which would require increased accessibility of government publications.
Are Mendeley reader counts useful impact indicators in all fields? The results show that Mendeley reader counts have positive correlations with citation counts in all fields of academia and the correlations are strong in most. The findings suggest that if care is taken then Mendeley reader counts can be used for early citation impact evidence in almost all fields and for related impact in some of the remainder. As an additional application of the results, cross-checking with Mendeley data can be used to identify indexing anomalies in citation databases.
Identifying emerging research fields: a longitudinal latent semantic keyword analysis Findings confirm that the proposed methodology has the potential to complement qualitative content analysis, as the semantic analysis produces similar outcomes to qualitative content analysis to some extent. The authors argue that the suggested methodology facilitates the analysis dramatically and can thus be simply applied on a regular basis in order to monitor topic development within a specific research domain. Longitudinal assessments, such as the one performed in this study, provide important information on the state of the art of research domains and facilitate the detection of critical research topics.
The structural role of the core literature in history Our results thus point to the presence of a core literature which is, where applicable, mostly composed of books. We also highlighted at least two structural actions that the core literature can play: a local action, connecting within one or more communities, and a global action, connecting across communities. Future work should also explore the effective role of the core literature for a scholarly community: is it perfunctory or still intellectually relevant?
Scientific Mobility and Economic Assumptions: From the Allocation of Scientists to the Socioeconomics of Network Transformation Scientific mobility becomes thus an even more fascinating object of study as it actively contributes to such transformations in ways that are still largely unknown to the scholarly and policy communities.
Explore the research front of a specific research theme based on a novel technique of enhanced co-word analysis Based on theoretical and empirical analyses, ARM-KB can be used as a valuable new technique or a supplement to traditional bibliometrics in the exploration of scientific frontiers.
Family Matters: Measuring Impact Through One's Academic Descendants but the field should find more ways to acknowledge the role that mentoring does play.
TOUGH: The Measure of Merit in Psychological Science In conclusion, there is room to improve the way that scientific merit is measured in psychology.
Putting Culture in the Middle in Judging Scholarly Merit I propose that to put culture in the middle, the evaluation of scholarly merit in psychological science should (a) consider the integration of cultural perspectives in research as a critical indicator, (b) take into consideration the international visibility of scholarship, (c) benefit from a general consensus among cultural researchers, (d) document real-life impact in different populations, and (e) be mindful of the beliefs and practices of scientific communities in other cultures. These principles and expectations should be applied to the evaluation of scientific merit of scholarship as well. This practical wisdom may be just as important in conducting psychological research as in judging scholarly merit in psychological science.
Excellence in Research in Australia 2010, 2012, and 2015: The Rising of the Curate's Souffle? The comparison of the 2010, 2012, and 2015 ERA data collections demonstrates an overall improvement in ratings across universities, with most improving or at least holding their ground.
Bibliometric Analysis of Manuscript Characteristics That Influence Citations: A Comparison of Six Major Radiology Journals Using bibliometric knowledge, authors can craft a manuscript that may enhance its visibility and citation count over what they would otherwise experience. Open access and punctuation in the title showed positive correlations to citation totals, whereas the inclusion of study findings in the title showed a negative correlation. Study findings stated in the title, number of radiology authors, country of origin, abstract word count, abstract character count, and total number of words showed a statistical significance in the multi-regression model.
Scientometric indicators for Brazilian research on High Energy Physics, 1983-2013 The contribution of Brazilian HEP to global output indexed in the WoS WC Physics, Particles & Fields from 1983-2013 accounts for 3% of the total investigated. The national average annual growth rate for publications is higher than the global average, but more inconsistent, with a sharp increase in domestic production between 2009 and 2013. We concluded that the scientometric indicators suggested scientific maturity in the Brazilian HEP community due to its long history of experimental research.
All for one or one for all? Authorship and the cross-sectoral valuation of credit in nutrition science Credit and credit distribution through authorship in nutrition science are not uniform ingredients in a universal process of valuation.
A global bibliometric analysis of otolaryngology: Head and neck surgery literature Bibliometric analysis can be used to identify not only major centres of English-language ENT surgical research, such as the USA and UK but centres that are producing high-quality data, such as Spain, and cost-effective research, such as the UK.
Characteristics and trends on global environmental monitoring research: a bibliometric analysis based on Science Citation Index Expanded An overview of research in the environmental monitoring field was presented with the information of related outputs, language, categories, journals, countries, institutions, words, and hot issues. In addition to the above, the continuous efforts of international organization, social awareness, and the various countries' positive and effective political and environmental policies promoted the research and published articles in the field of environmental monitoring.
Assessment of global law and psychiatry research in the period of 1993-2012 Review and forecast on research emphases and research trends (Part-II) To detect research emphases and trends in the field among professionals concerned with the interface of L&P and related disciplines, the present paper first conducted a quantitative study of the highly cited articles and summarized research emphases and trends on L&P articles from the WOS during the period 1993 to 2012. The results of this study can help scientific researchers understand the research emphases and trends of L&P globally and recognize trends/directions for further research. Emerging themes in the field have more and more attention paid to them during the time period studies.
Using author tri-citation analysis to map knowledge domains in knowledge representations This article proposes a novel author tri-citation analysis (ATA) to map knowledge domains and to depict scientific intellectual structures based on the thinking of the traditional author co-citation analysis (ACA) method.
Publications by faculty members indexed in Science Citation Index and Scopus: an Iranian case study The results therefore show a huge gap between national and international publications by researchers affiliated with Allameh Tabataba'i University. The density indicators in both databases show that the collaboration network is not strongly interconnected and that Allameh Tabataba’I University researchers did not collaborate extensively in producing international outputs. There is clearly room for more collaboration to take place.
Promoting Virtue or Punishing Fraud: Mapping Contrasts in the Language of 'Scientific Integrity' Based on our results, it appears that especially the discourses of scientists and policymakers are diverging increasingly.
Bibliometric analysis of the development of nanoscience research in South Africa The research output in this field is showing a steady increase in South Africa since the introduction of the National Nanotechnology Strategy in 2005 and its associated government support. Future work will need to look at a quantitative comparison of this output with other developing countries and possibly provide an analytical perspective of low patenting trends in this field.
The influence of collaboration in research priorities: The SADC Case The findings are suggestive: the majority (almost two thirds) of South African-SADC collaboration includes non-African participants.
Team science: A qualitative study of benefits, challenges, and lessons learned Our findings have important implications for education and training of early-career scientists, particularly around how they may navigate the complexities of team-based research and maximize its rewards.
Bibliometric Analysis of Global Remote Sensing Research during 2010-2015 Significant remote sensing research points in the SCI database were obtained by bibliometric analysis. With the improvement of data acquisition ability, it will become difficult to process the large amount of remote-sensing data, so it could be foreseen that future remote sensing research will be closely integrated with computer technology, and big data techniques may be adopted to process the massive remote sensing data, and new data algorithms and models will continue to emerge in the future.
Tweeting birds: online mentions predict future citations in ornithology Our results suggest that altmetrics (or the online activity they measure), as well as complementing traditional measures of scholarly impact in ornithology such as citations, may also anticipate or even drive them.
On the Sustainability of Co-Authoring Behaviors in Vietnamese Social Sciences: A Preliminary Analysis of Network Data The study has developed a novel way to understand co-authorship behavior in Vietnam's social scientific communities as well as to evaluate their social sustainability.
The prehistory of biology preprints: A forgotten experiment from the 1960s The fate of the IEGs should warn us of the power of commercial publishers and of vested academic interests to restrict the free circulation of knowledge.
The use of the h-index to evaluate and rank academic departments The dp-index is proposed to be a useful tool for evaluating departmental performance in the global and US landscape and to establish trends by evaluating the shape of the curve: concave for declining departments and convex for ascending departments. It can also be applied to evaluate the research performance of individual faculty members by establishing whether they are below or above the linearized curve.
Who, where, what and where to now? A snapshot of publishing patterns in Australian orthopaedic surgery Only 5% of trainee papers were published without surgeons' co-authorship, highlighting the importance of surgeon mentorship in developing trainee research capability. The 86% of papers published by surgeons without trainee co-authorship raises the question of missed mentoring opportunities. This paper raises discussion points and areas for further exploration in relation to AOA trainee research capability.
Authorship and citation manipulation in academic research Our results are clear; academic misconduct, specifically misattribution, spans the academic universe.
Bibliometric indicators of the nursing journals according to the index databases The results obtained from this study allow us to affirm that the criteria for the internationalization imposed on journals does not contribute to obtaining or increasing the IF. The h-index and CiteScore appear to be better impact indicators for national nursing research.
Benchmarking the scientific research on wastewater-energy nexus by using bibliometric analysis This bibliometric study, proceeding on the basis of 9626 wastewater-energy nexus-related articles from SCI-EXPANDED, historically retrospect the current tendency and hotspots of wastewater-energy nexus research, which revealed that the prospective hotspots focused on the development of emerging sustainable processes and novel renewable energy applications, in response to the desire for a net wastewater-energy nexus system.
The critical issue of knowledge transfer and dissemination: a French perspective The autonomy of academics, their ability to make scientific choices but also to contribute to transfer and synergy with local stakeholders is a key challenge for the future and social utility of landscape research.
Rising Star Forecasting Based on Social Network Analysis In this paper, we propose the StarRank to find rising stars, and evaluate the diffusion of outstanding rank in heterogeneous networks. We consider the explicit link and implicit link in the network, and construct the transmission links of outstanding rank. Finally, we fit neural network with the rankings.
Characteristics of Highly Cited Articles in Interventional Cardiology In conclusion, the following features define the typical highly cited article in interventional cardiology-a clinical trial conducted in the United States, which studies angioplasty, and has been published relatively recently in a high-impact journal by a male first author. The effect of different types of funding on the impact of an article is very poorly studied, and larger studies are required in this area.
Bibliometric profile of deep brain stimulation These 100 highly-cited articles reflect the major advances and popular topics in the field of DBS. Our list can help distinguish incremental from transformational studies and provides insights into priorities and trends in DBS research that could serve as a source for future research directions.
Scientometric analysis of published papers in global ophthalmology in the past ten years USA is in the leading position in global ophthalmology. Part of Asian countries play an important role in the development of ophthalmology, but the impact needs to be improved. Strengthen the collaboration with other countries, especially the powerful countries in the field of ophthalmology such as USA, UK, Germany and so on.
Authorship and contribution disclosures "The bibliometric analysis in Study 1 shows significant relationships be-tween author order and contribution statements, consistent with the view that authorship and author order can allow readers to infer co-authors' individual contributions."
Understanding multiply mentioned references In scientific writing, multiply mentioned references (MMRs) should not be ignored both in proportion and their significance to citing papers. From the point of view of cited references, self-citing references tend to be more often multiply mentioned than non-self-citing references. This is true for both author self-citing and journal self-citing references. In terms of citation context, reference re-citations usually serve as supplementary explanations of their first-time mention within the citing paper.
bibliometrix: An R-tool for comprehensive science mapping analysis "bibliometrix is an open-source tool for executing a comprehensive science mapping analysis of scientific literature."
A remarkable example in three-dimensional informetrics. The geometric law: Distribution of use or distribution of structure? The three dimensional IPP, shown on Fig. 1, can describe many informetric processes. The results summarized in Theorem 3.6 are unexpected. Along with such a result, a question arises and remains, for now, an open
The relationship among research productivity, research collaboration, and their determinants The results can favor the reexamination of the theories related to these issues, and inform policies that would be more suited to their management. In future, we could attempt to broaden our dataset with information serving precisely to map some of these confounders, for example the individual's fluency in one or more foreign languages, which could influence both the research productivity and the propensity to collaborate. Future research could delve into the impact of interdisciplinary collaboration, or of collaboration between academics belonging to different cohorts.
PageRank-based prediction of award-winning researchers and the impact of citations The results of our experiments showed that: Citations-based rankings perform better than their PageRank-based counterparts for Codd Award winners but not for Turing Award recipients if the absolute ranks of the outstanding researchers are considered. PageRank-based methods outperform citations-based techniques for both Codd Award and Turing Award winners if the relative ranks of the awardees are taken into account and this is also corroborated to a smaller extent by an additional assessment of Dijkstra Prize and Gödel Prize laureates. The rankings produced by the four distinct ranking methods, however, tend to show smaller differences if a greater emphasis in the assessment mechanism measuring their performance is put on the relevance weight of researchers winning in the future.
Confidence intervals for normalised citation counts: Can they delimit underlying research capability? This is consistent with confidence intervals effectively delimiting the research capability of a group, although it does not prove that this is the cause of the results.
Mapping science using Library of Congress Subject Headings This study mapped science using LCSHs assigned to a science and engineering academic library collection where LCSH co-assignments represent relationships between topics.
Improving fitness: Mapping research priorities against societal needs on obesity In summary, this preliminary analysis suggests that most research related to obesity is focused on biology and medicine and only small part of the obesity research portfolio is related to policy agendas, mainly through public health and social science topics.
TimeRank: A dynamic approach to rate scholars using citations Our method updates the rating of a scholar when a citation is received, by considering the relative rating of the citing and cited scholars at the time of the citation.
The research production of nations and departments: A statistical model for the share of publications The arguments and empirical evidence suggest that it is very broadly reasonable to use prediction intervals to estimate the likely number of future outputs for a set of researchers, whether a country, institution or department, from the number of articles published in a journal or subject area, although only countries and large monodisciplinary journals were included in the primary analysis. It is also broadly reasonable to use confidence intervals to estimate the underlying production capability of a set of researchers.
Research portfolio analysis and topic prominence Implications of these results for research planning and portfolio analysis by institutions and researchers are emphasized. These results suggest that prominence is ultimately an indicator of demand for science as represented by where funders choose to allocate funds. We are hopeful that knowledge of topics and prominence will lead to a higher rate of advance in science overall.
Understanding the topic evolution in a scientific domain: An exploratory study for the field of information retrieval This study analyzes topic evolution patterns in a scientific domain through investigating the topic trends, evolving dynamics, and migration of words during topic evolution. Findings are listed as follows.
Unraveling the dynamics of growth, aging and inflation for citations to scientific articles from specific research fields We have analyzed the time evolution of citation data for articles published in six different APS journals in 2000 to gain insight into research-field-specific characteristics of knowledge-flow dynamics.
Microsoft Academic: A multidisciplinary comparison of citation counts with Scopus and Mendeley for 29 journals The results show that Microsoft is a good source of citation data with results broadly comparable to those of Scopus. It finds slightly more citations than Scopus overall, and substantially more for articles from the current year. Microsoft Academic is not as useful as Mendeley for early impact evidence, but is preferable to Scopus or WoS for early citations (see also caveat below).
Gender and citation impact in management research In the large picture, differences in citation rates appear to be a negligible factor in the reproduction of gender inequalities in management research. Yet, gender disparities persist at the upper echelons of business and management schools (Brown, 2016), and our findings demonstrate that women's share of authorships is considerably lower than men's (ở 70.7% vs. ♀ 29.3%). Whether these findings also apply to researchers in management remain an open question and more systematic research is needed to fully disentangle the persistent gender inequalities in this area.
The scientific influence of nations on global scientific and technological development In this work, using citation data from journal research papers as well as from patents, we have investigated the relevance of the scientific production of nations on science and technology at the global scale. This feature points to the positive feedback between knowledge production, discoveries and innovation. This study represents a step forward in the buildup of an inclusive framework for knowledge creation and innovation.
Medical student researchers in Colombia and associated factors with publication: a cross-sectional study Our findings describe medical students understanding of the process of conducting research in Colombia. Although there appears to be motivation to participate in research, very few students achieve publication. Barriers such as time constraints and mentorship seem to play a critical role.
Forty years of Computers & Industrial Engineering: A bibliometric analysis The results show the strong growth of CIE throughout time being today one of the leading journals in computer science and industrial engineering.
Bibliometric Analysis of Female Authorship Trends and Collaboration Dynamics Over JBMR's 30-Year History These findings highlight JBMR®'s authorship trends over the past 30 years, demonstrate those countries having the most changes, and where challenges still exist. While gender parity has not been achieved for female corresponding authors, increasing numbers of female first authors and women in the field should result in further improvements in the coming years. Between 1986 and 2015, manuscripts published in JBMR® have increased in the average number of authors, collaborating institutions and countries, references, printed pages, citations received, and female first authors.
Citations as Data: Harvesting the Scholarly Record of Your University to Enrich Institutional Knowledge and Support Research Taking advantage of this “celebration point" to motivate researchers and make the incremental postprint submission process into a single simple task that is timely and beneficial has greatly benefited our repository.
Poor Access for African Researchers to African Emergency Care Publications: A Cross-sectional Study One in six African emergency care publications are inaccessible outside institutional library subscriptions; additionally, the cost of access to publications in low- and middle-income countries appears prohibitive. Publishers should strongly consider revising pricing for more equitable access for researchers from low- and middle-income countries.
The Top 100 Cited Papers in Health Care Disparities: a Bibliometric Analysis Overall, the highly cited articles contain current advancements in the body of knowledge used to resolve health care disparities in race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, gender, age, wealth, education level, mental health, and geography throughout the world.
Bibliometric analysis of multi-language veterinary journals In conclusion, our results confirm that the publication of documents in languages other than English are systematically less cited, even though these documents are indexed in international databases such as Thomson Reuters.
Coauthorship Trends in the Field of Management: Facts and Perceptions Our results suggest that the strategic explanation (motivations unrelated to research quality) also contributes to this trend. Specifically, we found that while respondents in our survey do list increasing research efficiency and bringing in new skills as main reasons for collaborating, many of them also mentioned purely instrumental reasons for co-authoring, such as increasing the likelihood of having their manuscripts accepted for publication. Finally, it is important to emphasize that our findings point to a number of implications for the education of future management scholars.
Latin American scientific contribution to ecology Latin America is passing through a process of increasing number of publications in Ecology.
The Rise of Co-Authorship in Social Work Scholarship: A Longitudinal Study of Collaboration and Article Quality, 1989-2013 The results imply that tenure and promotion standards that privilege sole authorship may be outdated and that social workers seeking to create and disseminate scholarship in high-impact journals may benefit from developing collaborative networks.
Has the Time Come for Preprints in Chemistry? Although being among the last core natural sciences to embrace preprints, chemistry is poised for success in this evolution. Interested in their career and securing research funds, chemistry researchers cannot ignore preprints any longer.
Knowing What We Are Getting: Evaluating Scientific Research on the International Space Station* Our results offer a general guide to the long-term research productivity of the ISS. The rate of such outputs should improve significantly over time. However, before abandoning the station, we should know what would be surrendered: normal science lottery tickets with uniquely high payout odds, and scientific returns certain to increase with each passing year.
Balancing ideology and feasibility: a case study on adopting and evaluating open access publishing models for a society journal within philosophy The ideology for supporting open access in scholarly publishing is nearly universally accepted as beneficial. However, to make such a publishing model feasible and sustainable in the long run requires resources to come from somewhere else other than readers. Through this process, the editorial board was forced to balance ideology and feasibility in very tangible terms. Collecting and analysing Web metrics and conducting Web surveys distributed to the scholarly community within the journal research area can greatly help to guide the decision to gauge the feasibility of an open access journal.
Issues and challenges in researchers' adoption of open access and institutional repositories: a contextual study of a university repository Whilst librarians have been advocates of open access, researchers' understanding of it is still limited; they have other pressures in regard to their publishing outputs, which also limits their adoption of open access practices. All of this points to a need for more scholarly information literacy amongst researchers, and librarians have a large role to play in that.
Quantifying patterns of research-interest evolution This work uncovers and quantitatively analyses macroscopic patterns that govern changes in research interests, thereby showing that there is a high degree of regularity underlying scientific research and individual careers.
What do academic metrics do to political scientists? Theorizing their roots, locating their effects In their critique of academic rankings, Adler and Harzing (2009: 84) boldly ask, ‘Given the blatant dysfunction of current ranking systems, why do they continue to exist?'. The answer, we have shown, lies in the intrinsic connection between quantification and neo-liberal societies: higher education is only one more field of the social – maybe one of the very last – where the liberal governmentality described by Foucault reorganizes power relations and ways of thinking according to the metrics-based logics of control theorized by Deleuze. Only this and other similar practices can be effective in resisting the re-shaping of academic identities in accordance with the logics of an ever-expanding society of control.
Application of COReS to Compute Research Papers Similarity The CORES is in the process of evaluation for ontological errors.
Remote Sensing in Human Health: A 10-Year Bibliometric Analysis Health-related remote sensing publications are increasing and this paper highlights the importance of these related technologies toward better information and, ideally, better provision of healthcare.
Interdisciplinarity and Polyparadigmality in Domestic Linguistics Corpus Research of Projects Funded in the Field of Linguistics The problem of interdisciplinarity and polyparadigmality studies in contemporary linguistic research, as we have shown, can be solved using quantitative methods based on the corpus approach.
Design ResearchScape. A visual exploration of Design Research publications The output is a sort of Visual Literature Overview of academic design research, that could be used by scholars and students as a way to explore the landscape of scientific publication in this research area, having a quick look on the most prominent authors, documents, research communities and keywords.
The false academy: predatory publishing in science and bioethics Predatory publishing is a growing phenomenon that affects bioethics as well as science at large. The publishing of papers and books for profit, without any genuine concern for content, but with the pretence of applying authentic academic procedures of critical scrutiny, brings about an erosion of trust in scientific publishing.
TAEKWONDO SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION PUBLISHED ON THE WEB OF SCIENCE (1988-2016): COLLABORATION AND TOPICS "The scientific production about taekwondo published in the WoS has shown predominance of Life Sciences research area; with Biomechanics, Sports Medicine and Physiology guiding research in this field of knowledge. Taekwondo research indexed in the WoS has been mainly developed collaboratively among authors, institutions and countries. Finally, the methodological approach developed in the present study for article classification has presented clear differences in relation to WoS classification criteria, offering a more realistic approach to research areas, subjects and topics related to taekwondo research."
Global research trends in spinal ultrasound: a systematic bibliometric analysis Spinal ultrasound literature has grown continuously over the last 22 years, with the rate slowing down after 2010. The United States was the largest contributor in this field. Recent studies on topics related to ‘adolescent idiopathic scoliosis’ and ‘anaesthesia’ were relatively new and should be closely followed in spinal ultrasound research.
More than research intermediaries: a descriptive study of the impact and value of learned societies in the UK social sciences Learned societies in the social sciences are a very diverse set of or-ganisations. The public enjoys remarkable value for money from the learned societies in terms of their contribution to a vibrant and dynamic eco-system in research and higher education that promotes innovation and enterprise in science for the creation of national wealth and the enhancement of quality of life.
Influences of academic institutional factors on R&D funding for graduate students Our findings point to the importance of higher education institutional characteristics, support, and reputation as mediators of emerging researcher funding receipt. Moreover, academic institutional factors—that are external to the proposal—arguably serve as recognizable quality signals to NSF reviewers and offer knowledge spillovers that increase proposal quality. The findings of this study also have potential implications for NSF and its administration of the GRFP program.
Inconsistencies in the Governance of Interdisciplinarity: the Case of the Italian Higher Education System We found that some elements promoting interdisciplinarity have been introduced, which however conflict with the long lasting dominance of a disciplinary approach. In turn, interdisciplinarity is not only hindered by its weak prominence in the policy portfolio, but also by the inconsistencies between policy elements, instruments, and gover- nance domains. Therefore, in the short term, reducing some of the inconsistencies and the creation of parallel structures and processes that emancipate from strict disciplinary principles can represent a realistic and pragmatic way to nudge interdisciplinarity.
Authorship, plagiarism and conflict of interest: views and practices from low/middle-income country health researchers LMIC researchers report that guest authorship is widely accepted and common. While respondents report that plagiarism and undeclared conflicts of interest are unacceptable in practice, they appear common. Determinants of poor practice relate to academic status and power, fuelled by institutional norms and culture. Future research in LMICs should explore ways to promote research integrity at various levels within institutions.
Does Peer Review Identify the Best Papers? A Simulation Study of Editors, Reviewers, and the Scientific Publication Process This simulation study indicates that heterogeneity of reviewer opinion is a key influence on journal outcomes. However, a system with greater editorial involvement and discretion will publish papers that are better regarded and more consistent compared to other peer review systems. In particular, I find that a system in which editors accept papers based on the quality reports of reviewers—but not their up or down judgment to accept the paper—after an initial round of desk rejection tends to produce fewer low-quality published papers compared to other systems I examined.
Bibliometric Network Analysis and Visualization for Serials Librarians: An Introduction to Sci2 Bibliometric and network analyses can be very useful and versatile tools and can provide libraries with increased opportunities to support researchers as well as make collecting decisions from a more data-informed understanding of institutional scholarship and publication patterns.
CITATIONS OR JOURNAL QUALITY: WHICH IS REWARDED MORE IN THE ACADEMIC LABOR MARKET? The salary of UC economists depends far more on journal quality than on citations.
And the winner is ... : inter-rater reliability among scholarship assessors High consensus provides a measure of confidence in the decisions made (Stemler 2004); accordingly applicants and donors alike can be confident that the awardee for these scholarships is a top applicant.
The influence of organisational features in high-ranked universities: the case of Australia The relevance of effective institutional support and a positive campus climate on sustaining and improving university rankings in the eyes of current senior academics were discussed through face-to-face interviews.
Assessing Collaboration and Knowledge Flow on Coatings of Metallic Glasses Obtained From Thermal Spraying Processes Using Bibliometrics and Science Mapping The results suggest that the use of thermal spraying to obtain amorphous metallic coatings is still emerging.
Factors affecting government-funded research quality First, our results indicate that there is no quadratic relationship between age and research productivity. Second, the origin of researchers’ PhDs is a significant factor of research quality in our models because researchers who earned degrees abroad are more likely to publish papers in highly competitive journals than scientists who studied in Korea. Finally, it is quite interesting that the amount of government funding divided by the number of publications resulting from the research project is negatively associated with journal impact factor as well as journal ranking.
A proposal for a quantitative indicator of original research output We have discussed two relevant drawbacks of the h-index if used to identify originality in scientific work.
Who will cite you back? Reciprocal link prediction in citation networks We presented a supervised learning framework for the reciprocal link prediction problem.
Human behavior analysis in the production and consumption of scientific knowledge across regions: A case study on publications in Scopus Overall, the study provides a new dimension to comprehensively understand production and consumption of knowledge using scientific literature.
"Facebook for Academics": The Convergence of Self-Branding and Social Media Logic on Academia.edu We conclude by identifying the stakes for academic life, when entrepreneurial and self-promotional demands brush up against the university's knowledge-making ideals.
An Examination of the Quality of Social Sciences Journals Published in Nigeria: Implications for Collection Development Journal publishing in Nigeria has gone through precarious development mainly because of poor funding of research coupled with lack of interest to invest in journal by reputable publishing houses in the country. A serious implication of this development is that majority of the journals in Nigeria do not meet the international accepted standards in terms of regularity, global visibility, editorial quality. The findings of this study are therefore a form of wake-up call to journal publishers and social science researchers to develop strategies to strengthen social science journal published in Nigeria.
Unified Author Ranking based on Integrated Publication and Venue Rank Like pagerank, publication ranking helps researchers to find quality publications more effectively.
Climate change and viticulture - a quantitative analysis of a highly dynamic research field This study is based on a carefully selected publication set of 1039 papers published between 1974 and 2016 dealing with research on climate change and viticulture.
The prevalence of synchronous self-citation practices at the institutional level In conclusion, although this study has observed association of varying degree between self-citations with parameters like co-authorship, collaboration, authors' productivity, total reference count, and reputation of source publications, it would be early to extrapolate the findings.
Current impact of ceased journals: are they still alive? Our citation study has shown that the papers published by two ceased eugenics journals have left a strong imprint on a variety of disciplines over time. These papers in addition have continued to influence more recent studies to date and the citation count was still increasing in the last decades.
Indexing of authors according to their domain of expertise In this study, we aim to find the standing of an author with respect to his or her level of expertise in a given topic, rather than a generic ranking. Results show that by using DSI, we can find the productivity indexes of all authors with respect to their fields of interest. The results show that DSI is a reasonable solution to find productivity and indexing of authors with respect to their fields of interest.
The Specter of Scholarship Without Novel Ideas: Replication, Hyperauthorship and the Danger of Stagnation The argument here is that the two kinds of activity are fundamentally different, and that both are indispensable for scholarly creativity.
Systematization of Ukrainian journals specialized in the fields of natural sciences, engineering, veterinary and agriculture Our analysis of the Ukrainian journals and proceedings specialized in the fields of natural sciences, engineering, veterinary and agriculture has revealed that, among the total number of 819 journals, 14 journals belong to the category A, 25 journals to the category B, 13 to the category C, 30 to the category D, and 11 to the category E. Basing on the Pareto analysis, we have found that the journals and proceedings belonging to the categories A-E, for which the total scores are equal to or higher than 25, satisfy 87% of our criteria. It has also been proved that the minimal score is higher than 25 for the journals specialized in the particular scientific fields of physics and mathematics, chemistry, and biology.
Measuring scientific impact beyond academia: An assessment of existing impact metrics and proposed improvements We have demonstrated that there is negligible correlation between REF impact score, as a proxy for comprehensive impact of academic work, and some of the most used academic impact metrics, citation count and author h-index.
Cumulative advantages and social capabilities in scientific mobility in the Health Sciences: The Spanish case Spanish health organizations can influence researchers to return, since these decisions mainly depend on job opportunities.
Why Do Academics Use Academic Social Networking Sites? This finding itself indicates that academic networks do not function as other social networks do.
Faculty Publications and Citations: A Longitudinal Examination The five questions asked above are answered primarily by the data presented in the various tables.
From English to Chinese, Japanese, and Russian: extending research visibility with language translations of a conference slide presentation Language translation can be a difficult and time-consuming task. However, translation of a conference slide presentation with limited text is an achievable activity and engages an international audience for information that is often not noticed or lost. By offering appropriate language versions, the authors of presentations can expand the reach of their work.
Increasing Article Findability Online: The Four Cs of Search Engine Optimization By implementing the four best practices, we believe that authors have the opportunity to increase the chances that their scholarship will be found online and that the scholarship will then be cited in future articles.
Scholarly Metrics Baseline: A Survey of Faculty Knowledge, Use, and Opinion about Scholarly Metrics Our results both confirm and complicate a known disciplinary divide regarding faculty use of scholarly metrics. Academic librarians would do well to search out the opinions of their own faculty and look into the scholarly contexts that may exist on their own campuses to avoid making anecdotal generalizations about why faculty members approach engaging with or ignoring scholarly metrics.
Faculty Use of Author Identifiers and Researcher Networking Tools Our survey results show that there is recognition and use of existing Author ID and researcher networking profiles, as well as some professional use of online social media platforms among academic faculty across all disciplines. Based on the survey results, ORCID was selected as the first target of the Stony Brook Libraries for marketing and training. Librarians can, and should, provide valuable expertise and support to faculty, administrators, and other relevant decision makers.
Scholarly Communication and the Dilemma of Collective Action: Why Academic Journals Cost Too Much My analysis also suggests that a cooperative strategy adopted by university libraries fully cognizant of the challenges of collective action could lead to a more efficient system of scholarly communication that better aligns with the values of the academic community for whom knowledge is a community good that ought to be shared rather than a commodity that ought to be sold to the highest bidder.
Determinants of research productivity of agricultural scientists: implications for the national agricultural research and education system of India The study identified eleven different factors determining research productivity of agricultural scientists; personal as well as organizational.
Should Indian researchers pay to get their work published? It would be prudent for Indian authors to make their work freely available through interoperable re- positories, a trend that is growing in Latin America and China, especially when funding is scarce.
A bibliometric review of research trends in neuroimaging After considering various metrics, it could be concluded that research pub-lications relevant to the neuroimaging community have been expanding and gaining impact. MRI is the most popular imaging modality for research. Amongst all titles indexed in the 'neuroimaging' category in JCR, Neuro-Image and Human Brain Mapping have been two of the best-performing neuroimaging journals and they supplemented relevant research outputs to the medical imaging field such as brain connectivity and pathological struc-tural change of a patient's brain.
Research performance of Indian Institutes of Technology First, the analysis shows that there is a substantial difference in research performance levels of old IITs vis-à-vis the new IITs. Second, and the more important outcome of the analsysis is the fact that even the best performing IITs are far behind in research performance of the two top ranking world universities (MIT and NTU). Third, the discipline-wise research performance analysis indicates that majority of the research output from IITs is in PHY, CHEM and MAT disciplines and research in engineering disciplines lags behind substantially.
Scientometric profile of global rice research during 1985-2014 A bibliometric analysis was conducted to study the status of rice research from 1985 to 2014.
Excellence and diversity mapping of research in IISc, IITs, NUS and NTU In conclusion, we decompose the research performance of the IISc + 7IITs and NUS + NTU clusters into three components - size, excellence and balance or evenness.
Effects of research complexity and competition on the incidence and growth of coauthorship in biomedicine Coauthorship incidence rates are multifactorial and vary with factors associated with both complexity and competition. Coauthorship growth is likewise multifactorial and increasingly associated with research competition. Finally, we provide strong evidence that, while both complexity and competition play a role in producing higher author counts on published research articles, the role of complexity held steady or declined in the aughts, while the role of competition increased markedly.
Science deserves to be judged by its contents, not by its wrapping: Revisiting Seglen's work on journal impact and research evaluation We confirm Seglen's observation that there is no consistent positive relationship between individual article citedness and the impact factor of the journal in which the article is published. Our study of a much larger population of researchers than Seglen was able to study thirty years ago yielded only a marginally higher correlation. Consequently, individual contributions should not be evaluated by where they are published.
Making scientometric sense out of NIRF scores Unlike the NIRF score, which is one single number, we now decompose performance into a size-dependent exergy term and a size-independent productivity term.
A bibliometric analysis of highly cited papers from India in Science Citation Index Expanded This bibliometric analysis of highly cited papers from India yields some interesting results.
A Bibliometrics Analysis of the Visibility of Library and Information Science Research in Nigeria in the Web of Science, 2000-2014 The findings of the study revealed a fluctuating and unpredictable trend in annual publication output in LIS research in Nigeria.
Measuring the Scholarly and Judicial Impact of Accredited Legal Journals in South Africa This study has revealed variations in citation frequency with regard to scholarly and judicial impact of South African legal journals.
Knowledge of journal impact factors among nursing faculty: a cross-sectional study Conclusions: There are various reasons for choosing a journal for publication. It is important for librarians to understand faculty views of JIFs and their criteria for choosing journals for publication, so that librarians are better equipped to guide researchers in considering their academic goals, needs, and personal values.
Networked Scholarship and Motivations for Social Media use in Scholarly Communication This paper presented and discussed the results of a study investigating Italian university scholars' motivations to adopt social media sites for scholarly communication.
A Survey of the Collaboration Rate of Authors in the E-Learning Subject Area over a 10-Year Period (2005-2014) Using Web of Science Our findings show that, despite the need to conduct research activities as a team in order to increase the quality of the research, the authors in the field of e-learning tend to publish their papers alone or in teams of two. If this situation continues, it can have negative effects such as a decline in the quality of articles, shortcomings in knowledge sharing and diffusion on a global level, and isolation of researchers in this field. Our results can be useful to institutions, journals, nations, and policy makers in this field by drawing their attention to co-authorship at national and international levels.
Scientometric profile of global male breast cancer research The present study is a scientometric assessment of re- search output and its impact in terms of citations received by these papers in MBC-related literature. The results clearly depict a steady growth of the literature during 2005–2014. The field of MBC research is still in an evolving state as the output is scattered in more than 1800 institutions and more than 1200 journals.
The emergence and evolution of the research fronts in HIV/AIDS research Our research provides fundamental knowledge concerning the emer-gence of the paradigmatic explanation for HIV/AIDS and therefore makes a contribution to the understanding of the nature of biomedical knowledge.
Unfair Judgment against Iranian Scientists Therefore, this trend cannot serve as the dominant flow to disseminate ethics among scientific communities by Science.
And, not or: Quality, quantity in scientific publishing Regardless of the underlying mechanisms at play which might produce the observed empirical pattern (e.g. multiple authorship, self-citation, etc.), the fact that this pattern is so closely replicated by completely scrambling an authors citation record suggest that such explanations are not necessary to explain these results.
Utility, Impact, Fashion and Lobbying: An Agent-Based Model of the Funding and Epistemic Landscape of Research Science as a social process is incredibly complex.
Research performance of central universities in India The results show that DU performs best on most of the indicators among the 39 Central Universities, followed by BHU. What is however, more alarming is the fact that even the best performing Indian Central Universities are miles behind research performance levels of the two top rankingWorld Universities (Stanford University and University of Cambridge). Filling up vacant teaching/research positions with competent and right minded people is one such thing that needs immediate attention.
An Evaluation of the General versus Specialist Nature of Top Accounting Journals Taken together, our results raise the question of whether all of the traditional Top 3 and Top 6 journals are truly general-interest journals. The results suggest that while the top journals are generally perceived to be the most general-interest based on their mission statements, they often lack a general tone in what they have historically published and in their current editorial board memberships. Overall, we hope this research continues to promote dialogue about and action toward improving the academic-review process and the faculty-evaluation process.
Editors' Perspectives on Enhancing Manuscript Quality and Editorial Decisions Through Peer Review and Reviewer Development "This study identified peer reviewer and peer review characteristics that enhance manuscript quality and aid editorial deci-sions, as well as identified valuable elements of training programs to aid in promoting quality." "Reviewers, individuals involved in faculty development, and journals should work to assist new reviewers in defining focused areas of expertise, building knowledge in these areas, and developing critical analysis skills."
Future of fundamental discovery in US biomedical research Based on this, we believe that increasing the number of young basic-science PIs is essential to keeping US biomedical science truly innovative.
TOP 50 LANDMARKS IN SENTINEL LYMPH NODE IMAGING: A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS Our study identifies intellectual milestones in Sentinel Lymph Node Imaging (SLNI) research, reflecting on the characteristics and quality of the most highly cited literature, and provides a list of the most influential references related to SLNI.
What do computer scientists tweet? Analyzing the link-sharing practice on Twitter Overall the computer scientists' style of usage seems to be more on the information-oriented side and to some degree also on professional usage. Therefore, altmetrics are of considerable use in analyzing computer science. Overall, we conclude that Twitter is a good laboratory for altmetrics, because we can clearly discern a professional, information-oriented style of communication, but also observe the hybridization of relevance criteria for different audiences pertinent to Twitter, which should be a concern in altmetric studies.
BEING METRIC-WISE: HETEROGENEITY IN BIBLIOMETRIC KNOWLEDGE The concept of metric-wiseness can be used to identify the different degrees of scientometric knowledge that researchers may possess.
Library and information science according to the citing pattern of students: a bibliometric study Using master theses as a data source to conceptualize library and information science bibliometrically, produces significantly different results then when traditional data sources is used. Earlier bibliometric studies have tended to downplay the amount of practice-oriented research, and thus also to underestimate the impact of researchers involved with such questions. According to the types of literature cited, and the low Price index, Library and information science as represented by master theses most definitely should be considered a soft science.
Scientific publications as boundary objects: theorising the intersection of classification and research evaluation Publications are boundary objects residing between social worlds: the context of communication and the context of evaluation. Tensions between social worlds become apparent in infrastructures, which aims to serve the demands both of communication and of evaluation.
Internationality in Finnish research: an examination of collaborators, citers, tweeters, and readers In sum, the findings show that the internationality rate of authors and audiences of Finnish research is at a moderate to high rate.
A scientists' view of scientometrics: Not everything that counts can be counted Our conclusion is that metrics, at least in their current form, should not be used as proxies for measures of research quality.
Institutional repositories as infrastructures for long-term preservation The institutional repositories at Swedish higher education institutions do not, in most cases, have an archival responsibility for any of the publications deposited in them.
A Comparative Study on Scientific Misconduct between Korean and Japanese Science Gifted Students Although professing knowledge about scientific integrity, their scientific misconduct demonstrates a lack of authentic understanding.
A prospective study on an innovative online forum for peer reviewing of surgical science Open online peer review is feasible in this setting, but it attracts few reviews, of lower quality than conventional peer reviews. The quality of online review reports as judged using both a validated review quality tool and the conventional BJS scoring system was significantly lower than the quality of the conventional reviews; hence, one may conclude that online reviews cannot replace conventional, invited reviews. Online peer review may not be focussed so much on the scientific credibility of a paper but may provide a better insight in the timeliness, attractive value, desirability and possible impact of a manuscript for the scientific community.
Bibliometrics of Nicaraguan publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded Our results about the scientific output of Nicaragua, as represented in the SCI-EXPANDED, corroborate those findings from five years ago and indicate that the situation has not improved. Future achievements for Nicaraguan science should include a fair pres-ence of female researchers, peer-to-peer level participation in international teams, and less dominance of health technologies. The Science Citation Index cannot be used alone to assess the real impact of Nicaraguan publications in world science.
A co-authorship network-based method for understanding the evolution of a research area: A case of information systems research In this study, we present a co-authorship network-based method to quantify and describe the scholarly publication of a certain field.
Bibliometric patterns and indicators of research collaboration of Egyptian health scientists: 1980-2014 The results of this study show that the share of single, domestic and international collaboration papers is 0.12, 0.50 and 0.38, respectively, indicating that the co-authorship ratio is 88 percent and Egyptian scientist have a great tendency to collaborate.
Scientific collaboration of Library & Information Science research in China (2012-2013) The major conclusion drawn is that the LIS research is mainly based on learning of theories, social behavioral, and bibliometric conceptualization that have portrayed mature thinking of Chinese LIS researches.
Characteristics of Malaysian highly cited papers This study has systematically identified and characterized Malaysian highly cited papers. The findings reveal the following nine characteristics of Malaysian highly cited papers: (a) represented highly by articles, but reviews have more impact; (b) lowly self-cited; (c) mainly published in the first quartile; (d) from the sciences; (e) outcomes of national funded research; (f) typically authored by many; (g) largely Malaysian as reprint authors and first authors; (h) mainly affiliated to Malaysian research universities; and (i) more internationally collaborative. The results of our study provide various benefits for researchers and practitioners in Malaysia.
Science and Facebook: The same popularity law! Our conclusions are pretty clear: Science and Facebook show the same popularity pattern which can be simply understood by a coarse-grained master equation approach where we admit the exponentially increasing amount of information together with a "rich gets richer" preferential information filtering mechanism.
Long-term Results of a Cardiology Postgraduate Program Despite the success of the increase in the journals' impact factors until 2011 and the total number of publications until 2007 (which declined as the number of graduate students increased), the scientific productivity by cardiology postgraduate students and its impact are concerning.
Indicators as judgment devices: An empirical study of citizen bibliometrics in research evaluation Our findings contribute to a further understanding of bibliometric indicators as 'judgment devices' that are employed in evaluating individuals and their published works within specific fields.
Metric-based vs peer-reviewed evaluation of a research output: Lesson learnt from UK's national research assessment exercise The findings provide an indication of the monetary value of a research output, from the per-spectives of government funding for research, and also what makes a good output, i.e. whether a relationship exists between good quality output and the source of its publication. Our investigation of the REF as a case study reveals that in the UK a world leading research output earns £7504 to £14,639 and an internationally excellent research output earns £1876 to £3659, varying according to their areas of research, per year in a REF cycle. Although this assigned monetary value of research output is dependent on a country's budget, it has implications for the progress of science and research.
Exploring characteristics of highly cited authors according to citation location and content Based on the results of this study, we conclude that highly-cited authors in the selected domain, CL, are distributed unevenly and display considerable variation in their citation rank.
News stories as evidence for research? BBC citations from articles, Books, and Wikipedia The continued growth in the annual number of Scopus articles citing online BBC News stories (RQ1), approaching 3% of Arts and Humanities articles, shows that whilst citing news is not the norm, it is becoming accepted. Thus, news stories are mediating real world knowledge into the academic domain, a potential cause for concern. In conclusion, news stories are used in different contexts to support discussions or claims in articles, books and encyclopaedia entries.
The Increasing Trend in Global Ranking of Websites of Iranian Medical Universities during January 2012-2015 Despite the criticisms and weaknesses of these webometrics criteria, they are critical to this equation and should be checked for authenticity and suitability of goals.
A critical assessment of INPA's scientific cooperation based on publications from 2004 to 2014 From 2004 to 2014, international cooperation remained highly asymmetrical even though there was a reduction in the dependence on international cooperation to finance INPA's research. For the future, the primary challenge is to increase INPA's overall output in WoS publications and to establish more symmetrical international scientific cooperation to increase both productivity and the impact of the science produced by the institution. Scientific productivity with international visibility and international scientific networking are highly skewed in INPA's research departments, with the major concentration being in only two departments (Biodiversity and Environmental Dynamics).
Detecting and analyzing research communities in longitudinal scientific networks We consistently find that interdisciplinary collaborations between research groups are positively affected by homophily and network transitivity; spatial proximity; and the activities of cross-disciplinary academic institutes such as the UF CTSI.
Repositories at Master's Institutions A Census and Analysis This study benchmarks IR development in Carnegie-designated master's institutions.
A bibliometric profile of Current Science between 1961 and 2015 The aim of this study was to establish the bibliometric profile of Current Science using bibliometric analysis and mapping methods.
Could disruptive technologies also reform academia? Indeed, a thriving future science community could depend on disruptive technologies to shake up outmoded academic practices.
The unbearable emptiness of tweeting-About journal articles The results suggest that analysts who would use counts of tweets either to evaluate research or as a source of data should exercise caution.
Productivity trends and collaboration patterns: A diachronic study in the eating disorders field We inferred that the noted publication growth was likely driven by the noted increase in the number of new authors per Q.
Trend analysis of journal metrics: a new academic library service? Predictions of journal metrics based on statistical joinpoint regression may not be completely accurate. Using this technique, however, a librarian can reasonably claim which journal will retain or even improve its prestige in the future and thus safely advise prospective authors on where to publish their research.
Scientist impact factor (SIF): a new metric for improving scientists' evaluation? According to our data, the SIF may be a useful measure to complement current metrics for evaluating scientific output.
Developing international open science collaborations: Funder reflections on the Open Science Prize The OSP was useful to all 3 of the funding agencies in that it provided a range of exemplars that successfully demonstrated the benefits of open data for sparking innovation and generating new societal benefits. The OSP has provided a pathway that agencies dealing with any type of open data can utilize to incentivize innovative, international team-based science. We believe that the OSP is a useful model that other funders could adopt to help advance global health (and related issues) through the reuse of open data.
Bibliometrics in glass and other sciences: A Plea for reason The H-index creator, J. Hirsch, recently suggested that "... h-index can lead to unfair results and should therefore be used with care."
Evaluation of scientific output in Dentistry in Spanish Universities Public universities have the best indexes of output and quality, and the University of Valencia and University Complutense of Madrid obtain the best results. The areas of dentistry that are most developed in the universities are: oral surgery, periodontics, dental materials and oral medicine. University faculties must provide suitable academic and research training, and therefore must be assessed using objective criteria and bibliometric tools.
Characteristics and trends in global lead removal research: a Science Citation Index Expanded-based analysis Publication output during the period 1991-2015 showed increase in the number of articles published per year from 11 to 147 and the articles published during 1994 had received high- est citations and there was increase in number of references and number pages along with the number of publications.
The influence of online posting dates on the bibliometric indicators of scientific articles "The practice of making papers available online ahead of print publication has facilitated the rapid communication of scientific research, but at the same time it has resulted in bibliometric consequences, such as enlarging the citation time of JIF and Immediacy Index."
FURTHER STEPS IN INTEGRATING THE PLATFORMS OF WoS AND SCOPUS: HISTORIOGRAPHY WITH HISTCITE™ AND MAIN-PATH ANALYSIS We have demonstrated how the new option in CRExplorer enables users to cross the divide between Scopus and WoS. Using the data for three researchers, we have shown that one of them (Garfield) entertained a star-shaped citation network. Bornmann and Leydesdorff's main paths tend to be shaped along a line leading to a much higher mo-dularity (Q~0.7 instead of 0.3).
SPANISH RESEARCHERS' OPINIONS, ATTITUDES, AND PRACTICES TOWARDS OPEN ACCESS PUBLISHING In this research we offer a picture of attitudes and practices of Spain-based researchers towards gold Open Access publishing.
Double-edged sword of interdisciplinary knowledge flow from hard sciences to humanities and social sciences: Evidence from China The hypothesis in this study was supported by the empirical analysis. An inverted U-shaped relationship was observed between the ratio of HS knowledge cited and the number of citations HSS articles received.
Estimated effects of implementing an open access policy for grantees at a private foundation Based in part on this study, GBMF has implemented a new open access policy that requires grantees make peer-reviewed publications fully available within 12 months.
Beyond funding: Acknowledgement patterns in biomedical, natural and social sciences These results demonstrate that acknowledgment practices truly do vary across disciplines and that this can lead to important further research beyond the sole interest in funding.
Growth of hybrid open access, 2009-2016 Hybrid OA publishing is just a part of the overall changing OA picture. The accelerating growth in hybrid article numbers in 2014–2016 is in addition to the increased number of journals, probably mainly due to two major changes in the funding infrastructure. Together hybrid OA and megajournal articles constituted around 5.5% of all scholarly articles indexed in Scopus in 2016.
Making scientometric and econometric sense out of NIRF 2017 data The ranking based on NIRF scores of IIT Madras as the best engineering institution in India is too simplistic a conclusion - it is the tragedy of the single story indeed.
Scientific wealth and inequality within nations It is seen that this is very unevenly distributed among the institutions in each country. From correlation analysis and scatter plots we see that the greater the scientific wealth of a nation the more likely is it that it will tend to concentrate this excellence in a few premier institutions. That is, great wealth implies great inequality of distribution.
Using egocentric analysis to investigate professional networks and productivity of graduate students and faculty in life sciences in Japan, Singapore, and Taiwan In conclusion, this study examined both graduate students and faculty in three East Asian countries in regard to their international ties and research productivity.
Big names in innovation research: a bibliometric overview This study presents a general overview of the leading au-thors in innovation research between 1989 and 2013.
Gold Open Access Publishing in Mega-Journals: Developing Countries Pay the Price of Western Premium Academic Output Our results show that the financial ramifications of gold OAP are biased toward Western academics, as institutions and researchers from developing countries disproportionately bear the costs of APCs for open access mega-journals compared with Western industrialized countries.
Assessing the Openness of Anthropology Journals We conclude that publishers should be more transparent regarding publishing choices and policies by providing straightforward information on OA options to potential authors.
Examining the evolution and convergence of wood modification and environmental impact assessment in research Bibliometric analysis of publications in a particular field presents an intriguing method for exploring a field as a whole, its development over time, and provides researchers with a means to identify knowledge gaps and collaborators.
Mining author relationship in scholarly networks based on tripartite citation analysis Such process can be used to detect deep and potential author relationships.
Regulation and self-regulation of ethical practices in scientific publication Self-regulation in scientific publication is a preferable goal: it allows participants in the process to assume their obligations freely and with a greater sense of responsibility. The demand should be for greater quality rather than quantity of publications. It is thus necessary to consider self-regula- tion as a basis for the ethics of scientific publication.
Understanding disciplinary vocabularies using a full-text enabled domain-independent term extraction approach The employed method can effectively extract content-rich terms from unstructured bibliometric fields such as full texts used in this study.
Do central country authors of international co-authored publication networks obtain a high research impacts? First, our study demonstrated that a country's degree centrality positively affected its citation counts, which is consistent with prior research (Yan and Ding 2009; Oguz, Kinglsey and John 2014; Chan, Guness and Kim 2015). Third, we found that countries with a small amount of publications would gain more benefits from their central position in terms of citation count. The results of this study suggest that different countries should select different research polices to improve their research impact.
Scholarly communication and matters of trust and authority: A comparative analysis of Malaysian and Chinese researchers The study has shown views, perception and behaviours of authors in respect to scholarly channels and resource they trust to read and to cite.
Open Access Publishing in Africa: Advancing Research Outputs to Global Visibility Although findings of this study reveal an increasing growth of open access publishing in Africa, it is obvious that there is still a lot to do considering the huge opportunities OA presents to developing countries to aggregate their research reports for global visibility. African governments, researchers, libraries and librarians should strategise on enduring framework to exploit the opportunities offered by OA movement to its full potential. Open access has come not only to mitigate these developmental challenges but also to localise and globalise scientific information for democratisation of scholarship globally.
Utilisation of Institutional Repositories for Searching Information Sources, Self-Archiving and Preservation of Research Publications in Selected Nigerian Universities The study concludes that the number of submissions made by academics was very low, UNN academics submitted more of their publications for archiving, followed by ABU.
Trend of African Scientific Output and Impact 1996-2015 The almost universal increases in the share of Scopus-indexed publications are encouraging for African countries, suggesting growth in research capability.
A comparative analysis of scientific outputs of countries formed from former Yugoslav republics and some other countries for the period 2008-2012 The analysis revealed that all countries, which emerged from the former Yugoslavia, except Slovenia and Croatia significantly lagged behind other selected countries.
Giving Credit How Well Do Librarians Cite and Quote Their Sources? Our findings suggest that citation errors are a continuing issue in library science journals. However, relatively few impede findability of the original source or traceability of authors. Quotation errors seem to present more complex and potentially more troubling problems. In the discipline of library and information science, a larger-scale multiyear, multi-journal study of quotation accuracy may prove insightful.
Development of an Eastern Mediterranean Region search strategy for biomedical citations indexed in PubMed We believe that the methodology presented in this study can be used in conjunction with other metrics to extract invaluable indicators to describe EMR health research systems.
Mega private universities in India: prospects and promise for world-class performance It would seem that apart from other legacy factors, the capital expenditure per faculty per year must be increased by 3 to 30 times as the case may be before they can become attractive destinations for the best and brightest of aspiring faculty.
Highly Cited Occupational Therapy Articles in the Science Citation Index Expanded and Social Sciences Citation Index: A Bibliometric Analysis There appears to be a latency period of 4-5 years post-publication needed for a journal article to gain citations. The largest proportion of HCA was published in AJOT by American authors. Ongoing tracking of high impact occupational therapy publications is recommended.
Survey on open peer review: Attitudes and experience amongst editors, authors and reviewers The results of this cross-disciplinary survey, which received 3,062 full responses, shows largely positive, but varied, attitudes towards OPR amongst authors, reviewers and editors.
Productivity, impact, and collaboration differences between transdisciplinary and traditionally trained doctoral students: A comparison of publication patterns Compared to traditional education, a TD focus during doctoral training led to equal publica- tion productivity by both groups and to significantly greater publication impact and collabora- tion across disciplines. Early TD training appears to stimulate the practice of high-impact team science. Further research is needed to determine if the publication-related benefits of early TD training will translate into long-term scientific productivity, collaboration, and impact.
Completeness and overlap in open access systems: Search engines, aggregate institutional repositories and physics-related open sources In terms of the extensiveness and integrity of data in relation to the physics literature, the ranking is as follows: Google Scholar, Astrophysics Data System, Microsoft Academic, arXiv.org, OpenDOAR and OAIster. Google Scholar has the most complete data coverage (96.8%), closely followed by Astrophysics Data System (96.5%); Microsoft Academic's data coverage is slightly lower (91.6%), while OAIster's integrity is the lowest (45.3%). The open access systems should enhance their search functions and provide unique retrieval mechanisms or value-added content.
From paper-based towards post-digital scholarly publishing: an analysis of an ideological dilemma and its consequences Science should aim at as complete openness as possible.
Assessing the impact of indigenous research on the library and information studies literature The results outlined in this particular project demonstrate that the answer can only be that it is an emerging field of interest.
The h-Index for Associate and Full Professors of Dermatology in the United States: An Epidemiologic Study of Scholastic Production In summary, we found the median h-index for associate professors was 8 and the median h-index for full professors was 21.
A persistent lack of international representation on editorial boards in environmental biology We argue that this limited geographic diversity can detrimentally affect the creativity of scholarship published in journals, the progress and direction of research, the composition of the STEM workforce, and the development of science in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and much of Asia (i.e., the "Global South").
El Salvador publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: subjects, authorship, collaboration and citation patterns Scientific productivity and international collaboration are improving, but the whole productivity and impact of scientific institutions of El Salvador remain unknown because the country publishes 130 scientific journals that are not included in the SCI-EXPANDED. There is a clear need for a regional database covering Central American science and its citation. We hope this study provides Salvadoran scientists with enough useful data to begin that change.
Cameroon publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: Bibliometric analysis This work presents a bibliometric analysis of articles published by at least one author from Cameroon during the period 1936-2015 and indexed in the Thomson Reuters SCI-EXPANDED database based on the production and citations, overall performance, subject categories, international and inter-institutional collaboration, and most cited paper. Furthermore, international collaboration enhanced the most citation-rate of papers in most fields.
A bibliometric analysis of scientific production on atypical antipsychotic drugs from Italy The publications on AADs in Italy have undergone exponential growth over the studied period, which is in line with the progressively burgeoning on novel AAD releases. No evidence of saturation point was observed.
How are topics born? Understanding the research dynamics preceding the emergence of new areas These initial findings (i) confirm our hypothesis that it is possible in principle to detect the emergence of a new topic at the embryonic stage, (ii) provide new empirical evidence supporting relevant theories in Philosophy of Science, and also (iii) suggest that new topics tend to emerge in an environment in which weakly interconnected research areas begin to cross-fertilise.
Collaboration of Chinese Scholars in International Articles: A Case Study of Knowledge Organization In summary, the collaborative situation of Chinese scholars is extremely good in international articles in knowledge organization. Chinese scholars should continue to maintain this trend to make contributions to the development of knowledge organization at home and abroad.
Evolution of Think Tanks Studies in View of a Scientometrics Perspective The analysis indicates that think tanks plays an important role in domain of information science, which becomes one of the patterns in knowledge organization.
Development of Health Research Structures Over the Last 25 Years: Main Achievements and Challenges Participatory approach in research centers management, benefiting from all available capacities of research stakeholders, could be considered as a practical strategy for better management of limitations and achieving targeted goals.
Medical Science and Research in Iran Medical science and research development has been at least partially due to health technological development, training and availability of health manpower and improvement of overall health status in Iran compared to other Islamic countries. It can be concluded that health research system in Iran is improving and the number of scientific papers, scientific journals, and research centers are completely appropriate.
How to Assess Quality of Research in Iran, From Input to Impact? Introduction of Peer-Based Research Evaluation Model in Iran Peer review evaluation can improve the quality of research.
Mapping of health research funding in India The total funding available for health research in India is lower than previous estimates, and only a miniscule proportion is available for public health research. The non-industry funding for health research in India, which is predominantly from public resources, is extremely small, and had considerable mismatches with the major causes of disease burden. The magnitude of public funding for health research and its appropriate allocation should be addressed at the highest policy level.
Public Funding and Open Access to Research: A Review of Canadian Multiple Sclerosis Research This study found that there are currently researcher- and publisher-imposed barriers to both the gold and green roads to OA.
Scientific Misconduct and Social Media: Role of Twitter in the Stimulus Triggered Acquisition of Pluripotency Cells Scandal The discussion on scientific misconduct during the STAP cells scandal took place at an earlier stage on Twitter than in newspapers, a traditional medium.
Visualizando el desarrollo de la nanomedicina en Mexico In this work, we have verified that new data visualization tools are interesting for studies on the emergence and development of new CyT. Indeed, their application for technological monitoring and surveillance, as well as for mapping in social studies of science and technology, allows identifying trends, relationships, strengths and weaknesses, and main institutional and scientific actors. However, the absence of the private sector in the development of scientific knowledge in nanomedicine in Mexico suggests that the knowledge developed is still basic.
Disambiguation of patent inventors and assignees using high-resolution geolocation data A significant benefit of this work is the high quality assignee disambiguation with coverage across the world coupled with an inventor disambiguation (that is competitive with other state of the art approaches) in multiple patent offices.
Usage Count: A New Indicator to Detect Research Fronts Usage count can greatly shorten the time lag in research fronts detection, which could become a complementary indicator in the recentness detection of research fronts.
Fame and obsolescence: Disentangling growth and aging dynamics of patent citations We have empirically established that the intrinsic rate of citation for patents within individual technology categories is separable into an aging function and a preferential-attachment growth kernel. This result enables detailed modeling of patent-citation statistics and facilitates future in-depth investigations into mechanisms for knowledge propagation through invention space. Systematic deviations from the—in the long term very accurate—exponential-aging model point to currently not understood mechanisms for knowledge propagation at short times that require further study.
Expected values in percentile indicators The results of this small test based on an in-house database indicate two important things: (1) The expected value – i.e. the population value of a certain database can be different from the expected value which results from the definition of the indicator. (2) Although field-normalized indicators, like PP(top 50%), PP(top 10%), and PP(top 1%), are based on complex cross-field calculations, the expected values which are fixed by the indicators – 50%, 10%, and 1% – can really be expected when random samples are drawn multiple times or the sample sizes are large enough.
Co-authorship patterns and networks in the scientific publications of Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences According to the findings of the study, the planning and policy-making of the university can provide the faculty members with some facilities such as taking a sabbatical and participating in international conferences which can increase the international collaboration and reduce the ratio of national to international collaborations; therefore, the faculty members can communicate with foreign researchers and provide shared studies. Ultimately, it can increase the ranking of the university and affect the national and international rankings because the international collaboration and national collaborations with other universities are important indices in many systems of ranking. The structure of co-authorship networks should be studied in different times to explore effective authors and encourage them.
On the effects of the reunification on German researchers’ publication patterns Our results highlight important differences in the research activity of East and West German researchers during the 1980s, and show that the reunification seems to have reduced these differences, as collaboration and communication channels reopened and researchers from the GDR increased their proportion of English papers.
Citation network analysis for supporting continuous improvement in Higher Education This paper presents a methodology for conducting literature reviews based on CNA and proposes an original set of analyses on bibliographic data.
Assessing Broader Impacts The National Alliance for Broader Impacts' (NABI) efforts to date have been well received by BI professionals, investigators and federal funding agencies. It has more than doubled the membership of its national network since its inception three years ago. The Sci-Toons impact and demographics data exemplify how readily available data can demonstrate the broader impacts of an effective and innovative approach for engaging SCG members and the public in science.
Faculty Publications from a Research University: The Scholarly Impact of Open Access versus Non-Open Access Our investigation demonstrated that overall, the University of Arkansas authors have been increasing the number of articles they are publishing in fully open access journals. The methodology used in this study would be helpful to other profes-sionals who want to explore the extent their researchers are publishing in the fully open access journals, using the Web of Science core databases, and to ascertain the relative impact of their OA versus non-OA articles.
Reflections on the Journal of Applied Psychology for 2009 to 2014: Infrastructure, operations, innovations, impact, evolution, and desirable directions. I propose four desirable directions: (a) strengthen our scientific foundation, (b) increase multidisciplinary linkages, (c) focus on multilevel system dynamics as core capa-bilities, and (d) improve the translation of IOP science to evidence-based practice and vice versa.
Growth of predatory open access journals: implication for quality assurance in library and information science research Predatory Open Access journals have flooded the scholarly communication purview. Articles in predatory journals lack scientific and scholarly merits and should be avoided by Library and Information Science authors and researchers. It is clear that if LIS educators report their research in predatory OA outlets, individual and institutional reputation will be affected which may eventually lead to low ranking status of institutions.
Comparing Downloads, Mendeley Readership and Google Scholar Citations as Indicators of Article Performance The results of this study suggests that usage data (downloads) and alternative metrics data (Mendeley readership) can be a useful supplement or complement to citation data (Google Scholar citations) to determine influential authors and articles in the ICT4D subject field where there is an absence of electronic bibliometric data and citation tools. It shows how the ranking of the top 20 articles changes, depending on the data source or indicator used to measure influence.
Citation metrics as an additional indicator for evaluating research performance? An analysis of their correlations and validity We assume that publication-based and supportive indicators describe the activity level of a BuS and are classically regarded as indicators for mapping research performance. In contrast, citation metrics describe the perception or the impact of publication activities. For this reason, citation metrics are not indicators mapping research performance but rather research outcome.
Understanding Faculty Collaboration and Productivity: A Case Study We can confirm that the two university programs and evaluation policy from MOE affected most MIS faculty to tend to publish co-authored papers. We can conclude that MISU faculty publication strategies were closely related to the MOST and A-lists. We hope that our study not only provides beneficial information to the MIS department, but can be treated as an important source for MOE committees in their future adjustment of university programs and policies.
Do Academics Actually Collaborate in the Study of Interdisciplinary Phenomena? A Look at Half a Century of Research on Mergers and Acquisitions Our findings contribute to appreciating interdisciplinary collaboration practices in academic research and document the evolution of M&A research.
What are the personal and professional characteristics that distinguish the researchers who publish in high- and low-impact journals? A multi-national web-based survey The researchers who publish in high-impact journals have distinct profiles compared with the researchers who publish in low-impact journals.
Fief and benefice feudalism. Two types of academic autonomy in US chemistry Applying fief feudalism to universities located in the elite segment, we conclude that the researchers at these departments still maintain a very high degree of perceived and practical autonomy, while they are less accountable to external sponsors than scholars at non-elite departments.
The Internationalization of Psychology Journals in Brazil: A Bibliometric Examination Based on Four Indices These findings suggest that the path to internationalization for psychology journals in Brazil may depend on increased publishing of findings from English-speaking countries; or at the very least: increased collaboration between Brazilian and native English-speaking scholars. Consistent with Hypothesis 2 is the finding of a higher prevalence of lingua-franca editorial-board members among journals of higher internationalization. Consistent with Hypothesis 3 is the finding of a higher prevalence of lead authors based at institutions in lingua-franca countries, among journals of higher internationalization.
Functions of Uni- and Multi-citations: Implications for Weighted Citation Analysis Results from the present study support the assumption underlying the signal amplification approach to weighted citation analysis that the likelihood of citations having substantial influence on citing papers increases with their in-text citation frequency. However, a large percentage of multi-citations was found to play purely a nonessential role in the citing paper, and would be over-weighted by frequency-weighted citation counting. Results from the present study showed, for the first time, the importance of filtering out nonessential citations before assigning weight in a weighted citation analysis, pointing research in this area in a new direction.
Emerging trends: I did it, I did it, I did it, but. . . It is the responsibility of the audience to expect good work (both numbers as well as insights), and vote early and vote often with citations.
The structure and change of the research collaboration network in Korea (2000–2011): network analysis of joint patents Bearing in mind a lack of empirical studies on inter-organizational research collaboration networks using patent data, this study made an academic contribution by specifically analyzing the structure and change of research collaboration networks by targeting Korea's major innovative actors.
The references of references: a method to enrich humanities library catalogs with citation data This article proposes to use reference monographs in specific domains in the humanities, in order to enrich library catalogs with citation data and improve the retrieval of the most relevant literature in so doing. The main goal of the proposed approach is to allow users to rapidly find the most relevant publications on a topic of interest within the domain (the core works), and help libraries integrate their collection of reference monographs. In principle, albeit necessitating further study, the proposed approach should therefore be amenable for use in all domains of the humanities.
“Second Language Writing” Publications in Web of Science: A Bibliometric Analysis Our findings will be of value to second language writing scholars, graduate students, and practitioners for examining the status of their field.
WEB DATA MINING FOR MONITORING BUSINESS EXPORT ORIENTATION This paper has explored the use of Big Data analysis on corporate websites for now-casting firms' export orientation by automatically producing a web-based indicator. Our results show that the selected website features contain as much information about the export orientation of companies as the main firm's structural variables (size, age and labor productivity). Moreover, our system for automatically analyzing corporate websites achieved 96% of the prediction accuracy of the model with manually retrieved web features, thus validating a new inexpensive and timely source of information about individual firm's export orientation.
Predatory journals recruit fake editor We hope that our sting brings further aware-ness to the problem of predatory publishing.
Accountability and High Impact Journals in the Health Sciences For researchers looking to maximize the uptake and recognition of their work, publication in the top journals in the appropriate research area would be the most effective strategy, which does not in many cases include the major multidisciplinary journals.
The h-Index of Editorial Board Members Correlates Positively With the Impact Factor of Sports Medicine Journals The h-indices of editorial board members of top sports medicine journals are significant predictors of the IF of their respective journals.
Analysis of the Revision Process by <i>American Journal of Roentgenology</i> Reviewers and Section Editors: Metrics of Rejected Manuscripts and Their Final Disposition This analysis found that manuscripts submitted to AJR that were rejected after review were published in journals with higher impact factors than those rejected without review.
Confidence intervals for Journal Impact Factors The example in the figure demonstrates that CIs provide more complete information than do statistical significance tests.
Citations and author numbers in six sciences Thus in all cases a researcher will get more credit by working in a small team than in a large one.
Standards and Interoperability: How Jisc's Work Supports Reporting, Communicating and Measuring Research in the UK The UK research information management landscape is rapidly evolving, driven by both advances in technology and the increased burden of the regulatory and assessment framework within which institutions are operating. To operate more efficiently, further work in the following areas is imperative: Development of standardised terms, definitions and identifiers to underpin the research information management systems network; Development of open protocols to allow easy machine-readable access to, and exchange of, information currently held in the wide variety of existing systems.
Current patterns of collaboration in published neurology research Whilst the results are encouraging, they are likely to be positively skewed. Future studies of longer durations and a wider array of journals ought to be conducted in order to corroborate our findings.
Modeling timelines for translational science in cancer; the impact of technological maturation "Analytical models of technological maturation may be used for technological forecasting to guide more efficient translation of scientific discoveries into cures."
Visualising the Interdisciplinary Research Field: The Life Cycle of Economic History in Australia We share the view of the recent literature that argues that rather than competing modes of knowledge production, disciplinary and interdisciplinary research are complementary. We conclude that some disciplinary structures limit the ability of the IDRF to act as the bridge between disciplines. Instead, its agency is best realised through communicating infrastructures that are flexible enough to allow scholars to communicate and integrate knowledge from different disciplines.
Twenty years of readership of library and information science literature under Mendeley’s microscope The results of this study show that altmetrics can be used as a source of data in information behaviour studies. Reference management software provides an unobtrusive means of capturing reading habits in the scholarly literature. Compared to citation counts, bookmarks are rapidly available and also reflect usage outside the academic community.
An altmetric analysis of ResearchGate profiles of physics researchers The findings of the study help in knowing the validity of ResearchGate as a source of altmetrics for research evaluation in a developing country such as India. These results indicate that the altmetric indicator RGScore appears to give similar results as the traditional citation based indicators. Thus, RGScore could be used along with citation-based metrics and can perhaps be used as an indicator for research evaluation although it is very different in nature from traditional metrics.
Transitioning from a Conventional to a ‘Mega’ Journal: A Bibliometric Case Study of the Journal Medicine The adoption of the OAMJ model has completely changed the bibliometric profile of the journal, raising questions about the impact of OAMJ peer-review practices.
A comparative study of the impact of Korean research articles in four academic fields using altmetrics In this study, the citation counts of medical research in Korea were much higher than that of other fields, and they are frequently discussed in social media, showing high social impacts. In the comparison between the impact measured by altmetrics and citation rate, it appeared that the correlation between the Mendeley saving index and the citation rate is positive among all fields. Therefore, it proves that studies conducted in Korea that have a high citation rate are also used in expert activities many times. This can explain the possibility of altmetrics to supplement the bibliometrics-based evaluation system because Mendeley showed a correlation with bibliometrics in in articles originating in non-English-speaking nations.
Author-paper affiliation network architecture influences the methodological quality of systematic reviews and meta-analyses of psoriasis In this field of research, patterns of collaborations between authors and institutions were found to affect quality, and the maintenance of an appropriate balance between the scien-tific trajectory and productivity is more likely to lead to higher quality reviews. As the author-paper affiliation network structure affects study quality in this research field, authors who maintain an appropriate balance between scientific quality and productivity are more likely to develop higher quality reviews.
Yesterday’s giants and invisible colleges of today. A study on the ‘knowledge transfer’ scientific domain The paradoxical presence of a popular scientific domain without a proper independent theo-retical body is consequently underlined.
The perceived impact of four funding streams on academic research production in Nordic countries: the perspectives of system actors† Relying on a MANOVA processed on 456 questionnaires and a the-matic analysis processed on 56 transcripts, this study examined actors' perspectives regarding the impact of four funding streams on the level of academic research production in Nordic HES. Frequencies and average survey scores suggested that all funding streams were considered positively, but that competitive funding was perceived as having the most and strategic funding the least positive impact on research production. The study might prove useful to policymakers wishing to better understand how funding arrangements are interpreted by different actors and intertwine with systems' academic traditions.
Research Support in Australian Academic Libraries: Services, Resources, and Relationships The empirical evidence presented in this paper has indicated strengths and challenges that influence the potential for academic libraries to deliver effective and valued research support services. Research metrics are likely to become more complex and sophisticated and academic libraries need staff that are skilled in working with them. Building collaborative relationships with the institution's research office will increase the potential for an academic library to engage more effectively with its research community; and Sound knowledge of the research environment enables academic libraries to develop and deliver the most relevant services.
Open Access Article Processing Charges (OA APC) Longitudinal Study 2016 Dataset This dataset will facilitate and speed up the work of other researchers, and this document describing the data is necessary to understand and analyze the data.
Assessing Research Productivity in University Environment: Institutional Approach This paper contributes to the knowledge management literature with the proposition of new method for research productivity measurement at the universities — KGER based on the assumption that productivity of institution knowledge generation is defined by the transaction costs for knowledge generation.
Analysis of Publications on Journal Impact Factor Over Time In this study, we applied bibliometric techniques in a descriptive fashion, to understand the developments around the JIF.
1019. The Association between Scholarly Impact and Canadian Institutes of Health Research Funding in Psychiatry Academic psychiatry faculty with CIHR support demonstrate greater scholarly impact than those without. Our findings indicate that for most high impact researchers in academic psychiatry, CIHR support is not the norm.
Comparative research performance of top universities from the northeastern Brazil on three pharmacological disciplines as seen in scopus database The present study shows where each of these universities stands and can be helpful in identifying potential collaborators in these areas of knowledge. For low-performing institutions, a tentative solution could be the combination of knowledge from different areas to produce high-impact papers with good visibility.
Analysis of scientific production in spanish implantology Bibliometric analysis revealed a significant growth in the quantity and quality of Spanish implantolo-gy literature. Most key bibliometric indicators demonstrated upward trends. In conclusion, the present bibliometric analysis of Spa-nish scientific production in the field of implantology shows that production has increased exponentially in terms of author numbers, articles, and quality. The data obtained also demonstrate the internationalization and increased levels of collaboration with international re-searchers.
Where do high-impact ideas come from? The interplay between the cumulative knowledge structures and search strategies of researchers In conclusion, this study contains two key findings. A “T-shaped" knowledge structure is recommended in the long run for maximal generation of high-impact ideas. Researchers who have not adopted this optimal knowledge structure can employ a matched search strategy to leverage their existing knowledge structures. Researchers possessing an in-depth knowledge profile are advised to search outside their familiar fields when exploring potential solutions to a problem (proposed strategic fit I).
Cover stories: An emerging aesthetic of prestige science Here, we can reliably assert that our data show a correlation between a paper being on the cover and it achieving higher numbers of academic citations than average, but they do not explain cause. This suggests, at the very least, that some disciplinary and national-scientific cultures are better equipped to produce these images, and/or are more willing to do so. Finally, we notice that, as with other areas of science communication, the task of cover art is sub-contracted.
Perceptions, preferences of scholarly publishing in open access routes The findings of the study revealed that majority of the academic librarians are aware of the gold and green publishing routes while the majority of academic librarians are not aware of the diamond publishing route. This therefore calls for the organization of more conferences and workshops on OA publishing. OA present important opportunity for research productivity and research communication in developing countries like Nigeria.
Science’s reproducibility and replicability crisis: International business is not immune Irreproducible and non-replicable research results threaten the credibility, usefulness, and very foundation of all scientific fields; IB is certainly not immune.
Citation analysis of scientific categories Publishing a highly cited paper is gratifying and confirms that the work has an impact on the scientific community.
Authorship Trends of Research Articles Published in Seven Scientific, Technical, Engineering, and Medical (STEM) Library Journals: Analysis of STEM Library Research from 2011–2015 Our study provides a unique look at how STEM librarianship was represented over the recent five years in seven selected STEM library science journals. Over the 981 research articles analyzed, Tony Stankus was the most prolific author, and his institution, the University of Arkansas, was the leading institution in publishing papers in STEM librarianship. We can conclude that there are more collaborations in the medical librarianship journals than there are in STL and ISTL, which predominantly publish articles on physical sciences and engineering librarianship. We hope that the findings of this study will have a positive impact on the future of STEM librarianship research.
Open access journals: a bibliometric study in SSCI This paper describes a bibliometric study on open access journal publication, which has rarely been performed within the specific context of document supply issues. It provides a foundation for further research on titles as well as resources for librarians and scholars.
Global research trends in materials chemistry: a scientometric perspective The present work explores the characteristics of global materials chemistry research published during 2008–2012 and indexed in Scopus database.
Replication and Economics Journal Policies The result could be seen as a first indication that data availability policies may help journals to increase their citation counts.
P090: Electronic invitations received from predatory journals and fraudulent conferences: a 6-month young researcher experience Young researchers are frequently exposed to predatory publishers and fraudulent conferences. An electronic invitation was received almost daily following the first publication as a corresponding author. Academic institutions worldwide need to acknowledge and educate young researchers of this emerging problem.
A relevance ranking method for citation-based search results The results of study 1 suggest that both the previously reported retrieval method and the proposed relevance ranking method are relatively successful. It could be used alongside text-based searching to ensure 100% recall, provide relevance ranks for documents retrieved through both methods, and even to inform the development of a comprehensive keyword search strategy. The success of the method in retrieving and ranking documents by relevance as reported here suggests that such research is worth pursuing.
Reply to the letter on Ancaiani et al. ‘Evaluating Scientific research in Italy: The 2004–10 research evaluation exercise’ In this reply we provide ample evidence that the issues raised do not weaken the main results previously presented in any substantial way.
Assessing the Rate of Replication in Economics Examining a set of well-published papers, and surveying experts on the specific topics, we find substantial uncertainty over how many replication attempts exist. As an attempt to shed some light on this uncertainty, the estimates from our coding exercise suggest that a majority of very well-published papers in economics are not being replicated at all—though well-published and well-cited works are being replicated at much higher rates. However, the measurements in our paper reflect very practical numbers: What do economists inside the literature believe? What can be found through a search of the literature by those outside the literature?
Five-year publication rate of podium presentations at SICOT Annual Conference: an observational study and new objective proposal of conference power Our study shows that almost one third of all abstracts presented at SICOT led to a full-text pub-lication.
Quantitative and Qualitative Analysis of Editor Behavior through Potentially Coercive Citations Here, we have detected and demonstrated that one of the possible methods for increasing an author h-index is through activity on the editorial board of a scientific journal and filtering the papers for special issues, sometimes suggesting ad hoc references. Further inquiries about this somewhat unethical approach of coercive citations should be done. Publishers (including large ones) should be aware of the existence of such situations and adapt their procedures accordingly.
The Neurosurgery Match: A Bibliometric Analysis of 206 First-Year Residents H-index is a powerful research predictor of matching into neurosurgical research institutions and can be improved by starting research early, targeting high impact journals, and participating in original clinical and laboratory investigations.
Nemo Solus Satis Sapit: Trends of Research Collaborations in the Vietnamese Social Sciences, Observing 2008–2017 Scopus Data Collaborations have a certain positive impact on scientific output in Vietnam, which explains why Vietnamese scientists are inclined towards co-publishing. This is not without its downsides; for example, a large portion of Vietnamese scholars lack qualities that could hardly be forged without the experiences of producing articles as a single author. This implies that policy-makers ought to consider promoting institutional collaborations while also encouraging authors to acquire the experience of publishing solo.
Points of Reference: Changing Patterns of Academic Citation How writers choose to present reported information provides important insights into the context of academic persuasion.
A rejoinder to the comments of Benedetto et al. on the paper “Critical remarks on the Italian research assessment exercise VQR 2011–2014” (Journal of Informetrics, 11(2): 337–357) Although our paper does not contain any detailed architectural redesign of the VQR (it was not our purpose!), we believe that it includes several hints to help ANVUR to improve or at least avoid the earlier mistakes. In over ten years of activity, ANVUR has unequivocally been revealing a lack of communication skills and listening to the Italian scientific community.
Library Development of Scholarly Output Measurement Tool This research demonstrated that current data capture and measure methodology was limited in producing detailed and meaningful results.
Bibliometric Analysis of Gold Open Access in India This bibliometric study will enlarge the knowledge base of researchers on the present condition of gold OA in India and its position in relation to other countries. The study also provides an overview of the contribution of OA publications by different disciplines. It is, therefore, recommended that the study should be updated within 3 to 5 years so that the changing trend of gold OA scholarly publications can be identified.
Citation-based criteria of the significance of the research activity of scientific teams The objective evaluation of the scientific teams' research activity is one of the most actual and complicated metrological tasks in modern society (Maslak 2006; Romanov et al. 2015; Tsyganov 2013; Tolstova and Voronina 2015).
Mapping Global Health: A network analysis of a heterogeneous publication domain We suggest that this somewhat fragmented and fuzzy domain is held together by (1) a core group of authors who have for some time been co-authoring numerous papers and reports with one another; (2) several central journals, most notably the Lancet, addressing wider audiences and transcending the narrow specialization characteristic of scientific and biomedical fields; and (3) a growing body of large-data metrics, most prominently the Global Burden of Disease, which has become a rhetorical resource for numerous groups with different agendas.
A reputation economy: how individual reward considerations trump systemic arguments for open access to data However, the results of the survey confirm a mismatch between the expected societal benefits of open access to research data and the individual researcher’s behaviour.
Problems with open participation in peer review Here we show that the equilibrium number of reviewers in the public peer review is small, their recommendations are extreme, and the outcome is likely to be random when the compromise is the median of the reviewers' recommendations.
Tracking Scholarly Publishing of Hospitals Using MEDLINE, Scopus, WoS and Google Scholar An affiliation-based search could be better served if searchers use multiple sources in combination. In this study, a comparison of bibliographic database results gave precedence to MEDLINE/PubMed. Data entered in the affiliation field is a spontaneous reaction of the author to the question of the journal about it; therefore, data is not controlled and follows the rules of natural language.
Note on the theory of the <mml:math xmlns:mml="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" altimg="si1.gif" overflow="scroll"><mml:mi>w</mml:mi></mml:math>-index The three equations (10)-(12) show that there exists a statistical relation between the total number of cited papers and the value of the corresponding index. Only if a is not unit-invariant (that is, only if different authors have different values of the Lotka exponent) may the ranking differ.
When social scientists disagree: Comments on the Butler-van den Besselaar debate This debate illustrates the importance of replication in research, especially for studies with a significant policy impact.
Self-citations, a trend prevalent across subject disciplines at the global level: an overview Compared to subject disciplines falling under the category of social and humanistic sciences, the trend of self-citing a document is more prevalent among the researchers falling under the subject disciplines of natural and applied sciences.
PlumX As a Potential Tool to Assess the Macroscopic Multidimensional Impact of Books According to these results, PlumX has proven to be a very use-ful tool in order to trace the impact of footprints (imprints) of a book in different areas according to the new metrics at the macro level. Our analysis strengthens the philosophy of the tool PlumX providing a cornucopia of measures grouped in different groups but not providing a simple and composite indicator.
Some considerations about causes and effects in studies of performance-based research funding systems Among the two studies under examination here, Butler's stands out with the strongest design and the most convincing in-depth contextual knowledge.
On tit for tat: Franceschini and Maisano versus ANVUR regarding the Italian research assessment exercise VQR 2011–2014 To conclude, we go back to the original question regarding the failure of knowledge transfer from scholars to practitioners. In order for knowledge transfer to take place, two fundamental conditions are necessary. As citizens and civil servants, we are genuinely and patiently motivated by strong willingness to contribute with our knowledge to the betterment of the Italian research evaluation system.
Opening the Black-box of Academic Research: Assessment, Publishing and Critical Perspectives To return to our original question – what does it mean today to have a critical attitude toward scientific knowledge and which strategies do we have to undertake? - the experience of Tecnoscienza together with that of similar self-published journals help to envision the path to follow: toward a scientific environment where control over the crucial infrastructure of scientific publishing starts to return, al least in part, to the scientists and researchers themselves.
Visibility of healthcare research institutes through the Web of Science database The studies based on scientific publications do not help us reliably identify the contribution of the HRIs because their observed production is much lower than the potential output, although their visibility tends to increase over time. This article highlights the importance of HRI members including the institute among their work addresses to increase the visibility of these organizations and to facilitate studies aimed at assessing their activity in the national and international context.
Do observations have any role in science policy studies? A reply We found that the conclusions of Butler are wrong, and that many of the policy implications based on it simply are unfounded.
Journal Quality in Mathematics Education Tables 2, 3, and 8 summarize the major results of our studies and suggest that JRME and ESM are the two most cited and respected journals in our field by a substantial margin. Thus, our studies provide empirical support for what is likely the conventional wisdom in our field regarding the best journals. This is one example of how citation-based and opinion-based studies complement one another and help to provide a fuller picture of journal quality.
Institutional repository research 2005-2015: a trend analysis using bibliometrics and text mining The primary purpose of this study has been to identify longitudinal research themes and trends in the area of IRs.
Modifications to the journal impact factor Finally, we concluded that IFs with and without penalization of self-citations lowly correlated with the number of articles and the number of citing sources.
h-based<i>I3</i>-type multivariate vectors: multidimensional indicators of publication and citation scores The multivariate indicators publication vector X and citation vector Y can be used to reflect multidimensional output and impact information. The I3-type publication score I3X and the citation score I3Y are single numbers which integrate and represent the publication vector X and the citation vector Y. The frameworks X = (X1, X2, X3) and Y = (Y1, Y2, Y3), I3X = X1 + X2 + X3 and I3Y = Y1 + Y2 + Y3 are always applicable to process 3-dimensional distribution of academic information, which provide a starting for the studies of multidimensional indicators.
Counterintuitive effects of incentives? We conclude that the evidence in Schneider, Aagaard and Bloch (2016) shows that the Norwegian system stimulating output growth while taking 'quality classes' of this output into account performs less than the Australian system focusing only on output.
Perceptions, preferences of scholarly publishing in Open Access journals The study recommends that academic libraries in institutions of higher learning in Africa should organize seminars periodically on the need for their librarians to research and publish in OA journals.
Altmetric scores: short-term popularity or long-term scientific importance First, high initial public interest in an article does not translate into long-term scientific interest for that same article.
PlumX: a tool to showcase academic profile and distinction From SMC's strategic initiative to better express “Distinctive Excellence” emerged the challenge of defining and showcasing “excellence” in faculty research, creativity, and engagement. Altmetrics from PlumX has shown to be a start towards this goal. As altmetrics-- and PlumX specifically-- mature, the data will certainly become more powerful and options more limitless.
Multiplex flows in citation networks We have shown that the production and diffusion of knowledge can be modeled in a recursive framework that studies flows in DAGs, with a natural interpretation of the notion stream of knowledge.
Southern promises: a snapshot of the microbiology research landscape in South America based on bibliometric data From these observations, a possible strategy to increase impact and productivity in (microbiology) research for emerging countries is outlined.
Improving the Measurement of Scientific Success by Reporting a Self-Citation Index An s-index will increase the usefulness of the metric upon which it is based, the h-index, by allowing us to look at citation counts from a different, one could say, truer angle.
Information visualization analysis on Advances in Psychological Science : 1983-2014 A new pattern of cooperative development of the theory and application in the field of psychological research is forming. The agencies with higher publication should exert their influence, rely on their own, play their respective advantages, strengthen exchange of visits between scholars, and have an academic impact on national institutions or universities as well as the surrounding area. In addition, the agencies should also pay attention to international exchanges and cooperation, gradually form a close cooperation, high output for scientific research, flourishing scientific-research pattern, which finally can effectively promote the continuous and healthy development of the domestic psychological field.
Origin and type of articles published in four mainstream orthodontic journals: a five-year study The USA was the highest publishing country followed by Brazil, the UK and Japan.
The transition toward open access: the University of Hong Kong experience This study explored the longitudinal trend of OA publishing in HKU and the shift toward an open access model of publishing over the past ten years.
How healthy are DocEng, JCDL and UMAP series of conferences? DocEng is a relatively smaller conference with respect to UMAP and JCDL in-terms of the number of distinct authors and PC members.
Science’s disparate responsibilities: Patterns across European countries First, the commitment to science as a vehicle for economic prosperity through its function in innovation does not seem to impede commitment to democratising science and insistence that science should also inform the political system and the broader society. Science can take multiple responsibilities in parallel, and there is no evidence of a trade-off between economic objectives, on one hand, and broader social and democratic objectives on the other hand. Second, while the analysis presented here suggests that economic and broader social goals do not hamper one another, it also shows that many European countries are far from realising the EU-promoted vision of science’s role in society. Our analysis reveals differences across countries of such magnitude that this target must be considered unachieved.
Engineering research profile of countries in the African Union Hence, the effort of this study to map the capabilities of African science in one of its most important branches (i.e. engineering) is timely.
Growth of research journals in India during last decade (2005-2014): an overview During the last decade, India has witnessed almost the exponential growth in the introduction of new journals in different subject fields at all levels. Newer research journals are bound to make their presence, given the growing demand among the research community to publish their research results, but that does not mean these journals should come at the cost of compromising with the quality of research published. The unprecedented growth of research journals in India during the last decade needs to be viewed seriously.
Retrieving vanished Web references in health science journals in East Africa This study has found that the number of online publications cited in four journals published in East Africa was very low. This is an indicator of low usage of e-resources by scholars in the region.
Status and quality of open access journals in Scopus We can conclude that although OA publishing may facilitate accessibility and use, it does not necessarily lead to greater quality. Results show that free accessibility to the content of journals is insufficient for attaining higher quality because citations received by journals depend also on the quality of articles. Future research can also examine the evolution of the proportion and quality of OA journals in various research areas over a long period of time.
Difficulty of recruiting reviewers predicts review scores and editorial decisions at six journals of ecology and evolution Papers for which editors have greater difficulty recruiting reviewers are more likely to be declined after peer review at six journals in ecology and evolution (though the magnitude of the relationship varies substantially among journals).
Counting citations: Generalizing the Perry-Reny index This note argues for the generalization of the Perry-Reny index to allow for different weightings of depth vs. width.
Vicious circles of gender bias, lower positions, and lower performance: Gender differences in scholarly productivity and impact We showed that this is not the case, and the relation between productivity and the number of high impact papers is about the same for men and women within the distinguished productivity classes. We indeed found that a variety of factors have an effect on performance, and controlling for those reduced the effect of gender on performance considerable. Therefore, gender equality policies remain important to reverse the coupled vicious circles that produce the glass ceiling (Fig 7).
Unaffiliated Researchers: A Preliminary Study Further research into this topic can inform the debate on the (de)institutionalization of research practice, as well as the impact of the OA movement on the traditional gatekeeping function of journals in academia.
Cognitive Distances between Evaluators and Evaluees in Research Evaluation: A Comparison between Three Informetric Methods at the Journal and Subject Category Aggregation Level The approaches proposed in this paper can guide the process of panel composition and allow the concerned authority to assess how well the expertise of PMs corresponds with the research interests of the groups to be evaluated (Rahman et al., 2015, 2016; Rousseau et al., 2017). The results show that the level of aggregation (journals and WoS SCs) has only minor influence for determining cognitive distances in all the proposed six approaches, whereas the influence of the number of dimensions (2 versus N) is substantial. The proposed approaches can be tested in any future scenario where X PMs need to be chosen out of N candidates.
Citation Analysis for Biomedical and Health Sciences Journals Published in Korea Efforts by journals to be enlisted in international databases, especially in SCI and Medline, are critical to enhance their global circula-tion. However, articles published in English only hinder the use of domestic researchers. Different strategies are required for enhancing international and domestic readerships.
Unique, but still best practice? The Research Excellence Framework (REF) from an international perspective The article offers a framework for understanding differences in the motivations and designs of performance-based research funding systems (PRFS) across countries. It also shows that a basis for mutual learning among countries is more needed than a formulation of best practice, thereby both contributing to and correcting the international outlook in The Metric Tide report and its supplementary Literature Review.
Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia’s presence in The Directory of Open Access Repositories (DOAR) and The Registry of Open Access Repositories (ROAR): A comparative study of their ratio of open access material The developing world has also jumped on the bandwagon but the results are, so far, not encouraging. This is due mainly to an acute economic hardship as compared to the developed world, but one also has to recognize the responsibility of these countries to implement open access and especially open repositories. It is only by shifting attention to more vital criteria such as promoting access to information, implementing a clear and mandatory national open access policy, lowering the cost of and democratizing Internet access, privatizing the Internet providers and the telecommunication sector, etc., that developing countries could hope for a better life and empowerment of an information revolution that is taking place.
Why not to use the journal impact factor as a criterion for the selection of junior researchers: A comment on Bornmann and Williams (2017) In my view, this first methodological problem in itself should suffice to refrain from attaching any practical recommendation to results inferred from this dataset.
Comment on Bornmann (2017): confidence intervals for journal impact factors Unfortunately, accurately computing standard errors and confidence intervals for journal impact factors appears to be harder than just referring to the impact factor and number of articles published. But it is not very difficult to download the citations to articles in a target set of journals from the Web of Science or Scopus and compute the confidence intervals from them. It would be trivially easy for Clarivate, Elsevier, or other providers to report standard errors.
The Publication Success of 102 Nations in Scopus and the Performance of Their Scopus-Indexed Journals We can conclude that the scientific productivity of a country depend critically on the number of journals indexed from that country in citation databases. The study provides a context with which the relative success of publications can be assessed, yielding new insights into the scientific impact of individual countries and the performance of journals that they published.
The quality of measurement results in terms of the structural features of the measurement process In this paper we have argued that justification of the dependability of measurement results depends on the structure of the measurement process, rather than (solely) on features of the inputs or outputs of the process (such as whether or not they are quantitative), or the functional relationship between the two.
Patterns in Economics Journal Acceptances and Rejections From our analysis of the path toward publication for a sample of economics journal articles, we offer the following insights to authors:
Status Spillovers: The Effect of Status-conferring Prizes on the Allocation of Attention The results of this study provide a deeper understanding of how one actor's recognition shifts the fates of the many peers engaged in similar undertakings. We generally find that in this diffusion, competition swamps endorsement. We present striking and consis- tent evidence that scientific output in the intellectual vicinity of work by accolade-winning scientists experiences a sizeable and persistent decline in the rate of attention after prizes are announced.
National citation patterns of<i>NEJM</i>,<i>The Lancet</i>,<i>JAMA</i>and<i>The BMJ</i>in the lay press: a quantitative content analysis British and American newspapers are the ones that cite the four analysed medical journals more often, showing a domestic preference for their respective national journals; non-British and non-American newspapers show a common international citation pattern.
You get what you ‘pay’ for: academic attention, career incentives and changes in publication portfolios of business and economics researchers So we conclude that after the regime shift, journal publications are no longer a good proxy for a researcher's overall publication productivity, book-based publication forms are on the decline, and especially younger cohorts increasingly focus on journal articles.
Mapping of Scholarly Communication in <i>Publications of the Astronomical Society of Australia, Publications of the Astronomical Society of Japan</i>, and <i>Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific</i>: A Bibliometric Approach From the aforementioned discussions, it can be concluded that the three journals (PASA, PASJ, and PASP) selected in this study have a rich publication history in the field of astronomy and astrophysics.
Macro‐level diffusion of a methodological knowledge innovation: Research synthesis methods, 1972–2011 This study has presented two histories of the diffusion of research synthesis methods: one a selective, descriptive textual presentation of important facets of diffusion based on disciplinary narratives, primarily from the health and social sciences; and the second, an illustrated systematic bibliometric overview broadly across science that examines themes that emerged from the historical review: that research synthesis methods were developed at least in part as a response to large quantities of literature; the centrality of EBP to diffusion of the methods; and that research synthesis is especially relevant in more applied fields.
Measuring Time-Dynamics and Time-Stability of Journal Rankings in Mathematics and Physics by Means of Fractional p-Variations The final conclusion is that the list of mathematics does not satisfy the requirements on the p-variations, while the list of applied physics does. Summing up, the main result of our analysis is that under the assumption of a critical variation value of 10%, the ordered list of mathematics is not stable enough to consider it as a reliable assessment tool for research evaluation. In the case of applied physics, the values of the obtained indices show that the corresponding list is still admissible for evaluation.
Presence of Iranian scholars in COLLNET conferences (2003-2015) Current paper indicated that network of collaboration among Iranian scholars is strong but with other countries is weak.
Impact of research collaboration cosmopolitanism on job satisfaction The central conclusion of this paper is straightforward, that doctoral researchers who are engaged in a higher degree of collaboration cosmopolitanism have higher levels of job satisfaction, but this finding holds for academics and government scientists only.
Open Access Scholarly Journal Publishing in Chinese By and large, this study demonstrates that Chinese-language OA journals are dominant players in China's OA market, with most of them launched by universities and scholarly societies firstly as subscription journals with a later conversion to OA.
Twenty Years of Authorship, Sampling, and References in Kinesiology Research Reports This study confirmed that over the last 20 years, original research reports published in RQES have increasing numbers of coauthors and references cited, with negligible change in sample sizes. The dramatic increases in coauthorship in kinesiology do not appear to correspond to any improvements in sample sizes, so future research should monitor coauthorship patterns and research quality indicators within subdisciplines of the field. There was considerable variation within and between the reports from the eight subdisciplinary areas, indicating clear variations in authorship, sampling, and reference citation across subdisciplinary areas of study within RQES.
Computer Science Papers in Web of Science: A Bibliometric Analysis A distinctive feature of this discipline is its greater reliance on conference publications than it is the rule in other fields of science.
Managing the transition to open access publishing: a psychological perspective The individual differences within the discipline suggest that bioscientists are unlikely to respond to OA policies in the same way and, thus, the appropriateness of one-size-fits-all OA policies is questioned. Our study shows that while scientists in the biosciences face similar external constraints, their motivations and social opportunities for OA publishing vary. This study opens the way to increased use of psychological assessments for the design of science policy.
Women are underrepresented in computational biology: An analysis of the scholarly literature in biology, computer science and computational biology Taken together, our results suggest that computational biology lies between biology in general and computer science when it comes to gender representation in publications.
Incidence of predatory journals in computer science literature Our analysis shows that the phenomenon of predatory journals somehow decreased in 2015, probably due to a greater awareness of the risks related to the reputation of the authors. The main target is to protect the prestige of universities and research centres, and of all people who work honestly for the scientific progress. Moreover, Google Scholar should use a system of filter to avoid listing papers belonging to “fake” academic magazines, or at least it should clearly highlight the “scientific confidence” of the various documents returned by the queries.
Scholarly attention and the limited internationalization of US social science Over the past half-century, the scholarly attention of US social sciences has not interna-tionalized as rapidly as many other aspects of American life. The small scale of these effects is consistent with the finding (pictured in Figure 3) that scholarly attention to each world region has not changed much since 1960. The null hypothesis of scholarly autonomy seems to be the most consistent picture in the data.
Journal packing density across subject disciplines at the global level: a study From the research results, it is evident that the JPD of research journals published across various subject disciplines, varies considerably from subject to subject.
Social impact assessment of scientist from mainstream news and weblogs In conclusion, we addressed each of our research goals as described in Sect. 3, by extending conventional citation graphs to heterogeneous graphs of different entities such as scientists, weblogs, and mainstream news.
Do university mergers create academic synergy? Evidence from China and the Nordic Countries "Governments have repeatedly stated their commitment to improving national research capabilities and believe that university mergers yield positive results."
Exploring prestigious citations sourced from top universities across disciplines Our claim was that citations could be considered as prestigious citations, if the authors of the citing papers are affiliated with prestigious universities. Therefore, our proposed method identifying prestigious citations by the affiliations of the citing papers can be considered to be well validated. This approach is not only effective and efficient, but also applicable to all disciplines.
Evaluation of science, technology, and innovation (STI) in Iran It was revealed that most actions for evaluating STI were taken by two institutions including Ministry of Science, Research, and Technology and Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution. Moreover, the role of private centers active in the process of evaluating science, technology, and innovation was not evident. However, the two sets of frameworks were different regarding one dimension, i.e. research and development which was considered as a distinct dimension in most international frameworks for evaluating science, technology, and innovation while it received scant attention in national frameworks.
The state‐of‐the‐art of open peer review: Early adopters The results suggest that journals in medicine and related fields are the early adopters. It is clear that systematic research is needed to better understand the future of OPR.
Sex Differences in Doctoral Student Publication Rates The men in this study submitted and published substantially more scholarly works than their female peers.
Mapping The Systematic Review Toolbox The mapping exercise enabled the development of an efficient search strategy to identify new tools to support the systematic review process. Future plans are to translate the search strategy to search a range of information sources in health care research.
Yet another method for author co‐citation analysis: A new approach based on paragraph similarity The results show that these four approaches can be separated into two categories: approach based on distance and approach based on text similarity.
Exploring attitudes to societal relevance: the effects of reflection on research practices among Swedish environmental scientists The analysis of the survey data supports all three hypotheses.
Characterization of science mapping of Iranian cancer researchers’ co-authorship network in web of science service during 2000-2013 time period Finally, Mohagheghi, Mahmoudi, and Malek Zadeh were identified as the most influential researchers of Iran's cancer-focused co-authorship network and most influential cut-of f points in network consistency were Iranshahi, Ghadri, Mahmoudi.
Ranking of National Institutes of Technology (NITs) of northeast region of India on the basis of web impact factor The present study gives an information about the ranking of the websites of NITs of Northeast region in India.
Does collaboration bring high‐impact studies? A preliminary study The Spearman correlation tests suggest that the increasing team size can boost the impact of a study.
Institutional repositories in Africa: obstacles and challenges There is a need to create a greater awareness of IRs in African academic institutions. This study recommends that African academic institutions should conduct advocacy to create or increase awareness of IRs in their respective institutions. The study selected only IR managers or people responsible for IR management and administration in different African academic institutions with existing IRs as respondents.
Publishing in Predatory Open Access Journals: A Case of Iran However, results of the current study evident that Iranian researchers have had considerable contribution in potential predatory journals as well. To avoid being victimized by questionable journals, early career authors should carefully consider the peer-review policy, editorial board members' information, scope of the journal, prominence of publishers, statements of publishing ethics, indexing databases and quality of the published papers in order to spot questionable journals. Further research is necessary in order to shed light on various aspects of predatory publishing in Iran.
An empirical analysis of the research trends in the field of library and information science in India –2004-2015 It may be interesting to also note that both the co-occurrence analysis of title words and author-supplied keyword analysis showed very similar results where Bibliometrics/ Scientometrics was found to be the major research area that remains popular, and in fact increasing, over the period of study.
Scholarly productivity in communication studies: five-year review 2012–2016 This study updated the long-standing tradition of reporting trends in publication rates for scholars in communication studies. That said, our results demonstrate that general trends in publishing at the individual level have largely remained the same. This study provides insight to readers regarding the variables that possibly facilitate faculty research productivity. This manuscript represents a first step toward giving these individuals a direction in which to look.
The representativeness of the Russian social sciences and the humanities in the global information flows The RSCI database most comprehensively represents the state of the Russian science for all disciplines, and, respectively, its advantages for the analysis of the internal processes of SSH in Russia are obvious. The introduction of the separate RSCI-WoS base partially solves this problem, since it contains most cited journals familiar to Russian scientists, yet it doesn't reflect all of the research field of the humanities. RSCI is such a database for the study of the Russian social sciences and the humanities.
100 articles every ecologist should read The articles proposed through the collective recommendation of several hundred experienced researchers probably do not represent an 'ultimate', invariant list, but they certainly contain many high-quality articles that are undoubtedly worth reading—regardless of the specific field of interest in ecology—to foster the understanding, knowledge and inspiration of early-career scientists.
Research contributions of space technology scientists: A scientometric study The present study found that the majority of articles were written by more than three authors. As well the study also has indicated that magnetosphere, solar wind and ionosphere research are the sub-fields of space technology that is most widely researched within Space Technology. The study identified that Indian contribution accounted to 9.17% with reference to overall world contribution.
Evaluating author contribution statements However, author order was still perceived as a better indicator of contribution importance and was still favored when evaluating others.
The Clarivate<sup>TM</sup> Analytics acquisition of Publons – an evolution or commodification of peer review? Academics will no longer shy away from demanding recognition for their peer review, and the de facto crediting of peer review may lead to de jure recognition of reviewers' time, effort and expertise. Nevertheless, despite the aforementioned controversial views on the Publons-Clarivate™ Analytics deal, a major advantage of this recent acquisition is the admission that Publons is helping academics showcase their expertise and that recognition and crediting peer review is now a reality (Masic, 2016). We urge publishers and Clarivate™ Analytics to explore, by valid unbiased studies, available measures and incentives, including monetary compensation (Diamandis, 2015), to give peer reviewers the just and fair recognition they deserve for their efforts.
Measuring Journal Prestige in Criminal Justice and Criminology We conclude that for criminal justice and criminology scholars, Thomson Reuters' JIF may not be the best measure of quality.
Strategies for using ResearchGate to improve institutional research outcomes This study has examined the relationship between national/international HEI-ranking systems and their respective RG score, as specifically applied to Pakistan. The authors have suggested a number of strategies for relevant stakeholders, including the library, to improve an institution's research profile by using RG, an academic social networking site. The approach suggested specifically for Pakistan could serve as a model for other institutions (in other countries), which also aspire to improve their national ranking.
Metadata Quality and Academic Visibility Associated with Document Type Coverage in Institutional Repositories of Peruvian Universities We conclude that the highest proportion of academic visibility is concentrated in private universities, and the metadata quality number of items integrated in Alicia favors public universities.
Researchers of Color, Fame, and Impact If researchers of color are expected to do more mentoring, then those efforts should be given credit.
A Comparison of Academic Journal Impact in Dermatology vs. Similarly Sized Medical Specialties We conclude that the combination of a relatively low number of academic dermatologists, a low number of fellowship-trained dermatologists, and the outpatient nature of dermatology likely contribute to the overall low impact of dermatology journals in comparison to specialties of similar size.
Centres of Excellence and Capacity Building: from Strategy to Impact For example, there are clear indications that, across the schemes and scheme types, the emphasis is on human resource development for the science and HEI system, as opposed to the traditional publication-oriented emphasis of project funding, and on skills development and transfer rather than on product development and new firms.
Information Use in Psychology Research: A Citation Analysis of Leading Journals This study shows that psychology researchers use journals and books as the main sources of information. The two most heavily cited journals in this research, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology and Journal of Applied Psychology, were listed among the top 10 in the subject area of psychology for 2012 based on the SCImago Journal Rank Indicator which measures the journal's impact, influence, or prestige and accounted for over 10% of the journals cited in the sample used for this research. While the findings in this study, which revealed the most frequently used sources from the writings of over 2,000 authors in top 50 psychology journals, are significant benchmarks to compare with holdings at an individual library, there are still some areas for further research. Furthermore, future research might also include study of citations within a specific field such as industrial-organizational psychology or counseling psychology to see how literature use within a focused area compares to literature use in the broad area researched within this study.
Developing and testing a method to measure academic societal impact Taking into account the relationships between the standard deviations and the differences of classification between articles with different levels of rigour and relevance, it is demonstrated that the AR21 model is an effective tool.
Research methods: What's in the name? Data collection and analysis techniques are the two major components of any research method.
Reporting Practices of Institutional Repositories: Analysis of Responses from Two Surveys The main goal of the surveys was to help inform the research and actions of the "Measuring Up” project team.
HARKing: How Badly Can Cherry-Picking and Question Trolling Produce Bias in Published Results? Our results suggest that two forms of HARKing, cherry-picking and question trolling, can lead to biases in estimates of the effects of the variables we study in management, applied psychology, and related fields. In closing, we distinguished various forms of HARKing and our results offer information about when and why various forms of HARKing are more or less likely to produce bias in published results. This information is useful for authors as well as editors and reviewers in terms of which forms of HARKing are more or less detrimental and therefore which forms of HARKing to avoid in which specific situations.
Attribute-based quality classification of academic papers This study proposed that good academic papers could be classified using only their surface features. Our future work will address limiting the duration of citation count. Furthermore, we will increase the type of feature words, e.g., using N-grams as words.
Knowledge of use and type of references in Library and Information Science and Legal Medicine as support for specialized librarians In order to answer the first research question regarding the behaviour of Web references, with this study we observed a steady increase in the use of Web references over the years analysed (1999, 2004, 2009 and 2013) in both of the categories examined – LIS and Legal Medicine. This demonstrates that, despite the problems with the Web, researchers in both categories are increasingly likely to use the content provided on it, and thus consider the Internet to be a reliable source of information for their research with impact, thus answering the third research question on the use of Web references by scientists with prestige.
A general overview and bibliometric analysis of seven ACM hypertext and web conferences In this paper, we conducted a bibliometric and exploratory analysis of the SIGWEB conferences and their communities.
Non-existent authors A prosaic interpretation of these observations is that indexers do not always realise that a postnominal such as MD, MBChB, or DPhil is not actually an author's name and that some of them have misinterpreted the meaning of the Latin abbreviation "et al."
Publisher Package and Open Access Journals: Are Any of Them Predatory? The results from the comparison revealed a low rate of predatory journals within the publisher and OA packages examined and the risk that academic library users would encounter predatory content in these resources is low at this time. However, with the growth of predatory publishers and their journals found to be increasing, additional research should be conducted to monitor future trends. Finally, due to the concerns of those in the academic community about how to evaluate OA journal quality in a post-Beall's List world, it is incumbent on librarians to increase awareness of available resources and evaluation tools and to instruct library users on their use.
Review and bibliometric analysis of Chinese agricultural economics research: 2006-2015 First, in the recent ten years, Chinese agricultural economics research has developed rapidly. Second, the subjects of Chinese agricultural economics research during the recent ten years are extensive. Third, the development of policies on agriculture, countryside and farmers, increase of related funding projects, and reinforcement of cooperation are the driving forces of the development of Chinese agricultural economics research in the recent ten years.
Social Media Attention Increases Article Visits: An Investigation on Article-Level Referral Data of PeerJ First, social media attention increases the number of views of scholarly articles, which is confirmed by the direct evidence of social media directed article visitors.
Lognormal distribution of citation counts is the reason for the relation between Impact Factors and Citation Success Index Based on the above analysis, we think that the specific relation between Citation Success Index and Impact Factor ratio of two journals results from the log-normal distribution of papers' citation counts for each journal. In addition, a similar relation between citation per paper and Citation Success Index for longer citing window will still hold because the citation distribution will converge to a steady state in log-normal form. In a sense, this work also shows that the lognormal form, or a more general but more or less universal and stable form, of citation distributions bridges the gap between mean-based analysis (e.g., Impact Factor) and ranking-based analysis (e.g., Citation Success Index).
Waypoints for Evaluating Big Science* Our preliminary work indicates that we can identify waypoint indicators that provide useful, unique input into funding decisions, as well as increasing public reassurance that their tax dollars are being well spent.
The (In)Significance of Socio-Demographic Factors as Possible Determinants of Vietnamese Social Scientists’ Contribution-Adjusted Productivity: Preliminary Results from 2008–2017 Scopus Data To put it briefly, in the discipline of social science in Vietnam, the majority of authors belonged to the 40-to-50 age range; this age category displayed basic characteristics of their academic career, which included the impact of first authorship and age on their relative productivity (measured as CP using the SDC method) and which did not manifest in other age groups.
A New Approach of Indonesian University Webometrics Ranking Using Entropy and PROMETHEE II To conclude, the use of entropy as a more objective method followed by PROMETHEE II is a reasonable alternative of the webometric system for ranking university websites, at least in the Indonesian context.
Performance Behavior Patterns in Author-Level Metrics: A Disciplinary Comparison of Google Scholar Citations, ResearchGate, and ImpactStory It is concluded that the identification of the behavior pattern of each author (both at the inter-author and intra-author levels) is necessary to increase the precision and usefulness of disciplinary analyses that use AutLMs, and thus avoid masking effects.
The impact factor and psychiatry journals: an international perspective Despite many limitations, the IF seems set to continue as the most important measure of a scientific journal's status for the foreseeable future. It is gratifying to observe that psychiatry ranks high among the different medical specialties in terms of journals with high IFs. The need for more sophisticated measures of journal ranking is being increasingly recognised by the scientific community, and one would hope that future quality indicators would also take into account the relevance of published research to patients, clinicians and society at large.
Lorenz curves in a new science-funding model However, the desired results only present in the valley regime. The plateau regime is to be avoided. As a final remark, we expect that this model can be used to describe the funding distribution in the current system. We believe that the model captures the two essential features of funding allocation: cumulative advantage and competition with each other.
Factors influencing faculty attitudes towards open access institutional repositories The overall faculty intention to participate in an OA IR was slightly more than half (53%). Difficulty with submis-sion process was an important factor that hider faculty partic-ipation in OA IR. Current study extends the vision shared by OA proponents of utilizing the advancement of information and communication technologies (ICT) in transforming scholarly communica-tion.
Textual analysis and the history of scholarly communication Overall, this data suggests that Abbott's theories about professionalization are consistent within the field of chemistry.
On the citation advantage of tweeted papers at the journal level From the same journal, the same published year, tweeted papers received on average 30% more citations than non-tweeted papers.
Open access citation advantage? A local study at a large research university This study identified several research areas where gold OA articles published at TAMU were cited at least the same av-erage number of times, and in one instance more (i.e., phys-ics), compared to subscription journals.
Quantifying the evolution of citation cascades This poster gives preliminary results on a large and long-range citation graph of how citation structure evolves with time. It turns out that age has a significant impact on the citation structure of a paper. There exists a stable positive relationship between average depth and cascade size, and it seems that an ultimate status exists where most papers eventually have large values for both metrics.
Achieving impact: impact evaluations and narrative simplification What this article provides is not a picture of determinable, acceptable limits for narrative simplification in impact arguments and evaluations.
Percentage-based Author Contribution Index: a universal measure of author contribution to scientific articles The author contribution index presented here addresses these three major issues and if adopted by scientific journals, it could significantly clarify the contribution of co-authors.
Réseaux sociaux académiques et diffusion de la production scientifique des chercheurs en biologie/médecine It also puts academic social networks into perspective in relation to open-access repositories and open access.
Men Set Their Own Cites High: Gender and Self-citation across Fields and over Time These findings have important implications for scholarly visibility and cumulative advantage in academic careers.
Quantitative evaluation of gender bias in astronomical publications from citation counts However, we find clear indications of the existence of gender bias in astronomy.
Open access to research data: Strategic delay and the ambiguous welfare effects of mandatory data disclosure Our analysis suggests that universal mandatory data disclosure has ambiguous welfare properties.
The effect of public funding on research output: the New Zealand Marsden Fund Overall the estimation results are consistent with a modest boost in research output associated with receiving Marsden funding, although the statistical precision and exact size of the estimate depends on the empirical formulation, and the time-structure of the effect is inconsistent.
Making the mission visible: altmetrics and nontraditional publishing The altmetrics workshops succeeded not only in facilitating an appreciation for impact tracking on the social web, but also an understanding of how heterogeneous outputs fit into academic workflows.
A bibliometric analysis of occupational therapy publications The occupational therapy literature is growing and the frequency of article citation is increasing. The occupational therapy-related body of peer-reviewed literature has grown exponentially over the last two decades. It appears that there is a citation window of an approximate 10-year period between the time of publication and the peak number of citations an article receives.
OMEGA trends during the EES era Hopefully, the OMEGA practice will be positively affected from the geographical and gender diversity which, in turn, will lead to a greater number of submissions.
Network-based approach to detect novelty of scholarly literature In this paper, we consider a wide range of methods for solving the problem of detecting the novelty of a research paper in scholarly literature. We conclude that out of the simple graph models, the word-level and the keyword-level novelty detection models perform the best. Moreover, out of the complex graph models, the keyword-topic-word novelty detection model performs more effectively for detecting the novelty of a research paper.
Network exploration and exploitation: Professional network churn and scientific production By recognizing the tradeoffs associated with alternative networking strategies, policy makers in universities and other research organizations can begin focusing on interventions that more effectively target scientists' strategic network behavior.
Context Factors and the Performance of Mobile Individuals in Research Teams In this paper, we have investigated context factors associated with the positive performance premium observed for internationally mobile scientist teams.
A note on "Impact factor distribution revisited" We have analysed impact factor data in all subject categories for each year from 2010 to 2015. We have fitted four distributions including the two exponent distribution to log impact factor data. Future work is to see if there is dependence between impact factors in different subject categories.
Distilling a body of knowledge for information systems development From this study, we offer two contributions: (1) a justification for an ISDBOK grounded in the theory of practice and professionalism, and (2) a canonical map of disciplinary ISD knowledge with areas that have demonstrated cumulative tradition and others that require the attention of IS scholars.
Understanding Scientific Collaboration: Homophily, Transitivity, and Preferential Attachment This paper provides a systematic analysis of scientific collaboration by comprehensively considering the simultaneous effects of scholars’ characteristics, including their productivities, number of citations, their main research inter- ests, and their gender, as well as the homophily effect on these attributes, the transitivity, and the preferential attach- ment of their collaboration networks by using ERGMs.
Understanding Success Through the Diversity of Collaborators and the Milestone of Career This article analyzes scientific careers from the perspective of collaborators' diversity and the PhD career milestone.
Metric assessments of books as families of works Our research focuses primarily on monographs, and the results confirm that some familial components are present in the BKCI, but not all.
How quickly do publications get read? The evolution of mendeley reader counts for new articles Thus, Mendeley reader counts may even be useful as early impact indicators for articles before they have been officially published in a journal issue. Mendeley readership counts can, in theory, be used as early impact indicators from even before an article's journal issue is published. These indicators can be useful for all journals but will be more powerful for journals with long publication backlogs.
A parametric "parent metric" approach for comparing maximum-normalized journal ranking metrics This article revisits the problem of comparing journal ranking metric scores within a field and across fields, and proposes a parametric adjustment process to facilitate such comparisons.
Global patterns in the publishing of academic knowledge: Global North, global South This article has proposed publishing as a process fundamental to academic knowledge production in its capacity to assist with the formation and maintenance of knowledge networks and disciplines, yet equally implicated in the isolation or marginalisation of specific social groups and the inhibition of alternatives to mainstream knowledge pro-duction. Some of the mechanisms associated with publishing, and which sustain these global inequalities, have been revealed through the empirical study reported herein. Neither outcome is certain, and further analysis and social action are essential if future academic knowl-edge production is to benefit from the possibilities of diversity and difference.
Evaluation of h and h-type Indices for Research Performance at Researcher's Level Our findings strengthen the point that citation count has a strong association with the 'quantity of the productive core' and cannot be used as sole impact evaluation measure. The high correlation, predictive value and loading of h-index on the same component (in EFA), depicts that this index has the potential to work as traditional P and C metrics for broader impact per- formance evaluation purposes.
The American Society of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology workforce assessment: Part 1Current state of the workforce In conclusion, through the work of ASPHO, there is a better understanding of the current PHO provider workforce, the job responsibilities of the individual PHO physician, and the setting in which their work takes place. Still, limited information has been collected about nonphysician PHO providers, hospitalists, the role of part-time PHO physicians, and how PHO practices differ at various size institutions. It is important to continue to collect data over time to identify changes and trends in the PHO workforce.
Is Formal Research Training Associated With Academic Success in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery? Among academic OMSs, those with formal research training had greater success with obtaining NIH funding.
Gaining insight into interdisciplinary research and education programmes: A framework for evaluation The proposed framework has proved to be very useful for understanding the development of interdisciplinary research in a case study programme.
Factors influencing research collaborations in Kenyan universities This study finds a relatively high level of collaborative research within the academic research community in Kenya, as opposed to in-dications from past studies.
Serendipity: Towards a taxonomy and a theory The main contribution of this paper has been to develop a typology of serendipity in research and to identify the main mechanisms through which it occurs. I hope that the typology of serendipity and discussion of its mechanisms developed here facilitate research along these lines. Serendipity does not necessarily strengthen rationales for untargeted research, and conversely do not necessarily weaken rationales for targeted research.
Identifying "best bets" for searching in chemical engineering Comparing database content and performance for information retrieval The findings are useful since they identify "best bets" for performing an efficient search of the chemical engineering literature.
The preferences of Chinese LIS journal articles in citing works outside the discipline This paper can be implemented in the reformulation of Chinese LIS knowledge system, the promotion of interdisciplinary collaboration, the development of LIS library collection and faculty advancement. It may also be used as a reference to develop strategies for the global LIS. Recommendations from this research are valuable for the evaluation of interdisciplinary collaboration between LIS and other disciplines, the development of LIS library collection, the reform of LIS education, and the recruitment of faculty and staff. Future research will focus on the knowledge export from Chinese LIS to other disciplines by analyzing the disciplines outside LIS that cite Chinese LIS works and investigating the characteristics of authorship as well as subjects of both citing documents and cited documents to further explore such a relationship.
Researchers' attitudes towards the use of social networking sites Our main finding is that there is much greater scepticism toward creating a profile on and regularly using SNS for academic purposes than previously reported.
"Let the community decide"? The vision and reality of soundness-only peer review in open-access mega-journals This paper has aimed to present a realistic assessment of the vision OAMJs have vs the practicalities and constraints they face in the current publishing landscape; a recognition of the tensions between idealism and reality, intention and practicality.
International publication trends in dry eye disease research: A bibliometric analysis This study provides a broad view of the current status and trends in DED research and may help clinicians, researchers and policy makers better understand this research field and predict its dynamic directions. These results may be helpful for all those involved in worldwide DED research. Governments and policy makers can also ascertain the most effective countries and institutions in the world in this field, and this analysis may assist them to apprehend and predict the dynamic directions of DED research and to target resources so that further developments can be encouraged, supported and monitored.
The top 100 papers in dry eye - A bibliometric analysis Bibliometric studies are invaluable for researchers who are new to the field, and highlight the contributions leading to developments, in this case in dry eye research. The results of bibliometric studies emphasize the quality of prior scientific research and could even stimulate new approaches [15].
Format Aside: Applying Beall's Criteria to Assess the Predatory Nature of Both OA and Non-OA Library and Information Science Journals This study demonstrates the subjective nature of the Criteria by which Beall constructs his lists.
Exploring prestigious citations sourced from top universities in bibliometrics and altmetrics: a case study in the computer science discipline Experimental results showed that QS-Ci papers were associated with higher total citation counts than non-QS-Ci papers, not only in the overall comparisons but also in the comparisons of papers of the same age. The results showed that if authors or journals had more QS-Ci papers, they had higher values of the H-index or the JIF. In addition, the results also revealed that QS-Ci papers gained more attention on social media than non-QS-Ci papers, as QS-Ci papers were found to be associated with higher values of the Altmetric Attention Score, as well as higher values of other specific altmetrics, such as tweet counts.
Specialization and multidisciplinarity of scholarly book publishers: differences between Spanish University Presses and other scholarly publishers The type of publisher (UP or non-up) is, for the sample used here, non-independent from the degree of multidisciplinarity.
Scientometric analysis of scientific publications in CSCW The results reveal that CSCW is rapidly developing as an independent research community where researchers can establish their identity.
The market of academic attention The different indices used as a proxy for academic attention show that there has been a trend toward progressive concentration, and that specific strategies adopted by players, such as bundling together large number of titles, not only provide the usual benefits determined by price discrimination in terms of consumer surplus extraction, but can also produce subsidies of attention from well-known journals to lesser-known journals that are part of the same bundle.
Computing research in the academy: insights from theses and dissertations The combination of tables, charts, network graphs, and network metrics paint a picture of the changing landscape of computing-related research in theses and dissertations during the 2009 through 2014 time period.
Growth patterns of the network of international collaboration in science This paper analyses the properties of this network and the implications of those properties for an emerging global innovation system in terms of growth, hierarchy, opportunity, challenges, and robustness and for the generation and transfer of technology.
Factors influencing the formation of intra-institutional formal research groups: group prediction from collaboration, organisational, and topical networks After evaluating 127 combinations of factors we found that, in overall, joint membership on previous formal groups (FG) was the factor with the most positive influence on group formation (or reconfiguration of groups in our case study), followed by recent coauthorship (RC) and citations received in coauthored papers (CC).
Retracted publications in the biomedical literature with authors from mainland China The number of retracted articles from mainland China has shown an increasing trend. Misconduct was the primary reason for retraction.
Comparing discrimination powers of text and citation-based context types The results of this study not only reconfirmed that textual contexts had a significant role in document discrimination, but also showed that different types of textual contexts were not equal in their discriminating powers.
And now for something completely different: the congruence of the Altmetric Attention Score's structure between different article groups Based on our current findings, we would caution against the usage of the AAS for any group comparisons, including both research and practical purposes (such as policy and decision making).
A few remarks on ResearchGate score and academic reputation The finding supports the claim that the RG score is not a reliable indicator of scientific and academic reputation. We agree with these authors that the RG Score is not a reliable indicator of scientific and academic reputation. To us, it looks mostly like a tool to implement the entrepreneurial strategy of the RG's owner company.
Does Microsoft Academic find early citations? The magnitude (Fig. 1) and correlation (Fig. 2) results give clear evidence that Microsoft Academic is essentially equivalent to Scopus in terms of its citation counts, agreeing with a previous analysis of a university (Hug and Brändle 2017).
A content-based citation analysis study based on text categorization This study proved that it was possible to develop a content-based citation analysis approach using the semantic and syntactic features in high-volume texts, along with the significant machine-learning achievements that can be obtained from text categorization algorithms.
The penalty of containing more non-English articles We argue that it is not suitable to compare the JIFs of a non-English journal with an English journal which are calculated by using citation data from an international database such as Web of Science.
The number of linked references of publications in Microsoft Academic in comparison with the Web of Science Based on our first exploration of MA data, we suggest that Microsoft publishes the limits they impose on the data in the AK API. Furthermore, we recommend that Microsoft expands the number of references available in the API as much as possible. We will go on with the project by comparing MA data with the data from other databases and exploring them for field- and time-normalization as well as bibliometric networking.
Research Funding and Performance of Academic Researchers in South Korea As verified by the analyses conducted in this study, research funding from various sources are important factors and have significant influence on research performance. Thus, researchers with more funding have a tendency to produce higher research achievements. This in turn suggests that increased funding can have a positive contribution to improving research performance. This study found that research performance shows significant differences depending on the research funding source and the research area.
A Bibliometric Model for Identifying Emerging Research Topics This study proposed a new methodology for the detection of emerging research topics.
Modelling Transition Phenomena of Scientific Coauthorship Networks The major portion of our model aims at unveiling the transition phenomena emerging in statistical properties of coauthorship networks and the mechanisms by which they are generated.
An Analysis of the Validity of Retraction Annotation in PubMed and the Web of Science Accordingly, it provides empirical evidence helpful for future decisions regarding corpus delineations and sampling as well as for improving the comparability of empirical retraction studies.
Topic Diffusion Analysis of a Weighted Citation Network in Biomedical Literature In this paper we presented a method for detecting topic evolution in a citation network in which links are weighted with citation influences between citing and cited papers.
Prevalence and citation advantage of gold open access in the subject areas of the Scopus database The present article takes a journal-level approach to assessing the OA citation advantage, whereas many others take a paper-level ap-proach. This is the novel contribution of the paper. For 3,737 OA journals (16.8%) and 18,485 non-OA journals (83.2%), no generalizable gold OA citation advantage is found at journal level. In fact, in many areas a gold OA citation disadvantage is observed.
Researcher mobility at a US research-intensive university: Implications for research and internationalization strategies The results of this study offer additional evidence about the value to US universities of researcher mobility and greater research collaborations with both domestic and international partners.
'Tracking of ideas': A method to evaluate the integration of ideas in cross-disciplinary collaboration In conclusion, it can be said that the tracking of ideas method was useful to consider the integration of ideas and reduce the com- plexity of the paths of those ideas in the study described in this art- icle.
Dynamics of co-authorship and productivity across different fields of scientific research In this work, we showed that R varies widely across fields, with some fields displaying a considerably different pattern of collaboration and co-authorship than others. Our analysis maps the patterns and evolution of collaborative behavior across scientific disciplines.
Evaluation of the professional worth of scientific papers, their citation responding and the publication authority Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry JTAC is enlightened by providing basis for new fields of thermal material science which should be recognized as a yet missing impact.
An evolutionary non-linear ranking algorithm for ranking scientific collaborations In this article, an attempt is made to propose a new non-linear ranking algorithm focusing on the aggregation function and the transition matrix. Our experiments show that the proposed algorithm (MAM-ranking algorithm) acts better than the other iterative ranking algorithms in ranking scientific collaborations while the citation count is considered as the success measure.
What makes interdisciplinarity difficult? Some consequences of domain specificity in interdisciplinary practice While interdisciplinarity scholarship is in general aware of the importance of cognitive constraints, but has struggled to articulate them in any precise or detailed way, this paper has attempted to illustrate how this can be done by drawing on philosophical and cognitive accounts of scientific practice.
Visualized analysis of developing trends and hot topics in natural disaster research The geographic distribution analysis confirms that the research on natural disasters is a global scientific field. The three hot topics "social vulnerability”, “prediction model”, and “landslide inven- tory map" with strong citation bursts from 2013 to 2015 indicate the trend of natural disaster research as well. Future studies may include these factors to explore more accurate data extraction method, compare the influence of different method of topic identification and data retrieval.
Structural Strain in Science: Organizational Context, Career Stage, Discipline, and Role Composition These findings contribute to knowledge of scientific work in the UK and have implications for the study of professions more broadly.
Bibliometric analysis of research trends on solid waste reuse and recycling during 1992-2016 In summary, solid waste management in developed countries is in a relatively advanced stage, while developing countries are in a rapid development period, and there is still a large gap between developed countries and developing countries in C&D management and organic fractions of MSW.
Bibliometric analysis of authorship trends and collaboration dynamics over the past three decades of BONE's publication history These findings highlight au- thorship trends in BONE over time as well as by region. Importantly, these findings also highlight where challenges still exist.
Alternative bibliometrics from the web of knowledge surpasses the impact factor in a 2-year ahead annual citation calculation: Linear mixed-design models' analysis of neuroscience journals An integrative model using a set of several metrics could represent a new standard to assess the influence and importance of scientific journals, and may simultaneously help researchers to rank journals in their decision-making during the manuscript submission phase.
Universal trajectories of scientific success We believe that this study will argue in favor of revising the existing metrics used for quantifying scientific success.
Global variations in the level of cancer-related research activity and correlation to cancer-specific mortality: Proposal for a global curriculum This study demonstrates significant global variation in the level of cancer-related research activity and a correlation with cancer-specific mortality. The presence of a minimum set of standards for research literacy, as proposed by the European Society of Surgical Oncology and the Society of Surgical Oncology may contribute to enhanced research activity and improve outcomes for cancer patients worldwide.
A probe into causes of non-citation based on survey data The results from our investigation reveal that topics and quality of content are two extremely important reasons for publications being cited. The questionnaire survey is an effective method to explore some novel and non-quantifiable reasons leading to non-citation. Therefore, in the future, we will design a structural equation model for such relationships by executing a more comprehensive and objective Likert scale questionnaire covering all kinds of influencing factors of non-citation, such as 'contents and topics of papers', 'academic status of journal', and 'bibliometric characteristics of papers'.
Persistent factors facilitating excellence in research environments This study on the development of innovative and dynamic research environments in the time-period 2002–2015 identified those features that are persistent to such environments.
Editor Reputation and Journal Quality: The Case of Regional Economic Association Journals This study provides a formal game-theoretic approach to explain how aspects of scientific research that relate to editor prestige and scholars’ rent seeking impact the reputation of regional economic association journals.
Global trends in research related to social media in psychology: mapping and bibliometric analysis This is the first study reporting the global trends in the research related to social media in the psychology field. Our study provides some novel insights useful for policy makers, researchers, and funders interested in advancing an evidence-based social media and psychology research agenda. Finally, our study showed that bibliometric analysis is a good methodological tool to map published literature in a particular subject and to pin point research gaps in that subject.
An extended study of collaboration networks of Levantine biomedical researchers Analyzing the ColNet reveals that local researchers are shifting from working individually or with non-local collaborators to working within large groups of local collaborators relatively.
Invitations received from potential predatory publishers and fraudulent conferences: a 12-month early-career researcher experience Young researchers are commonly exposed to predatory publishers and fraudulent conferences following a single publication as a corresponding author. Academic institutions worldwide need to educate and inform young researchers of this emerging problem.
Self-citation rate and impact factor in the field of plastic and reconstructive surgery The self-citation rate positively affects the IF in plastic surgery journals. A high concentra-tion of self-citation of some journals could distort the ranking among plastic surgery journals in general.
Global Variations in the Level of Cancer-Related Research Activity and Correlation to Cancer-Specific Mortality: Proposal for a Global Curriculum This study demonstrates significant global variation in the level of cancer-related research activity and a correlation with cancer-specific mortality.
Exploring the characteristics, global distribution and reasons for retraction of published articles involving human research participants: a literature survey The characteristics, geographic distribution and reasons for retraction of published articles involving human research participants were examined in this survey. More efforts are needed to improve the consistency and transparency of journal practices toward article retractions.
An Evaluation of h-Index as a Measure of Research Productivity Among Canadian Academic Plastic Surgeons The h-index is a novel tool for evaluating research productivity in academic medicine, and this study shows that the h-index can also serve as a useful metric for measuring research productivity in the Canadian plastic surgery community.
Bibliometric analysis of fuzzy theory research in China: A 30-year perspective This study has made a comprehensive research on FT area in China from a bibliometric perspective.
Examination of China's performance and thematic evolution in quantum cryptography research using quantitative and computational techniques Findings from the first phase of analysis provide empirical evidence that China has emerged as the global driving force in QC. Considering China is the premier driving force in global QC research, findings from the second phase of analysis provide an understanding of China's QC research themes, which can provide clarity into how QC technologies might take shape. QC and science and technology policy researchers can also use these findings to trace previous research directions and plan future lines of research.
Do Economists Swing for the Fences after Tenure? Among academic economists at research-oriented institutions, rates of publication and home run publications rise up to the year of tenure and fall for a decade thereafter. Thus, institutions should consider whether there are methods to sustain (or at least not to impede) high-quality research efforts.
Modelling science trustworthiness under publish or perish pressure The model presented is a simplification of a complex ecosystem, but gives some insight into what factors shape scientific trustworthiness.
Using text analysis to quantify the similarity and evolution of scientific disciplines A temporal analysis of the similarity of fields shows that some fields (e.g. computer science) are becoming increasingly central, but that on average the similarity between pairs of disciplines has not changed in the last decades. This suggests that tendencies of convergence (e.g. multi-disciplinarity) and divergence (e.g. specialization) of disciplines are in balance. Finally, we hope our results and methodology will stimulate a multiple-dimensional approach in other problems related to the study of sciences, profiting from the modern availability of large (textual) databases of scientific publications that allow us to go beyond traditional bibliometric analysis [1,9].
A fast method for identifying worldwide scientific collaborations using the Scopus database The results show that the proposed method is a powerful tool that can be useful for funding agencies to evaluate the relationships among individual researchers, research groups or research organizations; for research managers interested in analysing how to coordinate the activities of researchers or research groups to achieve greater synergies; and for individual researchers interested in analysing potential researchers with whom to collaborate. This article presents a method to cover a gap that exists in the literature specialized in the systematic analysis of scientific collaborations at research institutions.
Questionable, Objectionable or Criminal? Public Opinion on Data Fraud and Selective Reporting in Science Taken together, the findings from Studies 1 and 2 suggest that there is a strong consensus among community members that both data fraud and selective reporting are morally wrong and deserving of serious sanctions.
Doing the Right Thing: A Qualitative Investigation of Retractions Due to Unintentional Error These preliminary results suggest that scientists would welcome innovations to facilitate the process of self-retraction. The experiences documented in our study bring comforting news for all researchers who might discover flaws in their previously published work. We believe that exemplars of virtuous conduct, including stories of researchers who corrected or retracted their own papers, should figure more prominently in the popularization of science and should be presented in RCR curricula as an inspiration for future scientists.
America COMPETES at 5 years: An Analysis of Research-Intensive Universities' RCR Training Plans Our analysis of RCR instructional plans for 91 top U.S. research universities shows that the majority of these universities have not implemented these best practices in their plans. It is time to rethink NSF's policy with the original educational goals of the America COMPETES Act in mind. If the NSF policy on RCR instruction included greater accountability, then institutions, principal investigators, and research training program directors might respond differently to the mandate.
The rise of health biotechnology research in Latin America: A scientometric analysis of health biotechnology production and impact in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba and Mexico We conclude that the Latin American countries studied are increasing their health biotechnology publishing. This strategy could contribute to the development of innovations that may solve local health problems in the region. Finally, the subfields in health biotechnology where the Latin American countries specialized in are those needed in order to address local health problems.
Comparative evaluation of research in IISc, IITs, NUS and NTU using CWTS Leiden Ranking 2017 data Not only do NUS and NTU outperform the IISc +7 IITs cluster, they are also rising steeply in terms of quality of research while the Indian cluster is showing a gradual decline.
Identifying landmark publications in the long run using field-normalized citation data For practical reasons, approaches for identifying landmark papers should be as simple as possible.
The Drawbacks of Project Funding for Epistemic Innovation: Comparing Institutional Affordances and Constraints of Different Types of Research Funding The increasing dominance of project funding arrangements in Western science systems is therefore argued to be problematic in light of epistemic innovation. Funding arrangements that offer funding without scholars having to submit a project-proposal remain crucial to support researchers and research groups to deviate from epistemic and organizational standards. Our study shows that even the 'winners' of the science system are restricted by project funding arrangements and that there is a need for funding that is not tied to a specific project for epistemic and organizational innovation to take place.
The Rise of Computing Research in East Africa: The Relationship Between Funding, Capacity and Research Community in a Nascent Field Institutional and economic reforms based on a neoliberal policy largely advocated by the World Bank have shaped the research landscape of computer science in Nairobi and Kampala. However, the building of this community is equally shaped by the social relationships between the principal players, visionary leadership, and a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship. Thus, developing a sustainable research environment ultimately requires an increase in domestic investment in research, by both government and local business.
The Way We Ask for Money... The Emergence and Institutionalization of Grant Writing Practices in Academia Our analysis revealed promising avenues for future research on the disciplining effects of grant writing and grant writing performances. In addition, our analysis has highlighted the importance of the institutional properties of funding programs for the way scientific fields engage with grant writing. The paper thus draws attention to the increasing authority of scientific communities with regard to the individual researcher or applicant
The Impact of Changing Funding and Authority Relationships on Scientific Innovations Concerning progress in theory-building, it reinforces the point that explanations of such processes are inevitably multi-causal and must link the range of varying circumstances to particular effects through specific mechanisms. A second central issue concerns field-specific research practices and conditions of research, which stand out as critical factors that have to be included in any study of the impact of governance on research.
The effects of gender, age and academic rank on research diversification The results show that age impacts significantly on extent of diversification (ED), with coefficients almost always negative, indicating that compared to older scientists, younger ones have a greater propensity to diversify their research activity.
Eugene Garfield on the Web in 2001 The findings as a whole, indicate Eugene Garfield's Web imprint. He definitely has a "Web visibility”. Additional studies should be carried out in order to develop a methodology for understanding and measuring a person's imprint on the Web.
Science map metaphors: a comparison of network versus hexmap-based visualizations Current results do not show significant differences in how the two maps were remembered or used by participants, except that hexmap users spent a lot more time looking at and memorizing the labels on the hexmap. As a general takeaway from this experiment, it seems that the layout of the basemaps was generally more easily understood than the built-in functionalities such as subdiscipline search and metrics filters. We hope that the detailed discussion of the experiment setup will inspire other scholars to conduct well-controlled, larger-scale human subject experiments comparing not only static but also online interactive maps of science.
Visualizing the context of citations referencing papers published by Eugene Garfield: a new type of keyword co-occurrence analysis "This result accords with the use of citations in research evaluation that is based on the premise that citations reflect the cognitive influence of the cited on the citing publication."
Reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS) of Eugene Garfield's publications The results show that EG has cited his own publications in many cases.
Toward predicting research proposal success We conclude by discussing how discourse analysis of research proposals might contribute to the theory of ‘the science of science' and improve researcher productivity.
Measuring the stability of scientific collaboration In this study we introduced a new indicator, a measure of collaborative stability, which describes the degree of sustained and consistent investment in a collaboration relationship, measured by publication output.
What is the primordial reference for ...?-Redux This search experiment suggests that 'primordial reference chasing' in full-text corpora remains an open problem for the community intersecting bibliometrics and information retrieval.
Assessing the effect of the United States' "citation advantage'' on other countries' scientific impact as measured in the Web of Science (WoS) database The data presented in this paper show that the exclusion of USA citations has a significant effect on the measure of other countries' scientific impact.
Garfield number: on some characteristics of Eugene Garfield's first and second order co-authorship networks Although we used practically the same approach, we were faced with substantially different situations concerning the two networks.
The scientometric portrait of Eugene Garfield through the free ResearcherID service from the Web of Science Core Collection of 67 million master records and 1.3 billion references The ResearcherID service is very good except for the software glitches.
Are you in top 1% (1parts per thousand)? The count of highly cited papers (total or fractional) can be used in assessment of scientific performance of individuals.
Betweenness and diversity in journal citation networks as measures of interdisciplinarity-A tribute to Eugene Garfield The analysis at different levels of aggregation teaches us that BC can be considered as a measure of multi-disciplinarity more than interdisciplinarity.
Usage metrics vs classical metrics: analysis of Russia's research output Overall, we have come to the conclusion that there is no inherent contradiction between usage metrics (as a particular case of “altmetrics") and traditional citation metrics. Rather than being an alternative to traditional citation metrics, usage metrics should be applied as a useful addition to the former.
Beyond Garfield's Citation Index: an assessment of some issues in building a personal name Acknowledgments Index The first approach has the best chance of capturing the ACKS wherever they are and not undercounting some acknowledgment recipients by missing the M&M section in a life sciences journal.
Eugene Garfield: from the metrics of science to the science of metrics In this article, we interpret impact as a thermodynamic mean instead of a simplistic arithmetic mean. This allows rich analogies with the conservation laws of mechanics and thermodynamic features linking disorder and unevenness to entropy to be considered. Without Garfield's bold initiative, all this will have eluded us for some time.
Under-cited influential work by Eugene Garfield Our results show that several articles written by Eugene Garfield are under-cited influential publications, in the sense given to this expression in (Hu and Rousseau 2016, 2017a, b). By publishing this study we hope to contribute to the remembrance of this great pioneer in our field.
Whatever happened to Garfield's constant? The Garfield Constant was changing in time, as Garfield himself admitted, and preferred to call it a ratio. In this paper it was shown that the Garfield Ratio (the ratio of citations per cited papers) is a rather undervalued simple indicator that can be usefully applied in various levels of analysis. Its time behavior is the result of complex factors like literature growth and obsolescence, and its study worth spending efforts even if the original “con- stant hypothesis” turned to be invalid.
A decade of Garfield readers Eugene Garfield's work is continuing to be read all over the world and in many different disciplines, including by young researchers. Whilst his influence through the Web of Science and most other citation indexes today is enormous and cannot be quantified, the Mendeley reader data shows that many of his writings are widely relevant today.
Global analysis of the E-learning scientific domain: a declining category? In conclusion, E-learning is on the decline, since the growth offered by the Social Sciences is not enough to counteract the decline in the contribution of Computer Science. However, at the global level, the category is decreasing, since the growth offered by Social Sciences is not enough to counteract the decline in the contribution of Computer Science, so it is not yet possible to establish whether E-learning as category is at the "diversified" level.
Do younger Sleeping Beauties prefer a technological prince? Thus early recognized technological relevance may 'prevent' papers to become an SB.
Retractions covered by Retraction Watch in the 2013-2015 period: prevalence for the most productive countries Gradually, retractions have been permeating the dynamics of research productivity in many countries but, so far, there is limited knowledge of this interaction.
Structure of the scientific research and science policy The results of the present paper show that the development of countries (at least in the sense of GDP/capita) influences or strongly influences but, it does not determine the research structure in a country by science fields.
Pennants for Garfield: bibliometrics and document retrieval Pennants can and do pick up global topical similarities by means of high TF and high IDF weights, but they can also pick up non-global kinds of relevance as perceived by multiple citers (White 2017a).
"Smart girls" versus "sleeping beauties" in the sciences: The identification of instant and delayed recognition by using the citation angle Although an early citation angle>60°with SCa>20 and AC ≤ 10 in t2-t1 ≥ 10 characterizes typical SGs, a late citation angle > 5° with SCb>20 and AC≤2 in t2-t1 ≥ 10 identifies typical SBs. Despite its inherent limitations (see above), the citation angle ẞ is a promising measure to analyze and describe the changes in annual citation curves. The investigation of these patterns using the citation angle concept could be interesting topics for future studies.
Measuring the diffusion of an innovation: A citation analysis Our findings further support researchers' understanding of the impact formation of innovation. This study analyzed the diffusion of innovation by using LDA citations as a proxy. These findings thus contribute to the literature on the dynamic phases found in innovation diffusion.
Understanding persistent scientific collaboration Our findings reveal the phenomenon to be far more nuanced than previously imagined, and hint at the complexity and sociality of scientific collaboration that might be dynamically and simultaneously affected by an unknown number of internal and external factors.
The mismeasure of science: Citation analysis Because "citation analysis is ... a poor tool for studying communication and influence..." (Sismondo, 2004, p. 35), why is it so desperately defended? Therefore, we are left with no objective method to evaluate scientific impact, productivity, or quality, whether it be citation counts, peer review, publication counts, or any combination of these (but see Bornmann et al. 2014). Instead, we will have to descend to the lab bench and observe scientists at work.
Understanding research strategies to improve ERA performance in Australian universities: circumventing secrecy to achieve success The investigation of research strategies across the universities revealed considerable similarity in strategy use at the surface level. However, a deeper analysis using Bronfenbrenner's (1979, 2005) bioecological systems theory as a lens revealed key differences amongst the employment of the research strategies in various ecosystems by universities at different stages of research development.
Strategic research prioritisation in veterinary schools: a preliminary investigation Although preliminary, and limited in scope to secondary data, these findings support the notion that prioritisation of research areas within a veterinary school increases both research quantity and quality.
The Ethos of Science and Its Correlates: An Empirical Analysis of Scientists' Endorsement of Mertonian Norms This finding confirms the growing concerns with the norm of communal ownership of scientific output in the face of increasing academic commercialisation. Drawing on the empirical survey of South Korean scientists, this study has explored varying levels of support for four Mertonian norms among scientists and the potential conditions affecting their endorsements of those norms. Perhaps the most significant finding of our analysis is the strong correlation of communalism with almost all variables posited to influence the endorsement of Mertonian norms in our analytical framework.
Econometric Analysis of Brazilian Scientific Production and Comparison with BRICS Our regression results, which were subjected to a series of tests and statistical analysis, show that the model is statistically significantly and explains Brazilian scientific production. The most significant variables are the number of postgraduate programmes, the number of masters (MsC) and doctors (PhD), the Brazilian population denoted by the number of inhabitants and the expenditures on R&D. Therefore, we suggest that these programmes can serve as targeted initiatives aimed at strengthening scientific production through the actions of universities and external factors, such as policy makers of federal, state and municipal agencies.
Assessing the performance of educational research in Australian universities: an alternative perspective Bibliometric analysis shows that Australian universities are performing very well in the field of educational research compared to world standards.
Evolution of the scholarly mega-journal, 2006-2017 All in all, the developments in article numbers indicate that mega-journals have found a place in scholarly publishing. Mega-journals will not revolutionize the industry and the way mainstream peer review works, but they cater to the needs of particular groups of authors in providing rapid publication, better predictability of getting a submission accepted and reasonable brand recognition in publication lists.
A bibliometric analysis in gene research of myocardial infarction from 2001 to 2015 In summary, we depicted the scientific output of gene research of myocardial infarction overall by bibliometric analysis overall.
The state of OA: a large-scale analysis of the prevalence and impact of Open Access articles We encourage further research using the free oaDOI service, as a way to inform OA policy and practice.
PhD funding as a determinant of PhD and career research performance Our analysis shows that being awarded PhD funding has positive effects on research performance during the PhD and throughout the career. Our findings also show that different PhD funding schemes vary in their effects on research performance during and after the PhD. In sum, research grant projects seem to fall short of PhD grants’ impact on both the PhD and the career.
A Bibliometric Analysis and Visualization of Medical Big Data Research This study points out the development status and trends on MBD.
A scientometric analysis of Knowledge Management Research and Practice literature: 2003-2015 In conclusion, this study provides evidence that the field of KM is reaching maturity which poses at least two challenges.
Fifty top-cited spine articles from mainland China: A citation analysis The study findings indicate an increase in the number of influential papers published by the Chinese spine research community in recent years.
"Are you gonna publish that?" Peer-reviewed publication outcomes of doctoral dissertations in psychology "Overall, these results indicate that the large majority of Ph.D. dissertation research in psychology does not get disseminated into the peer-reviewed literature."
Prominence of scientific publications towards peri-implant complications in implantology: A bibliometric analysis using the H-classics method This is the first study to evaluate research trends in implantology in the past 40 years by using the H-classics method, which through analyzing via principle bibliometric characteristics reflected a historical perspective on evolutionary mainstream in the field. Prominence of research regarding complications may forecast innovative advancements in the future. Research on Complications, peri-implant infection/pathology/therapy have shown an escalating trend in continuously increasing proportions period by period, which may give a clue to forecast the innovated advancement in future.
Scientific Performance Assessments Through a Gender Lens: a Case Study on Evaluation and Selection Practices in Academia This study has attempted to make visible aspects of gender biases in how quantitative metrics are put in to practice in scientific performance assessments. By relying on such measures, managers may overcome accusations of any type of direct discrimination or nepotism. Such an approach could help render visible some of the potential gender biases related to the use of quantitative performance metrics, hereby making academic recruitment and selection processes less gendered in their stratifying outcomes.
Long-term trends in the multidisciplinarity of some typical natural and social sciences, and its implications on the SSH versus STM distinction Our resulted typology in relation to RQ1 clearly signals the lack of a general similarity among the social science fields (not to mention humanities), and the natural science fields, respectively, in terms of the multidisciplinarity of their knowledge base. This result, though based on sample fields, implies that the thesis of SSH and STM being a separated, and internally coherent domain does not hold with respect to the multidisciplinarity thesis. (Hence for RQ2 we have arrived at a falsifying answer). In sum, although not without its limitations (see Harzing 2013, challenging the consistency of review as a document category across Subject Categories in the WoS, not necessarily undermining its usage for the present context and purposes) our study still reinforces the important warning that such concepts as the SSH disciplines (or, even SS&H, to a more informed version of the acronym) are indeed umbrella concepts.
Multi-views on Nature Index of Chinese academic institutions For the top 50 academic institutions ranked by AC (article count) in the NI China from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016, we collect 8491 articles of these institutions from the NI database as well as their online statistics from Scopus and several social Web sources and we perform multiple views on the research impact of these institutions. Quantitatively, Mendeley and Twitter play a dominant role in usage and coverage of altmetrics research. In the future work, further investigation on the usefulness of altmetrics on measuring scientific impact are warranted.
Golden-ratio as a substitute to geometric and harmonic counting to determine multi-author publication credit In conclusion, geometric counting with the golden ratio can be used for credit assignment without having to choose a parameter value, yet offers customization potential and can be combined with either normalization assumption.
The conundrum of research productivity: a study on sociologists in Italy First, our findings suggest that internationalisation is key to productivity (Narin and Whitlow 1991; Narin et al. 1991; Khor and Yu 2016).
Using acknowledgement data to characterize funding organizations by the types of research sponsored: the case of robotics research The characterization of funding agencies in this study may help policymakers and funding organizations assess or adjust their strategies, benchmark with other key players, and obtain an overview of local and global acknowledgement trends.
A study on the citation situation within the citing paper: citation distribution of references according to mention frequency According to our research, the citation distribution of references within a citing paper follows the Generalized Pareto Distribution and there is a possibility of 80/20 rule in citation mention.
The power law relationship between citation impact and multi-authorship patterns in articles in Information Science & Library Science journals In general, the results show that for both types of multi-authored articles, domestic and international, the scaling exponents increased over time while the exponents of single-authored papers decreased.
The relation between the quality of research, researchers' experience, and their academic environment In this paper, we have developed and estimated a model aiming to explain the factors that influence the quality of published research, measured by the number of citations, when we exclude self-citations. The two most important findings are that experience and academic environment matter for performing quality research. This signals that, relatively speaking, the researchers' own experience means more than the academic environment in regard to producing high-quality research.
Gender distinctions in patenting: Does nanotechnology make a difference? To summarize, although the gender gap in patenting persists, the gap is numerically smaller in nanotechnology than in the overall tech area.
Predicting scientific impact based on h-index Prediction results for 1 year are really good, having R² 0.93 on average but for 5 years R² decline to 0.82 on average. Hence inferred that prediction of h-index is difficult for longer periods. For the researches having different h-index values, researchers having low h-index were difficult to predict.
Role of interdisciplinarity in computer sciences: quantification, impact and life trajectory The combination of metrics and empirical observations presented here provides general benchmarks for future studies of interdisciplinary research activities in other domains of science. The observed results demonstrated that the practice of interdisciplinary research in computer science has undergone a modest increase. Although a universal acceptance of this trajectory model is far from reality and requires a thorough understanding of the citation distribution of fields from other domains such as physics, life science, we believe that the present observation can motivate researchers from other domains to explore the rise and fall of scientific paradigm in a particular research area, and thus remains one of the immediate future directions to study.
A domain keyword analysis approach extending Term Frequency-Keyword Active Index with Google Word2Vec model In this paper, we propose a new method that introduces a word-embedding model for domain keyword extraction that extends existing TF, TF-IDF and TF-KAI domain-specific keyword methods by adding semantic measurements, thus becoming SF, SF-SIDF and SF-SAI. A case study using a dataset derived from geographic natural hazard literature, demonstrates that the proposed methods improves quality of the keyword extraction results. The improvements we introduce to existing methods tackle the semantic vagueness in the natural language of the literature.
Relation of early career performance and recognition to the probability of winning the Nobel Prize in economics All these analyses thus seem to confirm the JBCM as a good indicator of future Nobel Prize success.
Journal peer review: a bar or bridge? An analysis of a paper's revision history and turnaround time, and the effect on citation Our study provides evidence, albeit limited to the case of a single journal, that the peer review process may constitute a form of knowledge production and is not the simple correction of errors contained in submitted papers.
Evaluation of h-index, its variants and extensions based on publication age & citation intensity in civil engineering In this study, the h-index, its variants and extensions based on citation intensity and publication age are evaluated. The results revealed that there exists a weak correlation among most of the indices except h-index and f-index as these two indices have obtained the strong value of correlation. The existence of more awardees from ACI awarding society shows its dependency on these indices.
Country-specific determinants of world university rankings The main goal of the research was to search for country-specific factors that affect world university rankings.
Identifying the "Ghost City" of domain topics in a keyword semantic space combining citations "In this paper, we present metaphor based analysis introducing the geographical idea of "Ghost City" to describe the spatial distribution pattern in the sematic space of the lit-erature data in regards of citation counts."
Tracking the follow-up of work in progress papers In conclusion, we believe that the self-citation rate of work in progress papers appears to be low as exemplified through our data sample.
Year based EM-index: a new approach to evaluate the scientific impact of scholars In this article, we have proposed two different year based indicators named year based EM-index and year based EM'-index with three different parameters such as total number of publications, publication year citation count and citation count earned in a particular year.
Rise of multi-authored papers in economics: Demise of the 'lone star' and why? The dramatic rise in multi-authored papers in economics as outlined earlier is at the very minimum of interest to economists.
A novel method for depicting academic disciplines through Google Scholar Citations: The case of Bibliometrics By virtue of the results obtained, the research question (RQ1) can be answered positively. Therefore, the MADAP method has been proved not only feasible but also accurate and valid (RQ2). The application of the procedures followed in this work (the MADAP method) to study other fields and disciplines through GSC challenges new research on this front.
Identifying important scholars via directed scientific collaboration networks This research helps to understand the collaboration among scientists in the field of complex systems and contributes to the identification of important scholars in this field. Therefore, we believe that studying the directed collaboration network shows us a more complete picture of the scientific collaboration behavior. In future works, we will combine different algorithms of credit allocation and directed network to explore whether these methods have a significant effect on the rank of scientists and extend the directed scientific collaboration network to directed and weighted network.
Scientific potential of European fully open access journals In two fields, life and health sciences, the highest shares of OAJs are in Q1 suggesting that in these two fields OAJs have gained prestigious position.
What factors are associated with increasing co-authorship in the social sciences? A case study of Danish Economics and Political Science The article shows that there have been changes in scholarly communication and collaboration in Economics and Political Science.
Bibliometric analysis of Ghana publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded In conclusion, the contribution to knowledge of Ghanaian authors is massive in the areas of public, environmental and occupational health and tropical medicine but the impact factor is higher for immunology, infectious diseases, and microbiology articles.
Guatemala articles in the Science Citation Index Expanded: bibliometry of subjects, collaboration, institutions and authors In conclusion, Guatemala represents a particular case in Central America because its high quality research is highly dependent on particular researchers rather than on institutions, and because the total output is well under the expectation.
Conversations with Four Highly Productive German Educational Psychologists: Frank Fischer, Hans Gruber, Heinz Mandl, and Alexander Renkl Overall, findings suggest that high productivity for both German and American educational psychologists is only possible by sustaining scholarly productivity across several decades.
Trends in global research in deforestation. A bibliometric analysis The application of bibliographic and bibliometric methods to map the reported research on deforestation has been found to be a valid approach. Moreover, the main relevant ideas were identified in the literature together with the understanding of the evolution and inter-action of the research trends in the field. Social and economic topics are understudied. Finally, future re-search should include the information contained in additional journals included in other bibliographic databases and a more in-depth analysis of thematic content. It will also be interesting to see the evolution of the research trends in future years, as well as the consolidation of current collaboration and funding, and the emergence of new countries that become part of this research field.
Fragments of peer review: A quantitative analysis of the literature (1969-2015) Our analysis showed that research on peer review has been rapidly growing, especially from 2005.
HOW MANY MORE CITES IS A $3,000 OPEN ACCESS FEE BUYING YOU? EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE FROM A NATURAL EXPERIMENT Unrestricted diffusion of scientific knowledge is desirable from a public policy perspective as it stimulates technological innovation thereby promoting economic growth (Dosi 1988; European Commission 2012; Murray et al. 2016; Sorenson and Fleming 2004).
Research output of Indian institutions during 2011-2016: quality and quantity perspective The quality-based analysis of publications by Indian institutions, in terms of output in top 10 percentile and FWCI revealed that a reasonable number of institutions engage in scholarly research leading to impactful papers.
Citation Impact of Collaboration in Radiology Research With respect to subsequent journal article citations, various forms of collaboration are associated with greater scholarly impact of published radiology research.
Certified Random: A New Order for Coauthorship In this paper we describe a scheme (certified random order) for assigning credit to papers with two coauthors. We show that if such a scheme is made available, then it will enter into existing society via a “rational disruption” of the existing convention based on alphabetical order. Moreover, we show that the new equilibrium convention may generate a higher sum of expected utilities than does the old.
Academic versus Clinical Productivity of Cardiac Surgeons in the State of New York: Who Publishes More and Who Operates More Between 1994 and 2011, the seniority of cardiac surgeons in active clinical practice in the State of New York increased, the number of surgical operations performed/surgeon/year decreased, but the number of ongoing publications/surgeon/year did not change. Affiliation with an institution with large clinical volumes fosters individual academic productivity. Being faculty of a thoracic surgery fellowship program helps maintain high personal clinical volumes and academic output. Therefore, it might be of interest to perform a similar study examining data from other states with robust public reporting efforts, such as Virginia and Michigan.
Ranking themes on co-word networks: Exploring the relationships among different metrics All seven metrics, including Frequency, Degree Centrality, Betweenness Centrality, Clustering Coefficient, H-index, Coreness, and Weighted PageRank, are strongly correlated according to both empirical and simulated data. Clustering Coefficient is negatively correlated with the other metrics.
A community's perspective on the status and future of peer review in software engineering The perception of the current state of software engineering peer review is fairly negative. Also, we found hardly any trend that suggests reviewing will improve by itself over time; the community will have to make explicit efforts. This means one should not expect the reviewing regime to change quickly just because the current senior researcher generation retires; an explicit effort to change the attitude of the software engineering community as a whole will likely be required.
Ethnic Complementarities after the Opening of China How Chinese Graduate Students Affected the Productivity of Their Advisors In sum, substantial knowledge spillovers were indeed generated by a supply shock of doctoral students who had strong incentives to collaborate with their ethnically similar advisors. The evidence, therefore, strongly confirms the existence of knowledge spillovers among ethnically similar scientists. If a receiving country is to fully benefit from supply shocks of scientific personnel, it would seem that many institutions—including universities, non-profits, and governments—may need to proactively reallocate resources to take advantage of the opportunities created by those supply shocks.
Researchers' participation in and motivations for engaging with research information management systems This study examined how researchers participated in RIMSs and their motivations for participation.
Is the gap widening among universities? On research output inequality and its measurement in the Korean higher education system Our findings are followed by the discussion on the measurements of inequality and their axioms regarding the institutional Matthew effect, suggesting more consideration on the nature of the data and the context.
Knowledge flow in China's humanities and social sciences Firstly, the interdisciplinarity of knowledge absorption in social sciences is higher than that of humanities both in Chinese articles and English articles. Meanwhile, the degree of interdisciplinarity in eight HSS sub-disciplines constantly increased. Fourthly, the knowledge flow across HSS sub-disciplines is not balanced. Given our finding that hard sciences is cited more frequently by HSS in English papers, applying more hard sciences knowledge is likely to be a helpful strategy for authors in China who are accustomed to publishing Chinese articles to publish more English articles in international journals.
State of the art in business analytics: themes and collaborations This paper makes three significant findings.
Corroborating social media echelon in cancer research This study explores the structural changes in the community of scholars in terms of co-authors and co-institutions in the field of cancer research.
Origins of Life Research: a Bibliometric Approach This study provides insights on OoL research utilizing bibliometric tools.
Publication trends of Allergy, Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, and Clinical and Translational Allergy journals: a MeSH term-based bibliometric analysis In conclusion, this is the first bibliometric study assessing publication trends in the Allergy/Immunology field, although restricted to EAACI journals.
Inconsistency in Automated Reports of Scientific Productivity and Impact in Academic Plastic Surgery Inconsistencies between online scientific databases profoundly affect plastic surgeons. Given the importance placed on metrics such as the h-index, it is imperative that the plastic surgery community push for solutions that ensure more reliable, transparent, and cohesive reporting of academic productivity. As potential solutions, a universally accepted, author-independent identifier and global consensus on appropriate citations are needed.
Alternative Metrics of Scholarly Output: The Relationship among Altmetric Score, Mendeley Reader Score, Citations, and Downloads in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery With the growing public desire for evidence-based publications, our study quantifies the unique nature of Altmetric score while discouraging its use in isolation.
Making the First Cut: An Analysis of Academic Medicine Editors' Reasons for Not Sending Manuscripts Out for External Peer Review Findings suggest that clear identification of a research question that is addressed by a well-designed study methodology on a topic aligned with the mission of the journal would address many of the problems that lead to rejection through the internal review process.
South-south collaboration on HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment research: when birds of a feather rarely flock together Although the global environment has fostered an increasing participation of LMIC in collaborative learning models, south-south collaboration on HIV/AIDS prevention and/or treatment research seemed to be lower than expected, stressing the need for strategies to foster these partnerships.
Sci-Hub provides access to nearly all scholarly For the first time, nearly all scholarly literature is available gratis to anyone with an Internet connection, suggesting the toll access business model may become unsustainable.
Authorship trends and collaboration patterns in business ethics literature The primary purpose of this study was to explore the authorship trends and collaboration patterns in the BE literature between 1960 and 2015. Based on the results of the analysis, this study provides significant contributions to BE literature. This study is an evaluative study that employs fundamental bibliometric indictors as a starting point, highlighting the social structure of BE literature (Zupic & Cater, 2015).
Authorial and institutional stratification in open access publishing: the case of global health research Our results show that the current publishing landscape is a complex environment comprised of many types of dissemination and access options, as well as institutional stratification within and between those various access types.
Analyzing Citation and Research Collaboration Characteristics of Faculty in Aerospace, Civil and Environmental, Electrical and Computer, and Mechanical Engineering This study analyzed references cited by faculty in four aca-demic departments and associated subject disciplines: aerospace, civil and environ-mental, electrical and computer, and mechanical engineering. The findings also serve as evidence-based knowledge for liaison/outreach activities and help focus our efforts to more strategically connect faculty and their students to the library. This study offers a source of data for librarians at other institutions to analyze any differences in citation behaviors among engineering faculty.
The World's Approach toward Publishing in Springer and Elsevier's APC-Funded Open Access Journals The results of the present study showed that many universities and countries across the world have contributed to the OA model. The increasing tendency toward the OA model attested to its sustainability.
Social Ties in Academia: A Friend Is a Treasure This paper analyzes the role played by social ties in the publication process.
Document co-citation analysis to enhance transdisciplinary research DCA is one resource that may enhance transdisciplinary pursuits by helping scholars and practitioners to identify peer-recognized documents and communities of scholarship.
The Closer the Better: Similarity of Publication Pairs at Different Cocitation Levels Our results indicate that the simi- larity of pairs of articles increases monotonically with their cocitation level. Our results provide a solid confirmation of the idea that there is value in using cocitation proximity information in order to capture stronger links between cocited articles. Our results support the use of cocitation level information, where available, to improve the performance of information retrieval systems and the accuracy of bibliometric analyses.
The Role of Patent Citations as a Footprint of Technology In conclusion, three features of prior art patent citations seem to be unique within the body of bibliographic references in S&T publications: first, who is responsible for the list of prior art references, namely, the patent examiner in place of the author; second, why they are selected to be cited, that is the evaluation of novelty and nonobviousness; and third, where they are classified within a universal scheme, the IPC, containing the whole spectrum of possible technologies.
Effectiveness of OpenAIRE, BASE, Recolecta, and Google Scholar at Finding Spanish Articles in Repositories This study evaluated the efficiency of four tools used to retrieve copies of financed articles lodged in a repository. None of the tools identified copies of all the articles, so they need to be used in a complementary way when evaluating OA policies. In the case studied here, BASE and GS proved to be the most effective tools, albeit complementary ones.
Web of Science use in published research and review papers 1997-2017: a selective, dynamic, cross-domain, content-based analysis Our descriptive analysis using scientometric techniques supports the fast-growing impact of Web of Science based on scientific publication: the number of papers mentioning Web of Science has risen from 30 in 1997 to more than 3700 in 2016, and the percentage of papers mentioning Web of Science in all papers has also been increasing every year.
The contribution of the lexical component in hybrid clustering, the case of four decades of "Scientometrics" The qualitative analysis of the cluster structure of both a pure link-based and a lexical similarity based document network proved the validity of both approaches. Moreover, these smaller groups of papers are not hidden in the link-based network but emerge once lexical information is added. As it is possible to delineate the topic of papers moving along in the same flow it is clear that these migrations are not just random but are valid identifiers of underlying topics hidden in the lexical structure of the document network and not present in the citation-link based one.
Are leaders really leading? Journals that are first in Web of Science subject categories in the context of their groups I found that the distribution of leading journals according their JIF2 is highly skewed, and the relationship between JIF2 and rank seems to be S-shaped, consistent with previous studies in other contexts.
The impact of electronic theses and dissertations: a study of the institutional repository of a university in South Africa This study showed the important role of the NWU-IR in promoting educational outputs from the university. Since its inception, the NWU-IR has had commendable levels of societal and academic impact. However, the study showed very little correlations between the academic and the societal impact meaning that viewing of a thesis may not necessarily lead to a citation (Ferreras-Fernández et al. 2015; Ortega 2015; Barnes 2015; Onyancha (2017).
Do funded papers attract more usage? To answer the research questions at the beginning, most of results proved that funding is highly related with usage and citation.
Political science publications about Turkey Our study contributes to both bibliometrics and political science because it constitutes the first research into the bibliometrics of political science publications about Turkey showing the main characteristics of political science publications about Turkey. The words that frequently appeared during the 2000-2010 period (such as Cypriot, Cypriots, Greek, consolidation, military, armed, Islam) were related to important aspects of Turkish politics, particularly to Turkey-EU relations. The words that frequently appeared in the 2011–2016 period (such as shift, Islamic, religious, party, hegemonic, AKP, CHP) seemed to be related primarily to Turkey's domestic politics and the rule of the AKP.
Bidirectional relationship between network position and knowledge creation in Scientometrics In summary, we fill the research gap in exploring the bidirectional relationship between authors' network positions (in terms of degree centrality and structural holes) and research output.
Do citations and readership identify seminal publications? We believe this is an important finding demonstrating more attention may need to be paid to publication type in research evaluation.
Do Norwegian academics who publish more earn higher salaries? As expected the results showed that both salary and publication output was related to rank for all three career paths. The results indicate that salaries have not been set by simple bibliometric measures which is reassuring considering the many criticisms of such measures and the national warnings against applying the high-quality publication category to individuals. Moreover, a more balanced approach may prevent discrimination against academics in various phases of life such as parents of young children.
Cross-metric compatability and inconsistencies of altmetrics Based on the necessity for more analyses concerning the consistency of different altmetrics, 5000 articles covering a wide range of disciplines have been retrieved and analyzed concerning their metrics across the data aggregators PlumX and Altmetric.com. The aggregators gather data from a different set of altmetric sources. In conclusion, altmetrics can be consulted in order to obtain an impression on the attention a research object has received. Thereby, attention cannot be generalized as different altmetrics sources lead to different assessments of a research object.
Analyzing the follower-followee ratio to determine user characteristics and institutional participation differences among research universities on ResearchGate This study illustrates that the ratio of follower-followee can be used to determine and study user behavior patterns on academic social networking sites.
The production of science in Africa: an analysis of publications in the science disciplines, 2000-2015 The findings presented in the paper suggest the implications for development in Africa and the measures which could be taken.
Growth of the hepatitis literature over the period 1976-2015: What can the relative priority index teach us? We found that, initially the rise in the number of Indian publications is slow.
The funding factor: a cross-disciplinary examination of the association between research funding and citation impact Based on the finding that funding support has a stronger association with citation impact when it is treated as a binary variable than as a count variable, this paper recommends the allocation of funding to researchers without active funding support, instead of giving awards to those with multiple funding supports at hand.
Plots for visualizing paper impact and journal impact of single researchers in a single graph The graphs can be used in research evaluation to visualize the performance of single researchers comprehensively.
High research productivity in vertically undifferentiated higher education systems: Who are the top performers? The Polish academic profession, despite functioning in the last three decades in largely different conditions from the academics traditionally studied in research productivity lit-erature..., follows the same stratification pattern: the tiny minority of 10% (termed top performers) produces about half of all Polish academic knowledge production.
Functional structure identification of scientific documents in computer science Both tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of functional structure.
The presence of the encyclicals in Web of Science: a bibliometric approach The present study aimed to analyse the impact of the encyclicals on the scientific literature, particularly the citations these documents receive in published studies in the Core Col-lection of Web of Science. The results of this study, as well as highlight the uneven scientific impact of the encyclicals, provide a good introduction to the study of the encyclicals regarding their broad contextualization, their authors, theoretical references and diversity of themes to which they are related. One possible future line of research is a study of the repercussions of the encyclicals, without restricting the object of study to publications, since, as indicated in the intro-duction, in the area of Theology, monographs provide the main source of information.
Usage pattern comparison of the same scholarly articles between Web of Science (WoS) and Springer In this study, we comparatively explore the usage counts of twenty selected journals in the field of biomedicine, computer, engineering and mathematics respectively. It firstly shows that usage counts in WoS are considerably less than download counts in Springer. It concludes that compared with the pay-for-access WoS, users prefer to visit publisher websites by the free, convenient and quick routes, such as bookmark or general search engine. Although these limitations exist, we hope that this first usage count extension from one single platform to multiple platforms would provide a new perspective to promote the research on usage metrics.
Evaluating the nursing academicians in Turkey in the scope of Web of Science: scientometrics of original articles This study evaluated the nursing field in Turkey through an integrated database combining personal information of the academics in nursing published by YOKAKADEMIK database and the full record of the academics' original articles indexed by WoS.
Sustainability of open access citation advantage: the case of Elsevier's author-pays hybrid open access journals With regard to this study's results, it supports the sustainability of the APC model; the OA articles have been keeping growing exponentially in quantity, with a higher citation performance leading to a citation advantage not only being sustained over time but also widening in some fields. It seems that the success of the APC model in attracting more articles and citations may lead to the appearance of citation core articles within hybrid journals. Therefore, further research is suggested to investigate the topic differences in the OA and TA articles, and their roles in the OA citation advantage.
Totalized input-output assessment of research productivity of nations using multi-dimensional input and output Research evaluation is a multi-dimensional problem as there are multiple input dimensions, multiple output dimensions and a country space of many dimensions.
University rankings: What do they really show? This paper examines the construction of media rankings of universities, using the results of one set of rankings in the UK to demonstrate issues which arise with all rankings based on a similar methodology—whether from the UK or elsewhere.
Home institution bias in the New England Journal of Medicine? A noninferiority study on citation rates In summary, citation rates were comparable between studies origination from the Harvard University compared to non-Harvard Institutions.
On the money value of peer review Peer review is a cornerstone, if not the cornerstone, of scientific production, and the reviewers' activity does matter.
Feature analysis of multidisciplinary scientific collaboration patterns based on PNAS Our case study on PNAS 1999–2013 verifies the similar transitivity and assortativity of collaboration patterns in biological, physical and social sciences.
Similarity in Ph D thesis in state universities is less than 10% Therefore any overall percentage of similarity with other sources which is below 10% in any stream may be considered as normal by existing practice.
A bibiliometric analysis of the Journal of Infection and Public Health: 2008-2016 The journal has managed, in very few years, to be considered by researchers worldwide. Furthermore, throughout the years, the journal showed an evolution in the main topics covered, providing a contemporary overview of public health.
Association of National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Career Development Awards With Subsequent Research Project Grant Funding Physician-scholars are more likely to apply for and receive a National Institutes of Health research grant if they are trained on an individual career development award, with or without an institutional training award.
Attitudes toward text recycling in academic writing across disciplines Our study suggests that while experienced scholars across disciplines share beliefs about text recycling in some contexts, they disagree about its appropriateness in others. Editorial experience, too, seemed to play a notable role in such attitudes, as there was an association between respondents' amount of experience as journal editors and being more restrictive in their views on text recycling. Given differences among and across disciplines, a single, prescriptive set of formal rules about the ethics of text recycling is unlikely to be useful.
The Productivity of Economics Research in Slovakia The current university system in Slovakia is ineffective at motivating economics research, in particular articles published in internationally competitive journals.
Structures and patterns of information flow among Chinese-language Library and Information Science journals in Taiwan (2001-2012): A network analysis The results outlined above bring new insights into the J2J citation network.
Does the superior position of countries in co-authorship networks lead to their high citation performance in the field of nuclear science and technology? The investigation of co-authorship social network in the field of nuclear science and technology indicated that the position of countries which are members of nuclear club is a prominent one and their influence or power in the network is greater than other countries. The results of testing research hypothesis showed that as the value of centrality of countries rises, the citation performance of researchers in that country is also improved. Thus, countries that are more central are considered as a bridge to let other countries into research cycle in the field of nuclear science and technology and devise a penetration strategy to develop their social capital.
The relationship between SCI editorial board representation and university research output in the field of computer science: A quantile regression approach The empirical results indicated that the number of editorial board members is positively and significantly related to the quantity (number of articles) and impact (total number of citations and citations per paper) of the research output from their universities. More importantly, quantile regressions was used to observe that (a) the relationship between the number of editorial board members, and the number of articles is stronger (weaker) when the university is at the higher (lower) quantile of the number of articles distribution; (b) the relationship between the number of editorial board members and the total number of citations is also stronger (weaker) when the university is at the higher (lower) quantile of the total number of citations distribution; and (c) the coefficient of number of editorial board members on the citations per paper also shows an overall increasing trend, though the increase is less obvious after the 50% quantile.
3I index: A new method to examine the competitiveness of countries' international publication productivity This study uses the data (1996–2014) in the Scopus database to examine countries' competitiveness in international publication productivity in the communication discipline.
Hibernators, their awakeners and the roles of subsequent authoritative citers Our investigations provide new insight in the study of HIBs and their citation histories. We introduced the notion of ACs and emphasized the role they played. Many ACs play important roles to make the HIB better known and keep it in the scientific limelight; hence ACs deserve more attention in HIB studies. In conclusion we like to highlight that the study is confined to only four case types. Perhaps more types exist. Moreover, more research is needed to have an idea how frequently each of these types occur – some may occur frequently, while others may be rather rare.
A SURVEY OF JEL CODES: WHAT DO THEY MEAN AND ARE THEY USED CONSISTENTLY? A main result from this research is that there is indeed a statistically significant disparity in use of JEL code assignments between editors and authors, for the same papers. The second result from this research survey is a more comforting one; that JEL category codes do appear to represent papers that study topics and themes one would expect to be assigned to those codes. A third result from this research is that over the long time span from 1969 to 2014, across all JEL category codes, a common trend has been the move to more applied topics and papers and away from primarily theoretical papers.
What are the top five journals in economics? A new meta-ranking This study was intended to provide the most comprehensive meta-ranking of economics journals.
Quality of articles published in predatory nursing journals The finding that the vast majority of the articles reviewed were rated as poor or average supports the fact that consumers of the nursing literature cannot rely on articles published in these journals for credible, sound evidence on which to base nursing practice or build nursing knowledge.
Engineering the Global University Rankings: Gold Standards, Limitations and Implications This study raises major issues concerning academic rank-ings.
Improving the integrity of published science: An expanded taxonomy of retractions and corrections We argue that an implicit or explicit diversification of amendment types would make correction and retraction practices more efficient, transparent, informative and supportive of scientific self-correction. The proposed set of editorial options and procedures is intended to maximize the information conveyed by amendments whilst minimizing their processing and publishing costs, thus benefiting the literature and fostering a constructive culture of self-correction within the scientific community.
Visualization of JOV abstracts "Taking all the results into account, we suggest that there are differences in abstract construction between accepted and rejected papers and that visualizing the difference may be helpful in the paper-reviewing procedure to some extent."
Analysis of the intellectual structure of human space exploration research using a bibliometric approach: Focus on human related factors These findings contribute to an understanding of the current trends and new research opportunities for researchers who become interested in HSE but do not have much of a theoretical background on domain and technology knowledge. The network-based bibliometric analysis approach suggested in this study can provide practitioners and decision-makers with the underlying knowledge diffusion flow from multifaceted aspects of the recent worldwide efforts in permanent human habitation on a planetary body other than Earth, thus expanding lunar or Mars surface exploration.
Academic top earners. Research productivity, prestige generation, and salary patterns in European universities While, in the Anglo-Saxon countries, the university research mission typically pays off at an individual level, in Continental Europe, it pays off only in combination with administrative and related duties. Seeking future financial re-wards solely through research does not seem to be a viable strategy in Europe, but seeking satis-faction in research through solving research puzzles is also becoming difficult, with the growing emphasis on the 'relevance' and 'applicability' of fundable research. Thus, both the traditional 'in-vestment motivation' and 'consumption motivation' to perform research decrease, creating severe policy implications.
European Paradox or Delusion-Are European Science and Economy Outdated? The repeated finding of the US leadership versus the EU in highly cited papers but not in low-cited papers clearly indicates that in terms of research efficiency the EU research system has an important problem.
Translational research in the science policy debate: a comparative analysis of documents This article has dealt with the framing and utilization of TR in the science policy discourse. The meanings attached to the concept and its utilization indicate that TR can be interpreted as an expression of a broader attempt to strengthen accountability relations and to ori-ent research to wider societal needs. Yet there are differences in the form TR is presented between different countries and regions that have wider implications for science and technology policy. Relating this finding to the more general discussion of the steer-ing of research towards societal relevance one may conclude that or-ganizational framings allow for stronger external steering.
Research in Arabic-speaking countries: Funding competitions, international collaboration, and career incentives Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, and Qatar created or expanded public research funds over the past two decades. A common trend among these funds was the use of competitive calls which required researchers to prepare and submit proposals for individual work, team-based projects, or four-year grants for a research unit and laboratory. Moving forward, governments need to consider how the size and organization of distinct research efforts affect performance, and which arrangements are best suited to making meaningful progress on different problems of societal and scientific interest.
Co-authorship as a proxy for collaboration: a cautionary tale For the present one, it is cautioned that care has to be taken in interpreting co-publication counts lest one make claims for collaboration that are at best tenuous, and at worst misleading. The evidence is that present BRICS S&T collaboration is dominant in Physics and Astronomy, and that this is taking place through mega-science. This lack of alignment presents serious challenges for BRICS S&T policy specifically, and international S&T collaboration in general.
Analysis of ophthalmological and vision-related publications in Latin America Brazil stands in first place in Latin America in ophthalmologic scientific production. Nearly half of the researchers in ophthalmology in Latin America included in our study were listed in databases other than PubMed.
Birth of prominent scientists Our analysis confirms our expectations and previous results that eminent scientist have a prime role in the development of a scientific system, especially within the context of an emerging economy like Mexico. These results could suggest that eminent scientists have a primary role in the growth of these systems and the development and productivity of young faculty. This means that if a country or region wants to improve or become the leader in a certain area of knowledge it should focused on attracting and retaining the best and the brightest, and creating around these key figures appropriate collaborative environments so research and researchers can flourish.
Microsoft Academic automatic document searches: Accuracy for journal articles and suitability for citation analysis Thus, Microsoft Academic citation counts are almost universally equivalent to Scopus citation counts for articles that are not recent but there are national biases in the results.
Double rank analysis for research assessment A research assessment of countries and institutions based on their capacity to publish very highly cited papers seems to be a reasonable approach to solving the complex problem that this type of assessment creates.
Reference density trends in the major disciplines In contrast to general assumptions, mean reference density values in some categories in the areas of Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities are equal to, or higher than, those in the hard sciences. Reference density is increasing in all scientific areas and categories, except in some Arts and Humanities categories, which is to be expected since the number of citable documents is constantly rising, illustrated by the continuous increase in documents and journals indexed in Scopus. In general, we did not find that mean annual reference density values for Gold OA journals differed notably from those for Non Gold OA journals, although they tended to be somewhat lower in most categories.
Characterizing in-text citations in scientific articles: A large-scale analysis Perhaps most significantly, we find that there are field-level differences that are reflected in position within the text, citation interval (or reference age), and citation counts of references.
Academic in-group bias: An empirical examination of the link between author and journal affiliation The results presented in this paper confirm the existence of academic in-group bias, at least in some academic journals. This means that in-group bias could be an important factor underlying the acceptance and publication of academic articles – or equally, the rejection of articles written by out-group authors. However, both the potential behavior of in-group authors or in-group editors imply that the referee process employed throughout the scholarly community is limited in its ability to adequately assess quality.
Co-mention network of R packages: Scientific impact and clustering structure This paper explores, for the first time, the attributes of a network formed by software entities being co-mentioned in scientific papers. In our future research, we will try to expand our investigation into other scientific paper databases and software ecosystems, in order to establish a more broadly comparative view of the relationship between scientific papers and software.
Hidden connections: Network effects on editorial decisions in four computer science journals Our findings clearly showed that editors could be biased towards more prestigious authors by giving them higher chances of publication even when they presumably did not deserve a special treatment.
Bibliometric approximation of a scientific specialty by combining key sources, title words, authors and references A method is proposed to bibliometrically approximate the specialty of a given highly specialized publication record based on concepts defining scientific disciplines and scholarly communication, and building on observed statistical regularities in publication data.
Granularity of algorithmically constructed publication-level classifications of research publications: Identification of topics For these reasons, we conclude that the proposed methodology is suitable to determine the topic granularity level of an ACPLC and that the ACPLC identified by this methodology is useful for bibliometric analyses.
A scalable and adaptive method for finding semantically equivalent cue words of uncertainty In this study, we introduced a conceptual framework for the study of uncertainties in scientific literature.
Network assembly of scientific communities of varying size and specificity Our results show that, for the topics determined using LDA, a large majority of co-authorship networks undergo a topological transition to form a densely-connected giant component characterized by three stages of development.
On the relationships between bibliographic characteristics of scientific documents and citation and Mendeley readership counts: A large-scale analysis of Web of Science publications We therefore conclude that factors influencing readership and citation counts are broadly similar across all fields.
Could scientists use Altmetric.com scores to predict longer term citation counts? The predictive power of Altmetric.com scores for articles during the year in which they are published is substantial enough to allow researchers and managers to use them to estimate future research impact, although they should be aware that they are only approximate indicators and that they should include Mendeley reader counts.
Who benefits from a country's scientific research? The methodology developed provides useful results for informing national research strategies, for example the analysis of comparative advantage of foreign countries could be particularly pertinent concerning bilateral collaboration.
Missing links: Timing characteristics and their implications for capturing contemporaneous technological developments The usefulness of ML therefore lies in two respects. First, ML may discover patent relatedness that is not readily apparent by utilizing DCs only. Second, ML may particularly identify patents for contemporaneous technological development that DCs may fail to detect. Overall, analysts should not omit MLs when conducting various types of patent citation analysis; otherwise, some crucial patent relatedness may be systematically ignored.
Can Microsoft Academic assess the early citation impact of in-press articles? A multi-discipline exploratory analysis Since Microsoft Academic identifies substantially more citations to in-press articles than Scopus, it may be useful to assist with evaluations of recent research outputs.
Research assessment by percentile-based double rank analysis This study shows that the frequency distribution of publications on a percentile basis (e.g., Bornmann & Mutz, 2011) is a double rank plot (RNB), which has the property of being well described by a power law. This can be checked by a mathematical approach deriving it from two series of lognormal distributed probability functions, a large series simulating the world publications and a small series simulating country publications. Finally, current results strengthen our previous results (RNB) showing that the likelihood of making an important discovery can be estimated by the citation distribution of publications that receive a low number of citations.
Effect of publication month on citation impact "It has been demonstrated that publications of early months have a citation advantage compared to publications of later months of the same publication year."
Survive or perish: Investigating the life cycle of academic journals from 1950 to 2013 using survival analysis methods The average survival rate of academic journals experiences a rising-decreasing-rising pattern from 1950 to 2013, reaching a high level after 2000.
Funding, evaluation, and the performance of national research systems Our analysis suggests that factors that are commonly believed to have a positive effect on efficiency in fact may not.
Research universities on the ResearchGate social networking site: An examination of institutional differences, research activity level, and social networks formed This study reveals that as a research-oriented social networking site, RG realistically mirrors the scholarly reputation of research universities in the U.S. It further sheds light on the institutional differences between different research activity levels.
Multi-disciplinarity breeds diversity: the influence of innovation project characteristics on diversity creation in nanotechnology In this paper we explained the creation of technological diversity using the characteristics of innovation projects. Our main addition to the literature is that the degree of multi-disciplinarity of a project and the size of the joint knowledge base of project partners are strongly predictive for diversity creation. Our results can serve as guidelines to policy makers, especially at the EU-level, for fostering the success of emerging technologies on the basis of their cross-fertilization and technology diversity creation.
Ethnopharmacology - A Bibliometric Analysis of a Field of Research Meandering Between Medicine and Food Science? We have identified and analyzed the 100 most-cited articles in ethnopharmacology. Within 50 years the field has gained a profile and while conventionally often linked to “traditional knowledge,” drug discovery and some areas of pharmacology, this analysis highlights its emerging importance in the context of disease prevention (food science), but also the development of research driven by the needs and interests of the fast developing economies most notably of Asia. The analysis demonstrated that ethnopharmacology is at the crossroads of several disciplines (most notably pharmacology and food science) and it is the ethnopharmacologists’ challenge and opportunity to define this area in new ways, including the development of new links and foci (cf. Nina Etkin’s work, e.g., Etkin and Ross, 1991).
Indigenous capacity for collaboration in Canada's energy, forestry and mining sectors: research metrics and trends Policies and programs designed to enhance Indigenous involvement and capacity must address these asymmetries in order to be representative, effective, and responsive to current Indigenous priorities.
Which research institution performs better than average in a subject category or better than selected other institutions? This study presents a statistical approach for the evaluation of citation data which exhibits a series of advantages. Thus, the analysis of the citation performance of an institution is always performed against the background of the totality of all publications (in the years). This method also allows citation impact scores to be calculated for values or scenarios of particular interest: for instance, what would the score look like if a publication were to appear from institution X with a JIF of Y and the number of institutions on the publication were Z?
Analyzing National Electronic Theses and Dissertations programs from business model perspective: Cross-case analysis This paper is an inter-disciplinary study to illustrate the link between ETDs and BM; it addresses BM pillars that developers should consider when implementing and maintaining NETDs programs. As mentioned above, BM is a critical success factor; therefore, articulating a proper BM for NETDs could improve effectiveness of the programs. While financial aspects of open access journals have been studied sufficiently, we know less about financial aspect of NETDs, which is worth to study in future research.
The opacity of the PubPeer Foundation: what PubPeer's "About" page tells us The PubPeer "About" page shows that a lot of information is missing, unclear, or imprecise.
Superstars in the making? The broad effects of interdisciplinary centers Large interdisciplinary research centers undeniably constitute a new center of gravity within the university, pulling key faculty members into their orbits. We found that membership in a center is positively correlated with many different outcomes.
The making of homophilic networks in international research collaborations: A global perspective from Chilean and Korean engineering These relationships result in homophilic networks that suggest a concern about a reduced diversity in theoretical perspective and research methods within the disciplinary field.
Evaluation of the Relative Citation Ratio, a New National Institutes of Health-Supported Bibliometric Measure of Research Productivity, among Academic Radiation Oncologists Current academic radiation oncologists have a high mean RCR value relative to the benchmark NIH RCR value of 1. All subgroups analyzed had an RCR value above 1 with professor or chair and previous NIH funding having the highest RCR and weighted RCR values overall. These data may be useful for self-evaluation of ROs as well as evaluation of faculty by institutional and departmental leaders. We hope these data may be useful for individuals for self-evaluation as well as for leadership seeking to evaluate current and potential faculty.
Automatic detection of image manipulations in the biomedical literature We run a scientific literature analysis to check for image manipulations.
Evaluating,publications across business disciplines: Inferring interdisciplinary "exchange rates" from intradisciplinary author rankings This paper presents an objective method for assessing the value of top-tier publications across disciplines.
Low agreement among reviewers evaluating the same NIH grant applications These findings highlight the subjectivity in reviewers' evaluations of grant applications and underscore the difficulty in comparing the evaluations of different applications from different reviewers—which is how peer review actually unfolds. It appeared that the outcome of the grant review depended more on the reviewer to whom the grant was assigned than the research proposed in the grant. Determining additional or alternative practices to maximize reliability while minimizing the burdensome costs of grant peer review is vital for ensuring scientific progress.
Bibliometric analysis of production planning and control (1990-2016) The analysis offered in this paper provides a compelling insight into the development of PPC, and provides useful information for editors, readers and authors.
The History, Deployment, and Future of Institutional Repositories in Public Universities in South Africa IRs in universities in South Africa have a rich history that dates back from 2000.
Faculty Members Who Teach Online: A Phenomenographic Typology of Open Access Experiences The open access experiences of faculty members who teach online in a variety of different humanities, social sciences and science programs at institutions across the United States, Australia, India and the United Kingdom were carefully studied using phenomenographic metho-dology.
The diffusion network of research knowledge in operations management "Both researchers and managers gain in understanding the history and identifying the future direction of OM, as well as which journals will have the most relevant papers to their interests."
Assessing the quality of higher education institutions in India: an alternative framework Therefore, we conclude that the Indian HEIs should increase the number of PhD students and access better funding in order to improve their global presence.
Collaboration patterns of Indian scientists in organic chemistry This study indicates that the pace of domestic as well as international collaboration in the discipline of organic chemistry had increased during 2004-2013.
A critical analysis of the 'UGC-approved list of journals' In view of these results, the current UGC-approved list of journals needs serious re-consideration.
The impact of research collaboration on academic performance: An empirical analysis for some European countries The findings of all the models evidence the importance of collaborations for academic performance. Furthermore, we show that the knowledge flows that arise among researchers from different universities are relevant to enhancing the quality of research.
Identifying Emerging Relationships in Healthcare Domain Journals via Citation Network Analysis This paper presented an automated literature system for co-citation analysis to facilitate understanding of the sequence structure of journal articles cited in the healthcare domain. The system visually presents the results of its analysis to help researchers quickly identify the key articles that provide an overview of the healthcare domain. Further analyses can facilitate understanding of the changes in a research domain and the trend of research issues.
A bibliometric analysis of creativity in the field of business economics The analysis has shown that creativity is a relevant topic, particularly in the last several years, and in complex environments, organizations require organizational management for the development of these skills.
Mapping the field of arts-based management: Bibliographic coupling and co-citation analyses This type of analysis is important to enhance our understanding of the intellectual structure of the field, and can be used to support the identification of new lines for future research. Overall, as already pointed out, the analysis should provide researchers with a solid basis for positioning current contributions and detecting new lines for future research. Finally, from a practical perspective, it is hoped that this study will allow managers to more easily acquaint themselves with this burgeoning body of knowledge, in order to more effectively translate it into managerial practice.
The Domain of Knowledge Organization: A Bibliometric Analysis of Prolific Authors and Their Intellectual Space The journal Knowledge Organization provides a window into KO research topics and interactions among KO contrib-uting researchers.
Surgeon Scientists Are Disproportionately Affected by Declining NIH Funding Rates "Despite declining funding over the last 10 years, surgeon scientists have demonstrated increasing productivity as measured by impactful publications and higher success rates in converting early investigator awards to R01s."
The geography of references in elite articles: Which countries contribute to the archives of knowledge? The measure presented in this paper is a way to reveal the "shoulders" on which worldwide research stands. Thus, it is more a measure of prestige and reputation than research impact. In this article, we show the persistent position held in the archive by the United States, the rise of recognition of Chinese papers, and a stable stronghold for Switzerland, Netherlands, and UK; Russia and Japan have a poor showing. The available measures allow us to examine the extent to which a country's authors rely upon national work as opposed to foreign research. Thus, it seems that smaller nations' investments in research are especially effective in fostering (own) top-level research, if they are open to foreign research [53]. This question of Germany's efficiency requires further study.
Otorhinolaryngology publication from Chinese authors: a 11-year survey of the literature The total number of otorhinolaryngology articles in China increased markedly from 2006 to 2016, especially for MC. Despite the rapid growth in the number of articles from MC, the quality was not that satisfactory. Researches from MC should take more efforts on improving quality of the study rather than the quantity.
Measuring discursive influence across scholarship In this way, our measures provide a way to acknowledge diverse contributions that take longer and travel farther to achieve scholarly appreciation, enabling us to correct citation biases and enhance sensitivity to the full spectrum of scholarly impact.
Social Network Analysis of Scientific Articles Published by Food Policy The proposed four hypotheses are mostly supported with high statistical significance.
An Empirical Study on Visualizing the Intellectual Structure and Hotspots of Big Data Research from a Sustainable Perspective The bibliometric results reveal the current annual publications distribution, journals distribution and co-citation network, institutions distribution and collaboration network, authors distribution, collaboration network and co-citation network, and research hotspots.
Visualizing the Academic Discipline of Knowledge Management Our results will benefit academics, researchers, and research students who want to rapidly obtain an overview of knowledge management research. This study can also be a starting point for communication between academics and practitioners.
Towards Internationalization: A Critical Assessment of China's Public Administration Research in a Global Context 2000-2014 Generally, both the size and impact of mainland China PA research have increased over the past 15 years and several critical stages were discovered, especially after 2009. The participation of non-mainland scholars improved mainland PA publications in citation performance. In spite of the international achievements of mainland China PA research, further potential issues deserve comment.
Perception of the importance of chemistry research papers and comparison to citation rates We conclude from our results that peer judgements of importance and significance differ from metrics-based measurements, and that chemists should work with bibliometricians to develop metrics that better capture the nuance of opinions on the importance of a given piece of research.
The Structure and Citation Landscape of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON FUZZY SYSTEMS (1994-2015) This study has presented a general overview of the TFS publications based on bibliometric methods and techniques. TFS is evidently discovering some emerging trends in the domain of computer science and engineering and the most recent research topic of TFS is adaptive fuzzy tracking control. The findings of this study are useful in illuminating the evolving concerns of TFS, and offering a demonstration of a rigorous analytical approach for exploring the structure and citation landscape of TFS in the future.
Quantifying the impact of scholarly papers based on higher-order weighted citations The shorter the actual geographic dis- tance between citing and cited institutions, the more citations.
A bibliometric analysis of natural language processing in medical research A bibliometric analysis of NLP-empowered medical research publications for uncovering the recent research status is presented.
In-depth analysis of international collaboration and inter-institutional collaboration in nuclear science and technology during 2006-2015 Even in NST field with many restrictions, both inter-international and inter-institutional collaboration could help enhance the impact of scientific publications.
Analysis of thirteen predatory publishers: a trap for eager-to-publish researchers There was a strong reason to believe that predatory publishers may have several publication houses with different names under a single roof to trap authors from different geographic locations. There is a need to continually raise awareness on this topic among researchers to make them think, check, and then submit their work to a legitimate journal for consideration.
Scientific Eponyms in Latin America: The Case of Jerzy Plebanski in the Area of Mathematical Physics We have presented evidence of the existence of an international scientific network developing an epistemic community built around the cognitive work of Jerzy Plebanski.
Mirror on the Field: Gender, Authorship, and Research Methods in Higher Education's Leading Journals This portrait of the intersection of authorship, gender, and research methods provides an empirical foundation for discussion and inquiry about gender and scholarship in the field, and the results of our study are generative for future research. Although our findings revealed that the field's top journals reflect considerable gains in women's authorship overall, they also suggest important sites where gender inequity may remain rooted within processes of knowledge creation. Future investigations of gender and knowledge production in academia more broadly may benefit from considering the field of higher education as a site of meaningful progress toward equity.
Global scientific productivity in the field of PET: a 10-year survey of research activities Global scientific production represents a rapid increase in the PET field in recent years.
Team-Specific Capital and Innovation In this paper, we have shown that team-specific capital is an important ingredient of the typical patent inventor's life-cycle earnings and innovation, much like firm-specific capital is crucial for the typical worker (Topel 1991).
From Paper to Practice; Indexing Systems and Ethical Standards We suggest for a more fruitful collaboration between indexing systems and organizations promoting ethics for the better propagation of publication ethics in scientific research. Indexing systems are recommended to consider ethical standards in research and publication as a mandatory issue when evaluating journals for indexing. Also, one fundamental approach is to establish a third organization or committee which could act as an international regulatory body and legally follow publication ethics misconducts committed throughout the world and penalize researchers committing these misconducts through forcing their institutions (who had already accepted to be part of this regulatory organizations), similar to the system the United Nations was founded upon.
Detecting Hijacked Journals by Using Classification Algorithms The detection of hijacked journals is an issue that is scarcely considered in research in IT security.
Editorial Board Self-Publishing Rates in Czech Economic Journals From the results it can be concluded that in a cluster of selected journals there probably existed a bias in publishing output of editorial board members in 2012–2015.
Authorship grids: Practical tools to facilitate collaboration and ethical publication While few writers believe their co-authors will fail to meet deadlines or behave unethically, use of an authorship grid encourages agreement on expectations and standards for progress, ethics, and communication at the outset.
Scientific output quality of 40 globally top-ranked medical researchers in the field of osteoporosis Qualitative features of scientific output, reflected by SQI, have changed the classification of 92.5% of authors. SQI may thus be regarded as a useful tool for objective, qualitative evaluation of individual scientific output. SQI has a potential of a complementary method, possibly supporting other bibliometric tools, such as the h-index or the citation index.
Relationship Between Citation-Based Scholarly Activity of United States Radiation Oncology Residents and Subsequent Choice of Academic Versus Private-Practice Career The average radiation oncology resident graduate published a minimum of four manuscripts cited at least four times.
Surgical academic reach: the higher degree effect quantified Proof of academic reach by higher degree was associated with important enhanced professional credentials, strengthening HIs sixfold. Trainers and trainees alike should be aware of the relative magnitude of such benefits when planning educational programmes. The associated benefits of a period of research training appear many and varied.
A system for paper registration to institutional repositories We can conclude that the system increases the number of registrations of journal articles and conference papers with an IR and improves the efficiency of the paper registration process operated by IR managers.
A Bibliometric Retrospective of the Journal Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science and Technology Education between 2012 and 2017 This also suggests EJMSTE needs to go further internationalization. Thus, EJMSTE need to maintain and consolidate this role. Not only closely connect with its own academic knowledge, but also actively promote the knowledge communication with other journals in different domains.
A study of book reviews in SCI-Expanded, SSCI, and A&HCI journals by researchers from five countries: 2006-2015 First, the absolute outputs of book reviews in both the SCI-Expanded, SSCI, and A&HCI journals and the SSCI and A&HCI journals by researchers from Germany, Japan, China, and India showed a general increasing tendency across the examined span of 10 years. Third, the number of book reviews contributed by researchers from Japan, China, and India is much lower than researchers from traditional scientific powers such as USA and Germany. To address the two points, research is needed to examine the publication of book reviews with other databases that include more journals and journals published in other languages.
Four decades of the journal Law and Human Behavior: a content analysis Research in psychology and law has the potential to impact both academic researchers and the legal system. Articles published in LHB appear to accomplish both.
Does distance hinder the collaboration between Australian universities in the humanities, arts and social sciences? "Although distance was found to have a weak impact on external collaboration, the strength of the research publishing record within a university (internal collaboration) was found to be an important factor in determining external collaboration activity levels."
Differences between journals and years in the proportions of students, researchers and faculty registering Mendeley articles In conclusion, future research evaluation exercises that use Mendeley reader counts for early scholarly impact evidence should ensure that narrow fields are used for comparison or field normalisation purposes to avoid conflating differing biases in the proportions of readers from different groups.
Quantifying the internationality and multidisciplinarity of authors and journals using ecological statistics Despite the above cautions, as well as the limitations placed by our modest sample sizes, quantitative assessments of internationality and multidisciplinarity using ecological statistics are a significant advance on qualitative claims.
Economists behaving badly: publications in predatory journals The authors of articles in predatory journals indexed in RePEc are widely dispersed geographically.
Inequality and collaboration patterns in Canadian nanotechnology: implications for pro-poor and gender-inclusive policy This research focuses on two main equity challenges of Canadian nanotechnology (gender and pro-poor potential), showing clear disparities between men and women in terms of citation rate and collaboration patterns.
Building direct citation networks We hope to have contributed with the MPA literature, mainly about the actual building of a citation network. The proposed algorithm in this paper can be easily implemented in computer software, generating networks as DAG and saving time that can be spent on the actual analysis of the paths found. Computer-aided MPA makes the analysis of hundreds of documents possible, highlighting the main paths of the chosen literature and providing a quantitative analytic tool for studies on the mechanisms of science.
An analysis of global research funding from subject field and funding agencies perspectives in the G9 countries This study investigated research funding attributions in papers by authors in the G9 countries between 2009 and 2014. According to the results, over half of all research articles in all countries received research funding, and the funded paper ratios increased each year. Currently, most articles are sponsored by government agencies.
An integrated method for interdisciplinary topic identification and prediction: a case study on information science and library science In this study, we constructed an integrated method for interdisciplinary topic identification and prediction.
Emerging trends and new developments in information science: a document co-citation analysis (2009-2016) In conclusion, we selected 10 core journals through JCA to define the IS domain, detected the emerging trends and newest developments of the IS domain from 2009 to 2016 by employing two new functions of the newest version of CiteSpace5.0 R3, the timeline knowledge map of DCA cluster year by year and dual-map overlays.
The mutually beneficial relationship of patents and scientific literature: topic evolution in nanoscience In this paper, we apply topic modeling and regression analysis to conduct a lead-lag analysis and identify different topic evolution patterns for huge collections of patents and scientific literature over the last 20 years (1995–2015) in the nanoscience.
Can Microsoft Academic be used for citation analysis of preprint archives? The case of the Social Science Research Network The results suggest that it is impossible to design a query to identify all SSRN papers that it indexes and the same is true for arXiv and probably all other digital repositories.
Do traditional scientometric indicators predict social media activity on scientific knowledge? An analysis of the ecological literature Our results support the use of activities on OnSMP as an early signal of research impact of ecological articles.
Difference in the impact of open-access papers published by China and the USA We collected all OA papers from China and the USA indexed in WoS (2011–2015) and obtained the evaluation data of 18 altmetric indexes for these papers from Altmetric.com.
Do papers with an institutional e-mail address receive more citations than those with a non-institutional one? Based on documents published during the period 2008–2012, we conclude that the average received citations of institutional e-mails is much higher than that of the non-institutional e-mails. Our conclusion supports the rationality of SAGE's requirement that reviewers should provide institutional e-mails in the sense that for scientists with an institutional e-mail address it is not only easy to verify their identity, but that they are generally the better ones.
Analysing the variation tendencies of the numbers of yearly citations for sleeping beauties in science by using derivative analysis Derivative analysis enables the extraction of papers' citation variation tendencies as well as the sleeping and awakening periods of AWSBs.
Writing styles in different scientific disciplines: a data science approach These observations suggest that even in closely related disciplines there are differences in the scientific communication expressed through writing styles, demonstrating the existence of a “signature” writing style developed in each discipline. These findings should also be taken into account when a multidisciplinary group of collaborators assign writing duties on a joint scientific manuscript. The separation between the scientific communication in different disciplines can lead to consistent differences in the writing style developed in each discipline.
Proposal of a stochastic model to determine the bibliometric variables influencing the quality of a journal: application to the field of Dentistry The conclusion of the research is that the considered factors have not any significant input on the model, while the H-index of Editor-in-chief, percentage of papers with external fund and the average number of papers yearly published in a journal have significant effect on the ordinal response variable, and then the model provides a correct classification rate of 80%.
Allegation of scientific misconduct increases Twitter attention The result of this case study clearly reveals the problems with using Twitter data for measuring impact or attention of science.
Multiple versions of the h-index: cautionary use for formal academic purposes Any index is as good as its destined use as well as on the ultimate purpose or end-use.
A science mapping analysis of 'Communication' WoS subject category (1980-2013) As pointed above, Communication Research has been labeled as a fragmented field.
Bibliometric Study on Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Literature (1995-2017) Concerning Chemosensory Perception To conclude, the current study analyzed the existing fMRI literature on chemosensory perception using bibliometric methods, and it revealed that the contributions came from a diversified spectrum of authors and were published in journals from multiple disciplines.
Theme trends and knowledge structure on choroidal neovascularization: a quantitative and co-word analysis The studies on CNV are relatively divergent and the 6 research categories concluded from this study could reflect the publication trends on CNV to some extent.
A scientometric examination of the water quality research in India "The research activity in water quality increased in India after adopting National Water Policy in 2002; the RAI in Indian water quality research reached 1.6 during 2001–2015 indicating a much higher activity than the world average."
A Journal-Level Analysis of Progress in Transplantation The journal is listed both in surgery and transplantation categories of Journal Citation Reports and its impact factors over time fare better with surgery journals than with transplant journals.
Scientific productivity: An exploratory study of metrics and incentives The present results suggest that metrics and incentives can be developed to reward scientists to achieve those objectives.
Relationship between Journal-Ranking Metrics for a Multidisciplinary Set of Journals There is a very strong, positive, and highly significant correlation between the values of the impact factor and SCImago Journal Rank for a general collection of journals, most of them from the sciences.
LGBTQ Studies and Interdisciplinarity: A Citation Analysis of Master's Theses LGBTQ studies has an average, rather than a high, level of interdisciplinarity, though a high level is sometimes assumed for newer fields of study. The average percentages of citations that show a disciplinary emphasis on LGBTQ studies indicate that LGBTQ studies has its own body of literature. This information can help reference librarians and subject specialists to improve their services by going beyond LGBT Life in reference and research transactions, as well as library workshops.
A correlation comparison between Altmetric Attention Scores and citations for six PLOS journals "To answer the first research question (Do AAS correlate with citations by Web of Science?), the Spearman tests found that normalized AAS correlates with normalized Web of Science citations, but as the scatter plots suggest, there may be different zones of correlations."
Fair ranking of researchers and research teams Applying the fractional scheme is elementary and the improvement in ranking is enormous. The authorship-weighted scheme is even more accurate because it is capable to distribute the authorship credit non-uniformly, for example, to allocate some extra credits to the first and/or corresponding authors. Hence, the first priority for fair ranking of researchers is to substitute the standard scheme by the fractional scheme in scientific publication databases as the Web of Science (Thomson Reuters) or the Scopus (Elsevier).
Impact of Low Back Pain Clinical Trials Measured by the Altmetric Score: Cross-Sectional Study Researchers should preferably select high impact factor journals for submission and use declarative or interrogative titles, as these factors are likely to increase the visibility of their studies in social media. This information confirms that conventional measures of scientific impact (based on citations) are associated with social impact (based on social media). Scientific impact appears to follow the social impact in back pain trials.
Ukrainian scientific journals in the branches of juridical, economic, humanitarian and social sciences: a systematization In the present work, we have analyzed the Ukrainian journals and proceedings specialized in the fields of humanitarian, social, juridical and economical sciences, using the approach to journal ranking developed earlier in [ Vasylkiv Yu. et al., 2017. Ukr. J. Phys. Opt. 18: 28-45]. Our analysis of the Ukrainian journals and proceedings is based on the Pareto distribution. Following from our analysis, one can see that the editions belonging to the categories B-E satisfy 81% of the minimal criteria. The total scores for these journals and proceedings are higher than 15..
Citation characteristics of non-citable documents and contributions to journal impact factor (1) Editorials, letters and other documents are defined as NCDs by ISI, and thus not accounted for in the denominator when calculating the IF of a journal. However, these documents actually can be cited, and some editorials and letters are cited extensively. (2) Of all NCDs, editorials and letters make the most significant contribution to citation totals and IF. (4) The contributions of NCDs to JIF were found to be primarily normal, with only a few journals showing higher contribution rates of NCD to IF.
What does it take? Comparison of research standards for promotion in finance Our paper provides up-to-date information on some of the factors considered for promotion of Finance professors.
Some bibliometric procedures for analyzing and evaluating research fields In this paper, we have presented techniques and software tools to measure the quality of the scientific production, and software tools to analyze the conceptual, social and intellectual structure of a research field.
A landscape of nanomedicine innovations in India In the present paper, a landscape of nanomedicine innovations in India has been mapped highlighting the contribution of different stakeholders to innovation, kind of investment, and the policies applicable for nanomedicine. Appropriate policies and coordination between different stakeholders is required to increase the development activities and commercialization prospects. This landscape analysis intends to assist the policy makers and R&D community to decide on suitable ways forward.
Looking Beyond Traditional Metrics in Orthodontics: An Altmetric Study on the Most Discussed Articles on the Web Visibility of orthodontic articles on the Web is not significantly correlated with citations. Studies on socio-demographics had significantly higher number of online mentions. More constructive online presence of orthodontic journals is needed to reinforce dissemination of research data among scholars and non-scholars. Despite their low coverage in orthodontics, altmetrics have the potential to measure the social impact of articles published in specialty journals, and should be therefore combined with tradi- tional metrics for a more comprehensive assessment of research effects.
Semantic tone of research 'environment' submissions in the UK's Research Evaluation Framework 2014 The results suggest that low-ranked universities could have achieved higher scores by reflecting on particular areas of word choice and the potential effects of those choices on assessors.
Authorship in science: A critical analysis from a Foucauldian perspective In science, Foucault's conception of author offers a broad vision of the process of construction of knowledge, considering contextual aspects such as the historical-sociological moment of the development of the work or discipline, the events that interfered in this process, as well as the influence of reviewers, editors, and peers of scientific works. Therefore, we conclude that the difficulty in conceptualizing an author in science stems from the complexity in defining the roles and functions of an author, especially in multiple authorship and group authorship.
Center of excellence funding: Connecting organizational capacities and epistemic effects We conclude that a CoE program theory can be conceived in terms of resource stability yielding research flexibility, and that the common mechanisms connecting the two may be found in organizational arrangements facilitating slack (autonomy), availability of cooperative partners (critical mass) and concomitant cooperation between specialisms.
A comparative review of how the policy and procedures to assess research impact evolved in Australia and the UK The article shows that the synergistic, intermittent, and iterative development of relevant policy and procedures in the two nations has been mutually beneficial for the evolution of retrospective impact assessment. For future evolution of policy, this article suggests we are likely to see a continued political commitment to research impact assessment in both countries. Thus, the two countries will continue their co-dependence in developing policy and procedures to assess research impact.
To what extent is inclusion in the Web of Science an indicator of journal 'quality'? We conclude that using WoS as a universalistic tool for research assessment can disadvantage sci- ence published in journals with adequate editorial standards and scientific merit.
Factors enabling and constraining research in a small, research-intensive South African University This study has added to understandings of the factors that promote or undermine research productivity by examining a case from a glo-bal south institution.
Are there ways to improve the citations of a scientific paper? Selecting scientifically-analyzed KWs, specific for the message conveyed by a paper and computing beforehand the theoretical chances of citation, might increase the citations obtained, the retrieval of important scientific and innovative information, optimize scientific exchange and qualitative productivity.
Evaluation of academic finance conferences Our evaluation approach to ranking conferences is designed to support finance researchers in determining which conferences to attend.
Research evaluation support services in biomedical libraries Librarians at a wide range of medical libraries are increasingly being asked for assistance with assessing the value and impact of scholarly research.
Discrepancies among Scopus, Web of Science, and PubMed coverage of funding information in medical journal articles The results show that coverage of funding information differs significantly among Scopus, Web of Science, and PubMed databases in a sample of the same medical journals. Moreover, we found that, currently, funding data in PubMed is more difficult to obtain and analyze compared with that in the other two databases.
Open access publications in sciences and social sciences: A comparative analysis We found that both natural and social sciences have experienced a dramatic growth in OA journals since 2009. For OA publishing in both natural and social sciences, there seems to be a long tail in terms of impact factor. We acknowledge that OA publishing offers a level playing field for traditionally disadvantaged languages, countries, and scientific disciplines, but meanwhile, the advancement of high-quality OA publishing needs more targeted and sophisticated approaches to tackle differences in natural and social sciences.
An evaluation of information behaviour studies through the Scholarly Capital Model As a result, social influ-ence positively affects the ideational influence.
Contributing factors to long-term citation count in marine and freshwater biology articles In summary, our study found that there are multiple factors at work in determining how many citations an aquatic science article will receive after 10 years.
Why do authors publish in predatory journals? More needs to be done by institutions and reputable journals to make researchers aware of the problem of 'predatory' journals.
Digital object identifier and its use in core Chinese academic journals: A Chinese perspective This paper looks at the reasons for the limited implementation of DOIs and makes suggestions as to how usage can be expanded in China.
Standing on the shoulder of giants: the aspect of free-riding in RePEc rankings Having collected data for 33,214 authors and their journal publications from the RePEc archive, we have been able to demonstrate that methodology of the impact factor matters for author rankings.
Collaboration incentives: Endogenous selection into single and coauthorships by surname initial in economics and management To sum up, we derived and tested for indicators of self-selection into single and coauthored papers consistent with the principle that no one wants to second author when they are likely to provide a greater contribution than the first author.
Tweet success? Scientific communication correlates with increased citations in Ecology and Conservation We conclude that ecology and conservation researchers can increase exposure of their research through social media engagement and, simultaneously, enhance their performance under traditional measures of scholarly activity.
Frequency and Factors Associated With Honorary Authorship in Indian Biomedical Journals: Analysis of Papers Published From 2012 to 2013 In summary, we found honorary authorship occurring in a substantial number of original articles published in Indian biomedical journals for several reasons.
Reviewers' Perceptions of the Peer Review Process in Journalism and Mass Communication The results of this study suggest that the contours of the field may be getting shaped by a procedure that cannot guarantee the quality of the process. The path forward to better reviewing remains unclear, yet reviewers across the board are concerned the process isn't functioning as well as it should. In addition to the areas for future research already noted, two areas of future study emerged from the open-ended comments: the role of journal editors in the manuscript review process and a perceived reviewer bias against qualitative work.
A Bibliometrics Approach to Understanding Conceptual Breadth, Depth and Development: The Case of New Public Management This analysis reveals a literature that is broad, but lacks depth and contemporaneity (Table 2).
Interdisciplinary Dissertation Research Among Public Health Doctoral Trainees, 2003-2015 Although interdisciplinary dissertation research among doctoral graduates in public health has increased in recent years, such work is bounded in certain fields of public health and certain types of graduates and institutions.
African American Faculty in Social Work Schools: A Citation Analysis of Scholarship While these scholars were ranked in order of h-index (highest to lowest) as the baseline, shifts in their ranks for the other metrics revealed more information beyond the impact of their scholarship.
Differential Social Network Effects on Scholarly Productivity: An Intersectional Analysis To summarize our main results, we found that professional networks are structured differently, according to the gender, race, and ethnicity of the scientist (Hypotheses 1 and 2), and that network characteristics affect sci-entific productivity.
The moral economy of open access This does not necessarily mean the landscape of knowledge production that OA seeks to engage with is 'flat' or democratic. In this context, OA emerges as a form of justification, which serves to underline the value of those who produce knowledge – and, more importantly, the value of knowledge itself. It makes sense to bear in mind that a truly open way of engaging with knowledge would need to involve more than just access, including, potentially, ques-tioning the moral assumptions underlying the privilege of those who produce it.
International Research Collaboration and International Research Orientation: Comparative Findings About European Academics In this article, IRC and IRO have been studied at the micro-level of individual academ-ics from the university sector (N = 8,466, 11 European systems). IRC and IRO are critically important in European academia given newly emergent university hierarchies of prestige, academic incentive and reward systems, and gradually redefined access to competitive research funding.
Exploring the influence of social activity on scientific career Finally, we draw a conclusion that social activity could be favourable for authors to promote academic outcomes and obtain recognition.
An advisor like me? Advisor gender and post-graduate careers in science This paper investigates the relationship between having a same gender supervisor, productivity and post-graduate careers for a large sample of chemistry PhD graduates. Nonetheless, our findings suggest that increasing the number of potential female advisors may increase the share of female students eventually pursuing academic careers. Another type of policy that could be considered is the provision of programs where junior female researchers receive mentoring and advice from senior female faculty members of other institutions.
Normalization of Deviation: Quotation Error in Human Factors Rather than simply blaming individu-als for quotation error, systemic factors should also be considered.
Citation Patterns of Conference Proceedings in Master's and Doctoral Studies: A Case Study of Information Technology and Systems Based on these conclusions, it is important then that collec-tion development processes at tertiary institutions continue to consider the value of online-based conference proceedings to enable students' easy access, especially in the fields of infor-mation and computer sciences in which conference proceed-ings remain an important source of research literature.
The 100 most cited articles on oral cancer The majority of articles were of studies that had received financial support, were published in journals with a high impact factor and were focussed on the aetiology and pathogenesis of oral cancer. In summary, the 100 most cited articles on oral cancer were all published in English and the majority were from the decade 2000-2009, originated from the USA and received financial support for their undertaking. The aetiopathogenesis of oral cancer was the most common field of study, specifically tobacco smoking, HPV and alcohol intake.
A twitter case study for assessing digital sound This study demonstrates that primary motivating factors for tweeting about digital sound include the presence of social media outreach from the archive, which gives users material to respond to on the platform, and the promotion of new digital resources.Spoken word and unique archival recordings tend to attract users' attention the most.The results of this study are subject to several important limitations.
National scientific performance evolution patterns: Retrenchment, successful expansion, or overextension From the results, there is not a simple relationship between an expanding research system and increasing average research impact, at least relative to world norms.
Exploring the relation between referencing practices and citation impact: A large-scale study based on Web of Science data Our results suggest that the number of cited references has a relation to the citation impact of the publication beyond the relation caused by field differences regarding referencing practices.
A critical evaluation of expert survey-based journal rankings: The role of personal research interests The results confirm the existence of raters' bias toward the journals focusing on their preferred areas of interest, but this bias does not uniformly apply across all research topics.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the First Twenty-Five Years of the International Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems This study provides an overview of IJUFKS publications and is hopefully able to contribute to related research fields. This paper will hopefully help researchers understand the research patterns of this journal. In future works, more valuable and authoritative bibliometric indices will be applied to analyse the influential papers, authors, institutions, countries, etc. from different perspectives and in a more comprehensive way.
Cardiothoracic surgery training grants provide protected research time vital to the development of academic surgeons T32 training grants supporting CT surgery research are vital to develop academic surgeons. These results support continued funding by NHLBI to effectively develop and train the next generation of academic CT surgeons. We have demonstrated that CT T32 training grants produce academically prolific CT surgeons.
Reputational Rankings of Peer-Reviewed Law Journals: A Survey Approach Taken as a whole, this article has provided a great deal of information regarding how political scientists evaluate peer-reviewed law journals.
Sociologists everywhere: Country representation in conferences hosted by the International Sociological Association, 1990-2012 Our contribution is to illustrate empirically the extent to which such inequality exists, and to analyze its economic, political and social dimensions. Our analyses reveal a meaningful decrease of representation inequality according to the countries' income over the 20 years spanning 1990 to 2010. Yet, a durable inequality remains, one that ISA and other key actors in the WSS of the social sciences should continue to acknowledge, and with which it must contend.
DIMENSIONS: RE-DISCOVERING THE ECOSYSTEM OF SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION Regarding the database system operation, in spite of certain inconsistencies and errors (especially those related to the authority control and the subject classification), it is concluded that Dimensions is a product with potential.
Predictors of sustained research involvement among MD/PhD programme graduates Most Canadian MD/PhD programme graduates remain substantially involved in research on the basis of at least one outcome.
A Bibliometric History of the Journal of Psychology Between 1936 and 2015 This article provides a bibliographic overview of the research published in The Journal of Psychology: Interdisciplinary and Applied throughout its long tenure, starting from the data gathered from Scopus and the use of bibliometric indicators. The increase in the diversity of institutional representation is a reflection of the increased expansion of research in other parts of the world. This bibliometric analysis identifies the most influential trends presented in The Journal of Psychology, and should prove valuable to potential authors and the journal’s general readership.
What's in a number? How (and why) measuring research productivity in different ways changes the gender gap "Our aim is not to confirm or deny the existence of a gender gap in productivity, or to claim that the gender gaps reported here would apply directly to other settings."
Higher education journals: their characteristics and contribution Higher education journals are clearly, therefore, making a massive contribution to higher education research.
Measuring scientific value of Indian journals beyond impact factor: a case with physics-chemistry-biology journals It is clear that a comprehensive approach should be used to evaluate the research worthiness of a scientist. In a nutshell, we suggest that prospective authors must consider the following points of a journal before submitting articles. Institutions should insist that their scientists and faculty members opt for publications in peer-reviewed open access journals.
Bibliometric analysis of greenhouse gas research on a global scale from 2000 to 2014 In this study, information has been obtained about the trends of GHG research during the period from 2000 to 2014.
On the advancement of highly cited research in China: An analysis of the Highly Cited database Overall, China’s performance in the 21st century is excellent, especially in the ESI fields of Chemistry, Materials Science, and Engineering.
Qualitative Judgement of Research Impact: Domain Taxonomy as a Fundamental Framework for Judgement of the Quality of Research Although the concept of taxonomy seems rather simplistic to describe all the richness of a research domain, its changes and use can be made transparent and subject to open discussions.
Impact factors of orthopaedic journals between 2010 and 2016: trends and comparisons with other surgical specialties The quality of orthopaedic journals has significantly increased over the last decade and this has been accompanied by a rise in mean IF.
Wind energy research in Mexico An analysis of Mexican research on wind as topic during 1969-2016 have given interesting results, it has found 31,890 documents, most of them are articles (75.5%) and the most language used in the research is English (96.92%), this could be because Mexican researchers collaborate with US researcher in almost the 50% of the documents published.
Drivers of citations: An analysis of publications in "top" accounting journals Overall, our results should urge caution against the uncritical use of citation counts as an indicator of quality and impact as well as a performance measure. This study improves our understanding of the accounting discipline, especially concerning the dissemination of accounting knowledge. In addition to addressing the above limitations in future research, this paper provides several new directions for forthcoming studies.
Repeating probability of authors with retracted scientific publications In conclusion, we found that retracting authors with ≥5 retractions will repeat retractions with a higher probability than those with a single retraction. This may explain the fact that a small number of authors with repeating retractions is attributable to a large portion of retractions. It is, therefore, important to draw attention of these repeaters to research integrity.
How researchers perceive research misconduct in biomedicine and how they would prevent it: A qualitative study in a small scientific community Based on the results of our study, research misconduct in a small scientific community is perceived to be the consequence of the interaction of several social and psychological factors, both general and specific for small research communities. Possible improvements should be systematic, aiming both for improvements in work environment and personal awareness in research ethics, and the implementation of those changes should be institutional responsibility.
Journal Retractions: Some Unique Features of Research Misconduct in China The recent mass retractions of articles by Chinese authors, however, do not belong to the debatable category because most of the articles were submitted by third-party paper mills with fake reviews and some were written entirely by paper mills.
Open bibliometrics and undiscovered public knowledge There has been a rapid rise in interest in bibliometrics and altmetrics in recent years, and that shows no signs of slowing, but there is a huge gap in the openness of current bibliometrics and the openness that is necessary for the most robust and insightful evaluative and relational bibliometrics possible.
1916-2016: a centenary of publications Nonetheless, this analysis highlights a treasure trove of some of Ireland's contribution to the medical literature as published in Ireland's longest running medical journal.
Changing patterns of self-citation: cumulative inquiry or self-promotion? We attempt to account for these changes and give a rhetorical explanation for authorial practices. The growth of self-citation, as a device for the management of self-presentation, is an indexical marker of twenty-first century professional academic writing. Referencing one's prior work, however, must also be seen in a wider social context, reflecting the influence of two major changes in academic life.
Paul Hagenmuller's contribution to solid state chemistry: A scientometric analysis The scientometric analysis of Paul Hagenmüller's body of work enabled us to reveal the richness and diversity of his contributions to the development of solid-state chemistry. The occurrence of Sleeping Beauties challenges the use of short-term citation-based metrics for the evaluation of scientific impact. A quantitative investigation of the issue of language use in research has been previously investigated in scientometrics [40,41], but never as a probable cause of delayed recognition. Such investigation is left for future work, though it is relevant to note that this hypothesis was dismissed by most inter-viewed experts.
Objective Methodology to Assess Meaningful Research Productivity by Orthopaedic Residency Departments: Validation Against Widely Distributed Ranking Metrics and Published Surrogates Using the number of times an institution's work is cited in the literature as a benchmark of research "success” provides an objective and intuitively meaningful way to compare one program to another, but more importantly to track productivity within a program over time. We believe that given these realistic limitations, we have created a reproducible and meaningful residency research ranking system that will allow programs to evaluate their progress both against their peers and within their own system over time.
Some Assessments of the List of Journals in the Russian Science Citation Index The results of this analysis raise questions concerning the goals of the creation of the RSCI base, the directions of its further use, and the correctness of the selection of journals for inclusion.
LOST IN THE STORM: THE ACADEMIC COLLABORATIONS THAT WENT MISSING IN HURRICANE ISSAC We have found that the cancellation of the 2012 APSA meeting reduced participants' likelihood of subsequently co-authoring a paper with another scheduled participant at the meeting.
The Matthew effect in science funding We conclude that funding of early career scientists exhibits a Matthew effect that operates through two mutually reinforcing processes: On the demand side, candidates who won prior awards are evaluated more positively than nonwinners, while on the supply side, scientists who were successful in past contests select themselves into applicant pools of subsequent contests at higher rates than unsuccessful scientists. Not only do our findings suggest that positive feedback in funding may be a key mechanism through which money is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few extremely successful scholars, but also that the origins of emergent distinction in scientists' careers may be of an arbitrary nature. This raises the question of whether, especially in fields where materials and infrastructure costs are modest, the distribution of smaller grants across a larger number of scientists could reduce inequality and improve meritocracy without sacrificing efficiency.
Hit count estimate variability for website-specific queries in search engines: The case for rare disease association websites The empirical data suggest that the first SERP captures the differences between websites better because it has a greater discriminating power and is more appropriate for webometric longitudinal studies. The findings allow improving future quantitative webometric analyses based on website-specific hit count estimation metrics in general search engines.
The top 2,000 cited articles in critical care medicine: a bibliometric analysis The study performed bibliometric analyses of 2,000 top-cited articles in CCM.
How does the outcome of research training fellowships funded via the NHS compare with that from competitively funded fellowships from the MRC and other charities: a cross-sectional retrospective survey of trainees undertaking research training in the West Midlands Research training funded by the NHS provides a quality experience and contributes to the clinical academic capacity within the UK.
H-index in medicine is driven by original research Original research drives h-indices in medicine. Although guidelines contribute to h-indices in medicine, their influence is low. The specific role of randomized controlled trials in building h-index in medicine remains to be assessed.
Social media and communication by scientists: M. S. Swaminathan on Twitter From the case study of Swaminathan's the Twitter account indicating growth and readership, it is evident that there is space on social media for scientists to intervene with their expertise.
Trends in MD/PhD Graduates Entering Psychiatry: Assessing the Physician-Scientist Pipeline Despite the increase in the number of MD/PhDs entering psychiatry, these numbers remain low.
Analysis of the distribution and scholarly output from National Institute of Academic Anaesthesia (NIAA) research grants We conclude that a key determinant of grant success is simply applying. Our data demonstrate significant variation in geography, subjects and baseline characteristics of grant applicants. Our results can therefore be used as a benchmark to develop academic anaesthesia in the UK and beyond.
Quality of Author Guidelines in Nursing Journals Author guidelines for nursing journals are generally complete and informative.
Shared-operation models for institutional repositories In Korea, steps are required to organize the scattered institutional repository projects and form an integrated promotion committee supporting institutions through competition. In local areas, the formation of a consortium led by national university libraries, local representative libraries, local library councils, etc. is required and a centralized or decentralized operation model that suits the area's characteristics should be selected. In the future, the centralized model can be developed as a specialized information base system of regional content and the decentralized model can be used as a test bed that contributes to the development of institutional repositories by creating a new technology and service models, facilitating the possibility of independent operations in the future.
The impact of better access to scientific journals on the quality of research work: The case of a small university Study shows that better access to quality information resources for scientific researchers lead to an increase in its use and results in higher quality research shown by the gradual increase of publications of research results in higher impact scholarly journals.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Distributed Control Publications The analysis demonstrated that distributed con- trol or decentralized control is still a popular research field and institutions from the United States (four uni- versities ranked in top 10), China (two universities and one institution in top 10), Canada (two universities in top 10), and Singapore (one university in top 10) performed best in terms of total publications.
The future(s) of open science The notions that any of these open science initiatives exist to render scientific knowledge more accessible to the general public and research more responsive to the wishes of the scientist turns out to be diversionary tactics and irrelevant conceits. There is a logic to platform capitalism: Radical collaboration deskills the vanishing author, dissolving any coherent notion of ‘authorship' (Huebner et al., 2017), and tends inevitably toward monopoly, in the name of profit.
Cybernetics: A Bibliometric Analysis Snapshot The bibliometric analysis of the cybernetics information sources' production showed the large and increasing interest in cybernetics research.
Automated Literature Searches for Longitudinal Tracking of Cancer Research Training Program Graduates Setting up automated literature searches may be essential for large cancer research training programs that must keep their program publication lists updated for purposes of annual reports and grant proposals.
Filter bubbles in interdisciplinary research: a case study on climate and society We found that each single WoS title (except two) could be located in GS. According to GS full text recognition, we found 74 percent of the documents openly available either directly on the publishers’ websites, or indirectly in repositories or in other ways. Our findings challenge the traditional subscription-based publishing model. We conclude that neither WoS nor GS can be used as stand-alone service to discover the scholarly literature of the investigated field. The services returned complementary rather than similar results. They may be interpreted as almost decoupled filter bubbles.
Authorship Trends, Collaboration Patterns, and Co-Authorship Networks in Lodging Studies (1990-2016) This study aimed to elucidate the evolution of collaboration in research among authors in lodging studies.
Academic information on Twitter: A user survey The results have several practical implications.
General discussion of data quality challenges in social media metrics: Extensive comparison of four major altmetric data aggregators The results of this paper provide some original insights about current data challenges in social media metrics. Overall we can argue that most of the differences found across data aggregators are explained by specific choices on the data collection and aggregation approaches as explained here. Future research should also focus on providing further insights and possible solutions for current and potential data challenges in social media data collection.
Measuring Individual Performance with Comprehensive Bibliometric Reports as an Alternative to h-Index Values The user of the command receives a comprehensive bibliometric report which can be used in research evaluation instead of the h-index.
Optimal distribution of science funding We propose a model to explore the implications of a novel science-funding system.
Detecting trends in academic research from a citation network using network representation learning Using the APS dataset as well as data from certain domains of the Web of Science, our framework detects research trends and confirms that a paper located in a cutting edge area (tips of growth direction) is likely to be highly cited in the future.
Academic Anesthesiology Career Development: A Mixed-Methods Evaluation of the Role of Foundation for Anesthesiology Education and Research Funding This cross-sectional data demonstrated career success in publications, grants, and leadership positions for faculty who apply for a FAER grant.
The 100 most-cited papers in general thoracic surgery: A bibliography analysis Our study identified the most-cited papers in the past several decades and offered insights into the development and advances of general thoracic surgery. It can help us understand the evidential basis of clinical decision-making today in the area.
Seagull: A bird's-eye view of the evolution of technical games research In this paper, we presented a descriptive data-driven analysis on how the games research field has evolved over time from 2000 – 2013, with a particular focus on technical games research.
Identification and analysis of classic articles and sleeping beauties in neurosciences There were 387 classic articles in the WoS category of neurosciences, and all of them were in English. The classic articles with highest citations in 2016 mostly introduced tools for subject assessment and data processing, showing that the neuroscience communi-ty is willing to share its research methods with others.
Model for estimating Academic Ranking of World Universities (Shanghai Ranking) scores The model introduced here is geared to replicating and predicting the ARWU results simply and with readily accessible data. It was successfully applied to estimate scores for the indicator that measures papers listed in WoS databases (PUB) as well as the indicator for the number of articles published in Nature and Science (N&S), as shown in the results described above. The model proposed supports the reproducibility of the Shanghai ranking for, while the findings could not be reproduced with absolute accuracy, they were estimated very reliably. The model can be used to estimate the scores for universities not ranked among the ARWU's top 500.
Top-100 Highest-Cited Original Articles in Ischemic Stroke: A Bibliometric Analysis Our list of top-100 citation classics specific to ischemic stroke provide a detailed insight into academic achievements, historical perspective and serves as a guide for the scientific progress in stroke.
The Most-Cited Works in Severe Traumatic Brain Injury: A Bibliometric Analysis of the 100 Most Cited Articles The present study provides a cross-sectional summary of the 100 cited studies in sTBI, highlighting areas of research that require further investigation and development.
The Trade-Offs of Teamwork Among STEM Doctoral Graduates The present study fills an important gap in the literature of team science by providing novel insights into the individual-level career outcomes of PhD holders in STEM as a function of their engagement on teams. Our primary finding of a robust salary premium for teamwork appears to be partly offset by more hours worked; and, it is this apparent trade-off that seems to explain why there is no comparable difference in job satisfaction ratings among those who work on or outside of teams. Future research is needed to explore (a) the psychological and environmental factors that account for why people choose to engage or avoid teamwork, as well as (b) the psychological consequences and, perhaps, coping mecha-nisms that people face or apply as a result of participation in teamwork.
Global Tissue Engineering Trends: A Scientometric and Evolutive Study In summary, bibliometric analysis is a valid tool for the study of the global trends and temporal evolution of a discipline like TE. Results obtained related to research areas showed a high and increasing multidisciplinary role of TE as all the science and technology categories of knowledge converge their research efforts leading to the development of new applications for daily clinical practice. Further analysis focused on the terminological evolution and identification of the most relevant concepts could provide an useful tool not only for the design of teaching strategies but also for promoting future avenues in tissue engineering research.
A Bibliometric Overview and Visualization of the International Journal of Fuzzy Systems Between 2007 and 2017 According to the above discussion, some important and interesting findings can be yielded:
Do altmetrics correlate with the quality of papers? A large-scale empirical study based on F1000Prime data This result on the one hand questions the use of Twitter counts for research evaluation purposes and on the other hand indicates potential use of Mendeley reader counts.
Student researchers' perceived prerequisites for voluntary research collaboration in the context of Flemish and Chinese universities Our study's contributions to the current collaboration study are threefold.
Book impact assessment: A quantitative and text-based exploratory analysis Overall the exploratory analysis provides a useful insight into the problem of book impact assessment.
An altmetric analysis of scholarly articles from India It is found that there is no clearly seen relationship between reads and citations.
Predicting the Number of Publications for Scholarly Networks The experimental results provide objective evidence for predictive performance of different methods. The predictive performance of the SVM_NN is better than the other two categories machine learning methods, illustrated by the metric of NDCG on different conferences. The proposed approaches can be naturally applied to all kinds of fields, such as medical treatments, weather, industry and agricultural production.
On the value of foreign PhDs in the developing world: Training versus selection effects in the case of South Africa From the perspective of an emerging economy with limited resources wishing to advance science, the development of local universities should thus be stressed, although it is clear that individuals who are able to study for a PhD abroad gain personally when they return. Our evidence suggests that the fairly common view that foreignness equates to quality does not capture the nuances of university training in a developing country, at least not in terms of research produced by academics.
Retraction statements and research malpractice in economics We conclude that the frequent vagueness of retraction statements, and a reluctance to signal research malpractice, generally results in little damage to the reputation of caught, and known, offenders. Thus, a key deterrent to engaging in research malpractice is lacking. The proposals made here are intended to stimulate debate and to prompt the academic community to move forward on these crucial issues.
The evolution of Resources Conservation and Recycling over the past 30 years: A bibliometric overview Knowing the objective bibliometric characteristics and the research topic evolution can serve as a useful reference for future studies, which may be of interest to the general audience.
Categorical and Geographical Separation in Science Our results indicate that even such fundamental and straightforward analysis as calculation of correlation coef-ficient between position of the university in the ranking and the number of papers published by its employees may reveal some non-trivial relationships.
An empirical study of the per capita yield of science Nobel prizes: is the US era coming to an end? We have shown that the timeline of physics, chemistry and medicine Nobel prizes provides a reliable database that allows to extract both a tractable model and to forecast future aggregate developments.
Frontiers of low-carbon technologies: Results from bibliographic coupling with sliding window The conclusions are shown as follows. (1) CCUS and renewable generation are promising domain in the low-carbon technology field.
The lognormal distribution explains the remarkable pattern documented by characteristic scores and scales in scientometrics The results of the present article indicate that whenever citation counts are consistent with a lognormal model having a standard deviation parameter close to a value of 1we can expect the application of the CSS method to produce the approximate 70-21-9% pattern. While it seems that in essence the CSS pattern is indeed explainable in the framework of the lognormal distribution of citation counts across the sciences, this cannot in itself be taken as evidence in support of either the strong or of the weak universality claim. Following this account it is not the CSS pattern that is ultimately remarkable, but rather the skewness of science that underpins it.
Ranking journals using social choice theory methods: A novel approach in bibliometrics This paper demonstrates the power of ordinal methods based on the majority rule.
Dimensions: A competitor to Scopus and the Web of Science? Combining the results for one field 2008–2018 and those from the 2012 random sample from all fields, the results suggest that the coverage and citation counts of Dimensions are comparable to those of Scopus. Thus, Dimensions seems to be essentially interchangeable with Scopus in terms of coverage and citation counts. Overall, however, the results suggest that Dimensions is a competitor to the Web of Science and Scopus for non-evaluative citation analyses and for supporting some types of formal research evaluations.
Algorithmically generated subject categories based on citation relations: An empirical micro study using papers on overall water splitting The results of this micro study question the discriminatory power of the ACCS. We recommend larger follow-up studies on broad datasets. One possible interpretation of our results is that the cluster algorithm used to construct ACCS is not able to distinguish properly between scientific fields. Further studies should follow with comparisons on other subject-specific databases with broad coverages of related subject areas and preferably intellectual assignments of scientific fields to publications.
Journal editorship index for assessing the scholarly impact of academic institutions: An empirical analysis in the field of economics This paper presents an alternative approach to using editorial board memberships as the basis for assessing the scholarly impact of economics institutions.
Characterizing highly cited method and non-method papers using citation contexts: The role of uncertainty This paper has shown that the citances for highly cited method papers carry much different word markers than non-methods and, conversely, non-method citances carry more hedging terms.
Examining the usage, citation, and diffusion patterns of bibliometric mapping software: A comparative study of three tools In this article, we investigate the use, citation, and diffusion of CiteSpace, HistCite, and VOSviewer in scientific literature. Our findings provided further evidence that software is important to research, but that the practices of software mention and citation are still inconsistent. Greater consistency in this respect will lay a foundation for improving software citation practices overall and will contribute to a more effective use of scientific software.
Author-level metrics in the new academic profile platforms: The online behaviour of the Bibliometrics community One general conclusion that can be extracted from this study is that despite the general preference towards some platforms (GSC and ResearchGate) there is not any platform in which all researchers in a discipline are present, or one that collects and provides the best data across all dimensions (citations, usage, social connectivity).
Ranking scholars: A measure representation In sum, the class of measure-based rankings contains the class of rankings that have an additive representation.
Predicting research excellence at the individual level: The importance of publication rate, top journal publications, and top 10% publications in the case of early career mathematicians An important contribution of this study is the high relative importance of publishing in top journals and the indication that those who publish many articles in top journals, which implicitly require a high publication count, have a higher probability of attaining excellence.
A spatial scientometric analysis of the publication output of cities worldwide In this paper, I performed a spatial scientometric analysis to investigate cities' scientific output.
Funding model and creativity in science: Competitive versus block funding and status contingency effects This paper analyzes the relation between funding schemes and the novelty of scientific outputs.
Serving a Fragmented Field: Information Seeking in Higher Education The findings of this study confirm that Ellis' (1989) common information seeking behaviors are still relevant to social scientists in the digital age. They also speak to some unique characteristics of the information seeking of scholars in applied social science fields. The reliance by my participants on Google Scholar as an information seeking tool highlights the importance of attaching descriptive metadata to scholarship which may end up disassociated from disciplinary databases or journals. Future research on the information needs of faculty could examine other fields to determine similarities and differences between them.
Demonstrating Library Impact Through Acknowledgment: An Examination of Acknowledgments in Theses and Dissertations Acknowledgments in theses and dissertations provide a means for academic libraries to demonstrate their impact on graduate student learning, research, and success.
Google Scholar's Coverage of the Engineering Literature 10 years Later In this study Google Scholar was consistently high performing throughout all decades and subjects as compared to the inconsistent performance of Compendex and Scopus. The results from this study confirm the hypothesis that Google Scholar performed better in 2017 than it did in 2008 (Meier & Conkling, 2008). Google Scholar is a reasonable alternative to expensive, fee-based tools.
Highly cited articles in wind tunnel-related research: a bibliometric analysis Highly cited articles in wind tunnel-related research were identified and analyzed basing on the Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED) database from 1900 to 2014.
Visualizing Collaboration Characteristics and Topic Burst on International Mobile Health Research: Bibliometric Analysis The collaboration of core authors on mHealth research is not tight and stable.
Embedding funding consultation in library services: A co-occurrences network analysis of knowledge flow in scientific funding Considering the complexity of funding application, growing popularity of interdisciplinary research, and the advantage of traditional library services on information collection, integration, and utilization, we argue that the library can serve as a conductor to help scholars understand these rules and facilitate funding application process. This paper investigates the interdisciplinary knowledge flow based on DACs of scientific funding. To achieve greater funding application success, scholars should have a clear view of the knowledge flowability and the network structure of the disciplinary nodes in scientific funding projects.
Update regarding the society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES) grant distribution and impact on recipient's academic career This study confirms that over the last 8 years, there has been a shift in SAGES grant funding towards supporting younger researchers such as residents and assistant professors.
An overview of biomass energy research with bibliometric indicators There is no doubt that the analysis based on massive data can, to some extent, reveal the macrostate of the development of the field.
Geographical visualization of research collaborations of library science in China First, the contributions of regions in LS research in China are unbalanced. Second, cross-regional collaboration in LS research is very broad, but neither mature nor stable. This study validates the methodology and tools that may serve as a reference to analyze cross-regional collaboration within a research field.
Institutional repositories: a bibliometric study of the social sciences citation index (SSCI) "Based on the findings, the growth of institutional repositories as an academic subject is likely to continue. If such discussions can be conducted in other disciplines, institutional repositories may be able to provide a more promising outcome to academia."
Measuring diversity of music tastes in online musical society In this paper, we firstly proposed an improved measure of diversity of musical tastes based on the Hill-type true diversity.
Using bibliometrics to analyze the state of academic productivity in US pediatric surgery training programs Variability was identified based on institution, gender, and rank. This information can be used for benchmarking the academic productivity of faculty and programs and as an adjunct in promotion/tenure decisions. This study represents the most detailed analysis of academic productivity in US Pediatric Surgery programs to date.
Factors Contributing Towards Research Productivity and Visibility: a Case Study of Pakistan Thus, there is a linear growth in the research productivity with the increasing number of institutions. Data pertaining to the grant released to the Higher Education Commission and the total numbers of research papers published in web of science generals show a near perfect positive correlation. Hence in order to enhance productivity as well visibility or citation impact of Pakistani papers, there is a need to promote the culture of teamwork and involve multiple authors as far as possible to publish the articles both at the national as well as international level.
Bibliometric analysis of insights into soil remediation Our results identified the hotspots and developing trends of contaminated soil remediation studies and provide guidance for future research directions.
Statistical evaluation of research performance of young university scholars: A case study Unlike the statistical analysis of individual research metrics, the approach based on the principal component analysis can provide a complex view of the research systems.
A Study of Core Competencies for Supporting Roles in Engagement and Impact Assessment in Australia The findings showed a strong emphasis on interpersonal and communication-based skills.
Categorization of E-learning as an emerging discipline in the world publication system: a bibliometric study in SCOPUS This set serves as a channel of scientific communication and structure of knowledge on the thematic and can therefore be considered as the basis for establishing the “e-learning" thematic category in the world system of scientific publications, contributing to the consolidation of the discipline, to its access and development by researchers. Using a combination of bibliometric indicators and analysis techniques, this study has categorized e-learning as an emerging discipline in the world system of scientific publications, consisting of 64 descriptors and 219 journals and congresses indexed by SCOPUS between 2012 and 2014.
Increasing Residency Research Output While Cultivating Community Research Collaborations The collaboration of core authors on mHealth research is not tight and stable. Furthermore, collaboration between institutions mainly occurs in the United States, although country collaboration is seen as relatively scarce. The focus of research topics on mHealth is decentralized. Our study might provide a potential guide for future research in mHealth.
A New Approach to Web Co-Link Analysis All MDS maps show a clear divide between the anti- and provaccination sides and this divide reflects the polarity of the vaccination debate in the society (Brunson & Sobo, 2017). This suggests that the new approach of co-link analysis proposed in this study is feasible. In summary, we hope that our study will stimulate a renewed interest and research activities in co-link analysis, which will lead to more information being uncovered from these valuable web data.
On the Differences Between Citations and Altmetrics: An Investigation of Factors Driving Altmetrics Versus Citations for Finnish Articles This research provides an increased understanding of fac-tors that may affect the ways in which scientific work receives online attention.
Which Domains Do Open-Access Journals Do Best In? A 5-Year Longitudinal Study Using the designed methods, we found that in terms of average CiteScore, closed-access journals have an advantage in top percentiles, whereas open-access journals perform better in lower quartiles—a trend increasingly noticeable over the years included in the dataset. This study also uncovered some disciplinary differences between closed-access and open-access journals: Closed-access journals had a notable advantage in social sciences (e.g., business and economics), whereas open-access journals performed better in medical and healthcare domains (e.g., health profession and nursing). Controlling for a journal's rank and disciplinary differences, we found that over the years 2011-2015, there are statistically more closed-access journals in Top 10%, Quartile 1, and Quartile 2 categories that gained in scientific impact, whereas more open-access journals in Quartile 4 gained in impact by the same metric. At the same time, there are statistically more closed-access journals in Social Sciences and more open-access journals in biochemistry and medicine that gained scientific impact. In the future, a multi-level analysis-one that includes both articles and their asso-ciated journals may offer deeper insight into the effects of open-access publication.
How Are the Best JASIST Papers Cited? As a contrast to Brooks' conclusion that the award articles are clearly better than average (Brooks, 2000), our findings suggest that only a few award articles perform better than other articles by citation count; most of the award articles are cited much less than nonaward articles, although the award articles are in the 50th percentile. This study clearly observed that this is often untrue and reveals gaps in the selection process. Therefore, the Association needs to consider adopting new measures to alleviate the workload of the jury.
Conflicting measures and values: How humanities scholars in Australia and Sweden use and react to bibliometric indicators Scholar's attitudes regarding bibliometrics are mixed; many are critical of these measures, while at the same time feeling pressured to use them. One main tension described by our respondents is between intradisciplinary criteria of quality and formalized indicators, and negotiating these "orders of worth" is a challenging balancing act, especially for younger researchers.
Consensus-based journal rankings: A complementary tool for bibliometric evaluation In this article we present several proposals to obtain an aggregated consensus ranking as an alternative/ complementary tool to standardize annual rankings. Taking the main features of each method into account, BPA becomes a good choice because (a) it does not penalize journals that are not ranked in all the yearly lists, and (b) it provides a ranking with ties, so smoothing the differences among the journals and avoiding crisp frontiers between similarly ranked journals. As a future research line, it would be interesting, instead of considering the input orders as permutations, to aggregate the information provided by the IF (or whichever other crite- rion) to construct bucket orders in a suitable way (by using k-means, for instance).
In-text function of author self-citations: Implications for research evaluation practice We consistently find that self-citations are less likely to function as nonessential citations than do external citations, and have a particularly high likelihood to be Applied citations, the type of citations that have influenced the citing article most strongly. These findings (along with the evidence that author self-citations are generally not used to inflate citing authors' citation counts) suggest that, contrary to a common belief, self-citations should not be discounted in citation analysis, and should perhaps be given more weight than external citations in weighted citation analysis that attempts to assign higher weights to essential citations.
Do the technical universities exhibit distinct behaviour in global university rankings? A Times Higher Education (THE) case study The results demonstrate a distinct statistical behaviour of TUs, characterised by moderate-to-high scores in Industry Income and a low performance in Research scores if compared with the remaining non-Technical universities of the Top-800 sample in THE ranking.
Lower-rated publications do lower academics' judgments of publication lists: Evidence from a survey experiment of economists The results of these two joint-evaluation tests strongly suggest that it may not be significantly harmful for economists to publish additional papers in lower-ranked journals as long as the evaluators can clearly see from being able to evaluate multiple publication lists simultaneously – that people with longer lists have everything that people with the shorter lists have.
International research networks: Determinants of country embeddedness Overall, international embeddedness in the global research network is strongly influenced by the structure of the national research network as well as by national policies. Market creation by means of demand side policies seems more effective for international embeddedness than the provision of research funds or a general commitment to mitigate climate change. In future research, it would be important to understand how the different policies interact within the broader policy mix to affect network structures.
Boundary spanning innovation and the patent system: Interdisciplinary challenges for a specialized examination system In recent decades, patented inventions have tended to cite to more-and-more distant areas of the knowledge space. By spanning across distant knowledge domains, these inventions bring together ideas, technologies, and techniques from multiple areas, re-combining them to benefit by mixing this distant knowledge together. Although this increase in boundary spanning inventions can in some ways be considered a boon for contemporary consumers, it raises potential challenges for a patent examination system that has for decades focused on specialization.
Eigenfactor score and alternative bibliometrics surpass the impact factor in a 2-years ahead annual-citation calculation: a linear mixed design model analysis of Radiology, Nuclear Medicine and Medical Imaging journals Our findings support researchers' decision to stop the misuse of IF alone to evaluate journals. Radiologists and other researchers should review journal's bibliometrics for their decision-making during the manuscript submission phase. A re-ranking of journals using Eigenfactor Score, Article Influence Score, and Cited Half-life provides a better assessment of their significance and importance in particular disciplines.
Impact of Scientific Productivity and Trend on Publication Output of Nigerian Authors in Web of Science from 2006 to 2016 Findings of the study reveal that there are irregular rise and fall in the publication output which has led to no, weak and moderate monotonic trend in the publication output in Nigeria. The findings also reveal that citation is highly associated with number of publications and collaborations. Thus, this study recommends that government and funding agencies should allocate enough funds for research activity, as this will improve the growth pattern of publication output in Nigeria.
Multilevel Analysis of International Scientific Collaboration Network in the Influenza Virus Vaccine Field: 2006-2013 The results suggest that multilayered analysis helps provide a more comprehensive understanding of international scientific collaboration.
What Fraction of Papers in Astronomy and Physics Are Not Cited in 40 Years? So virtually all the papers in these two sciences are useful.
Retracted articles in surgery journals. What are surgeons doing wrong? Retraction of published articles does not occur frequently in surgery journals.
The potential for Altmetrics to measure other types of impact in scientific production: academic and social impact dynamics in social media and networks Conclusion. The social impact measured by actions and interactions on Facebook and Twitter reach a significant 36%, attesting the potentiality of altmetrics for measurement, in addition to the academic impact and the impact of scientific results in society.
Which academic papers do researchers tend to feature on ResearchGate? Using the collected ResearchGate data, we found that researchers tend to feature their own publications in which they are important authors, or were recently published, highly cited or published in high-reputation sources. We also identified research publications valued by the author, but which have not been recognised by others. By featuring their research, researchers can highlight their academic achievements and create the potential to contribute to the wider scientific community through the future application or discussion of their work.
Does bibliometric research confer legitimacy to research assessment practice? A sociological study of reputational control, 1972-2016 Therefore, we conclude that a growing gap exists between an academic sector with little capacity for collective action and increasing demand for routine performance assessment by research organizations and funding agencies. This gap has been filled by database providers. By selecting and distributing research metrics, these commercial providers have gained a powerful role in defining de-facto standards of research excellence without being challenged by expert authority.
Dissemination of results from medical student public health research training and factors associated with publication Mandatory medical student research experiences promote tangible research output.
Improving the evaluation of worldwide biomedical research output: classification method and standardised bibliometric indicators by disease The proposed method provides a tool to assess biomedical research output in new ways.
Sustainable Tourism in Sensitive Areas: Bibliometric Characterisation and Content Analysis of Specialised Literature The characterisation of the papers published on Web of Science has highlighted the areas of greatest interest to researchers, namely islands and coastal areas, while papers dealing with mountain and polar areas are less visible on this database, which is considered to be the most relevant according to many scientific forums.
Ten Years of Sustainability (2009 to 2018): A Bibliometric Overview A comprehensive bibliometric review of SUS publications from 2009 to 2018 was completed.
Spanish youth is emigrating: A bibliometric approach to the media coverage Beyond the specific assessments, sections, approaches and methods with which the phenomenon is approached, the media coverage of the emigration of Spanish youth highlights the widespread social concern about the phenomenon. As a result of this research, new investigative lines are unveiled regarding the social construction of the phenomenon in the media and the identity and individual construction of the 'truncated careers' of young Spanish people. Furthermore, it is necessary to focus in depth on the 'truncated careers' of young Spanish people using a phenomenological approach that gives voice to the main characters and permits us to understand their trajectories, the discrepancies between their expectations and reality, and the individual strategies undertaken (such as emigration or resilience) to subvert or adapt to the situation.
Peer Review Under Review - a Statistical Study on Proposal Ranking at ESO. Part I: the Pre-meeting Phase The model predictions are confirmed by the results obtained from bootstrapping the data for sub-panels composed by three referees, and fully consistent with the NIPS experiment.
Strategies for effective collaborative manuscript development in interdisciplinary science teams The success of the strategies for effective collaborative manuscript development described above depends in part on how they are executed and implemented by each research team. Early and frequent discussion of these topics can promote productive and satisfying collaborations that result in better and more impactful publications. Further, a successful collaborative team can conduct meaningful science while upholding their guiding principles, thus meeting the needs of both the team and its individual members.
FRONTIER KNOWLEDGE AND SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION: EVIDENCE FROM THE COLLAPSE OF INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE "The dramatic decline in international scientific cooperation around WWI enables us to study how frontier research affects scientific productivity."
Correlation Between Quality of Evidence and Number of Citations in Top 50 Cited Articles in Rotator Cuff Repair Surgery The top 50 cited articles in rotator cuff repair surgery comprise a variety of years, journals, countries of origin, and study types.
Other voices: authors' literary-academic presence and publication in the discursive world system Benefits of periphery scholars maintaining their inherent literary-academic presences do not lay in unattainable objective accuracy. Instead, value arises from authentic author identity facilitating representations of regional phenomena articulately informed by textual voice reflecting social and cultural contexts. By understanding and disrupting the mechanisms that shift authors' identities and their geographic, rhetorical, linguistic voices we can create a globally inclusive community of academic discourse a commu- nity capable of producing rich scholarship that upholds shared ideals of academic inquiry.
Rising Star Evaluation in Heterogeneous Social Network In this paper, we try to evaluate the rising stars via inner factors. Result shows our method holds better performance than the comparison method. In the future, we will try to train decision tree with different ranks, and test the method on more datasets.
The globalisation of scientific mobility, 1970-2014 Based on a global analysis of internationally mobile scientists for the period 1970 to 2014, we identified an increasing diversification of countries of origin and destination attracting (back) increasing numbers of mobile scientists.
Citation Impact Factors Among Faculty in Canadian Social Work Programs This study fills a distinct void in the Canadian literature about the use of impact factors in Canadian social work pro-grams. We offer these recommendations as both constructive and important for Canadian programs, in order to have the neces-sary discussions on performance measures and research out-comes, tied to impact patterns. Thus, Canadian social work programs and faculty need to learn and to strategize how to work and survive more effectively in this reality.
A bibliometric analysis of tuberculosis research, 2007-2016 The past decade has seen a continued increase in TB publications.
ON THE USE OF BIBLIOMETRIC INDICATORS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF EMERGING TOPICS AND THEIR EVOLUTION: SPIN-OFFS AS A CASE STUDY The present study describes the emergence and evolution of scientific literature on spin-offs using a bibliometric approach, contextualizing our observations with previous studies examining emerging topics from this perspective. Some of the main aspects observed with regard to the bibliometric indicators calculated include the age of the cited bibliography, which constitutes a prominent indicator for establishing the emerging nature of a topic as well as its stage of development. All of the aspects mentioned should be contrasted with studies on additional cases that confirm and expand on the observations reported here.
SCIENTIFIC MOBILITY INDICATORS IN PRACTICE: INTERNATIONAL MOBILITY PROFILES AT THE COUNTRY LEVEL Scientific mobility indicators opens the door for analysis of global mobility trends and study of the evolution of the global scholarly workforce. At the same time, these indica-tors can provide a better understanding of the phenome-non of international collaboration (Chinchilla-Rodríguez et al., 2017). Further research should focus on expanding the theoretical interpretation of such indicators to provide more advanced research policy discus-sions around mobility.
RECEIVED CITATIONS AS A MAIN SEO FACTOR OF GOOGLE SCHOLAR RESULTS RANKING The present study demonstrates more clearly than in previous research how citations are the most relevant off-page feature in the ranking of search results on Google Scholar. The other features have minimal influence.
Interactive Poster Survey Study of ACS Members' Knowledge and Needs on Research Ethics In conclusion, as we have shown, ACS members have expressed specific interest in a number of ethical issues related to publications, plagiarism, data-handling, and ethical decision-making. The failure of participants to identify existing ethics resources including ACS resources indicates that there is a role for ACS ETHX in publicizing the availability of ACS’ existing resources as well as those existing high-quality resources that have been developed by others. Future work by ETHX will likely include development of a membership-wide online survey, sponsorship of national meeting programming (symposia), and the development of a web-based resource identifying existing resources and materials that may be useful particularly to the chemical community on research ethics topics.
Title length Analyzing all articles published between 1970 and 2011 and referenced in EconLit, we document a strong and robust negative correlation between the length of the title of an article and three measures of scientific quality: the impact factor of the journal in which the article is published, the number of citations it receives and an index of novelty based on keyword combination atypicality.
AIRank: Author Impact Ranking through Positions in Collaboration Networks In this paper, our primary concern is to quantify scholars' scientific impact by utilizing the heterogeneous academic network topology.
Scientometric analysis of Condensed Matter Physics journal The purpose of this paper was to make a “multidimensional” quantitative description of a scientific journal - Condensed Matter Physics.
An examination of the effect of open versus paywalled access publication on the disseminative impact and citation count of publications in intensive care medicine and anesthesia ICM publications that are available as OA in the medium term result in higher AAS when compared to PA publications, this phenomenon was not observed in anesthesia. AAS correlate with future citation counts, however, a larger study is required to confirm this.
Empirical investigation of co-authorship in the field of finance: A network perspective Our findings highlight the mechanics of collaborative research production and are therefore useful for the administration of academic institutions and policymaking in higher education.
Research Project EvaluationLearnings from the PATHWAYS Project Experience There is a need for the implementation of a structured evaluation process in multidisciplinary projects involving different stakeholders in diverse socio-environmental and political conditions.
Using Bradford's law of scattering to identify the core journals of pediatric surgery This information will be useful to guide residents, fellows, and attending surgeons to specific journals, facilitating efforts to stay current in a rapidly evolving field. In addition, academic pediatric surgeon-scholars can target their own work to these journals to efficiently disseminate their findings.
H-index and academic rank in general surgery and surgical specialties in the United States The h-index of academic surgeons correlates with academic rank and serves a potential tool to measure academic productivity.
How academically productive are endocrine surgeons in the United States? Based on these data, the AAES members excelled with respect to publications, citations, and research funding compared with nonendocrine surgical faculty. These results demonstrate that endocrine surgeons can contribute enormously to the overall academic mission. Therefore, more surgical departments in the United States should consider establishing an endocrine surgery program.
Recent Trends in Publications of US and European Directors in Vascular Surgery In both Europe and the US, the top third produced more than two-thirds of the publications, with the disparity being even more pronounced in Europe where the top third produced almost 90% of the total publications.
Crossing disciplinary, institutional and role boundaries in an interdisciplinary consortium Implications of our findings include: (1) funding agencies need to consider the definition of cross-boundary work (disciplinary, institutional and role) when creating Requests For Proposals and what data will be considered valid for their definition of cross-boundary work if funding is to result in more authentic collaborations and (2) universities need to support cross-boundary work through allocating resources and emphasising cross-boundary research in tenure and review processes. Future research could investigate the long-term impact of Centers on the future collaboration habits of scholars involved in them.
Associations between attitudes towards scientific misconduct and self-reported behavior This study shows that there is a correlation between attitudes towards scientific misconduct and self-reported problematic scientific behaviors among doctoral students in biomedicine.
Bibliometric and Scientometric Analysis of the Articles Published in the Journal of Religion and Health Between 1975 and 2016 While religion and health seem like distant study areas, spiritual/religious beliefs and medical practices play a complementary role in the fight against disease in improving patient health.
Does citation matter? Research citation in policy documents as an indicator of research impact - an Australian obesity policy case-study "Citation of research in policy documents in this case did not always provide evidence that the cited research had influenced the policy process, only that it was accessible and relevant to the content of the policy document."
Does it payoff to research economics-A tale of citation, knowledge and economic growth in transition countries The observed pattern gives a suggestive evidence that human capital investment has a strong and positive effect on wealth creation within a country. These results are important from the policy perspective since they highlight the importance of timing of investment into economics for a transition economy after such shock.
Multi-institutional authorship in genetics and high-energy physics This study investigated multi-institutional authorship in genetics and high-energy physics from 2008 to 2013. The increasing trends in the annual percentages of multi-institutional authors and their articles indicate that additional studies should analyze multi-institutional authorship. This finding implies that multi-institutional authorship could help institutions to enhance their visibility by encouraging researchers to become affiliated with other institutions.
Trust Versus Perceived Quality in Scholarly Publishing: A Personality-Attitude-Intention Approach In summary, the main contribution of this study is the evidence that both trust and quality interact differently with intention to publish in OA versus non-OA journals, specifically increasing one while decreasing the other.
Who's Contributing Most to American Neuroscience Journals: American or Foreign Authors? Non-American contributions have impacted neuroradiology more than other clinical neuroscience fields with Asian authorship showing the greatest impact. That impact is growing, and the causes are manifold. Nonetheless American-authored articles are cited more.
Time series-based bibliometric analysis of the dynamics of scientific production In conclusion, time series analysis tools may be profitably utilized to study scientific development, based on bibliometric and socioeconomic data. The VAR model also indicates that short term forecasts of one country's production might be feasible based on its own output history and on the set of mutual influences with other countries. Another potential application of the models being proposed here could be to gather time series data for collaboration and co-citation between researchers from different countries in an attempt to quantify how much of the mutual influences are due to collaboration as opposed to simple emulation or competition.
An EU without the UK: mapping the UK's changing roles in the EU scientific research In our study, the influence of Brexit on scientific research is estimated by examining how the UK contributes to and collaborates with the EU.
Scientific productivity and cooperation in Turkic world: a bibliometric analysis Initially, it must be pointed out that Turkey is far beyond the other three member countries of Turkic Council in terms of the number of documents indexed in WoS according to the analyses between 2000 and 2016. Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan follow Turkey in this grading, respectively. Besides, it is a must to underline the fact that Turkey takes part in 95.24% of the cooperated studies which were carried out in all four member countries. In the meantime, it can be inferred from the data provided by Scopus, another comprehensive database, that Turkey is well ahead of other countries in the Council in terms of document numbers.
Early Mendeley readers correlate with later citation counts The results give clear evidence that early Mendeley readers are useful indictors of later citation impact in most, and perhaps all, fields and are better than early citations in this regard. Added to prior evidence that reader counts and citation counts have moderate or strong correlations in almost all fields in the longer term (Thelwall 2017c), this establishes Mendeley reader counts as a useful early impact indicator that should be considered for evaluations involving recently published articles. In summary, Mendeley reader counts are recommended as early impact indicators for situations where citation counts are valued as impact indicators in the fields analysed, there are no stakeholders that may manipulate Mendeley reader counts or the stakeholders are not aware of the indicators in advance, and the task involves recently-published research (e.g., up to 2 years old).
Comparing research productivity of returnee-PhDs in science, engineering, and the social sciences Implications of these insights are discussed to inform policies aimed toward incentivizing return of foreign PhDs to developing countries.
#Psychology: a bibliometric analysis of psychological literature in the online media The main finding is that the relationship between traditional metrics and the AS, which measures the coverage of papers, journals, and disciplines in various alternative metrics depends on the level of analysis. In addition, altmetrics are better seen as a complement rather than a substitute of traditional metrics like the impact factor. All in all, alternative metrics are still on the verge of validation and have yet to prove themselves to be of any use for the scientific community.
An analysis of Malaysian retracted papers: Misconduct or mistakes? The study concludes that retractions were mostly due to the authors misconduct. Despite the increases, the proportion of published scholarly literature affected by retraction remains very small, indicating that retraction represents an uncommon, yet potentially increasing and incipient, issue within Malaysian papers, which publishers as well as editors may have consistently and sufficiently addressed.
Changes in PubMed affiliation indexing improved publication identification by country In conclusion, the inclusion of all authors in affiliation indexing by PubMed significantly impacts the evaluation of the scientific production of countries, reducing under-registration.
The influence of journal publisher characteristics on open access policy trends The findings clearly indicate that a journal publisher's demographics do have an influence on their OA policy.
Predicting long-run citation counts for articles in top economics journals These findings suggest department heads and tenure and promotion committees should place greater weight on short-term citations as opposed to article placement when making personnel decisions.
Competition between academic journals for scholars' attention: the 'Nature effect' in scholarly communication In this paper, we have explored distinct modes of competition in scientific communication.
Has hosting on science direct improved the visibility of Latin American scholarly journals? A preliminary analysis of data quality Our preliminary studies show scant evidence that the journals have benefitted as yet from outsourcing, at least with respect to the important aspects we have analysed up until now. Journal editors who have invested in putting their journals on SD have a right to expect positive benefits from this strategy and the results to be forthcoming, but as most of the LA journals had limited content on this platform and were not covered in all the databases we analysed, they continue to have limited visibility. The services provided by Elsevier have the potential to reduce redundancy, increase interconnectivity, as well as serving to update the journals' publishing processes but the advantages of better metadata are not yet apparent in the database records which had important errors affecting retrieval.
Dependencies and autonomy in research performance: examining nanoscience and nanotechnology in emerging countries Emerging countries play an important role in the production of research in nanoscience and nanotechnology. This demonstrates the importance of examining the roles of developing and emerging countries in knowledge generation. The association of national and international institutions is quite beneficial. This pattern is also reflected in leading publications, yet to a lesser extent.
Scientometric research assessment in the developing world: A tribute to Michael J. Moravcsik from the perspective of the twenty-first century "Applying some advanced scientometric methods to a small sample we have found interesting and partially promising patterns in the research and publication output of 16 selected developing countries and emerging economies."
Characterization of the Cuban biopharmaceutical industry from collaborative networks Scientific collaboration could be a solution when encountering research that cannot be approached individually but needs to be undertaken in groups.
Developmental tendencies in the academic field of intellectual property through the identification of invisible colleges This paper proposes a new procedure to establish invisible colleges from the semantic structure emerging from the text sets sharing a specific threshold of references.
Indicator system for managing science, technology and innovation in universities The proposed system of indicators allows precise monitoring of the results of the research activity of an institution, in close interaction with the academic activity. Knowing the results in any given period from the calculation of this indicator system, is essential for managing the science, technology and innovation process in any university. The use and interpretation of results reveal the research and academic strengths and weaknesses of the organization, aspects that will document strategic improvement, plans of action, measurement criteria and policies of the institution in the short, medium and long term.
Bibliometric analysis to identify an emerging research area: Public Relations Intelligence-a challenge to strengthen technological observatories in the network society According to the core content of papers, keywords analysis applied shows the relevance of “Public Relations Intelligence” as an emerging research front and a need to foster the conditions for their growth and future consolidation. This concept is not only meant to have a better understanding of the possibilities of new organizations to improve their competitiveness and business profitability in the digital era, but also to offer guidance for enhancing technological observatories as a driving force on innovation.
Emerging roles of regional journals in the accreditation of knowledge in tropical medicine: Biomedica and Memorias do Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, 2007-2015 Both Biomédica and MIOC have increased their international visibility in the context of Open Access and the modern digital scenario.
Medical scientific output and specialization in Latin American countries This paper presents a preliminary analysis of the worldwide distribution of subject areas in medical research—that is, published research—derived from bibliometric indicators. This information could be useful to design pragmatic policies, to encourage research in key fields in order to respond better to the health needs of a given population. In short, smart specialization is one means of reserving a relevant position for medical research in a world undergoing rapid transformation, and of supporting health systems in search of universal coverage.
The changing nature of collaboration in tropical ecology and conservation Overall, our analyses sug-gest that only certain types of collaboration are increasing and that these increases coincide with a general increase in the number of authors per article. We encourage tropical conservation scientists continue to build collaborative ties, particularly with researchers based in underrepresented tropical countries, to ensure that tropical ecology and conservation remains inclusive and effective. Given that a lack of tropical-extratropical collaboration may limit the advancement conservation initiatives needed to protect tropical ecosystems in situ (Gómez-Pompa 2004, Ricketts et al. 2005, Joppa et al. 2008), future work should attempt to identify the mechanisms behind these patterns so that strategies to mitigate them can be developed.
'Environment' Submissions in the UK's Research Excellence Framework 2014 We propose several changes to improve how environment is evaluated.
What influences the regional diversity of reviewers: A study of medical and agricultural/biological sciences journals This research adds to our understanding of the selection of reviewers.
Journal coverage of the Emerging Sources Citation Index Our findings reveal that the visibility of the journals included in the ESCI, measured by being indexed in other abstracting databases, is far lower than that of the classical indexes of WoS or of Scopus. In view of the consolidated tradition of journal evaluation, it is surprising that the ESCI does not grant special value to the journals' history and their listing in other selective indexing and abstract databases. In summary, the ESCI has generated many expectations regarding its value as a reference for evaluating journals within broader geographical, linguistic, and subject scope than covered by the WoS CC. However, although it contains many more journals, it does not appear to have wider inclusion criteria (with respect to geography and language). It is, therefore, important to take into account its limitations.
Growth and quality of Chinese journals from 1949 to 2013 Our findings indicate that the number of Chinese academic journals has substantially increased in the past 65 years, with an average growth rate of 2.74%. This study also shows that the majority of provinces have increased the number of their journals, the growth rates of which were all positive albeit at rather different levels. Finally, this paper demonstrates that Chinese academic journals are of low quality, although this has improved over the period. Although this paper uncovers the landscape of Chinese academic journals from three dimensions of growth rates, regional distribution, and quality, there are still limitations that deserve to be addressed in future studies.
Should authors suggest reviewers? A comparative study of the performance of author-suggested and editor-selected reviewers at a biological journal These results suggest that authors should be encouraged to suggest reviewers.
Where Arab social science and humanities scholars choose to publish: Falling in the predatory journals trap This study contributed to exploring the publishing behaviour of Arab social sciences scholars. The study revealed that many scholars are engaged in international publishing without being aware of the predatory journals and the adverse effect of these journals on their career progress. Hence, there is a need to give Arab scholars proper training and provide them with skills that would enable them to write high-quality research papers and to select appropriate journals.
The effect of publishing a highly cited paper on a journal's impact factor: A case study of the Review of Particle Physics By using the journal citation reports and Web of Science's citation analysis tool, this study finds the existence of an RPP phenomenon in the particle physics field, which is a more general and continuous form of the 'A short history of SHELX' phenomenon in Acta Crystallographica Section A.
Benchmarking Scholarly Performance by Faculty in Forestry and Forest Products Model-based benchmarking provides much-needed context for interpretation of quantitative performance metrics and can sup- plement comprehensive peer evaluation.
Global Scientific Production on Illicit Drug Addiction: A Two-Decade Analysis As there are important socio-cultural differences in the epidemiology and optimal clinical care of addictive disorders, it is suggested that low- and more affected middle-income countries increase their capacity to conduct research and disseminate the knowledge in this field.
Research trends and collaborations by applied science researchers in South African universities of technology: 2007-2017 The results of the bibliometric analysis show that the disciplines related to the applied science subjects at UoTs in South Africa are one of the growth areas in terms of research outputs.
Immigration: analysis, trends and outlook on the global research activity Considerably increasing scientific work on immigration cannot only be explained by the general increase of scientific work but is also owed to the latest development with increased mobility, world-wide crises and the need of flight and migration.
Chemical engineering research synergies across scientific categories Although the chemical engineering undergraduate curriculum shares the basics of physics and mathematics with other engineering disciplines, we cite more journals in chemistry.
Words by the tail: Assessing lexical diversity in scholarly titles using frequency-rank distribution tail fits The present research has proven fruitful on both algorithmic and empirical grounds.
Research Collaboration by Practitioners in Computer Science, Library Science, and Management Although researchers are the primary knowledge creators, practitioners also con-tribute to the development of disciplines. Therefore, research collaborations between researchers and practitioners benefit knowl-edge creation, and the contributions of prac-titioners must not be neglected. Given the limitations related to journal selection in this study, further investigation of research collaboration types in practice-based journals is recommended to clarify the roles of practitioners.
A Citation Analysis of Scholarly Journals in Communication Studies This study represents a view of communication studies research and can provide librarians with data to inform their collection decisions. Making evidence-based decisions enables librarians to more effectively manage their communication studies collections, collaborate with librarians in related disciplines, and provide users with access to resources that best meet their needs.
Classifying and ranking topic terms based on a novel approach: role differentiation of author keywords In summary, this paper further explores the related issues to classifying and ranking topic terms based on a relatively novel perspective, i.e., a new conceptual framework of role differentiation for AKs.
Tenure and turnover of academics in six undergraduate programs in the United States One finding of this study is that faculty members in economics have the shortest average tenure, while those in chemistry and physics have the longest average tenure. The economics program has the highest turnover rate, while physics and chemistry have the lowest turnover rate. One additional benefit of this study is that it allows turnover trends to be analyzed for a prolonged period of time, and this has allowed the identification of a clear structural change after the 1970s.
Theoretical high energy physcis in Latin America from 1990 to 2012: a statistical study As a generic trend, the productivity increases with time.
Rainbow ranking: an adaptable, multidimensional ranking method for publication sets Our RR-index allows the combination of any known indices depending on the purposes of the evaluation and outputs a single number metric expressing multi-criteria relative ranking and can be applied to any scientific entity such as authors and journals. Consequently, the RR ranking can be considered a more unified and representative evaluation metric, compared to its individual generator dimensions. It is a general index that can be used in the classification of scientific journals, conferences, researchers, universities and of any other scientific entity.
Understanding the advisor-advisee relationship via scholarly data analysis This study presents advisees' potential academic performance of choosing different advisors with different academic ages or academic levels in the field of Computer Science.
The application of bibliometric analysis: disciplinary and user aspects In conclusion, our data has provided valuable information on how different practitioners as well as infor-mation specialists and library personnel support the use of bibliometrics.The bibliometric literature reflects the position and status of the field.We identify some fields as less well-covered bibliometrically.
Predicting the degree of interdisciplinarity in academic fields: the case of nanotechnology This study has examined the concept of interdisciplinarity, or the IDR, which has recently received increased attention.
Is predatory publishing a real threat? Evidence from a large database study We find that allegedly predatory journals are a small but exponentially-increasing part of all publications. Our econometric analysis shows that the expected profile of academics who are likely to publish in predatory journals are those with doctorates obtained in local institutions and with significant career time. We find a positive result, meaning that predatory journals show a higher increase of publications when they are inserted in Qualis.
Using the appearance of citations in full text on author co-citation analysis This paper proposes a novel method combining the numbers of mentioned times and context words into traditional author co-citation analysis (ACA). The results show that compared with the traditional method, our newly proposed approach not only shows better clustering performance but also provides more details in knowledge domain mappings. However, there are several limitations in this research. For example, we only used first authors' information instead of all authors'. The accuracy might thus be negatively affected.
Open access in ethics research: an analysis of open access availability and author self-archiving behaviour in light of journal copyright restrictions The study discovered a high proportion of articles available open access, 56%, which is among the higher open access percentages observed in any study for any discipline. We found that ethicists are at the same time prone to copyright infringement and undersharing their scholarly work, i.e. articles are made available on the open web incompatible with publisher policies (mainly publisher´s PDFs distributed on ASNs) while these and a much larger proportion of articles could be self-archived in compliance with the policies but are not. The discrepancy between the use of ResearchGate and Academia.edu is also an interesting finding, most previous studies have found ResearchGate to be the more popular platform while the reverse was true for this population of authors.
The evolutions of the rich get richer and the fit get richer phenomena in scholarly networks: the case of the strategic management journal The results make evident that the evolution of the complex temporal co-authorship and citation networks of the strategic management scientific community are governed jointly by the rich get richer and the fit get richer phenomena.
Delayed recognition of Judah Folkman's hypothesis on tumor angiogenesis: when a Prince awakens a Sleeping Beauty by self-citation This paper has attempted to apply methodology of citation analysis to explore whether Judah Folkman's scientific work suffered from delayed recognition, and whether the author was right in feeling scientific resistance to his tumor angiogenesis hypothesis (Bikfalvi 2016). It has shown that Folkman's landmark paper is indeed a SB based on the calculation of the B coefficient and according to Costas' criteria. The fact that Folkman kept citing his own paper after all those years (n = 15 before the awakening year 1994) demonstrates his phenomenal persistence and belief in the importance of his theory.
Who are the international research collaboration partners for China? A novel data perspective based on NSFC grants In the new era of globalization, China has been working actively in searching for international research collaboration partners and has established international cooperation relationships with many countries. For a more rational deployment of the collaboration in the next stage, it is meaningful to investigate who are the partners of China and what the status of collaboration. In the future research collaboration strategies, China should tilted much of its preferential policies towards the EU.
The effect of multidisciplinary collaborations on research diversification As would be expected, the analysis confirms that the diversified publications of a scientist are more frequently the fruit of multidisciplinary team collaborations.
Why do some research articles receive more online attention and higher altmetrics? Reasons for online success according to the authors Based on the findings it can be stated that the level of online attention received is a sum of many factors and that there are specific differences between the platforms where the attention has been received.
Publication patterns in the social sciences and humanities: evidence from eight European countries Our findings show that publication patterns differ both across fields (e.g. law differs from economics and business in the same way in Flanders and Finland) and across countries (e.g. publication patterns for law in the Czech Republic differ from those for law in Finland). The findings presented in this study have practical and policy implications. The internationalization policies in non-English speaking countries should be designed with consideration of current publication patterns.
Can Twitter increase the visibility of Chinese publications? After investigating the tweets and citations to 160,233 Chinese papers published in 2012, we determined the differences in the average number of citations received between tweeted Chinese papers and non-tweeted Chinese papers.
The role of baseline granularity for benchmarking citation impact. The case of CSS profiles The results of the overall comparison did not show any substantial deviations that would tell against the robustness of the method.
Comparison of citation and usage indicators in research assessment in scientific disciplines and journals We found a significant moderate correlation between citations and usage counts in WoS.
Highly cited papers in rheumatology: identification and conceptual analysis The present study shows a useful insight into the development and evolution of the Rheumatology research field, revealing actors that have made the most significant research contribution to its development. It is worth mentioning the practical application of the present study as it provides potentially relevant information to help understand the past, present and future scientific structure of the Rheumatology field that could help its future research development. It is also interesting in order to identify the different actors in which the scientific attention is focused.
Travel bans and scientific mobility: utility of asymmetry and affinity indexes to inform science policy Comparative analyses of these indicators can be useful for informing immigration policies and motivating collaboration and mobility relationships—emphasizing the importance of geographic and cultural similarities.
Identifying single influential publications in a research field: new analysis opportunities of the CRExplorer We explained some advanced methods which have been newly developed for CRExplorer.
The influence of dispersion on journal impact measures We introduced a new family of journal impact measures called the Mean Dispersion Indices which take account of the mean and variability of the number of citations in a journal.
Discontinuities in citation relations among journals: self-organized criticality as a model of scientific revolutions and change Using dynamic entropy measures such as Kullback–Leibler's (1951) divergence, Theil's (1972) improvement of the prediction, and Leydesdorff's (1991) test for critical transitions as indicators of change over time, we unexpectedly found “self-organized criticality” in the 10,000 + most pronounced cases of evolutionary change.
The repeat rate: from Hirschman to Stirling This short note provided a short history of the repeat rate, also known as the Hirschman-Herfindahl or as the Simpson index.
A novel bibliometric index with a simple geometric interpretation We have presented a new citation index, the x-index, which addresses some shortcomings of the h-index in terms of the balance between number of citations and number of publications.
Actors, Relations, and Networks: Scholarly Collaboration Beyond Bibliometric Measures The presented study contributes to research on collaboration networks in science in several ways. Firstly, the analysis shows that some factors traditionally recognised as focal for shaping collaboration processes might be secondary in certain social contexts. Thirdly, the presented contribution is based on a novel mix-methods approach, where the object under study are a collaboration networks extracted from qualitative interviews.
The structure of surveys and the peril of panels We conclude that ignoring dimensionality and the systematically unrepresentative nature of the sample could lead policy makers to draw inappropriate conclusions.
WASP (Write a Scientific Paper): Open access unsolicited emails for scholarly work - Young and senior researchers perspectives (Publication with Expression of Concern) Therefore authors and readers alike should evaluate emails received with regard to journal legitimacy prior to submission of work to possibly predatory journals. Authors should therefore be wary toward such emails received, and journals considered carefully prior to submission of their work so as to avoid falling into the predatory journals' trap.
Conceptualizing and measuring performance orientation of research funding systems This article tested the robustness of a synthetic indicator to measure the performance orientation of public R&D funding in a compara- tive setting.
Follow the money? How Australian universities replicate national performance-based funding mechanisms Analysis of the Australian case thus demonstrates strong vertical alignment between national and institutional research governance mechanisms as well as considerable convergence in the formal organization and governance of research activities at Australian universities.
Making citations of publications in languages other than English visible: On the feasibility of a PLOTE-index The PLOTE-index can be constructively used in policymaking, research evaluation, and strategizing.
The characteristics of highly cited researchers in Africa We conclude by arguing about the duality of our results. On the one hand, collaborating with frontier universities seems to be a crucial mechanism that allows researchers to develop scientific capabilities. Therefore, wise policy makers should be aware that research assessment in these contexts should go beyond measuring scientific impact in the academic community (through publications and citations in international journals) and also account for other broader impacts of scientific research in society such as skill formation (teaching and training), knowledge diffusion with other actors in society (talks/presentations, social media, and policy advise), fund raising, and innovation activities (Tijssen and Kraemer-Mbula 2017). Otherwise, incentives will be in place to stimulate winners that are already well connected with the global scientific elite.
The peer-review process: The most valued dimensions according to the researcher's scientific career This work seeks a better understanding of the selection process carried out by peers at the individual level, in this specific case, at the programme Investigador FCT, in Portugal.
Gender differences in scientific productivity and visibility in core neurosurgery journals: Citations and social media metrics Overall, our finding showed that female scholars were slightly more visible in terms of citations, tweets, and Mendeley readers compared to their male counterparts, despite their lower number in neurosurgery core journals. Thus, one might associate this higher visibility in terms of citations to an altmetric advantage for female scholars. Thus, the results obtained in this article by no means are neither comprehensive nor able to be generalized and caution should be advised with generalizing the results beyond the case studied.
The impacts of diabetes research from 31 European Countries in 2002 to 2013 Different European countries scored highly on these three measures.
Social reference managers and their users: A survey of demographics and ideologies Readership metrics are generated by a variety of different types of users and these users bring competing practices and ideologies to the mix. This suggests that Mendeley readership counts should not be seen as an indicator of social impact, but rather to represent another dimension of scholarly impact. These competing value systems and general ambiguity towards social media metrics should urge caution around the inclusion of readership metrics for those in the business of making and using altmetric indicators.
Recent trends in publications of US vascular surgery program directors The decrease in the number of publications/program/ year raises concern about the level of academic activity in vascular surgery. Overall, the annual distribution of the topic of these citations represents a continued shift from open to endovascular cases and decreasing basic science citations. However, basic science publications reduced by half.
Altmetric analysis of contemporary dental literature Conclusion Dental researchers, journal editors, publishers and research funders should pay more attention to Altmetrics as a newly-emerging scholarly tool measuring the social impact of research findings.
How Team Interlock Ecosystems Shape the Assembly of Scientific Teams: A Hypergraph Approach This article elucidates the significance of team interlock ecosystems, arguing that their characteristics determine the availability of unique knowledge teams use to solve complex issues, and the degree to which knowledge is shared and new ideas are generated.
Hot streaks in artistic, cultural, and scientific careers These results not only deepen our quantitative understanding of patterns that govern individual ingenuity and success, but also may have implications for identifying and nurturing individuals whose work will have lasting impact.
How scholars use academic social networking services Scholars in Turkey might feel a need for close personal relationships for scientific collaboration rather than collaborating through ASNSs across the globe.
A Mexican strategy to promote greater ethics in academic communications through nation-wide access to Turnitin In order to get good results in the promotion and development of a culture for the ethical use of infor-mation in academic and scientific communications, higher education and research institutions should put their efforts in three aspects: a) normative or regula-tory; b) formative and informative; and c) detection mechanisms. Turnitin can support this kind of work, as it helps students to understand, within real situations, how they have to register citations and references, and how they must construct paraphrases, in order to avoid academic plagiarism. We believe that the topic of plagiarism and the software used for its detection represents a novel line of research in Mexico and Latin America.
High-impact and transformative science (HITS) metrics: Definition, exemplification, and comparison Our primary finding is that across fields and periods, impact and transformativeness are positively correlated but clearly represent distinct phenomena.
Assessing the exchange of knowledge between operations management and other fields: Some challenges and opportunities We then describe some challenges for the field of OM in providing more research knowledge to other fields but also some opportunities that OM should be able to capitalize on, such as our historic ties to practice and our escalating research in strategic and organizational issues.
Publication Rates and Author Characteristics From 3 Plastic Surgery Journals in 2006 and 2016 Publication trends across plastic surgery journals allow benchmarking of plastic surgeons’ contribution to the scientific literature by analyzing authors’ specialty training, professional degree, and nationality. It is re- ported here that there is a slight decrease in publication rates from plas- tic surgeons in Annals, JPRAS, and PRS in 2016 compared with 2006. As resource allocation for research grants is a competitive process, bibliometric information is increasingly important and data presented in this article can be used to illustrate plastic surgeons’ performance.
The scholarly productivity and work environments of academic pharmacists The results provided evidence for a strong connection or nexus between teaching and research effectiveness. Organizational culture of academic pharmacy programs is highly important for faculty vitality and commitment. The findings should be helpful for academic leaders in devising programs for mentoring, development, and retention of faculty.
Measurement and analysis of collaboration ability: The collaborative rate, collaborative breadth and collaborative depth In scientific research, collaboration is becoming more and more important. It is, therefore, vital to measure an author's collaboration ability and identify the most appropriate potential research partners.
An author co-citation analysis of 37 years of iMetrics The results suggest the crucial role of Price medalists in shaping the intellectual structure of knowledge in iMetrics. It can be concluded that the Cluster 1 (“theoretical foundations and citation analysis”) is the main and the most common subject in iMetrics that is of interest for highly-cited researchers.
Mapping the European cancer research landscape: An evidence base for national and Pan-European research and funding Several countries need to increase their cancer research outputs substantially, and/or alter their research portfolios to better match their growing (and changing) cancer burden.
Charting the Publication and Citation Impact of the NIH Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) Program From 2006 Through 2016 The CTSA program is yielding a robust and growing body of influential research findings with consistently high indices of relative citation impact.
A Fine Balance: How Authors Strategize Around Journal Submission Authors strategize around a particular article’s submission by attempting to balance many inter-related factors.
Characteristics of Successful Internal Medicine Resident Research Projects: Predictors of Journal Publication Versus Abstract Presentation In conclusion, we found that for resident research, predictors of publication differed from those of national presentation. Experienced mentorship and biostatistical support were strongly associated with successful publication. Programs seeking to increase resident publications should consider incorporating an institutional epidemiology/biostatistical core that is available to all residency research projects, and residents should choose experienced mentors with a track record of publications.
Reviewer selection biases editorial decisions on manuscripts Our findings strongly confirm a bias towards lower rejection rates when ASRs assess a paper, which led to the decision to abandon the option to recommend reviewers at the Journal of Neurochemistry. The final outcome for manuscripts that were reviewed by non-ASRs was clearly less favorable than that for manuscripts reviewed by at least one ASR at Journal of Neurochemistry. With a goal of avoiding known sources of bias in the peer review process, the conclusion that the Journal of Neurochemistry drew was to abandon the option for authors to recommend reviewers during the submission process.
Growing visibility and impact of Indian Journal of Traditional Knowledge The IJTK is the major journal in the field of traditional knowledge.
Co-saved, co-tweeted, and co-cited networks In conclusion, the results cast grave doubt on the use of Twitter in altmetrics. Although the Mendeley results were much closer to those for citations, there were also substantial differences, showing that this source needs to be used cautiously as an alternative to citations, especially from the perspective of creating networks. Future research is needed to explore in more detail why these differences exist.
Researchers' uses of and disincentives for sharing their research identity information in research information management systems This paper examined how researchers used RIMSs and the relationships among researchers' seniority, discipline, and the types and extent of their RIMS use.
The impact of classification systems in the evaluation of the research performance of the Leiden Ranking universities Our results show that this introduces a significant risk of overinterpretation.
Research output and impact of the fields of management, economics, and sociology in spain and france: An analysis using google scholar and scopus Our results suggest that, because of a documentary coverage in many languages that is greater than traditional bibliographic databases, GS is a very useful tool for examining the social sciences in non-Anglophone countries. Finally, and except for the case of articles in French sociology and for books in France, our results show that publishing in English has a great impact in the disciplines studied. Further research is needed in order to understand why this occurs and why it happens in certain countries and not in others.
Automated citation sentiment analysis using high order n-grams: a preliminary investigation Analysis of the results revealed that higher order n-grams (n = 5) for adjective and adverb combinations play a major role in improving the accuracy of the sentiment classification.
The Effect of Age and Size on Reputation of Business Ethics Journals Perhaps sometimes a journal's reputation precedes it, as perception of journal quality may be biased by journal visibility, either because it has been published and available for a number of years, or because it is well known and likely to be cited.
Research groups as communities of practice-a case study of four high-performing research groups The aim of the present study was to explore how successful and high-performing research groups navigated the demands of “academic capitalism” (Slaughter and Leslie 1997) and “accelerated academy” (LSE Impact Blog 2017; Vostal 2016), and thus what we might learn from them about the practice of research.
Scientific research driven by large-scale infrastructure projects: A case study of the Three Gorges Project in China These findings are useful for policy-makers and project managers to better establish collaborations with the academia and to more properly allocate resources in future project management practices.
Analyzing the research funding in physics: The perspective of production and collaboration at institution level In conclusion, research funding plays an interesting role in improving the output and impact of institutions. In physics, the funding covers most important published papers, and the funding ratio reaches 66%. This study is a preliminary exploration on the meso-level of funding.
Early Career Researchers' Quest for Reputation in the Digital Age Thus, the evaluative procedures and assessment systems that ECRs describe are traditional, very much centred on publications and grants, although with standards being more demanding than ever. Until hiring, tenure, and promotion requirements in academe are changed and expanded to include novel ways of disseminating and measuring scholarly achievement, ECRs are understandably wary of using open and participatory ways of working and reputation building in their scholarly endeavours.
Gender differences in career development awards in United States' anesthesiology and surgery departments, 2006-2016 Based on the 2016 AAMC number of eligible faculty mem-bers, faculty members in surgery were more likely to re-ceive an award than faculty members in anesthesiology, but the funding rates for women and men in both depart-ments were only marginally different. Future efforts should focus on identifying the reasons for such differences in award rates to inform initiatives to boost opportunities for junior faculty members to successfully compete for NIH career development funding.
Looking deeper into academic citations through network analysis: popularity, influence and impact The model proposed in this paper is not just another way to present academic citations but, rather, an analysis technique to give a further and more reliable meaning to the current metrics for the measure of the research impact.
Interdisciplinarity research based on NSFC-sponsored projects: A case study of mathematics in Chinese universities We improve the precision of the indicator proposed by Wu et al. [30], develop a weighted-mean DIRD, improve computing efficiency, and develop an automatic DIRD computing system.
Gendered Citation Patterns across Political Science and Social Science Methodology Fields While greater gender diversity improves the chances for proper attribution of ideas to female scholars, gender gaps in citations remain. Overcoming the remaining “Matilda effects” will require raising awareness of the issue and creating a gender blind environment for what constitutes the scientific core of the social sciences.
Validity, Reliability, and the Case for Participant-Centered Research: Reflections on a Multi-Platform Social Media Study While the examples here illustrate some of the potential pitfalls of multi-platform social media studies, using a multi-platform approach also offered benefits in terms of greater insight.
An author keyword analysis for mapping Sport Sciences One of the main findings of our research is the identification of 6 large thematic clusters in the SSC. These results support a multidisciplinary perspective within the Sport Sciences field of study and a colonization of the field by rehabilitation according to our AK analysis. This type of analysis opens new possibilities in different areas of research to study trends and introduction of new words, not only in the academic world but also in the information and communication professional contexts.
Analysis of the citation impact of national journals toward SCIE journals on JCR ranking This research shows the impact of Korean journals on SCIE journals, and the results of this study can be used for the future evaluation of journals.
Toward the more effective identification of journals with anomalous self-citation In summary, the results in this paper suggest that the DBN method could be used to automatically recognise abnormal journals. Finally, an empirical study on abnormal journals was performed, and it was found that 6.9% of empirical journals were suspect.
The scale-invariant properties of the citation-based performance of internationally co-authored articles Scientific recognition of the international collaborative network in MIS research is described by scale invariant properties.
Characteristics of interdisciplinary research in author keywords appearing in Korean journals In conclusion, it was revealed that the author keywords of academic journals are not generally interdisciplinary. Only a few author keywords with a high interdisciplinarity degree are assumed to be 'frequently researched' topics. When a network analysis is applied, it is expected that relationships and interdisciplinary meanings focused on terms could be examined in a field network.
Bibliometric analysis of Central European journals in the Web of Science and JCR Social Science Edition This paper has presented the assessment of Central European journals covered in the Web of Science database and JCR focusing on social science disciplines. This has created a competitive environment for social science researchers, especially those who have their competitors in neighboring countries such as in the fields of psychology, economy, geography, and sociology. Enhancement of the Central European journals registered in the Web of Science database could engage national scientific policy institutions to encourage national journals to be more responsible and more involved in (a) controlling their editorial practices; (b) advocating openness to foreign authors; (c) including mono-thematic issues; (d) using a combination of publishing in both the local language and in English; and (e) encouraging more involvement and participation by academics and researchers to publish their work jointly with regional co-authors, besides those from Top 20 countries (Andreis and Jokić 2008).
Water research and collaboration in the Southern African Development Community The small number of water-related publications for the majority of SADC countries may be an indication that these countries do not have the expertise required to meet their research and implementation needs. An alternative will be to aim to create a SADC Common Water Research Area, following the example of the European Common Research Areas.
More on Plagiarism in the Social Sciences The results of this survey show some interesting things about how scholars in the economics profession have grappled with plagiarism in the profession over time and now we are able to take a glimpse at other social sciences. It is clear that some things have changed. There is work yet to be done.
Identifying "hot papers" and papers with "delayed recognition" in large-scale datasets by using dynamically normalized citation impact scores The results of the analysis of certain properties of HPs and DRs (e.g. number of pages) suggest that the emergence of DRs is an unpredictable process. Our results suggest therefore that the emergence of DRs is an unpredictable process which cannot be fixed by certain properties of the papers. It would be interesting, if future studies address the topic of differences between both groups by using data from other bibliometric databases (especially subject specific databases, as the chemistry-related CA database or the economics RePEc database).
A quantitative exploration on reasons for citing articles from the perspective of cited authors As a supplement of previous qualitative research, this paper aims to quantitatively explore several potential citing reasons by analyzing factors including the number of publications (detailed by the number of single-authored, collaborative and first-authored, collaborative but non-first-authored publications), number of citations, most frequently used research topic, and gender.
Three new bibliometric indicators/approaches derived from keyword analysis First, indicator K (the ratio of KFA and KCA) was introduced as a convenient indicator for quantitatively describing the scientific development of disciplines.
Testing the science/technology relationship by analysis of patent citations of scientific papers after decomposition of both science and technology The results reported here should remind all that “spillover” can be fostered or at least mediated by science.
An analysis of citation functions in the humanities and social sciences research from the perspective of problematic citation analysis assumptions Compared to the previous limited studies using similar research design, the findings of this study surprisingly suggest that the problems of the equal contribution and positive endorsement assumptions in H&SS may not be as serious as in the sciences.
Construction and qualitative assessment of a bibliographic portfolio using the methodology Methodi Ordinatio This work analysed the variation of the alpha (x) in the equation InOrdinatio and its influence in the qualification of the papers that compose a portfolio for a scientific research.
A quantitative analysis of determinants of non-citation using a panel data model Our model obtained an optimum performance of fit and showed an extremely significant difference.
Relationship between international collaboration papers and their citations from an economic perspective Based on above results, we think that the citations of international collaboration papers are significantly different according to different international collaboration types.
The impact of conference ranking systems in computer science: a comparative regression analysis In this study, we conducted a comparative analysis of NPC in five selected countries (China, Australia, the US, Germany and India) for sets of computer science conferences separated by time period, i.e., before and after 2013.
Does scientific eminence endure? Making sense of the most cited economists, psychologists and sociologists in textbooks (1970-2010) In attempting to answer the second question, it transpired that textbook eminence is, in general, short-lived.
Funding map using paragraph embedding based on semantic diversity As the next step, we will extract new insights from the map of research projects, especially in comparison with conventional science maps based on citation analysis of published papers. In the future, we could use paragraph vectors for several statistical applications, rather than drawing cosine similarity networks. The result will raise the discoverability of research in the era of open access.
A parameter-free index for identifying under-cited sleeping beauties in science In this paper, we developed a systematic methodology for identifying SB publications and figured out their key characteristics.
A novel machine-learning approach to measuring scientific knowledge flows using citation context analysis In this article, we propose a novel machine-learning technique to measure knowledge flows between countries and institutions by analysing publication and citation data.
Field- and time-normalization of data with many zeros: an empirical analysis using citation and Twitter data Therefore, our results discourage the use of Twitter counts in research evaluation.
A bibliometric analysis of highly cited papers in the field of Economics and Business based on the Essential Science Indicators database To sum up, an overall view of the field of Economics and Business has been achieved.
Interdisciplinary relations of converging technologies: Nano-Bio-Info-Cogno (NBIC) The findings have implications and applications for science policymakers. The strong relationship between Bio and Nano makes them a good case for planning to take their convergence to the next level which is technology. It is recommended that future studies use a combination of techniques for the study of interdisciplinary relations.
China's emerging centrality in the contemporary international scientific collaboration network The results on both indicators show that China's increase in importance in the past 15 years is the most significant among the 20 countries with the highest centralities. China is undoubtedly emerging as a sub-center for international scientific collaboration.
A comparison of cognitive and organizational classification of publications in the social sciences and humanities Different types of classification do not always yield the same results.
How integrated are theoretical and applied physics? The results indicate a substantial similarity of relationship among all considered journals, suggesting that both the more theoretically and applied journals tend to be equally integrated within the body of APS publications. This integration is also characterized by the distributions of betweenness centrality of the nodes (representing papers), which are similar when compared among the three groups (theoretical, applied, and control). Further investigation is however required considering other databases, other types of relationships, different types of measurements, among other possibilities.
Accumulation of knowledge in para-scientific areas: the case of analytic philosophy The main result of the analysis is that knowledge in AP indeed started to accumulate but in a peculiar manner.
Trends in Russian research output indexed in Scopus and Web of Science A first conclusion is that the calculation of numbers and growth rates of documents published from Russian institutions very much depends upon the database that is used. All in all, the results obtained in the current study provide evidence that one should be cautious when using WoS, and especially Scopus, as a measuring device of changes in research performance from an international perspective, and, hence, as a valid tool in the assessment of the key objectives of the Project 5-100. A general conclusion is that a framework for conducting critical, independent assessments of bibliographical databases and their application in research assessment is urgently needed, involving both organizational, technical and theoretical aspects (Moed 2017).
An assessment into the characteristics of award winning papers at CHI In conclusion, we speculate on our obtained results through linkages with prior work in readability analysis. Significance testing on our sample of CHI papers has shown that awarded papers at the conference were observed to have lower readability. In the future we will explore additional techniques and libraries to accurately extract raw text from PDF papers so that we can compute the readability and lexical attributes of a larger sample.
A mixed longitudinal and cross-sectional model to forecast the journal impact factor in the field of Dentistry In this work we expound a mixed cross-sectional and longitudinal statistical model used to estimate the JIF in the field of Dentistry, Oral Surgery and Medicine in the year 2016.
Citation inflation: the effect of not correcting the scientific literature sufficiently, a case study in the plant sciences These additional citations for the corrected paper support our claim that the corrected paper should have been retracted, i.e., that the literature was insufficiently corrected, which may have prevented the citation of this near-duplicate paper. Readers who cited the near-duplicate paper after the erratum had been published were either unaware of the correction, or ignored it. Post-publication peer review needs to be more integrated into the publishing framework. We suggest a corrective mechanism by Clarivate Analytics to correct the journal impact factor to avoid citation inflation.
Use of locality sensitive hashing (LSH) algorithm to match Web of Science and Scopus An approximate search based string matching for large scale matching exercises is introduced in this paper by using a combination of 3-gram character sequences and locality sensitive hashing. This approach is the extension of a cosine calculation based procedure which allows the matching of millions of records within reasonable time. Furthermore, as an advantage of studying at the paper level, we have a chance to gauge the overlap for (top) cited publications. As a result, a very high overlap is observed for those high impact papers.
Detecting automatically generated sentences with grammatical structure similarity In this paper we presented our GSS system which can detect sentences from known PCFG generators, with an 80% positive detection rate and less than a 1% false detection rate.
Reference Errors in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Literature Citation and quotation errors are still prevalent in the OHNS literature albeit decreased from previously reported data.
Anticipatory Uncertainty: How Academic and Industry Researchers in the Life Sciences Experience and Manage the Uncertainties of the Research Process Differently Our results suggest that this would not only benefit junior researchers but also enhance the ability of academic research to productively embrace epistemic uncertainty and ask truly innovative questions, even if they are risky.
GENDER DISPARITIES IN SCIENCE? DROPOUT, PRODUCTIVITY, COLLABORATIONS AND SUCCESS OF MALE AND FEMALE COMPUTER SCIENTISTS We find that the dropout rate of women in computer science is consistently higher than of men. Controlling for this difference in careers is our solution to the productivity puzzle that women have a smaller publication output than men. We hope that this work enhances our understanding of gender-specific differences in collaborative academic behavior, how these differences change over time and how collaboration practices are related with success.
Exploring Cooperative Game Mechanisms of Scientific Coauthorship Networks The model provides an example of how individual strategies induce network complexity, as well as an application of game theory to social affiliation networks. The strategy of maximizing benefit-minus-cost will give rise to flocking to famous research team or to hot fields. Specific regulations could be simulated through the model to work out a way to maintain the balance in the academic environment, while encouraging breakthroughs in key fields.
The Use of Solicited Publishing by Academic Surgeons Despite their sparse PubMed indexing and low impact factors, many senior academic faculty publish in solicitant surgery journals.
Publication incentives undermine the utility of science: Ecological research in Mexico The Mexican experience has implications for institutions worldwide that utilize quantitative productivity measures in researcher evaluation.
Different recipes for the same dish: Comparing policies for scientific excellence across different countries The policies presented in this article seem to strengthen (or at least expose) existing differentiation in the science system. They do not increase or produce differentiation. Quantitative evidence suggests that the relative performance of institutions does not change as a result of the initiatives (the 'winners' would be so regardless). Remarkably, excellence policies are more prone to reveal existing but tacit diversity in the system than to generate new relational patterns.
On The Route Towards Renewal? The Polish Academy Of Sciences In Post-Socialist Context This article has shown how the institutional and organizational structures specific to the Polish post-socialist context have impaired the capability of PAS institutes to renew themselves.
Research excellence in Africa: Policies, perceptions, and performance African RE should be customised and contextualised in order to be responsive to African needs and circumstances. The 'Top 1% most highly cited' indicator is a case in point: the method enables comparisons of universities across the continent in a global frame of reference. Overcoming these constraints would involve simultaneous advances on at least seven fronts: (1) increasing the domestic funding to R&D (with larger participation of private sector), (2) improving the conditions and opportunities for female researchers, (3) the establishment of research programmes as PhD centres of excellence, (4) giving strategic support to young researchers, through scholarships and mentorship, (5) promoting interdisciplinary research, (6) promoting national and international research collaboration, and (7) sharing of research infrastructure.
Professionalization of bibliometric research assessment. Insights from the history of the Leiden Centre for Science and Technology Studies (CWTS) This article shows that Abbott’s theory of professions offers a highly suitable and also comprehensive theoretical framework to explain- ing the emergence and development of the new jurisdiction of quan- titative research assessment without further developing the theoretical framework.
Disciplinary differences of the impact of altmetric For the first time, data from Altmetric, PlumX, Scopus and CED were integrated and analyzed, providing the broadest view of the altmetric impact.
Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food: A bibliometric analysis of the most cited papers focusing on nutraceuticals and functional foods A bibliometric analysis was performed to identify the 100 most cited nutraceutical and functional food papers. Hopefully, the findings from these papers will continue to be developed and translated into clinical medicine to rediscover and redefine the Hippocrates view “Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food”. These findings have implied that the field of nutraceuticals has a broad spectrum that crosses the fields of pharmacy/pharmacognosy with food science and nutrition.
Measuring Scholastic Production by Dermatopathologists Using the H-Index: A Cross-Sectional Study These data provide benchmarks for dermatopathologists to gauge their scientific productivity against that of their peers.
Altmetric Versus Bibliometric Perspective Regarding Publication Impact and Force Bibliometric and Altmetric analyses provide important but different perspectives regarding article impact, which are unrelated to evidence level.
Scientific publications of European neurologists: a survey commissioned by the European Academy of Neurology Although this search has several limitations, yet the results are so straightforward that we can conclude that the European neurology is highly active in the world.
The 100 most-cited articles in Parkinson's disease "The present study provides historical perspectives on the progress of PD research and highlights trends and aca-demic achievements in this field."
#MedEd: exploring the relationship between altmetrics and traditional measures of dissemination in health professions education This study suggests that several altmetrics outlets are positively associated with citations, and that public accessibility, holding all other independent variables constant, is positively related to article access. Given the scientific community's evolving focus on dissemination these findings have implications for stakeholders, providing insight into the factors that may improve citations and access of articles.
Gender-Based Analysis of Intra-Institutional Research Productivity and Collaboration As the main contribution of the paper we described the methodology and accompanying tool (GERBER) for gender-based analysis of intra-institutional research productivity and collaboration.
AN ASSESSMENT OF THE ACADEMIC IMPACT OF SHOCK SOCIETY MEMBERS These data demonstrate thatthe Shock Societyis a preeminent group ofacademic investigators.
Situated Knowledge Production, International Impact: Changing Publishing Practices in a German Engineering Department This situation is arguably characteristic for research areas with a traditionally strong orientation to local stakeholders, and it suggests a need for more deliberative, participatory approaches to research evaluation in such fields.
Institutional Expansion and Scientific Development in the Periphery: The Structural Heterogeneity of Argentina's Academic Field Compared with the deteriorated structure of Argentina's academic field up to the 2001 crisis, the expansion that followed did indeed achieve relevant results in terms of institutionalization and professionalization.
Publication patterns and coauthorship in the Journal of Corporate Finance We discovered the most prolific authors, institutions and countries.
Trends in hepatocellular carcinoma research from 2008 to 2017: a bibliometric analysis The number of publications in HCC research has kept increasing since 2008.
Egalitarian Paradise or Factory Drudgery? Organizing Knowledge Production in High Energy Physics (HEP) Laboratories The interrelated basic organizational features and epistemic goals of the laboratories are presented in Figure 1. The diagram also identifies formal and informal methods of assessment of these features and their relationship with the epistemic goals – i.e. the assessment of the efficiency of knowledge production depending on various organizational features employed in the organizing laboratory. Of course, a major obstacle to performance analysis in science is that advocacy, rather than thoughtful policy, usually leads funding decisions, but efficiency metrics are the basic level of any science policy: funders, policy-makers, and often scientists themselves should require them.
Judging research papers for research excellence In summary, the data generally fitted well into the Rasch model: there was one major dimension (construct) and just two raters out of 23 did not fit well with the view of others. Although the raters were generally reliable they varied markedly in the severity/leniency of their ratings. The enemy of good assessment is not the leniency/severity of individuals which can be taken into account, but their unreliability.
Characteristics of scientific impact of Resources Conservation and Recycling in the past 30 years This paper presents a systematic review and bibliometric analysis of literature in RCR, which could serve as a reference for the journal editors, authors, reviewers, readers, the publisher, and those who are interested in the state of the art in relevant areas of research. RCR is a transdisciplinary journal that cites and is cited by research in a broad range of fields, whose papers usually received increasing citations in the first five years since its publication, longer than the citation window for journal impact factor. While the research emphases the RCR embraced evolved notably over the past three decades, RCR has retained its commitment to fueling the sustainability discourses that transcends various disciplinary boundaries.
Readability of the 100 Most-Cited Neuroimaging Papers Assessed by Common Readability Formulae Concerning the 100 most-cited articles in neuroimaging, the full text appears to be more readable than the abstracts. Experimental articles and methodology papers were more readable than reviews/meta-analyses. Articles published in journals with higher impact factors were less readable.
Publish and/or perish: A urological perspective on predatory publications Choices for open-source journal publication are rapidly increasing in the field of urology.
Brazilian network of PhDs working with probability and statistics In this paper, we performed a social network analysis of PhDs working in the field of Probability and Statistics in Brazil, where ties represent either co-authorship, participation in joint project or the advisor-advisee relationship. As a result, the first network had small world characteristic, and the most central nodes were the states that host P& S doctoral programs. For further studies, we intend to investigate how network metrics can impact in productivity measures, which will allow us to use more sophisticated statistical methods in the (social) network analysis, as done by Abbasi, Altmann and Hossain (2011), Cimenler, Reeves and Skvoretz (2014), Bellotti (2012), de Arruda et al. (2013) and Peron, Costa and Rodrigues (2012).
Trends in Mango Research as seen Through Science Citation Expanded Index of Web of Science The analysis of the author supplied keywords and words from the title of the articles indicate the researchers were paid interest in investigating the genetic diversity and relatedness of the mango cultivars, pest and disease management, quality and yield, and postharvest issues related to mango.
The peer review game: an agent-based model of scientists facing resource constraints and institutional pressures In conclusion, although highly abstract, our model helped us to understand the interplay of contexts and behaviour in peer review and explore different trade-offs in scientists' resource allocation (Righi and Takács 2017).
Reputation or peer review? The role of outliers Our simulation suggests that a reputation system could perform better than peer review as a scientific information filter for quality except when research is multi-disciplinary and in a field where outliers exist.
Mapping extended technological trajectories: integration of main path, derivative paths, and technology junctures From a practical standpoint, using our method, corporate managers can identify not only current mainstream technology, but relevant technological opportunities.
Measuring multidisciplinary health research at South African universities: a comparative analysis based on co-authorships and journal subject categories These preliminary results would need to be followed up with more advanced bibliometric approaches, and possibly qualitative analyses to investigate the degree of integration between disciplines, pointing to interdisciplinary or even transdisciplinary health research. It is therefore strongly advocated that both measures be used to enable a more inclusive perspective. Firstly, identifying multidisciplinary health research using bibliometric measures could inform general science and higher education policy by contributing to an assessment of the current nature of health research in the country.
Comparing the research productivity of social work doctoral programs using the h-Index The finding that academic rank contributed the most variance to the regression model provides empirical support to the long-argued importance of publication in career advancement. The overall results of the model confirm that institutional factors such as faculty size, region, and auspice do have unique effects on research productivity even after accounting for individual level differences in faculty across diverse social work programs. One surprising finding was that there were significant differences among programs with the same size but located in different parts of the country.
Succinct effect or informative effect: the relationship between title length and the number of citations Based on a large sample of over 300 000 SSCI economics papers from 1956 to 2012, we determined that title length of papers is negatively associated with citations in early decades (i.e., 1956–2000), but the correlation turns positive in 2001–2012, when literature searches are carried out mainly by electronic tools based on online database searches. From a utilitarian perspective, editors who insist on brief and concise titles should perhaps update their guidelines. For the researchers, in view of the ever-growing number of papers and journals that can be accessed electronically, the time spent on writing a title is, indeed, well worth spending.
Biomedical research productivity and economic crisis in Greece: a 22-year study In conclusion, although the absolute number of Greek biomedical articles continued to increase during the crisis, the share of Greek articles in the global production decreased as a result of the higher increase in article production mainly in Asian countries. The impact of the produced articles was steady despite increases in R&D expenditure. Future studies should evaluate the impact of brain drain on these indices.
Diversity of research publications: relation to agricultural productivity and possible implications for STI policy Based on statistical inference from the panel dataset of 75 countries over 18 years, we may conclude that agricultural productivity may be also related to the level of research diversification determined by the publications in agricultural science.
Examining interdisciplinarity of library and information science (LIS) based on LIS articles contributed by non-LIS authors The high proportion of LIS articles by non-LIS authors confirms that LIS knowledge is substantially affected by other disciplines. In particular, the decreasing trend in articles by only LIS authors reveals that LIS authors prefer to collaborate with non-LIS authors. Future research on the interdisciplinarity of LIS must consider the differences in disciplinary characteristics between LS and IS.
Research contributions of international branch campuses to the scientific wealth of academically developing countries The purpose of this work was to develop and test a methodology to study the research activity of international branch campuses (IBCs).
Identifying and tracking scientific and technological knowledge memes from citation networks of publications and patents In this paper, the knowledge meme identification algorithm is used to recognize the sci-entific and technological knowledge memes, and the knowledge meme network is con-structed and explored.
Knowledge communication on social media: a case study of Biomedical Science on Baidu Baike In this article, the composition of related entries on Baidu Baike has been analysed in terms of citations among entries, tags of entries and entry coupling based on references.
Temporal characteristics of retracted articles The aim of this study was to show that retracted articles, and especially those that are retracted because of scientific distortion continue to be cited. We recommend that Elsevier change its policy regarding free access to non-open access retracted articles, especially since it seems after conducting a small random check, SpringerNature and Wiley charge for non-open access retracted articles. Even if the citation is crucial, editors must ensure that such article is referenced as RETRACTED.
Assessing the interdependencies between scientific disciplinary profiles The results summarized in this paper show the great potential of our proposed approach to infer the network of interactions between scientific disciplinary profiles at the macro level.
An analysis of discontinued journals by Scopus However, for some journals it seems that the emphasis is placed more on the publishing end of the business than on the dissemination of research findings. This study showed that regular updates are among the responsibilities that editorial teams must maintain to ensure the quality and accuracy of the information posted on their journals' websites.
Disciplinary structures in Nature, Science and PNAS: journal and country levels In this work, we have dealt with disciplinary structure in Nature, Science and PNAS, as well as in two baselines (Non-NSP_Multi: publications in non-NSP multidisciplinary journals; Non-Multi: publications in non-multidisciplinary journals).
Why do ecologists search for co-authorships? Patterns of co-authorship networks in ecology (1977-2016) Here, I demonstrated that co-authorships among ecologists are explained by the homophily hypothesis, whether they have similar research interests, reputations, or country developmental status. Furthermore, I believe that distance might limit the ability of authors to choose partners using the stated criteria. However, caution is needed when extrapolating my results to other scientific fields, which might have different drivers of co-authorship or different degrees of importance in the drivers assessed here.
Researchers' risk-smoothing publication strategies: Is productivity the enemy of impact? We found that in chemistry, publishing at the higher margin of productivity leads to a stagnant or declining impact, providing some support for the “productivity as the enemy of impact” effect in this discipline. In mechanical engineering, increase in productivity consistently leads to an increase in impact. We attribute the differences between the two disciplines to a higher propensity for productivity-focused publication strategies in chemistry than in mechanical engineering.
Comparative trends in research performance of the Russian universities Our analysis suggested some positive trends in research performance of the Russian institutions and high ranking of the Russian research in mathematics, physics and astronomy, engineering, chemistry, chemistry engineering, pharmacology, toxicology and pharmaceutics. Routine analysis of the research performance and economic impact of R&D expenditure should be reflected in transparent distribution of state research funding. Legal aspects of the international research must be developed to ensure a complete integration of the Russian science into international research activities.
Pros and cons of the new financial support policy for Turkish researchers The data revealed that besides its positive contribution to academic prolificacy, the EPFS had undesirable and expected effects as well.
A quality assessment of clinical research on type 2 diabetes in Saudi Arabia The present study shows that scientific research on T2DM conducted in Saudi Arabia has increased significantly between 1987 and 2016. The conclusion is that there are specific areas within Saudi Arabian T2DM research that warrant improvement based on scientific rigor and on the disease burden in the Saudi community. It is recommended that researchers and funding agencies initiate clinical trials, particularly those that target primary and secondary prevention.
Author-weighted impact factor and reference return ratio: can we attain more equality among fields? First, social science journals outperform science journals in both of these measures. Second, AWIF is highly equalitarian between science and social science journals. AWIF and RRR are better than JIF in terms of equality between social science and science journals.
Diversity and interdisciplinarity: how can one distinguish and recombine disparity, variety, and balance? The dilemma which remained unsolved using Rao-Stirling diversity, namely of how variety and balance can be combined into “dual concept diversity” (Stirling 1998, p. 48f.), can be clarified using Nijssen et al.'s (1998) argument that the Gini coefficient is a perfect indicator of balance.
Reliability and accuracy of altmetric providers: a comparison among Altmetric.com, PlumX and Crossref Event Data There are differences in the amount of articles with altmetric impact in each provider.
Has the Global South become a playground for Western scholars in information and communication technologies for development? Evidence from a three-journal analysis The representation of scholars from the Global South has recently attracted much attention in the ICT4D scholarship.
Do academics swing for the fences after tenure? Analysis of attributions data from economics research The results presented and discussed above fail to support the notion that one aspect of the research effort of academics—that related to the subjection of unpublished research manuscripts to constructive criticism from other academics—decreases after the receipt of academic tenure.
On the impossibility of a perfect counting method to allocate the credits of multi-authored publications Our theoretical analysis suggests that the geometric, harmonic and golden number counting methods are the most robust in terms of properties.
Coverage of highly-cited documents in Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Scopus: a multidisciplinary comparison The main conclusion is that the data about highly-cited documents available in the inclusive database Google Scholar does indeed reveal signifi- cant coverage deficiencies in Web of Science and Scopus in several areas of research. Therefore, using these selective databases to compute bibliometric indicators based on counts of highly-cited documents might produce biased assessments in poorly covered areas.
Exploring the interdisciplinary characteristics of library and information science (LIS) from the perspective of interdisciplinary LIS authors This study focused on inter-disciplinary LIS authors and contributes to a better understanding of the characteristics of interdisciplinary LIS authors and their articles. Interdisciplinary LIS authors do strengthen the interdisciplinary nature of LIS.
Assessing Ten Years of Inter- and Trans-disciplinary Research, Education, and Outreach We conclude that there is a need for a cultural change to reward (and not punish) researchers engaged in inter- and transdisciplin-ary projects. We believe that research centers like CCES can help provide the nec-essary academic environment.
The Impact Factor Fallacy With this comment, we hope to have highlighted some misconceptions in the beliefs and arguments involved in using journal-based metrics, and specifically the JIF, for evaluating the work of scientists.
Evaluation of Spanish institutional repositories based on criteria related to technology, procedures, content, marketing and personnel The purpose of this repository assessment model was to verify whether, through key elements of internal management (e.g., procedures, personnel and introduction of content) and external management (e.g., technology and marketing), their effectiveness and level of integration within institutions could be measured. In summary, the indicators used in this assessment of research repositories are in line with current thinking on best practices (COAR, 2017; OARR, 2015). They could therefore prove very useful for anyone planning an institutional repository, or for anyone who already has an operational repository and wishes to carry out an assessment.
Measuring the interdisciplinarity of Big Data research: a longitudinal study The findings of this study offer a better understanding of interdisciplinary collaboration in the Big Data research effort and shed new light on the interdisciplinary nature, status, and patterns of the research effort.
Construction of an evaluation index system for determining the academic impact of military medical scholars The evaluation index system determined from this study combines the advantages of both qualitative and quantitative recognised evaluation indicators, which are subsequently weighted according to their importance in the field of military medicine.
The collaborative effect of scientific meetings: A study of the International Milk Genomics Consortium The results of our study suggest that the annual symposium encouraged interactions among disparate scientists and increased research productivity, exemplifying the positive effect of scientific meetings on both collaboration and progress.
Assessment of Environmental Health Research Centers in Iran due to knowledge production and utilization Based on research performance evaluation, knowledge production and research is desirable in EHRCs, but research utilization to health environmental promotion is still inadequate and should be assessed by qualitative evaluation.
Ranking dynamics and volatility In many applications not the dynamics but the stability of rankings is of importance. Clearly, 1-NS yields a relative measure of stability.
The life cycle of altmetric impact: A longitudinal study of six metrics from PlumX First, the synchronic approach has made it possible to analyze the life cycle of publications from an altmetric view. The results have shown that mention metrics (Tweets and Blog mentions) are the first to appear, followed by usage (Downloads and Views) and bookmarking (Readers) metrics, and finally, bibliometric indicators (Citations).
Revisiting the scientometric conceptualization of impact and its measurement As with the concept of research performance (Abramo & D'Angelo, 2014) and its measurement (Abramo & D'Angelo, 2016b, 2016c), I feel the same urgency to continue a lively discussion that has deep roots in the field, aiming at definitive convergence on the meaning and measurement of the concept of impact, a concept that I regard as key to scientometric science.
Critical rationalism and the search for standard (field-normalized) indicators in bibliometrics In order to negate the Werther effect in the application of bibliometric indicators, it is important that bibliometricians develop and analyze impact indicators against the backdrop of Popper's critical rationalism.
Is there Lingua Franca in informal scientific communication? Evidence from language distribution of scientific tweets To sum up, English not only holds a monopolistic position in formal scientific communication but also becomes the lingua franca in informal scientific communication. The dominant position of English scientific tweets has reflected the influence brought by the globalization of science. When scientists from different countries communicate with each other, English, which is already widely learned and used as a common second language, has reasonably been chosen as the mutual language.
The relationships between distance factors and international collaborative research outcomes: A bibliometric examination In this study, we investigate the linkages between the four distances, i.e., geographic, political, cultural, and economic distance and the two outcomes of international research collaboration (numbers of publications and citation). Our empirical findings provide useful insights for research collaboration and productivity. This study still has some limitations, which in turn provide potential directions for future research: First, we limited our sample population to just four leading U.S. journals in the marketing field. These contrasting results regarding geographical, political, and cultural distance factors are probably due to advanced communication and information systems, and transportation technologies.
How to evaluate rankings of academic entities using test data Lastly, we list alternative measures that also yield stable results and highlight measures that should not be used in this context.
The memory of science: Inflation, myopia, and the knowledge network In conclusion, our empirical analysis demonstrate various ways in which the growth of the scientific endeavor impacts the structure of the science citation network.
Author ranking evaluation at scale Of the indicators evaluated in this paper, PageRank is the best metric for ranking the well-established authors in our test data sets and outperforms the percentile-based metric R6, as well as the more traditional impact indicators such as citation counts and the h-index.
Comparing scientific and technological impact of biomedical research Our work contributes to the understanding of the technological impact of papers.
Technological research in the EU is less efficient than the world average. EU research policy risks Europeans' future In accord with some previous studies, our results show that the European Commission's ongoing claims about the excellence of EU research are based on a wrong diagnosis. The EU must focus its research policy on the improvement of its inefficient research. Otherwise, the future of Europeans is at risk. It follows from these considerations that the EU should increase the efficiency of its research.
The more multidisciplinary the better? - The prevalence and interdisciplinarity of research collaborations in multidisciplinary institutions Specifically, just creating an academic institution with a diverse faculty body is not sufficient to foster more internal research collaborations. On the other hand, research multidisciplinarity helps to foster interdisciplinarity - research collaborations within a more multidisciplinary institution are more likely to occur between those with different research interests. Our results have implications for research policies, especially for academic and research administrators.
Stochastic block model reveals maps of citation patterns and their evolution in time We have demonstrated that the groups of journals found with the SBM method are often not communities in the sense that they have less citations going inside the group than in and out of the group. The methods based on SBMs are elegant and principled answers to the need present in the literature to find groups of journals and other entities sharing similar citation patterns and creating maps of science, and therefore the SBM methods have the potential of becoming one of the standard tools in analysing citation networks in the future.
Which US and European Higher Education Institutions are visible in ResearchGate and what affects their RG score? The results show that large numbers of institutions of all types have joined ResearchGate, including those that do not award PhDs and those that do not publish in Web of Science.
Evidence of open access of scientific publications in Google Scholar: A large-scale analysis Google Scholar provided links to freely available versions of documents indexed in the Web of Science and published in 2009 or 2014 in approximately 54.6% of the cases. This study confirms that most of the documents that publishers make freely accessible (e.g. Bronze OA) do not specify a clear OA-compatible license. Whatever the reasons, this presents a problem for the advancement of a sustainable and legal system of OA and Open Science in general, because researchers are dedicating their efforts to feeding a proprietary platform that does not make its data available to the scientific community and which may disappear the moment it is not considered profitable.
A new approach to explore the knowledge transition path in the evolution of science & technology: From the biology of restriction enzymes to their application in biotechnology Our results suggest that the D-A-T path acts as a backbone and reveals important "invisible contributions" of an original scientific work during its evolution from discovery oriented research to outside academia.
Proximal advantage in knowledge diffusion: The time dimension The paper intends to investigate the proximal advantage in knowledge diffusion in the form of publication citations and empirically test whether knowledge diffuses differently in vicinity versus distance along the timeline. The distribution of citations shows domestic citations appear faster, which supports the hypothesis. The finding reveals the importance of networking and exchange in knowledge dissemination.
Individual and field citation distributions in 29 broad scientific fields To understand the skewness of field citation distributions at any aggregate level we must simply explain the skewness of the individual citation distributions of their very productive authors.
Topology-driven trend analysis for drug discovery In the present study, we proposed a new approach to identifying drug associations and interaction among their therapeutic groups by topology-based network analysis and demonstrated how the proposed topology-driven trend analysis can be utilized for new drug discovery.
Creativity in science and the link to cited references: Is the creative potential of papers reflected in their cited references? "In conclusion, our survey shows that past published research is not the main root of creative ideas."
The negative effects of citing with a national orientation in terms of recognition: National and international citations in natural-sciences papers from Germany, the Netherlands, and the UK In this paper we have shown for two countries (Germany and the Netherlands), that articles co-authored by researchers in one of these countries are less likely to be among the globally most highly-cited if they also cite "domestic” research (i.e. research authored by the same country). To put this another way, papers which stand on domestic shoulders are expected to be less well-cited than papers that stand on international shoulders. Policy attention in the countries may need to focus on the location, the causes, and on measures that mitigate further disengagement.
Google Scholar and Web of Science: Examining gender differences in citation coverage across five scientific disciplines In general, the analyses indicate mostly marginal and inconsistent gender effects. Yet, based on the results of this study, the choice of database appears to be of little influence on women's and men's relative performance and appointment success. Evaluators should be attentive to such inconsistencies and carefully consider how their choice of data source influences assessments at the individual level.
Investigating the quality of interactions and public engagement around scientific papers on Twitter The study shows that the communication landscape around scientific papers on Twitter clearly includes individual citizens and representatives from organizations outside universities.
Can Microsoft Academic help to assess the citation impact of academic books? Thus, Microsoft Academic may be a useful source for the impact assessment of books when comprehensive coverage is not essential.
Missing author address information in Web of Science An explorative study This research contributes to the ongoing debates on the role of credible data in evidence-based policy evaluation.
Normalization of zero-inflated data: An empirical analysis of a new indicator family and its use with altmetrics data Since the MHq is shown in this study to be a valid indicator, we apply it to six types of zero-inflated altmetrics data and test whether different altmetrics sources are related to quality. Since the MHq was able to discriminate empirically between the different quality levels – in most of the cases statistically significant – the convergent validity of the new variant seems to be established. The investigation of the relationship between altmetrics and assessments by peers in this study demonstrates that the relationship between altmetrics and peers' assessments (one aspect of scientific quality) is not as strong as the relationship between peers' assessments and citations. Thus, there is a high demand for further studies in this area.
To be the Prince to wake up Sleeping Beauty: the rediscovery of the delayed recognition studies Our results reveal common features of potential rediscovering authors in the scientific community who may play significant roles in the propagation of citation networks.
Editorial decisions with informed and uninformed reviewers This paper has analyzed the role played by two different groups of experts in peer review: informed and uninformed reviewers.
Overlapping thematic structures extraction with mixed-membership stochastic blockmodel But regardless of whichever observed network, the distribution of publications over themes seems to be quite even, which is different from the varying size topics requirement summarized by Havemann et al. (2017).
Important institutions of interinstitutional scientific collaboration networks in materials science Although the scale of institutional scientific collaboration networks is becoming larger, the networks still have apparent heterogeneity and fit a power-law distribution with high goodness of fit.
Path to success: an analysis of US educated elite academics in the United States We show that undergraduate degrees attained by elite academics are more dispersed than their Ph.D. degrees.
On entropy research analysis: cross-disciplinary knowledge transfer In summary, we have presented a bibliometric study of the interdisciplinary characteristics of entropy and the related cross-disciplinary knowledge transfer by using categories provided by the Scopus database.
A complement to lexical query's search-term selection for emerging technologies: the case of "big data" We proposed two steps to improve the automatic search-term selection process when creating lexical queries to study emerging technologies. One is a systematic process to select search-terms from previous literature. The other consists in evaluating the document retrieval interdependence of candidate search-terms. If the SIR calculation costs are not an issue, then the implementation of the SIR is a good complement to reduce lexical query expansion search-term candidates.
The resilience of regional African HIV/AIDS research networks to the withdrawal of international authors in the subfield of public administration and governance: lessons for funders and collaborators These results show the regional African academic network in Public Administration and Governance related to HIV is potentially highly sensitive to shifts in funding priorities that may cause international authors currently acting as network bridges to reduce their African collaborations.
A comparative study of citations to chemical encyclopedias in scholarly articles: Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology and Ullmann's Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry The study supports the view that such long-standing reference sources are still needed for research and valued by the scientific community despite the availability of online resources.
Research or management? An investigation of the impact of leadership roles on the research performance of academic administrators The present study has used statistical analysis to quantitatively examine the impact of administrative roles on the research performance of academic administrators.
Semantic word shifts in a scientific domain Our work associates semantic word shifts with the evolving of topics, which facilitates a better understanding of semantic word shifts from both topics and contexts.
China's rising leadership in science and technology: quantitative and qualitative indicators This paper has presented a variety of measures of national science leadership to examine the case for China's resuming its historical leadership of science and technology. Generally, quantitative indicators show that China has made enormous progress in S&T. Some of these indicators show that China is already in the lead, and others forecast that it soon will be. Thus, we can conclude that our research hypothesis is not proven: On balance evidence presented here tends to show that China does not yet lead the world in science and technology, and that it may be many years before it does so.
Interdisciplinarity and collaboration: on the relationship between disciplinary diversity in departmental affiliations and reference lists "Based on a comparison of results for these two different approaches to measuring interdisciplinarity, our study confirms the conclusion of Adams et al. (2016) that different methodologies and indicators can produce seriously inconsistent and even contradictory results."
Interdisciplinarity and insularity in the diffusion of knowledge: an analysis of disciplinary boundaries between philosophy of science and the sciences Our results suggest that philosophers of science produce interdisciplinary scholarship, but they tend not to cite work by other philosophers when it is published in journals outside of their discipline.
The next generation (plus one): an analysis of doctoral students' academic fecundity based on a novel approach to advisor identification In this paper we presented a novel approach to identify the advisors of doctoral students based on co-publications and machine learning of matching algorithms. This approach can help alleviate the problem that large-scale datasets linking doctoral students to their advisors are lacking for many disciplines and fields of research. We obtained substantial evidence indicating that advisor seniority is associated with a decreased likelihood of students to become advisors themselves.
Evolution of collaboration and optimization of impact: self-organization in multinational research In this study, we explored country-level characteristics and dynamisms shaping the col-laborative research landscape, revealing several important facts about the evolution and driving mechanisms of multinational teams. Collectively, our results show that differing citation priorities between countries could lead to similar enhancements in absolute citation measures over time, but are not associated with the relative incidence of international collaborations. Therefore, our results chiefly describe the collective behaviors of investigators from one country.
Factors influencing the scientific performance of Momentum grant holders: an evaluation of the first 117 research groups In brief, large-scale grant schemes such as the MP are indeed able to enrich the scientific landscape of a country.
The declining scientific wealth of Hong Kong and Singapore The analysis shows that Hong Kong and Singapore have minimally improved their shares in the worldwide production of knowledge, but a more pragmatic understanding of the trend suggests that they have primarily maintained their shares.
Why highly cited articles are not highly tweeted? A biology case Our study again confirms that scientific impact is not equivalent with societal impact, and our findings have practical implications for improving societal impact of scientific research.
Emergent structures in faculty hiring networks, and the effects of mobility on academic performance Our contribution reveals how the transition from Ph.D. to first job, operating within a hierarchical system made of interactions among the different institutions, has long-run effects also on scientific performance.
An analysis of editorial board members' publication output in agricultural economics and policy journals Strong inverse statistical dependence exists between the length of membership and journals' bibliometric characteristics (Impact factor, Article Influence Score). The share of EBMs' articles that remained uncited for 2 years is strongly inversely correlated with journals' bibliometric characteristics.
Influence of network-based structural and power diversity on research performance Developing new metrics to assess the structural position and diversity of collaborators of a scholar and also examining their association with scholars' performance and productivity have been the main novel contributions of this study.
Joint modeling of the association between NIH funding and its three primary outcomes: patents, publications, and citation impact The current study sought to extend the prior knowledge on the impact of funding on research outputs by jointly modeling publications, patents, and total SNIP using data from 108,803 NIH-funded projects.
An altmetric investigation of the online visibility of South Korea-based scientific journals Based on our findings we can conclude that Open Access availability is a clear driver for higher online attention for Korean scientific journals, however, this attention is also heavily influenced by the popularity of a few articles that have attracted significant online attention. Because of the influence some popular articles can have on the aggregated journal-level attention, journal-level altmetrics do not appear to be reliable nor useful indicators of the performance of scientific journals. Journal-level altmetrics would thus seem to have inherited some of the issues also present with Journal Impact Factors.
An h index for Mendeley: comparison of citation-based h indices and a readership-based hmen index for 29 authors In conclusion, the hmen index seems to be a promising indicator which comes close to the traditional scholarly impact measure of the h index, but diverges from it to a small degree.
The Google Scholar h-index: useful but burdensome metric Google Scholar is a useful platform, but the introduction of false elements into academics' accounts misrepresent their true output.
Field classification of publications in Dimensions: a first case study testing its reliability and validity The results put in question the reliability and validity of the scheme.
A note on measuring normal science This test I am proposing suggests that there may in fact have been a shift toward a normal science phase in Analytic Philosophy from the 1960s to 2000, contrary to what Petrovich reports.
Research productivity and main publishing institutions in Cote d'Ivoire, 2000-2016 Since the turn of the millennium, research productivity in Côte d'Ivoire has steadily grown at an above regional and global rate despite recurring economic pressures and sociopolitical unrest.
Peer Assessment of CS Doctoral Programs Shows Strong Correlation with Faculty Citations The main contribution of this work is in showing there is a strong correlation between peer assessments and citation measures of computer science doctoral programs.
Occupational therapy publications by Australian authors: A bibliometric analysis The volume of occupational therapy peer-reviewed literature has grown over the last two decades. Australian authors have and continue to make significant contributions to the occupational therapy body of knowledge nationally and internationally.
Modeling Citation Dynamics of "Atypical" Articles This article aims to improve our understanding of atypical citation patterns, by developing mathematical models that can capture citation dynamics of awakened articles and second-act articles.
Exploring Possibilities to Use Bibliometric Data to Monitor Gold Open Access Publishing at the National Level Our conclusions are limited to the domains in which journal publishing is the dominant way of communication (the natural, life, and medical sciences, and to a lesser extent the social sciences and humanities; van Leeuwen, 2013).
Automatically assembling a full census of an academic field The ability to cheaply and quickly assemble a complete census of an academic field from web-based data will accelerate research on a wide variety of social and policy questions about the composition, dynamics, and diversity of the scientific workforce in general, and computing fields in particular. The novel system we describe here, which uses a topical web crawler to automatically assemble an academic census from semi-structured web-based data, is both accurate and efficient. Such a multi-year census effort should now be straightforward using the system described here.
Social impact in social media: A new method to evaluate the social impact of research Our study indicates that there is incipient evidence of social impact, both potential and real, in social media.
Will open access increase journal CiteScores? An empirical investigation over multiple disciplines This paper empirically investigates the open access effect on the CiteScore of journals. We have found a positive effect for OA journals in general. More importantly, our results have significant managerial implications to stakeholders of journals such as editors, publishers, authors, and readers when considering the open access decision of a journal.
Authorship, Collaboration, Topics, and Research Gaps in Environmental and Resource Economics 1991-2015 Our analysis revealed some interesting patterns in terms of contributors and content. In our opinion, ERE is currently providing a platform for bridging the distance between European and international environmental economics studies. The research gaps identified using analysis of topics co-occurrence in the body of articles published by ERE offer novel avenues for research on unique combination of ideas to understand the linkages between these topics in further details.
Cross-disciplinary evolution of the genomics revolution Together, these outcomes show that cross-disciplinarity in genomics is pervasive and impactful, creating upward mobility in morphed careers and generating dominant hybrid intellectual and social capital that have persisted long after the end of the HGP.
Paradigm development in Chinese management research: The role of research methodology Based on these findings, we discuss the applicability of Kuhn's framework to management research, and also identify normative guidelines for the design of future Chinese management studies. Taken together, this would characterize China-based management research as having a lower methodological standard than for management studies in other regions, and is consistent with expectations for early-stage work. As summarized in the Table, we observed a convergence of several research norms, including sample size, data sources, and time horizons for data collection.
Toward a computational history of universities: Evaluating text mining methods for interdisciplinarity detection from PhD dissertation abstracts The results presented in the quantitative evaluation highlight that detecting interdisciplinary research from textual content is more complex that what previously remarked in the literature.
Publications by Scandinavian university Departments of Anaesthesiology from 2001 to 2015 The number of publications from Scandinavian university Departments of Anaesthesiology increased between 2001 and 2015, but the share of original articles decreased.
Identifying core topics in technology and innovation management studies: a topic model approach This study identified 50 topics of TIM research and explored their changes and relationships by applying the topic model approach to more than ten thousand articles published during the last twenty years.
Scholarly Success of Orthopaedic Surgeons Participating in the Clinician Scholar Career Development Program The CSCDP appears to play an important role in promoting clinician-researcher careers in orthopaedic surgery. However, we suspect that even more attention to providing supportive environments for research during young surgeons’ careers will improve the conversion of CSCDP participation to scholarly success.
A skeptical view on the Hirsch index and its predictive power In the present investigation I have demonstrated the inert behavior of the h-index. My preference is Egghe's g-index modified by fractional counting of papers for multiple-author publications and sharpened by the exclusion of all (direct and indirect) self-citations. In other words one-dimensional indicators are not sufficient [8] and one should always remember that “a good decision is based on knowledge not on numbers” as the Greek philosopher Plato knew already 2400 years ago [54].
Entrepreneurship, intrapreneurship and scientific mobility: The Spanish case Taking into account all that has been set out previously, this study has provided data which shows that groups of mobile scientists are more involved in entrepreneurial activities and, especially in intrapreneurial activities. Experience acquired abroad by these groups has also been more effective for promoting these activities and, as above, especially for intrapreneurs. All of this shows that scientific mobility promotes entrepreneurship and above all intrapre-neurship. Therefore SECTI agents should intensify appropriate policies for scientific mobility in order to use this potential in order to benefit economic growth, creating jobs and the right balance between local and global science.
Bibliometric analysis of 100 most cited articles on oral submucous fibrosis This first citation analysis of the 100 most cited articles render a historical perspective on the progress of research in the field of OSF and enables the comprehensive identification and recognition of the most important and relevant research topics concerned.
Scientometric overview of nursing research on pain management This study focused on revealing the current status of the literature about pain and pain management in the field of nursing with respect to the particular dimensions, such as the distribution of the authors, journals, institutions, countries, keywords in terms of years, citations, networks, topic detection, and document clustering over keyword distributions. The study revealed that articles about pain have primarily focused on children, elderly, and oncologic patients in recent years. Therefore, the findings may support present and future research in this field by shedding light on the networks, trends, and contents in the related literature.
How do researchers perceive research misbehaviors? A transcultural case study of Chinese and Flemish researchers This case study implies that the Chinese research community is in an urgent need of responsible conduct training and strong as well as sound guidelines for responsible research practices in place. It is recommended that the Chinese policy makers and institutions should start to pay more attention to responsible conduct of research education, focus on plagiarism during the PhD phase, organize undergraduate and graduate courses on scientific integrity, and put their regulations in place. Hopefully some improvement could be made because of this.
The Power of Scientometrics and the Development of Economics First, evaluative scientometrics contributes to a reinforcement and stabilization of existing patterns of academic reproduction and further increases any existing bias in the distribution of attention, prestige, and resources (second section).
African university presses and the institutional logic of the knowledge commons Thus, if there is a second transition of the academic publishing industry underway, it is in its early stages, partial, and limited in the African context. We thus show that the logic of the knowledge commons provides a useful theoretical lens for studying the far-reaching and rapid ongoing changes in international academic publishing in Africa and further afield.
"Publication favela' or bibliodiversity? Open access publishing viewed from a European perspective As a future infrastructure to support open scholarly communication across Europe, OPERAS aims to coordinate a range of publishers and service providers to offer researchers and societies a fully functional web of services to cover the entire research lifecycle.
Importance of First and Second Authorship in Assessing Citation-Based Scholarly Activity of US Radiation Oncology Residents and Subsequent Choice of Academic Versus Private Practice Career The average radiation oncology resident graduate has published a minimum of two first- and/or second-author articles cited at least twice.
Charting leadership in SCM research from Asia and Europe In this study we have identified leading SCM research authors, institutions, and countries/regions of Asia and Europe and examined the networks of these leading agents. By revealing leading scholars and institutions in SCM research in Asia and Europe, we provide professional peers, researchers, and students with information helpful in gauging potential collaboration and education opportunities in these regions. Future research can examine leadership from across the world or from North America.
From academia to citizenry. Study of the flow of scientific information from projects to scientific journals and social media in the field of "Energy saving" Energy saving is a field of research of obvious importance, for the highest rates of participation, leadership and fund raising were found for major European countries such as Germany, France, United Kingdom and Spain.
The Effect of R&D Investment on Graduate Student Productivity: Evidence From the Life Sciences "While the GRFP is designed to provide early-stage funding, the impact of the funding is limited." "The small impact on research productivity raises important questions about the use of federal dollars to fund graduate students for the purpose of increased productivity." "Moreover, these findings prompt an important discussion of the allocation of scarce federal dollars in regard to the trade-offs between scientific innovations and graduate training."
The effects of the research excellence framework research impact agenda on early- and mid-career researchers in library and information science The authors conclude that while there is evidence LIS academics engage with practice to maximise impact, they lack support in building impact and the discipline needs to do more to create opportunities for the academy and the profession to coalesce to identify objects for and deliver impactful research.
Academics' attitudes towards peer review in scholarly journals and the effect of role and discipline This article draws on data from a major international survey, based on the database of authors and reviewers of a major publisher, Taylor & Francis.
Making Academic Social Capital Visible: Relating SNS-Based, Alternative and Traditional Metrics of Scientific Impact Our exploratory study addresses criticism aimed at traditional measures of impact assessment, specifically their undervaluing of relational aspects of scientific impact and social capital formation (PLoS Medicine Editors, 2006).
Surveying Retracted Studies and Notices Within the Field of Radiation Oncology A retracted study within the field of radiation oncology remains a relatively uncommon event.
The Relationship Between Preresidency Peer-Reviewed Publications and Subsequent Citation-Based Scholarly Activity of United States Radiation Oncology Residents Radiation oncology residents with at least 1 PRP are significantly more likely than those with no PRP to have higher h-index scores, as well as higher scores when stratified by first and/or second authorship.
Improper textual borrowing practices: Evidence from Iranian applied linguistics journal aricles Plagiarism by academics, as detected in the current study, is not specific to the Iranian scholarly journals but acknowledged in the literature as a pervasive act worldwide (Clarke, 2006; Martin, 2007, 2016; Sun, 2013; Sun & Yang, 2015).
Developing a Community of Practice: Michael Gaffikin and Critical Accounting Research This paper has examined the role of an academic thought leader in the development of a community of practice. Specifically, it has highlighted the influence of Emeritus Professor Michael Gaffikin in establishing a critical accounting community of practice at UOW through his PhD supervisions.
Novelty and Foreseeing Research Trends: The Case of Astrophysics and Astronomy This study presents several theoretically relevant findings about how the dissemination of innovation is shaped by institutional factors.
Audiology Faculty Author Impact Metrics as a Function of Institution These institutional metrics may be used to serve as a benchmark for institutional production, attracting students, hiring faculty, and assessing allocation of institutional funding.
An analysis of the Australasian Journal of Educational Technology 2013-2017 The analysis of articles published in AJET in 2013-2017 has confirmed a growing trend that educational technology research has become more student-centred (Marin et al., 2018; Zawacki-Richter & Latchem, 2018) since the Hadlock et al. (2014) analysis, and that there has been a rise in the number of studies researching online learning environments, and teacher knowledge and skill development. Opportunities exist for both authors and editors to broaden research in the areas of mobile learning and gamification, and the editors are encouraged to engage with Altmetrics as added value to authors, rather than rely on traditional citation metrics alone. Whilst cross-institutional research is continuing to occur, the hope is that this analysis will help to start a conversation about how AJET can further foster international collaboration, whilst continuing to champion Australasian-centred research.
Duality of departmental specializations and PhD exchange: A Weberian analysis of status in interaction using multilevel exponential random graph models (mERGM) The findings in this paper demonstrate that the exchange of personnel in sociology is highly status-conscious.
The Top 100 Papers of 25 Years of Macular Imaging Using Optical Coherence Tomography Overall, our study demonstrated that the majority of the most-cited articles were published by the top five senior authors. Diagnosis and anatomy employing OCT were the two areas where most of the clinical articles focused on. These findings reflect the attention that such OCT articles have received over the past 25 years.
Scientific Autonomy, Public Accountability, and the Rise of "Peer Review" in the Cold War United States The current “crisis” of peer review arguably has its origins in this moment in the 1970s, when the process was cast as the only acceptable method of evaluating scientific quality.
Scientific impact increases when researchers publish in open access and international collaboration: A bibliometric analysis on poverty-related disease papers Our results lend support to the existence of a real, measurable citation advantage for OA and international collaboration, with lower confidence interval bounds of 11% and 22%, respectively.
The way forward confronting eco-environmental challenges during land-use practices: a bibliometric analysis This bibliometric study has used 63,321 land-use articles, drawn from SCI-EXPANDED and SSCI, published between 1992 and 2016, to historically reconstruct the trends and hotspots of land-use research.
Misuse of Coauthorship in Medical Theses in Sweden We conclude that authorship guidelines are frequently disrespected at medical faculties in Sweden. The universities seem to provide limited support on authorship issues. We suggest that universities and their depart-ments step up and take a clearer stance on authorship issues.
Academic and Scientific Authorship Practices: A Survey Among South African Researchers This study demonstrates that knowledge of authorship guidelines does not equate agreement regarding authorship credit and order.
Evaluating the Impact of Web-scale Discovery Services on Scholarly Content Seeking Since their advent in the mid-2000s, web-scale discovery services are increasingly being implemented in academic libraries (Lee & Chung, 2016). In this study, we evaluate the impact of web-scale discovery services in directing users to scholarly content.
Twenty five years of the Journal of Travel & Tourism Marketing: a bibliometric ranking The results of the research indicate that JTTM is a leading journal in the marketing field, as well as in tourism, leisure, and hospitality management. Therefore it can be seen how JTTM is strongly con-nected with other important journals, especially in the marketing and tourism fields. The results obtained in this work are dynamic, so it is expected that they change over the years, especially with regard to the number of citations obtained by the most recent works published.
Unethical authorship practices: A qualitative study in Malaysian higher education institutions This study yields important information regarding unethical authorship practices among researchers and students in Malaysian institutions of higher education.
Data Descriptor: An open database of productivity in Vietnam's social sciences and humanities for public use The open database is expected to help Vietnam revamp its research capacity and meet the public demand for greater transparency in science management.
Contemporary Academic Publishing: Democratization and Differentiation in Careers Publishing in academe has undergone a transformation. Vast portions of academics publish and now publish as a matter of routine in their careers. The article has called into question and reopened a discussion of a prevailing paradigm in the sociology of science that has long been used to study academic careers. This article concludes with a discussion on three sets of macro conditions—massification, saturated labor markets, and neoliberalism—that may be understood for their democratizing effects on the career patterns of contemporary academics.
Social Policy's 'Greatest Hits' It is concluded that, even with its flaws, bibliometrics is an important approach to exploring the vast field of Social Policy.
Academic productivity in surgical oncology: Where is the bar set for those training the next generation? "Objective benchmarks, such as the median h-index and NIH funding, provide additional insights for both junior faculty and leadership into the productivity needed to attain promotion to the next academic rank for surgical oncologists."
An investigation into the role played by research assessment in the socio-geographic fragmentation of undergraduate economics education in the UK This study has shown that the socio-geographic fragmentation of economics education documented by Johnston et al. (2014) has been replicated in university economics research and that the two changes appear to be related to one another. The results show that universities that exit the E&E UOA and move to the B&M UOA boost their scores in B&M. REEs would appear to be implicated in the fragmentation of the UK's HE system in ways that may be intended and unintended.
The research agenda setting of higher education researchers The setting of research agendas by higher education researchers is characterized by multidimensional features that can be categorized into two main clusters: cohesive and trailblazing. This analysis sustains the robustness of the main analysis and implies that contributors to higher education research at different stages in their academic career, or contributing to higher education research at differing frequency, maintain the same dynamics concerning the setting-up of research agendas. The development of higher education as a field of knowledge requires a greater balance of cohesive and trailblazing research agendas within research communities.
Reflection of Reflections: Scientist's Activity in the Mirror of Bibliometrics Academician Valentin Nikolayevich Parmon is one of the central figures in Russian science.
Exploring junior secondary students' plagiarism behavior "This study investigated the relationship between students' awareness of academic integrity and their IL skills at a junior secondary school."
Innovation or imitation: The diffusion of citations This article studies the temporal diffusion of citations to scientific articles in the dynamic process of scientific communication. The proposed approach can also be extended to higher levels of aggregation (e.g., individual scientists, journals, institutions), providing further insights into the practice of scientific evaluation.
Analysis and Correction of Inappropriate Image Duplication: the Molecular and Cellular Biology Experience Image screening can identify papers with problematic images prior to publication, reduces post-publication problems and requires less staff time than the correction of problems after publication. At the very least, our findings suggest the need for both authors and journals to redouble their efforts prevent inappropriate image duplications.
Self-citation is the hallmark of productive authors, of any gender We find that self-citation is the hallmark of productive authors, of any gender, who cite their novel journal publications early and in similar venues, and more often cross citation-barriers such as language and indexing.
Researching Together: Exploring Research Productivity and Collaboration of Librarians in ASEAN Countries Based on the available data from Scopus and Web of Science, there is no predictable trend of research growth between 2001 and 2016. Nevertheless, this study shows evidence of scientific publications and research collaboration among librarians in Southeast Asia. This study provides recom-mendations to encourage ASEAN librarians to actively engage in research not just for personal benefits, but also to advance the librarianship as a profession.
Multiscale impact of researcher mobility Together these results provide additional clarity on the complex relationship between human capital mobility and the dynamics of social capital investment, with implications for immigration and national innovation system policy.
Detecting Plagiarism Based on the Creation Process We contribute to remedying this problem by proposing a process for automatic identification of likely cheaters.
Getting the best out of data for open access monograph presses: A case study of UCL Press Through a case study of UCL Press, we have identified the ways in which readily available data and relatively low-cost approaches to data aggregation and analysis can provide useful insights for the development and strategy of a small monograph press. There is a range of preparation actions that small presses may need to take to address these opportunities, including proactively considering their internal capacity for data gathering, developing and supporting best practice in online promotion for both staff and authors, and applying tagged links to gain better data on referrals and sources of activity.
French publishing attitudes in the open access era: The case of mathematics, biology, and computer science Lack of policy, prescriptions, and lack of rewards explain why OA is not a factor that determines the publishing strategies of French researchers.
Editorial challenges in a small scientific community: Study of Croatian editors This research study discovered that Croatian journals suffer from many of the same problems experienced in other regions of the world, but they are also burdened with challenges such as lack of support for their editorial work (spending too much time on their editorial work and insufficient funding) and problems with reviewers (substandard reviews) that could seriously affect the quality of the journals. Editors stick to traditional double-blind peer review processes but are interested in more open methods, including allowing reader comments and public review. Some simple changes, such as extending the reviewer databases, may be of assistance, but fundamental problems such as the burden on editors has no easy solution.
Early career experiences of navigating journal article publication: Lessons learned using an autoethnographic approach Finally, we explore our findings in light of the tensions imposed by the relative inexperience and lack of power yielded by ECRs. The role that the peer review journal writing process has played in supporting us to improve and become more effective researchers and communicators has been profound for all three of us. We conclude that ECRs need to be able to access knowledge and strategies that do not necessarily need to be acquired through the challenges of trial and error.
Alternative journal impact factors in open access publishing An examination of a group of A-JIF providers on their criteria for scoring A-JIFs reveals that the criteria used are misleading, and the values calculated are unreliable.
The most downloaded and most cited articles in radiology journals: a comparative bibliometric analysis Educational and free-access articles are more frequent among the most downloaded articles.
Disparities in ratings of internal and external applicants: A case for model-based inter-rater reliability In conclusion, our study demonstrated lower and less precise ratings for external applicants to teacher positions with bias in ratings significant even when accounting for various measures of teacher qualifications and quality.
Survey on opinions and usage patterns for the ResearchGate platform The results of this survey were largely able to answer the original questions.
Global development and trend of wind tunnel research from 1991 to 2014: a bibliometric analysis This study evaluated the development and trend of wind tunnel research by adopting bibliometric analysis.
The Emergence of Individual Research Programs in the Early Career Phase of Academics Our study demonstrated how the transition to independent research in the early career phase is linked to developing IRPs, what field-specific mechan-isms produce such IRPs, the conditions that trigger these mechanisms, and the conditions that keep them operating once they have been initiated.
E-Index A Bibliometric Index of Research Efficiency A novel bibliometric index, the E-index, has been presented for bibliometric quantification of research efficiency; Exemplary studies showing the utilities of the proposed E-index based on bibliometric data produced by Chinese principal investigators in the field of life sciences;
The Benefits and Pitfalls of Google Scholar We recommend against the use of GS by external reviewers evaluating candidates for tenure and promotion.
An empirical study of biological scientists' article sharing through ResearchGate: Examining attitudinal, normative, and control beliefs This research examined the factors associated with biological scientists' article sharing through ResearchGate and identified important individual motivations affecting their article sharing intentions. The findings can be applied to not only increase article sharing through ResearchGate, but also to facilitate scientists' article sharing through IRs. This study suggests that in order to facilitate scientists' article sharing through digital platforms, it is important to help scientists to develop more positive attitudes toward article sharing by reducing their concerns in copyright infringement and emphasizing the benefits of article sharing such as potential future collaborative relationships and a positive increase in academic reputation through article sharing.
The state and evolution of Gold open access: a country and discipline level analysis Both the research profiles and OA policies of countries have effects on the Gold OA ratios.
The importance of collaborative networks in Canadian scientific research Our results highlight that these collaborations are important considerations for future research.
The Impact of Non-Brazilian Contribution on the Publishing Performance of Psychology Journals in Brazil Our findings suggest that publishing performance for psychology journals in Brazil may be strongly tied to non-Brazilian contribution. Implications may be relevant to journal publishers and editors, as well as arbiters of scientific policy. Opportunities exist for emerging nation science as they never have before.
Thirty years of the International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing: a bibliometric analysis In 2017, IJCIM completed its first three decades of a notable journey. During those 30 years, IJCIM has published several outstanding research works related to CIM. These contributions have helped the growth of CIM significantly.
To get cited or get tweeted: a study of psychological academic articles Comparisons between Twitter-inclined and citation-inclined articles showed the “preferences” of citation counts and Twitter mentions.
Can family business loosen the grips of accounting, economics, and finance? Family business scholarship, as represented by its journals, is weakly embedded in scholarly networks.
Twenty years of the Journal of Knowledge Management: a bibliometric analysis According to the results, this work shows that the USA and the UK are strongly positioned and leads the publications in the JKM with the highest productivity and influence. Even so, both countries have decreased their publications in JKM in recent years. Therefore, to enrich the body of literature, JKM should devote efforts to promote the research of knowledge management in emerging economic contexts.
Lack of Improvement in Scientific Integrity: An Analysis of WoS Retractions by Chinese Researchers (1997-2016) To summarise the foregoing discussions, the scientific integrity of Chinese researchers did not seem to improve in the past two decades (we owe this point to one of the anonymous reviewers). We would provide three suggestions for the policy makers in China to address the issue of scientific integrity. In addition, we would provide two suggestions for journal administrators.
Normalized Paper Credit Assignment: A Solution for the Ethical Dilemma Induced by Multiple Important Authors The essence of equally important authorship is the approximately equal importance of the authors. It is a necessary feature that promotes and protects collaboration. We suggest that scientific research administrators adopt the normalized paper credit assignment method, which can reduce unethical behaviour in bylines and promote the fair comparison of researchers' contributions and ability.
Artificial Intelligence Related Publication Analysis Based on Citation Counting In this paper, we studied the differences between journals and conferences in the Al field based on the CCF's recommendation list. Using the designed scheme, we found that the citation weight was different between categories and published years. Thus, our scheme is more general and can be used for more different cases.
Prestige drives epistemic inequality in the diffusion of scientific ideas These findings suggest that idea dissemination within academia is not meritocratic, even when the assessment of the idea's quality (transmission probability p) is entirely objective. Our results indicate that faculty hiring is one social mechanism that drives this inequality, and past work has established that university prestige drives faculty hiring [9]. Somewhat more optimistically, our results show that while lower quality ideas will tend to be overshadowed by comparable ideas from more prestigious institutions, high quality ideas circulate widely, regardless of their origin.
Reconceptualising research impact: reflections on the real-world impact of research in an Australian context The findings from the research presented in this article suggest there may be benefit in reconceptualising research impact using a process-orientation approach to understanding how research influences the real-world. The findings from this research suggest a new definition: research impact is the process whereby research knowledge makes a difference to the knowledge beneficiary.
Normalised fuzzy index for research ranking From the shown results, the achievement of both of inter-discipline normalisation as well as the intra-discipline consistency is achieved by the proposed index whereas one or both of them are violated when considering only the number of citations or the journal impact factors. NFindex can represent a universal normalised basis inside and across research institutes to estimate an accurate relative ranking of their scholars. Moreover, it can be used as a normalised metric for ranking different scientific departments on a unified scale.
Selecting early-career researchers: the influence of discourses of internationalisation and excellence on formal and applied selection criteria in academia This article concludes that discourses of internationalisation and excellence that dominate the current neoliberal university create increasingly demanding criteria for Tenure-Track Assistant Professors.
Comparison of Impact Factor, Eigenfactor Metrics, and SCImago Journal Rank Indicator and h-index for Neurosurgical and Spinal Surgical Journals "Despite the different mathematical basis among the citation-based bibliometric indices studied, they have strong correlations in ranking neurosurgical journals." "This study provides evidence that the newer indices may be used interchangeably with the Impact Factor in this context, and they may, theoretically, mitigate some the shortcomings of the Impact Factor."
PePSI: Personalized Prediction of Scholars' Impact in Heterogeneous Temporal Academic Networks In this paper, the PePSI method is proposed to predict schol- ars' scientific impact through utilizing the heterogeneous temporal academic networks.
Editorial characteristics and quality of the articles published by Brazilian Nursing journals Scientific journals follow international publication standards. Most of the articles published do not provide strong scientific evidence, which has an impact on the use of the knowledge, on the citations received and on the effective advancement of the knowledge of the area. These elements raise the need for an urgent reflection among those involved in Nursing research, both authors and readers, and for the elaboration of effective strategies to increase the advance of the scientific knowledge of the area.
Bibliometric Analysis of Erectile Dysfunction Publications in Urology and Sexual Medicine Journals The number of authors per ED manuscript has significantly increased over the last 11 years, most notably among original research articles. Increasing authorship was associated with more citations and higher RCR in the ED literature. These trends should be taken into consideration when urologists and sexual medicine experts review ED articles with the purpose of improving patient care.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Publications on Semiconductor Nanostructures Thus, a strong academic school, a high degree of international cooperation, and a relatively low growth rate (not requiring increasingly more resources, as is the case with the carbon nanoboom) have favored the country's relative success in the development of the semiconductor trend.
Social sciences research in the Central European city of Wroclaw: A density- equalizing mapping analysis This is the first study that depicts the global network of Wrocław scientific activities in the field of social sciences. It clearly shows that in contrast to reports focussing on other Eastern European countries [45], scientific life in Wrocław is active and rapidly grows since 2006/2007. On the basis of the current analysis, detailed a compelling historical pieces may now focus on single sections of social sciences activities in Wroclaw over the past decades.
Analysis of retracted articles in the surgical literature Article retractions occur across all fields of surgery for various reasons, both administrative and content-related.
Ranking Authors in an Academic Network Using Social Network Measures This research study used social network measures to find the centrality and prestige of authors in an academic network.
Does the Hirsch Index Improve Research Quality in the Field of Biomaterials? A New Perspective in the Biomedical Research Field We propose considering the authorship order in a publication in order to obtain more information on the impact that authors have on their research field.
Scholarly Research Projects Benefit Medical Students' Research Productivity and Residency Choice: Outcomes From the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine Longitudinal research experiences for medical students may be one effective tool in fostering student publications and interest in extending training in a research-focused medical center.
The 100 most-cited articles in orthodontics: A bibliometric study This bibliometric citation analysis reveals new, useful, and interesting information about scientific progress in the field of orthodontics.
The effectiveness of journals as arbiters of scientific impact We conclude that the academic publishing system, founded on peer review, appropriately recognizes the significance of research contained in manuscripts, as measured by the number of citations that manuscripts obtain after publication, even though some errors are made. We therefore recommend that authors reduce publication delays by choosing journals appropriate to the significance of their research. Overall, our analyses strongly support the interpretation that high-JIF journals are effective, but not perfect, at discerning high-impact research from less significant research.
Citation classics in pediatrics: a bibliometric analysis The top-100 cited articles in pediatrics identify the impactful authors, journals, institutes, and countries.
A Nobel opportunity for interdisciplinarity Taken together, Fig. 2 gives a snapshot of science that is disappointing on two levels.
The sociology of scientific validity: How professional networks shape judgement in peer review These results suggest that removing bias from peer review cannot be accomplished simply by recusing closely connected reviewers, and highlight the value of recruiting reviewers embedded in diverse professional networks.
A scientometric study of heat transfer journal literature from 1900 to 2017 The present work explores the characteristics of heat transfer literature from 1900 to 2017 based on the database of Web of Science (WoS) and its implication using the scientometric techniques.
What are the defining characteristics of the most cited publications in orthognathic surgery? The most-cited articles in orthognathic surgery represent a multitude of topics, but are predominately focused on preopera- tive planning and complications. Oral and maxillofacial surgeons have authored a majority of the highest-cited works. Diagnosis, treatment planning, and complications were the most common topics studied.
Are book publications disappearing from scholarly communication in the social sciences and humanities? The authors conclude that generalizations like "performance-based research funding systems (PRFS) are bad for book publishing" are flawed.
The diversity of monographs: changing landscape of book evaluation in Poland The results show that the characteristic patterns of monographs in the humanities, social sciences and hard sciences are different in terms of authorship, language and length. The findings of this study suggest that the definition of scholarly book publications should be simplified in order to clarify the distinctions between different publication types. The book evaluation system is a science policy instrument and as such should show the best way of communicating research results.
The culture of orphaned texts: Academic books in a performance-based evaluation system Most importantly, the evaluation system led to an explosive growth of book publications, the rise of in-house publishing by a researcher's own research institution, the “fake internationalisation" using foreign vanity presses as a publication venue, and the development of a culture of orphaned books with no readers.
Scholarly book publishers' ratings and lists in Finland and Spain: Comparison and assessment of the evaluative potential of merged lists If merged, ratings ought to be kept separately.
How arbitrary are the weights assigned to books in performance-based research funding? An empirical assessment of the weight and size of monographs in Flanders In conclusion, and as a possible or temporary alternative to the complications and expense of developing fine-grained local PRFS models (Aagaard, 2015), a case can be made for discussing and re-evaluating the current weight ratios between book and non-book publication types in PRFS at the national or regional level. At least in Flanders, an increase of the weight of monographs in the regional PRFS would not result in a dramatic shift of funding between the universities. However, a change of the weight ratio between monographs and journal articles would, however, impact the balance between fields.
Do prestigious Spanish scholarly book publishers have more teaching impact? This study therefore ratifies the concept of publisher prestige and demonstrates that it applies not only to scholarly impact but also to educational value.
The insoluble problems of books: what does Altmetric.com have to offer? As a result of this study, which provides an overview of the Book Collection of Altmetric.com and its capabilities in terms of connecting with external databases, we can confirm that the product is still at an early stage.
Publishing research in the international context: An analysis of Egyptian social sciences scholars' academic writing behaviour The study revealed that the Egyptian researchers in the social science disciplines are generally avoiding international publishing. Reasons for avoiding international publishing varied from language difficulties to the lack of the basic skills of international publishing. The analysis revealed that there is an urgent need for changing the way the university deals with the international publishing.
Honorary Authorship in Radiologic Research Articles: Assessment of Pattern and Longitudinal Evolution There has been little variation in the perception of honorary authorship among first authors of original research articles in radiology.
Trends in Authorship Demographics for Manuscripts Published in The American Journal of Cardiology In conclusion, there has been a significant increase in authors per article, variety of author degrees, and contribution from international authors.
Spanish National Oncological Research Center (CNIO): a bibliometric portrait From this study on a number of bibliometric characteristics of the Spanish National Oncological Research Center (CNIO), we conclude that the publication activity (since 2006 its scientific production has increased in about 83%), the number of high-quality journals used per year, the high influence, and impact of the journals and organizations citing the institution, consolidate its image as a top-notch oncological research center.
New model for encouraging academic staff in Saudi universities to use IT for knowledge sharing to improve scholarly publication performance Research productivity and development are critical for developing and improving rankings of universities. The results of this study indicate that scholarly publication is the most important indicator for measuring the level of research productivity in Saudi universities. In future research, factors that can improve the performance of administration staff in using IT can be studied.
Highly visible sepsis publications from 2012 to 2017: Analysis and comparison of altmetrics and bibliometrics While unreliable to gauge impact or future citation potential, altmetrics may be valuable for parties who wish to detect and drive public awareness of research findings and may enable researchers to dynamically explore the reach of their work in novel dimensions.
Predatory Publishing in Orthopaedic Research This study highlights the scope of orthopaedic predatory publishing. Orthopaedic surgeons should be aware of the suspected predatory journals and consult available online tools to identify them because distinguishing them from legitimate journals can be a challenge. We recommend that research and funding organizations track possible predatory orthopaedic journals to further limit the spread of these journals.
Highly cited papers in Microbiology: identification and conceptual analysis In conclusion, Microbiology is a broad research area that attracts the interest of the research community. Considering the results discussed above, they provide a potentially interesting output that allows discovering the evolution of the Microbiology research. It supposes a framework, based on the scientific evidence, to build future research lines and academic decisions.
Citations in Scientific Texts: Do Social Relations Matter? This confirms that the social context has to be taken into account when analyzing citations, either for research evaluation or for any study based on in-text citations. Moreover, this study shows that there is a correlation between the textual characteristics of the citation and the relationship between the authors. This strongly suggests that it is impossible to consider citations as objective indicators, with no social bias. Although pioneering, our study is limited in terms of disciplinary coverage and amount of data. However, the results are promising, and confirm that citation behaviour is a very complex phenomenon that is influenced by a number of factors.
A new qualitative rating system for scientific publications and a fame index for academics Further research should extend the validation, especially in larger scientific disciplines, and analyze further refinements and alternatives that better acknowledge journal impact and the potential of younger publications.
On publication, refereeing and working hard In our study, we supplied a general model for the publication market. Using it, we reconciled various stylized facts that characterize differences in the publication process in economics over time and against other disciplines.
Following Up on Interdisciplinary Encounters: Benefits for Early Career Researchers In summary, this article has evaluated the extent of interdisciplinary collaboration arising from two different types of encounter, targeting early-career researchers, demonstrating that encounters successfully result in many interdisciplinary projects, which often lead to tangible outputs such as publications, conference presentations, further research funding and public engagement.
The Perks and Perils of Interdisciplinary Research Results from these two studies, both published (and elaborated in more detail) else-where, provide a much needed empirical assessment of IDR's effects on individual careers. In essence, they provide a nice antidote (and some caution) to the rhetoric and enthusiasm surrounding IDR. Interdisciplinary scholars need additional time to conduct research (e.g. release from teaching or reduction in service) and more opportunities to foster supportive networks.
The Balanced Worth: A Procedure to Evaluate Performance in Terms of Ordered Attributes The balanced worth provides an index that evaluates the relative goodness of a series of outcome distributions in terms of the likelihood of getting better or equal results. The balanced worth corresponds to a consistent application of this notion for any number of groups. There are many other fields in which this instrument may be useful. We shall refer to some additional developments on which the authors are presently working.
Governing interdisciplinary cooperation in Centers of Excellence In this study we have illustrated how the CoE setting can enable researchers to move beyond a merely interactive, borrowing epistemic relationships, to integrative relationships, where new cross-cutting specialisms develop. We believe that the above account can aid in understanding organizational/social correlates for interdisciplinary research, as well as contributing insight to academic leadership in these contexts.
DRAA e-resources usage statistics services in China: research and practice Despite these achievements, there is a long way to go; more work should be done on the deep analysis and the utilization of usage statistics, the promotion of usage statistics standards and raising of awareness about normalizing usage statistics.
The Ethics of Predatory Journals Using a stakeholder analysis, we found that there is little to defend about predatory publishing, and much to indict it. Authors, institutions of higher learning, the professions, and even accreditation bodies all suffer long-term costs of predatory publishing, and only the owners of such journals enjoy any short-term benefits. We feel that adopting departmental and college-wide policies that disallow reimbursements to payments to pay-to-publish journals, as well as policies that do not count articles appearing in them in tenure, promotion, and merit decisions will encourage scholarly publications in legitimate works and hasten the demise of the predatory ones.
Bibliometric Analysis of Global Research Progress on Coastal Flooding 1995-2016 Global trends in coastal flooding research were evaluated using bibliometric analysis of publications, institutions, countries, science categories, and key-words.
Epistemological or Political? Unpacking Ambiguities in the Field of Interdisciplinarity Studies The analyses and discussions have suggested that it is the discipline-inclusive-discourse that will consolidate the field. This antagonism is the major source of ambiguity in the field; it inhibits consolidation and needs to be dissolved. Increased transparency may, for example, be achieved by carefully considering the signifier-signified relationship(s), explicitly distin-guishing an epistemological signified from a signified that is not, as differentiating analytically between the two dimensions may sensitize us to different logics at play, which, in turn, may be helpful in deconstructing attempts at dichotomizing disciplinarity and interdisciplinarity so that the antagonism can be weakened and we can build common epistemological ground.
Institutional shaping of research priorities: A case study on avian influenza This paper presented an empirical investigation of the dynamics and diverse framings of avian influenza research from a macro-level perspective, complementing studies that have focused on specific policy debates or research avenues (e.g., Scoones, 2010). This study has direct policy implications in terms of processes for allocation of research resources for avian influenza. It suggests that for a given issue, a first step in priority setting is to acknowledge the existence of a broad range of possible relevant research outcomes and many possible research options for achieving them.
How does openness influence the impact of a scholar's research? An analysis of business scholars' citations over their careers Our findings show that different levels of cognitive openness and structural openness are required to enhance the impact of scholars' research at different career stages.
The First National Institutes of Health Institutional Training Program in Emergency Care Research: Productivity and Outcomes This training program produced 43 interdisciplinary investigators in emergency care research, with demonstrated productivity in grant funding and publications.
Mapping cancer research across Central and Eastern Europe, the Russian Federation and Central Asia: Implications for future national cancer control planning Poland was by far the most research-active country, but significant needs and opportunities have been identified to expand the cancer research activity in all CEE and R-CA countries to enhance national cancer control planning.
Top-cited Articles in Regenerative Endodontics: A Bibliometric Analysis This bibliometric analysis reveals the progress and trend of research in the field of regenerative endodontics.
A Visual Analysis of Research on Information Security Risk by Using CiteSpace This paper exhibited a visual and scientometrics review of ISR in detail covering every related article from Scopus database and Web of Science from 2007 to 2018.
When Neuroscience Meets Pharmacology: A Neuropharmacology Literature Analysis We have identified and analyzed all neuropharmacology articles published since the 1990s.
Comparative Study on the Academic Field of Artificial Intelligence in China and Other Countries This paper obtain the research situation, academic influence and other achievements of our country in the field of artificial intelligence and put forward a series of feasibility proposals, such as scholars in our country should break the boundaries between countries and fields and carry out cooperative research among different countries and fields.
Research incentives and research output This paper first briefly reviews the worldwide development of the university sector, the use of reward systems for university employees and the measurement of research output. First, increasing the weight placed on research quantity will increase its quality and vice versa; the model solutions imply a proportional relationship between quality and quantity. Thus, the most important thing to improve research performance is that employers appreciate research and not whether they focus on quality or quantity. Despite the abovementioned limitations, the paper has nevertheless presented a model that provides a realistic description of a researcher's behaviour and, thus, is useful for universities, trade unions and politicians dealing with research issues.
The Impact of Specialization in Journal Networks and Scholarship Journal bibliometrics, which may strongly influence professional advancement and grant funding, show dramatic differences in ranking after accounting for specialty and physician population.
Helping doctoral students crack the publication code: An evaluation and content analysis of the Australasian Journal of Educational Technology The analysis of articles published in AJET from 2013 to 2017 has revealed a number of future research trends, including the development of teacher technology skills, student accessibility to learning and the role of feedback in student learning. Overall, an exploration according to the rigour, impact and prestige framework (West & Rich, 2012) has revealed that AJET is an attractive open access journal in which to publish, which has demonstrated an ongoing commitment to further scholarship in the field of educational technology.
International business research output and rankings of Asia-Pacific universities: A 40-year time-series analysis Our findings suggest that successful Asia-Pacific institutions became so in conjunction with hiring authors who had been: (1) trained in a Top 25 university and (2) trained in a North American institution (with the notable exception of University of Melbourne).
Do females create higher impact research? Scopus citations and Mendeley readers for articles from five countries Thus, whilst there may be little practical gender difference in citation impact in countries with mature science systems, the higher female readership impact suggests a wider audience for female-authored research. The lack of a substantial citation bias to the detriment of females in Spain, the UK and the USA at the level of narrow fields gives some evidence that this issue should not be a priority in initiatives to overcome low numbers of females in some areas of science. The greater female impact in Mendeley compared to Scopus suggests that readers cannot be used as a proxy for citations (e.g., for early impact evidence: Thelwall, 2018) when investigating gender differences.
Topological metrics in academic genealogy graphs In this paper, we presented a study on metrics that represented relevant characteristics regarding the topology of genealogy graphs.
Information and misinformation in bibliometric time-trend analysis This has implications for research policy and for the interpretation of changes in the competitive research environment in the presence of dynamic growth.
Impact Factors and the Central Limit Theorem: Why citation averages are scale dependent We conclude that the Central Limit Theorem is a good predictor of the IF range of actual journals, while sustained deviations from its predictions are a mark of true, non-random, citation impact.
Long live the scientists: Tracking the scientific fame of great minds in physics Yet our study suggests the great minds live long intellectually.
Does deep learning help topic extraction? A kernel k-means clustering method with word embedding This paper proposes a polynomial function-based kernel k-means clustering method that incorporates the Word2Vec model with quantitative and qualitative demonstrations of its effectiveness in topic extraction. Additionally, this empirical analysis reveals insights into both overlapping and diverse research interests among the three journals that would benefit journal publishers, editorial boards, and research communities. However, when word embedding techniques create an abstract feature vector to represent words and documents, it leads to difficulties with describing topics in an explainable way, which would be considered as a limit in practices.
Four pitfalls in normalizing citation indicators: An investigation of ESI's selection of highly cited papers However, our study identified four pitfalls in this procedure.
Does the concentration of scientific research funding in institutions promote knowledge output? This study collected micro-data on projects from the Department of Management Sciences of the NSFC between 2006 and 2010 to empirically explore the relationship between concentrated research funding in institutions and the knowledge output of project PIs within the institution. Mainly, we found that concentrated research funding in institutions is negatively correlated with the knowledge output of project PIs within the institution (mainly in Chinese language papers). Based on the discussion above, this study proposes the following policy recommendations.
Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Scopus: A systematic comparison of citations in 252 subject categories The results suggest that in all areas GS citation data is essentially a superset of WoS and Scopus, with substantial extra coverage. Taken together, these results suggest caution if using GS instead of WoS or Scopus for citation evaluations. Providing that a reliable method to extract citation data can be found, the lack of metadata could be solved by combining GS citation data with rich openly accessible data, such as that provided by CrossRef.
A comparison of two approaches for measuring interdisciplinary research output: The disciplinary diversity of authors vs the disciplinary diversity of the reference list Our study confirms that more research is needed on IDR measurement.
Patent citation spectroscopy (PCS): Online retrieval of landmark patents based on an algorithmic approach These cases suggest that PCS provides a useful method for identifying seminal patents in areas of biomedical innovation and therapeutics.
Evaluating university performance using reference point based composite indicators The application lets us conclude that the methodology offers a warning system to assist in strategic decision making, and the values of the indicators allow us to find fields of improvement in all areas.
Statistical relationships between corresponding authorship, international co-authorship and citation impact of national research systems The relationship between authorship and citation-based indicators is found to be complex, as it reflects a country’s phase of scientific development and the coverage policy of the database.
A 'power law' based method to reduce size-related bias in indicators of knowledge performance: An application to university research assessment Our method has evident policy implications and gives a contribution for the future design of assessment exercises.
The bibliometric quotient (BQ), or how to measure a researcher's performance capacity: A Bayesian Poisson Rasch model The aim of this contribution was to develop a measurement scale for the construct 'researcher's performance capacity' on the basis of publication behavior.
Predatory journals: Who publishes in them and why? In this context, the findings of this study and those in the literature should be considered as a call for an urgent international action plan against PFJs that reduces the factors directing researchers to PFJs. Such an action plan could ensure that PFJs no longer gain the favor of researchers. The incentive allowance system was found to be a factor that encourages researchers to publish in PFJs. This study determined that another factor that causes participants to submit manuscripts to PFJs is their insufficient awareness of fake journals.
Decomposing inequality in research funding by university-institute sub-group: A three-stage nested Theil index The issue of inequality in research funding has attracted considerable attentions from researchers and policymakers. The measurement of inequality and the cognizance of its inherent features are of great importance for creating effective policies on future scientific research funding. Second, through the decomposition of the inherent structure of the overall inequality, it shows that 80.0% of the overall inequality is due to the inequality of the within research institutions and the remaining 20.0% inequalities are related to the disparities in research funding allocation between research institutions. Finally, the limitations of this paper should be considered in future endeavors. In this paper, only the data from NSFC are selected as the dataset. The single data source of the NSFC is insufficient to represent the overall distribution of research funding in China.
Impacts of the Journal Evaluation Program of the Korean Association of Medical Journal Editors (KAMJE) on the Quality of the Member Journals The KAMJE journal evaluation program successfully contributes improving the quality of the member journals.
Citation-Based Benchmarks and Individual Accounting Faculty Research Rankings by Topical Area and Methodology We provide rankings of accounting researchers in three time windows disaggregated into four methodologies and six topical areas.
Intellectual synthesis in mentorship determines success in academic careers This study reveals the importance of intellectual synthesis in the pursuit of an independent research career in life sciences. Trainees tended to be more successful if publications by their graduate and postdoctoral mentors had low semantic similarity, suggesting that their work links ideas and/or approaches from two previously disparate subfields.
The UK Research Excellence Framework and the Matthew effect: Insights from machine learning Machine learning could be used alongside peer review in the UK's research assessment exer-cises.
Comparative Analysis of Bibliometric, Authorship, and Collaboration Trends Over the Past 30-Year Publication History of the Journal of Orthopaedic Trauma and Injury Understanding changes in publishing characteristics over time and by region is critical with the rising demands of publishing in academic medicine.
A bibliometric analysis of text mining in medical research This study presents a bibliometric analysis of the text min- ing in medical research area during the year 2008–2017.
Knowledge Management for Fostering Biostatistical Collaboration within a Research Network: The RTRN Case Study Although fostering a partnered research culture, sustaining senior management commitment and ongoing monitoring are a challenge for this collaborative engagement, the proposed strategies centrally performed by the DCC may be useful in accelerating the pace and enhancing the quality of the scientific outcomes within a multidisciplinary clinical and translational research network.
In Their Own Words: Research Misconduct from the Perspective of Researchers in Malaysian Universities Despite the policies, regulations and guidelines provided by the institution, research misconduct still occurs and this calls for serious attention. The findings from this small-scale study suggest that it is crucial that all parties within the research community pay more attention to the issues and subjects connected to research ethics in order to increase research integrity among researchers. Finally, more research related to research misconduct in the local research community is needed to provide evidence and encourage the development of suitable training programmes in response to the challenges associated with the internationalization of higher education.
JOURNAL SELF-CITATION RATES AND IMPACT FACTORS IN DENTISTRY, ORAL SURGERY, AND MEDICINE: A 3-YEAR BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS Citation analysis of 2014-2016 JCR lists revealed a favorable publishing environment in the dental literature in terms of SCR and IFs. SCR was not significantly correlated to the IF of dental journals. More longitudinal studies are necessary to elucidate the incidence and patterns of journal self-citation in dentistry, oral surgery, and medicine.
Does the Scopus author ID suffice to track scientific international mobility? A case study based on Leibniz laureates The comparison of these two data sources shows that bibliometric data is suitable to identify a scientist’s international mobility and appears to be a good solution if there are no CVs available or if they are incomplete. Thus, Scopus offers a true alternative to track international mobility due to the hybrid approach of assigning author ID to every author in the database and the option to keep track of publication portfolio behind an author ID.
Scientific collaboration of Cuban researchers working in Europe: understanding relations between origin and destination countries However, an efficient system should be in place to harness the knowledge and skills emerging from the mobility of researchers working in global networks of science. National science systems should include policies and the mechanisms for harnessing the connectivity of their researchers abroad to ensure the country is dynamically embedded in the global network of international collaboration without losing the scope of local social needs. Small developing countries are likely to find difficulties in sustaining the international collaboration with their academic researchers abroad.
Research evaluation of Asian countries using altmetrics: comparing South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and China The results showed that Mendeley was the critical online social platform to discuss research articles. Academic research was also mentioned fre-quently in social media such as Twitter and Facebook; there were almost ten times more mentions in tweets than in Facebook posts although Twitter has fewer users than Facebook which is the world's most popular social networking site (Duggan and Smith 2013). The present study discussed academic assessment and influence in Asian countries through altmetrics, which is still in its stage of emerging as a way to supplement traditional scholarly assessment methods. Despite the limitations, altmetrics can figure out prominent research (Hassan et al. 2017), and using altmetrics with caution is considered as a complete mea-surement of research impact across various online social platforms in a short time period (Bornmann 2014a, b; Elmore 2018), with its positive influence to users' works (Haustein et al. 2014).
Topic based research competitiveness evaluation This paper presents a method of evaluating the competitiveness of research institutions based on research topic distribution. A case study shows that in average 40% of the TOP institutions agrees with the public cognition. We believe the method performs well. Our future work will consider the mentioned adaptations for a more effective competitiveness evaluation.
Article processing charge (APC) for publishing open access articles: the Brazilian scenario It was observed that the OA Brazilian scientific production is characterized by an endogenic profile and has a preference for the Gold road with APC.
Who, what, why? An exploration of JoVE scientific video publications in tweets This indicates the educational value of these scientific videos to the enhancement of research designs and conducts. This demonstrates the possibility of capturing different types of behavior through digital traces, as left by researchers on a single platform. Finally, the promotion behavior of different stakeholders has been explored in this study, which provides a good grounding for future studies.
Day of the week submission effect for accepted papers in Physica A, PLOS ONE, Nature and Cell In line with other reports (Cabanac and Hartley 2013; Campos-Arceiz et al. 2013; Hartley and Cabanac 2017; Ausloos et al. 2016, 2017) our results confirm a DWE for published papers. Papers accepted for publication in the four journals included in our analysis are more likely to have been submitted on a week-day than on a day in the week-end. The most likely week–day for historical accepted submissions differs from journal to journal.
Bibliometric study of family business succession between 1939 and 2017: mapping and analyzing authors' networks This research used a bibliometric study of family business succession to evaluate the status of the coauthorship network in this field. It examined not only productivity but also the importance of collaborative networks. Finally, we have argued that family business succession research is in the preparadigmatic stage because there is almost no specialized cluster that studies only one specific topic in succession, uses a specific theoretical framework, or employs one specific methodology.
Are scientific memes inherited differently from gendered authorship? Our approach adds the meme inheritance notion to traditional citation analysis, as we investigate if scientific memes are inherited differently from gendered authorship.
Understanding the formation of interdisciplinary research from the perspective of keyword evolution: a case study on joint attention This paper explores IDF from the perspective of keyword evolution, and adopts JA as a case study. It is critically important for the promotion of interdisciplinary development, by investigating the development features of interdisciplinarity, as well as the distinct roles that different participant domains played in various periods, and detecting potential barriers among domains.
The impact of thenational assessment exercises on self-citation rate and publication venue: an empirical investigation on the engineering academic sector in Italy Although a general positive trend is observed, this study reports about undesirable consequences in which the awareness of metrics leads to selfish behaviors and to not blameless practices.
How to measure the performance of a Collaborative Research Center Our findings show that the performance indicators suitable for the intermediate or final evaluation of a CRC facilitate a better understanding of the dependence structure between research productivity and financial inputs, and provide relevant information for successful decision and policy making.
Boosting research productivity in top Russian universities: the circumstances of breakthrough Universities participating in the 5top100 project demonstrated a high level of elasticity of scientific productivity, measured by the number of publications indexed in the leading international databases of government requirements and the amount of funding.
Policy change analysis based on "policy target-policy instrument" patterns: a case study of China's nuclear energy policy A case study of China's nuclear energy policies was used to demonstrate the reliability of our method, and the results reflect the practical value of this method in quantitative analysis on policy documents.
Research landscape of the BRICS countries: current trends in research output, thematic structures of publications, and the relative influence of partners As follows from the analysis, in recent years BRICS countries have made significant progress in their scientific and technological development, primarily thanks to the success of China. In general, researchers from BRICS countries could pay more attention to socio-humanitarian fields of research, economics, nursing and psychology in their research. The results of the study may be of interest to decision makers in determining the conscientious research policies of the BRICS countries and the formation of priorities for multilateral scientific and technological cooperation, as well as for researchers dealing with relevant problems.
Neuroscience bridging scientific disciplines in health: Who builds the bridge, who pays for it? Overall, our results offer new insights into the dynamic nature of cross-disciplinary research in health, the role of topics as bridging different disciplines, and human and funding capital in building the bridges.
Does prestige dimension influence the interdisciplinary performance of scientific entities in knowledge flow? Evidence from the e-government field This study introduces the prestige dimension into interdisciplinary evaluation and uses the P-Rank algorithm to calculate the prestige of papers.
General properties of the evolution of research fields: a scientometric study of human microbiome, evolutionary robotics and astrobiology Overall, then, this study suggests general properties, based on empirical data, of the evolution of scientific fields that may predict their long-run behaviour in society.
The publication trajectory of graduate students, post-doctoral fellows, and new professors in psychology The present study provides a genuinely accurate illustration of the typical progression of a psychology graduate student to a post-doctoral fellow to a junior faculty member at a top-tier university. We provide the most up-to-date statistics and also provide a more detailed description by assessing the proportion of first-authored papers and zp-indices alongside its total number. Our results suggest that there is minimal self-report bias in reporting the number of publications.
CAD: an algorithm for citation-anchors detection in research papers The accurate identification of citation-anchors and in-text citation frequency remained an important area of research which has applications in many fields such as: ranking of authors, universities, and to discover relationship strength and relationship nature between cited papers.
Towards understanding the relation between citations and research quality in software engineering studies Our findings could be used as a basis to further understand the relation between the quality in the reporting of research and scientific impact, and foster new discussions on how to fairly acknowledge studies for performing well with respect to the emphasized research quality. Furthermore, we highlighted the need to further improve the scoring rubric.
Growing scientific collaboration between Hong Kong and Mainland China since the handover: a 20-year bibliometric analysis The relationship between Hong Kong and Mainland China in science and technology has become closer than ever before. The analysis of international collaboration indicated the growing internationalization of Hong Kong in scientific research; however, its independent research should be strengthened for its relatively slow growth rate and lack of citations.
Ranking Iranian universities: an interpretative structural modeling approach In this research, concepts extracted from the Iranian Higher Education Upstream Documents were combined with other factors commonly used in international ranking systems. Using these collected measures and expert evaluations, a total of 22 ranking criteria factors were identified.
Gatekeeping African studies: what does "editormetrics" indicate about journal governance? The role of African scholars in journals covering Africa is little understood and rarely measured.
A genealogy of the Brazilian scientific research on freshwater fish farming by means of the academic supervision linkage In conclusion, this work was conducted to produce a genealogical tree of Brazilian research on freshwater fish farming, and successfully managed to reach its goal.
Arab Spring's effect on scientific productivity and research performance in Arab countries The Arab countries’ production doubled after the Arab Spring to reach (214,864) document.
Are non-monetary rewards effective in attracting peer reviewers? A natural experiment In sum, the results suggest that non-monetary rewards are not necessarily effective, as in some cases they may actually discourage the most intrinsically motivated and competent reviewers.
Towards prediction of paradigm shifts from scientific literature The prime objective of this article was to verify the early detection capability of FV gradient.Therefore, predictive power of FV gradient (through both means) is revealed from our analysis.Empirical study of predictive power of FV gradient through early detection capability (both statically and dynamically) on more citation networks addressing different themes will be an interesting endeavor.
Deep context of citations using machine-learning models in scholarly full-text articles Our work is the first attempt to compare the state-of-the-art models for classifying the importance of a citation using the same dataset.
How does research productivity relate to gender? Analyzing gender differences for multiple publication dimensions Overall, we conclude that additional research to understand these developments is needed that focuses on the motives and beliefs of researchers, both to improve gender equality in academia and to give women better chances to gain recognition and prestige.
Biographical articles in scientific literature: analysis of articles indexed in Web of Science Over time, the number of biographical articles in WoS has been increasing, including not only obituaries, but also job anniversaries, birthday celebrations, and commemorations of individuals. Our research shows that more has to be done to commemorate women. It clearly shows that, irrespective of the area, women are underrepresented in biographical articles in both roles: of their authors and of their subjects.
The representative works of scientists Usually when researchers apply for a grant or promotion, they are always requested to list several representative papers. Therefore, it is of great significance to have representative works for the development of the personal career and academic reputation. Based on the maximum gap, we construct a simple indicator D_r to quantify the impact difference between a scientist's representative works and regular works.
Mapping past, current and future energy research trend in Pakistan: a scientometric assessment Pakistan has observed a significant increase in research publications in energy sector in recent years. The energy research in Pakistan is mainly focused on resource assessment, energy policy, energy efficiency, feasibility study, energy economics, and performance assessment. Therefore, Pakistan needs drastic measure to improve the energy research in Pakistan which in turn will be helpful to resolve its energy crisis.
How to automatically identify major research sponsors selecting keywords from the WoS Funding Agency field This article offers a simple and efficient methodology to automatically identify major sponsors, and their funded research, through keywords.
Institution bias in the New England Journal of Medicine? A bibliometric analysis of publications (1997-2016) That is, no home institution bias was found with a larger sample of data across a longer span in this study, which serves as a complement to Delgado and Delgado's (2018) findings. That is, our findings may be in accordance to those of Delgado and Delgado (2018), i.e., no institution bias was found in NEJM, at least in terms of citation counts of Harvard based and non-Harvard based articles. We would also suggest future study examine if any nation bias exists in academic publications.
Accuracy of author names in bibliographic data sources: an Italian case study Our results indicate generally good accuracy for all data sources, even though some specific areas of concern have emerged, particularly in the handling of last names composed of more than one token, and of diacritical marks ("Results" section provides a detailed exposition of our results).
The influence of Elfreda Chatman's theories: a citation context analysis An analysis of citation in context has allowed us to draw a distinction between the author and her work, while verifying that not all cites are the same.
How video articles are cited, the case of JoVE: Journal of Visualized Experiments In conclusion, this article focused on the use of peer-reviewed video articles as a novel medium for communicating science.
Sleeping beauties with no prince based on the co-citation criterion Our findings demonstrate a significant deficiency in the previous criteria relating to princes based on co-citations. Thus, new criteria are required to identify princes. We believe that it is necessary to examine further evidence and consider other criteria.
Editorial board interlocking in knowledge management and intellectual capital research field In summary, the results demonstrate: KM-IC scholarly journal network is a disconnected network; JKM was identified as the most influential journal, followed by IJKSS, JIKM, IJKL, and IJKMS (high influential journals), JIC, KMRP, and VINE (upper-intermediate influential journals), and EJKM, IJKBD, KMEL, IJLIC, IJIKM, and IJKCCM (low-intermediate influential journals); and JKM, KMRP, EJKM, and JIC com-pose a highly and intensely connected core subgroup in KM–IC field. First, KM-IC may be considered a research field with moderate levels of cohesion and communication. Third, the existence of an ‘invisible college’ within KM-IC field.
An integrated approach to path analysis for weighted citation networks The network approach to scientometrics or network scientometrics offers a lot of tools and techniques for analysts and for a wide range of applications that ranges from decision making at an organizational level to national policymaking related to science and tech- nology, education and research, industry and commerce, etc.
Mapping the development of Open Access in Latin America and Caribbean countries. An analysis of Web of Science Core Collection and SciELO Citation Index (2005-2017) In the present paper, we have analysed and mapped the OA publications produced by LA&C countries over the period 2005–2017 and indexed by WoS and SciELO CI, observ- ing how these countries are moving forward in supporting OA publishing.
Exploring knowledge patterns of library and information science journals within the field: a citation analysis from 2009 to 2016 In conclusion, this study contributes to examining the knowledge impact and rankings of LIS journals from the perspective of the knowledge contribution to peer journals. LIS journal rankings are an important factor in academic decisions and for defining the structure of the field. Finally, although this study examines the characteristics of LIS subgroups, there may be other factors that would affect network evolution or formalization.
Retractions in Science We believe that the notion of retraction can give the false impression that this is a categorical concept.
The prevalence of green and grey open access: Where do physical science researchers archive their publications? Our study found that, even though open access was mandatory, the uptake of green open access was much lower than that of grey open access, which echoes the findings of previous studies. Our results suggest that it may be time to rethink how to achieve open access. Our results also speak to a need for education. Although open access policies have been in place for a decade, it seems researchers may still be unclear about what constitutes compliance.
Performance of research universities in post-communist countries As clearly evident in Jurajda et al. (2017), when it comes to sci- entific publication performance, post-communist CEE EU member states still lag notice- ably behind their EU-15 counterparts of comparable size.
Bibliometric analysis of corporate governance research in German-speaking countries: applying bibliometrics to business research using a custom-made database The present paper aimed to use citation, co-citation, and cluster analysis to create a useful, structured portrayal of the corporate governance research scene, to achieve deeper insight into the relationships between research disciplines and authors, and, if possible, to illustrate connections to other scientific disciplines.
The hierarchical status of international academic awards in social sciences Our results demonstrate the hierarchical status of international academic awards in social sciences. Additionally, when it comes to the awards network, the power-law distribution of co-awardee frequencies implicates the scale-free property which is familiar with the Matthew effect from the view of the sociology of science. In closing, our work on international academic awards in social sciences forms a basis for further research on academic awards.
A diachronic study of historiography The connectivity of article bibliographic coupling networks is declining over time, and this can be due either to a decline in the raw number of shared sources or to the raising number of non-shared ones, possibly both. The connectivity of author bibliographic coupling networks is also declining but less rapidly, in part due to the slight counter effect of co-authorships, which are increasing especially in economic history. Lastly, the persisting levels of connectivity in the textual similarity networks might highlight a steady effort in integrating research results relying on shared vocabularies or even narratives. More work is necessary to further elucidate this hypothesis, and more generally to complement citation with text data in bibliometrics.
Comparison of medical research performance by thermodynamic and citation analysis methods Results showed that there are different metrics for ranking scientific units such as countries, organization, authors, and journals. Therefore, introducing thermodynamic indicators as exergy identified new ranking that it is some different from h-index. Exergy is a composite indicator of quality and quantity indicators that it merges C as both quantity and quality indicator with i = C/P as a quality indicator and gives the best ranking of scientific units.
A bibliometric tale of two cities: Hong Kong and Singapore Although Hong GERD and per capita GERD are much smaller than Singapore's, the university system in Hong Kong is more effective than its counterpart in Singapore when it comes to research productivity (10,747.30–8752.99 for X/GDP in $t from Table 1).
Number versus structure: towards citing cascades This paper proposes a novel concept of a citing cascade, which is defined as a network comprising citing relationships between a paper and its citing paper, as well as those among its citing papers.
The story behind Oncotarget? A bibliometric analysis Our results indicate that—although being a US based journal with a primary focus on oncology—the country-specific publications pattern of Oncotarget is heavily dominated by Chinese authors.
A global bibliometric analysis of Plesiomonas-related research (1990-2017) Our bibliometric analysis revealed a global diminishing research in Plesiomonas; greater research outcomes from high-income countries compared to others and low collaboration with developing countries. The low productivity in developing countries in Plesiomonas research mirror the state of affairs in other research fields. A better understanding of the clinical features, epidemiology and Plesiomonas-associated diseases is needed in countries with high infection rates.
Female Participation as Top-Producing Authors, Editors, and Editorial Board Members in Educational Psychology Journals from 2009 to 2016 The purpose of the present study was to investigate trends in female authorship, editorships, and editorial board memberships in educational psychology journals. Fewer highly productive women published single-authorship papers—only three articles in the target journals during the period examined, as compared to the top male authors. Finally, no discernible progress has been made by females for journal editorial board memberships since 2004, despite increasing numbers of women within the major professional organizations in which many educational psychologists participate.
Publication activity in the field of medicinal chemistry in 2008-2017: Russian research in the global flow Summarizing all the aforesaid, note that the medicinal chemistry is a relatively young field of chemical science, but its social and economic significance is very high, since it forms a basis for the design of new drug products.
Web of Science: Showing a Bug Today That Can Mislead Scientific Research Output Prediction We presented here a subtle flaw detected in the Web of Science database in 2015 during the analysis of the scientific career of the winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010 in the Scientometrics context (Zarka, 2009).
Easy to read, easy to cite? We show that readability appears to matter for the citations that EL articles subsequently receive, thus supporting the call by McCloskey (1999) for clearer economic writing. Economists who succeed in clearly explaining their proposed methods seem to gain the reward of impact from achieving this clarity.
Information science techniques for investigating research areas: a case study in telecommunications policy This study was significant in that it analyzed the knowledge frameworks of telecommunications policy research using a wide range of text mining techniques.
Are Funder Open Access Platforms a Good Idea? Given their aims of increasing uptake of OA, lowering OA costs, decreasing administrative complexity, and signaling support for innovative Open Science systems, funder OA platforms are, in our view, a welcome step forward.
Libcitations, worldcat, cultural impact, and fame Having shown particular books at various levels of fame and also characterized the kinds of books that occupy these different levels, we return to the notion of cultural impact. At a minimum, the books in Tables 2 and 3 have entered into national or international dialogs, and a "reception story" could be assembled for any of them. In any case, the idea could be tested with sci-tech books in a future study.
A Discussion of citations from the perspective of the contribution of the cited paper to the citing paper Both authors and references contribute to a given paper. The proposed model assigns a paper's credit to its authors and references according to the contribution distribution of every paper. In addition, it is rational to evaluate papers based on their deserved credit, not the credit they carry.
Evaluating the scientific performance of institutions within the university: An example from the University of Belgrade leading institutions Bibliometric indicators are becoming established as the crucial measure of scientific performance. Consequently, this study aimed at providing an in-depth analysis of the publication performance of institutions within the University of Belgrade. Our approach could be easily employed on other universities, as well.
Research on the Literature Guarantee Assessment of the Social Science Discipline Based on Dissertations Analysis This paper conducted citation analysis of master's and doctoral dissertations in the folklore discipline and evaluated the literature guarantees of BNU Library for monograph and periodical citations by comparing library ownership of materials.
What Value Do Journal Whitelists and Blacklists Have in Academia? We close our discussion by offering arguments why we believe blacklists are academically invalid.
How academic librarians involve and contribute in research activities of universities? A systematic demonstration in practice through comparative studies of research productivities and research impacts We have demonstrated systematically in practice in this paper that how academic librarians can involve and contribute in research activities in universities.
Effects of Publisher Interface and Google Scholar on HTML and PDF Clicks: Investigating Paths That Inflate Usage The data provided here is unique in looking separately at four dif-ferent places that default links to HTML full-text could occur.
Disciplinary, Institutional, and Individual Factors Affecting Researchers' Depositing Articles in Institutional Repository: An Empirical Analysis This research suggests that community benefit, institutional support, and career issues need to be considered to increase researchers' overall article sharing behaviors through an IR.
A data-driven method for rating management information systems journals in the same scale of the Association of Business Schools Journal Guide In this paper, a data-driven method is proposed for rating MIS-related journals that are not included in the ABS list. First, domain experts must have sufficient evidences to believe our ESLR ratings are overrated or underrated. Second, our ESLR ratings can be corrected by 1, but not beyond 1.
Physician-scientists in neurology Research contributions of a cohort of neurologists While eventual R01 grant and early career funding pathways were confirmed as important components of higher h-index and larger publication numbers, the classic definition of a physician-scientist was questioned through these findings.
Work experiences and knowledge transfer among Korean academics: focusing on generational differences The findings suggest that academics’ discipline and their work experience before seeking appoint- ment to full-time university positions have statistically significant effects on knowledge transfer. This study suggests that university and governmental policy-makers need to understand the differences between academic generations in the factors that motivate their knowledge transfer and the strategies they adopt for career development.
A PUZZLE OF ESTONIAN SCIENCE: HOW TO EXPLAIN UNEXPECTED RISE OF THE SCIENTIFIC IMPACT Many factors could intervene in the process of converting economic wealth into bibliometrically measurable scientific output.
A bibliometric analysis of 81 articles that represent excellence in nursing publication This study revealed the impact of articles perceived as exemplar representations of 80 different nursing journals. Nursing research is being widely read and cited, both within and outside the profession. Our novel approach to bibliometric analysis merits further use and validation to determine the validity of the concepts of persistence, reach and dissemination as an organizing framework.
English language policies in scientific journals: Signs of change in the field of economics The analysis indicates that the language 'English', as used in the WoS, is not a single, homogeneous construct and various forces contribute to shaping it, including journal identity, journal readership, recognition of linguistic diversity in the contributor base, and the publisher.
Scientific communication strategies of microbiologists in the era of social media In summary, we observed that microbiologists differ from researchers in other fields when it comes to using alternative forms to communicate their science to peers. On the other hand, microbiologists do not significantly differ from other academics in their usage of SM, and the research field seems to not influence the choice of academic or non-academic SM. Overall, microbiologist appear to be open to novel communication vehicles, such as SM, and we align with previous scientists and institutions in inciting microbiologists to continue on this path (McClain and Neeley 2015; López-Goñi and Sánchez-Angulo 2018).
Systematic method for finding emergence research areas as data quality This paper covered two critical research areas of DIQ and science mapping.
Worldwide arthroplasty research productivity and contribution of Turkey In conclusion, this study demonstrated that there is a rapid increase in the number of articles in arthroplasty research from 2006 to 2016. The United States was the most productive country as measured by total publications in the arthroplasty field. GDP per capita and research foundation positively affect the quality and quantity of arthroplasty publications.
Medical research productivity in the Arab countries: 2007-2016 bibliometric analysis Although medical research output in Arab countries at both the country and the institution levels has increased over the past 10 years, it is still lagging behind the rest of the world. The percentage of papers involving international collaborations was relatively high, but the majority of these papers were led by authors from outside the local institution, particularly when published in the top 10% journals. There is a need for systemic interventions at the country and institutional levels to maintain the momentum and improve the quality of the output.
50 years of Iranian clinical, biomedical, and public health research: a bibliometric analysis of the Web of Science Core Collection (1965-2014) "In Iran, a great capacity for research lies in clinical, biomedical, and public health fields which can be strengthened with further investment."
The Top 20 Most Prolific Authors in the American Journal of Neuroradiology: What Is Their Impact? The top 20 AJNR authors publish nearly equally in radiology and nonradiology journals.
Bibliometric analysis of global Lassa fever research (1970-2017): a 47-year study The growth of scientific Literature on Lassa fever was of linear pattern with high transient authors indicating low productivity and non-specialized authors from other related areas publishing sporadically. This study provides a helpful reference for medical virologists, epidemiologist, policy decision makers, academics and Lassa fever researchers. Despite the above named limitations, this study has been able to illuminate on the characteristics of Lassa fever research output from 1970 to 2017.
A comparative quantitative study of utilizing artificial intelligence on electronic health records in the USA and China during 2008-2017 There is a steadily growing presence and increasing visibility of utilizing artificial intelligence on electronic health records for the USA and China over the years. The results of the study demonstrate the research similarities and differences, as well as strengths and weaknesses of the two countries.
Modeling research universities: Predicting probable futures of public vs. private and large vs. small research universities This paper presented a predictive computational model that captures key elements of the education and research enterprise to enable prediction of likely consequences of several scenarios for the future of the academic enterprise.
The chaperone effect in scientific publishing Thus, while the available data here do not allow us to strictly pinpoint which facet of experience is most important to succeed in science or which share of a senior author’s apprentices are successfully chaperoned (30), we have demonstrated that the chaperone effect does indeed exist, showing that the ability to publish in certain venues is something that junior scientists learn from senior colleagues.
Scientific prize network predicts who pushes the boundaries of science We demonstrate that, despite a proliferation of diverse prizes over time and across the globe, prizes are more concentrated within a relatively small scientific elite.
Changing demographics of scientific careers: The rise of the temporary workforce Altogether, the fraction of entering researchers who achieve full careers has diminished, while the class of temporary scientists has escalated.
Success in Attaining Independent Funding Among National Institutes of Health K Grant Awardees in Ophthalmology An Extended Follow-up "This suggests that most K awardees in ophthalmology are successful in obtaining RO1 grants, but one should recognize this may be several years after their K grant has ended."
Topics and trends in finance research: What is published, who publishes it and what gets cited? With a few notable exceptions, overall, we find little diversity in the methodological approaches employed in finance journals and a lack of interdisciplinary research across quality ratings. Our research has several potentially important messages for the various stakeholders involved with aspects of scholarly finance research. For individual researchers, we suggest that they are encouraged to cite relevant work in whatever outlets it is found, rather than only that in 'elite' journals.
Authorship trends in the Journal of Orthopaedic Research: A bibliometric analysis JOR has seen increase in most variables analyzed, including improvements in authorship by women in the field of orthopaedic research. As evidenced by this study, considerable progress has been made over the past 30 years in closing the gender gap in academic medicine, specifically in a field dominated primarily by men, such as orthopaedic surgery. Our study shows promise for increased equality, collaboration, and productivity in orthopaedics and academic medicine for decades to come.
Worldwide research productivity in nuclear medicine literature A 10-year survey of highly cited subspecialty journals There has been a significant increase in nuclear medicine research over the last decade. The United States is the leader of worldwide research productivity.
Patterns of authorship in ecology and evolution: First, last, and corresponding authorship vary with gender and geography Women were less likely to be sole or last author, but more likely to be first author, relative to the overall frequency of female authorship.
Efficiency in managing peer-review of scientific manuscripts - Editors' perspective Our objective in this paper was to propose a parsimonious model relying on 7 elements in order to measure peer-review efficiency in scientific journals.
Authors at the boundary: Interaction of local and general scientific literature These findings indicate that examining role typologies in citation networks would make it possible to monitor the development of a specific literature and how it is shaped. In addition, this instrument would allow identifying the stage of development of this literature, developing strategies to improve the literature, and evaluating these strategies. A limitation of the present study is that it covers a relatively short period of time.
The spatial-temporal transfer of scientometrics research topics based on citation analysis The temporal evolution of central research topics in scientometrics turn out to have a tendency for accelerated change and diversification. The central research topic is closely related to the migration of the country as centre of research. A country as centre of research has a positive relationship with its academic influence.
Extending co-citation using sections of research articles In this research, we have proposed a citation-based approach, which helps the scientific community in retrieving the most relevant research documents.
An Analysis of Research Quality and Productivity at Six Academic Orthopaedic Residencies Increased dedicated resident research time did not increase resident publication rates or lead to publications with higher SJR.
Editors' perspectives on the peer-review process in biomedical journals: protocol for a qualitative study This research has multiple potential uses. As a standalone research piece, it will generate context-based information from journal editors' perspectives that will help to provide insight into the communication patterns within biomedical journals, including differences and similarities across biomedical journals. The study findings can further be used to inform biomedical journal policies and develop training courses for peer reviewers and journal editors.
Plagiarism in research: a survey of African medical journals Plagiarism is common in biomedical research articles and reviews published in Africa.
Competition in Science: Links Between Publication Pressure, Grant Pressure and the Academic Job Market In conclusion, we showed that competition in academia and its resulting publication and grant pressure are perceived as too high by early career researchers.
Development and Validation of the Multi-dimensional University Research Workplace Inventory (MDURWI) The development of this instrument offers new opportunities for researchers engaged in science and technology studies or higher education studies, while also creating a new way for universities to measure some of their own organizational dimensions. It is hoped that, through presentations and usage of this instrument, the feedback obtained through the scientific community will allow further improvements to the instrument in future revisions, such as adding other dimensions in order to improve the instrument’s coverage of organizational aspects in the academia.
International Faculty Contribution to Local Research Capacity Building: A View from Publication Data In conclusion, what the study reveals is that foreign faculty contribute to research capacity building by expanding the contextualized knowledge base, by increasing the relevance of research to practice, by broadening the area of research dissemination, and by integrating the organization into the global research networks. The role of foreign faculty in the development of local researchers' skills and knowledge remains unclear. While our study shows a low level of collaboration between locals and foreigners, this can be attributed to the age of the organization and needs to be considered further.
Unit Support, Past Experience and Researcher Attitude for Intra-institutional Research Collaboration: Survey Study in a US Doctoral/Research University Results indicate direct implications for departments as well as researchers that need to enhance intra-institutional collaboration.
Research trends in environmental and resource economics: Insights from four decades of JEEM In this paper we have identified the most important trends observable in JEEM from 1974-2014 and provided a detailed investigation of the environmental and resource economics research published by the journal in that period. Speculating on future trends, we would first expect there to be an increasing proportion of papers dedicated to environmental problems in developing countries and countries in transition.
Issue-Based Clustering of Scholarly Articles The contribution is of technical and practical significance to the exploration and curation of research issues reported in scientific literature (supporting the curation of entity associations found in the literature). Experimental results show that ICRT successfully improves several systems in identifying clusters of articles with the same research focuses on specific entity associations judged by domain experts. The contribution is of practical significance as well, as the clustering of scholarly articles based on research issues can support timely and comprehensive analysis of highly related articles in scientific literature.
Ten years of Energy Efficiency: a bibliometric analysis Our discussion concludes with suggested future research avenues, in particular towards coordinated efforts from different disciplines (technical, economic, and sociopsychological ones) to address the emerging energy efficiency challenges. Results seem to show that the Energy Efficiency journal is finding its room in the scientific community, tackling the multifaceted and multidisciplinary aspects of energy efficiency, from application research and innovation in various contexts, e.g., buildings or industry or transport, to “horizontal” topics, such as e.g., policy instruments, financing, smart meters, as well as behavior of final users. The study, by showing the growing linkages between Energy Efficiency and other relevant journals, showcases that future coordinated efforts from different disciplines (technical, economic and sociopsychological ones) could be particularly interesting and effective to address the energy efficiency challenges and contribute to sustainable development.
Analysis of Research Topics and Scientific Collaborations in Renewable Energy Using Community Detection The results obtained show that it is possible to determine some important areas of research activity, including hybrid systems, electric vehicle and storage, policy regulations, distributed generation in smart grid, sustainability, usage in data centres, economic issues, biomass, marine and ocean, and water desalination.
Social Capital, Human Capital, and Sustainability: A Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis The results reveal not only the state of the art and the leading trends, but also the evolution regarding impact, main journals, documents, topics, authors, institutions, and countries. The study provides researchers and practitioners with a visual and schematic frame of the research on this topic. The research results indicate the main perspectives that they can take into account when planning to develop sustainable policies focused on organizations, institutions or locations.
The Evolution of International Scientific Collaboration in Fuel Cells during 1998-2017: A Social Network Perspective In this study, a systematic bibliometric analysis of fuel cell international scientific collaboration is provided from a quantitative perspective. The findings of our work provide guidance for researchers and policymakers to make the better decision in research development and policy-making. The research framework presented in this paper provide an integrated pattern of evolution analysis of international scientific collaboration.
The rise of impact in academia: repackaging a long-standing idea Thus, impact is not a new concept but a complex, ongoing accumulation of shifting and reforming (re)conceptualisations and acclimatisation, and one that is being repackaged. In this vein future research needs now to continue asking ‘knowledge for whom?’ and ‘for what?’ to continue widening the discussion to include those elements of impact that could be ‘left behind’ or forgotten as their value appears to decrease.
'Aligning activities': coordination, boundary activities, and agenda setting in interdisciplinary research I have based my approach on that of Hessel, who takes a broad view of coordination, thus making it possible to grasp coordination activities above and beyond issues of efficient resource allocation.
Scientific production and its collective determinants: an econometric analysis for the Brazilian research labs The objective of this research was to analyse the collective determi-nants in the production of Brazilian scientists, specifically among those who serve as coordinators in the research infrastructure.
Exploring the degree of delegated authority for the peer review of societal impact We discuss the implications of external motivations that influence the direction of research audit exercises where the definition of the criteria is untested, unclear, and unfamiliar to evaluators, as well as discuss the suitability of peer review as an evaluation tool.
Research excellence indicators: time to reimagine the 'making of'? In this article, we explored the making of a particular 'research excellence' indicator, starting from its underlying concept and insti-tutional framing.
The evaluation of research excellence and the dynamics of knowledge production in the humanities: The case of history in Spain The strong evaluation culture and its accompanying mechanisms are thus perceived as directly undermining the fundamental pillars on which the academic prestige of these departments was built, namely originality, scientific rigour and methodological innovations. These results raise concerns regarding the effects of the Spanish strong RES for fields with similar traditional research practices and work and publication patterns as those described in History, and particularly for highly performing, innovative, or prestigious research groups. The extent to which the reported perceptions reflect an observable limitation in academic innovation thus remains an open and important question.
Using altmetrics for contextualised mapping of societal impact: From hits to networks In this article, we have proposed a methodological framework to analyse altmetric data in order to inform assessment on the societal impact of research.
Closed clubs: Network centrality and participation in Horizon 2020 This study set out to investigate whether higher education institutions gain advantages from past EU FP participation through establishing collaborative networks, and if this leads to proposals being approved for funding because of the dominant role of these HEIs in networks. Results show that, first (H1), a higher level of network centrality (influential position in collaborative EU FP networks) has a strong positive effect on the number of H2020 applications an HEI submits and gets approved. It is currently not possible to say whether EU FP participation is affected by non-meritocratic allocation of funding, as we lack detailed insights into the decisions taken by the Commission.
Citation Network Analysis of Dental Implant Literature from 2007 to 2016 The terms, authors, and journals with high citations over the last decade were identified.
Comprehensiveness of national bibliographic databases for social sciences and humanities: Findings from a European survey The acquired insights into the national bibliographic databases re-affirm their value in bibliometrics-supported evaluation of research in SSH.
Evaluation of research in the arts: Evidence from Poland Our findings suggest that the analysis of research evaluation systems should take into account not only interdisciplinary differences but also differences between particular types of research (within a given discipline).
Procedures and criteria for evaluating academic legal publications: Results of a survey in Switzerland The results so far confirm that the legal research community has an interest in establishing its own quality procedures and quality criteria. The bottom-up approach has proven its value; despite all their doubts about whether the quality of legal research can be measured, researchers recognize that a discussion about quality criteria and procedures can also encourage self-reflexion within the research community with regard to research methods and research objectives. Thus it is inevitable that researchers, as experts in the area, need to discuss this beforehand.
Continued publications by health science PhDs, 5 years post PhD-Defence Our results evidence that not all graduates continue in research. Consequently, we need to identify early factors that make graduates remain in research, to identify future PhD-candidates that will continue publication post PhD. Our results emphasize a need for a method to find PhD-candidates that will continue publication post PhD.
Tracking research performance before and after receiving the Cheung Kong Scholars award: A case study of recipients in 2005 Our results confirm that the Cheung Kong Scholars Award had a positive impact on researchers' output.
An evaluation of the National Institutes of Health Early Stage Investigator policy: Using existing data to evaluate federal policy Overall, this research provides a roadmap for evaluators to fulfill the causal process of evaluation and includes a demonstration of the applicability to a federal policy. Even though federal policy pre- cludes the gold standard experimental design, this research shows that administrative data can be leveraged to infer causality and evaluate policy effectiveness. While randomized control experiments are still the gold stand- ard, this research shows that it is possible to leverage existing administrative data to infer causality with respect to federal policy.
Mapping knowledge structure by keyword co-occurrence and social network analysis Evidence from Library Hi Tech between 2006 and 2017 The objective of this study is to reveal the hotspots and development research trends of the field of librarianship based on the publications from Library Hi Tech covering the time period from 2006 to 2017. The findings in this study are helpful in understanding the knowledge structures based on data collected from the Library Hi Tech journal. The research trend toward human-machine interaction, technology adoption, and user behavior of library services in Library Hi Tech were revealed.
Applying Rational Choice Theory to Authors' Behaviors in Unethical Publishing in China A major take-away is that the government can elevate publishing policies and enforce them under the rubric of getting tough on fraudulence in order to pro- duce deterrent benefits (see also Fesnik and Zeng 2010). This emphasis on risk in the pre- vention of misbehaviors has a practical meaning in the effort to promote scientific integrity and can provide a simplified solution. Understanding authors' behaviors in unethical publishing has implica- tions in library practice. Librarians need to stand in the forefront of scholarly developments.
Book Citations in PhD Science Dissertations: An Examination of Commercial Book Publishers' Influence The results and rankings clearly show the dominance of commercial book publishers, as evidenced by citations in science PhD dissertations. Combined commercial and university presses account for a majority of book citations (83%) in PhD dissertations. The dominance of com-mercial publishing shown in this study may be just one more justification for full-heartedly pursuing publishing initiatives beyond just focusing on ebook platforms and collection development.
Predator in the Pool? A Quantitative Evaluation of Non-indexed Open Access Journals in Aquaculture Research These results suggest that the non-indexed aquaculture journals identified herein are likely predatory OA journals and pose a threat to aquaculture research and the public education and perception of aquaculture. Broadly, our results suggest that non-indexed OA journals are widespread within aquaculture research and tend to be less established, contain fewer papers, and offer OA at a lower cost. The awareness and recognition of predatory OA aquaculture journals by individual researchers, students, and various aquaculture stakeholders is paramount for minimizing predatory OA journals’ impact on aquaculture research and the aquaculture industry at large; this can be achieved through institutional and peer-to-peer education regarding attributes of predatory OA journals (compared to non-predatory journals) and promoting the use of databases such as the DOAJ.
Contribution of Mexican scholars to viticultural and oenological research: where do we stand? We have found that Mexican scholars are failing to keep pace with the continuous growth of the Mexican wine sector.
International Contributions to the System of Scholarly Communication in Iran This research investigated the quality and degree of internationality of 38 Iranian journals that appeared in JCR 2013.
Extracting reference text from citation contexts Moreover, evaluation results show the accuracy of our algorithm and that it can be efficiently used in applications where the requirement is reference text for the citation.
Perverse incentives and the political economy of South African academic journal publishing The South African scientific publishing economy is built on a foundation of clay: this economy distorts research impact and encourages universities and academics to commoditise output.
Changing Center and Stagnant Periphery in Communication and Media Studies: National Diversity of Major International Journals in the Field of Communication from 2013 to 2017 The current research shows that basic patterns in CMS have remained the same over the last 15 years. The field is still dominated by the U.S., with a notable emergence of Western European and Asian authors. Given this, we suggest that the international community of communication scholars develop strategies to expand common standards for a more balanced international contribution pattern.
Competition between Russian Socioeconomic Universities In conclusion, let us note the following fact: in previous years, the university market of Russia was characterized by a wonderful paradox: against the backdrop of quite a weak economy, the country formed a pool of surprisingly strong SEUs.
An Altmetric As an Indicator of a Publication's Scientific Impact In the authors' opinion, altmetrics should not be opposed to classical bibliometrics; they should be used as additional metrics to assess an article's impact.
Most-Cited Articles and Authors in Crime and Justice, 1979-2015 Scholarly influence is related to the importance of a given scholar for a discipline and to the influence of a scholarly work on subsequent publica-tions in the field.
A Strategic Plan for Increasing Scholarly Activity Among Medical Students, Residents, and Faculty The SRP provides a replicative model for medical institutions seeking to increase their research enterprises through collaboration among students, residents, and faculty.
Evaluation of the academic productivity of the top 100 worldwide physicians in the field of otorhinolaryngology and head and neck surgery using the Google Scholar h-index as the bibliometrics ranking system The h-index is an objective value that qualitatively and quantitatively assesses the scientific productivity of an academician. This is the first study in which academicians worldwide and working in a specialty were examined based on the Google Scholar h-index score. The h-index score, which is a generally new metric, has rapidly gained popularity and is currently widely used.
Thirty-one Years of the Canadian Journal of Information and Library Science: A Content Analysis Such analysis aids in the development of self-awareness of the diverse perspectives and interpretations within the CAIS/ASCI community, and in imagining new paths, models, and patterns for future research in the field, and for CJILS/RCSIB.
Implementing New Bibliometric Services at EPA-RTP Library This work will become an important aspect of furthering the agency's mission by helping our scientists understand the far-reaching significance of their research around the globe, as well as being able to articulate its value at home.
Your comments matter: incorporating viewers' comments for ranking online video content using bibliometrics The quality of user-generated content on YouTube is measured using the pro- posed indices of hvc-index, gvc-index and Mvc-index.
Usefulness of Ejournals Consortium in Pakistan: Academic Staff's Perceptions and Expectations It is concluded that there is a growing trend of using ejournals among academic staff in the University of the Punjab, Pakistan.
Publication misconduct: Perceptions of participants of a faculty development programme Publication misconduct occurs and people indulge in it for a variety of reasons. Institutional-level policies may be able to address some of these.
Identifying Sources of Funding That Contribute to Scholastic Productivity in Academic Plastic Surgeons Our study demonstrates the complex associations between PSF, AAPS, NIH, and industry funding on established bibliometrics in aca-demic plastic surgeons. The NIH R award was the strongest identifier of high scholastic productivity bolstered by applicants' previous success in attaining AAPS and PSF funding. Recognition through AAPS academic scholarships seemed to associate with subsequent success in NIH funding. Overall, most if not all funding sources resulted in an increase in the bibliometric scores of academic plastic surgeons.
A new approach to journal ranking: social structure in hospitality and tourism journals This study introduced a new approach for ranking academic journals, called the social structure approach.
Exploring the social structure of strategic management research with a hospitality industry focus According to these findings, although the SM research community in hospitality is broad, the social structure is not strong at the micro, meso and macro levels.
Publication trends in spine research from 2007 to 2016: Comparison of the Orthopaedic Research Society Spine Section and the International Society for the Study of the Lumbar Spine The increasing number of manuscripts and journals reflects a characteristic intrinsic to science as a whole—the global scientific workforce and output are growing and new journals are being created to accommodate the demand.
The Rs 10,000 crore club In this commentary, we have used a protocol based on matrix normalization and multiplication so that totalized input and output measures can be obtained and comparative research evaluation can be made using NIRF 2017 data for some 25 leading institutions in the country. The totalization process shows us that no private university comes in the top 20. The wisdom of letting 10 private universities join the 10,000 crore club appears to be suspect.
A modification to Hirsch index allowing comparisons across different scientific fields The aim of the article was to propose the relative Hirsch index which enables comparing scholars in different scientific fields.
Bibliometrics of social science and humanities research in India The present study has outlined the profile and trends of research output of Indian scholars in SSH for the ten year period 2005-2014.
Scientists on Twitter: Preaching to the choir or singing from the rooftops? Academic scientists on Twitter start by preaching to the choir but can eventually sing from the rooftops.
Accessibility of published research to practicing veterinarians Many articles are freely available online, but opportunity exists to archive additional articles while complying with existing copyright agreements.
Scientometrics of the genus Macrobrachium by using the regional PERIODICA database This shows that there is intense research with native species that is not registered by the world databases, but by the regional ones, as is the case of PERIODICA, therefore any attempt to know the real status of research on this genus should include its use to avoid the bias mentioned by Michán et al. (2008) in relation to the geographical areas and the language.
Bibliometric and visual analysis of planthopper research between 1980 and 2017 In summary, a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of literature related to planthopper research from 1980 to 2017 has been made using CiteSpace and WoS.
Chinese scholars in China and overseas: comparative analysis on research productivity and impact Chinese scholars in China have fewer advantages than Chinese scholars overseas on all indicators, namely, the absolute and proportional values of authors, publications, citations, and usage counts. The second difference between the two groups is the difference in tendency. Chinese scholars in China have more potential development than overseas. On the one hand, Chinese scientific research is certainly progressing, but there is much room for improvement in the future.
Top 100 cited articles in traumatology: A bibliometric analysis Despite some flaws in determining the scientific values of articles, citation analysis of classical papers in traumatology can provide important scientific contributions.
Science and engineering research in India (1985-2016): insights from two scientometric databases We have presented citation data extracted from the InCitesTM database to compare quantitatively the research performance across countries and science-and-engineering research organizations in India.
Collaborative characteristics and networks of national, institutional and individual contributors using highly cited articles in environmental engineering in Science Citation Index Expanded The application of quantitative techniques revealed active contributors and useful information for scientific researchers in EE, and improved current understanding of collaboration patterns and characteristics of highly cited articles.
Research productivity and international collaboration of top Indonesian universities Based on these findings, this article suggests some insights to improve the quantity and quality of publications from Indonesian universities. Previous findings suggested that top universities in Indonesia published articles in peer-review journals before Scopus was launched and the number of articles grew rapidly after 2000. Besides, the three largest universities in terms of publications, i.e. ITB, UI and UGM had higher productivity of their authors.
Internationality of Spanish scholarly journals indexed in Web of Science and Scopus Subject areas suffer strong internationality differences (Q1). STM areas have higher values for English language and foreign articles, while the presence of foreign experts does not experiment a clear SSH/STM division.
Progress of the Journal of the Balkan Union of Oncology in the second decade of its existence During the second decade of JBUON the journal has been gradually progressing in regard to the submission rate, the percentage of original papers, contribution of more countries other than Balkan countries, and the number of authors per article.
Faculty Perceptions of Plagiarism: Insight for Librarians' Information Literacy Programs The research team found a disparity between how plagiarism is defined and taught by faculty.
Is It Such a Big Deal? On the Cost of Journal Use in the Digital Era This study shows that the current serials crisis can be attributed to the combination of multiple factors related to the supplier (publishers), the consumer (academic libraries) and the product (journals).
Collaboration pattern in male breast cancer research The study explored the pattern of co-authorship and col-laboration among different countries engaged in MBC re-search using different co-authorship and collaboration indicators. It is observed that except single-authored papers other types of authorships like two-, multi- and mega-authored papers increased in the second block compared to the first block. The global value of CC is 0.82 indicating that MBC research is highly collaborative.
Communication research in Spain: Weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities Our analysis ultimately confirms the similarities between objects of study, but it also notes the existing differences between the purposes of research works by comparing doctoral theses and research projects during the analysed time period.
MONITORING COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENTAL AND INSTITUTIONAL OPEN ACCESS POLICIES ACROSS SPANISH UNIVERSITIES Compliance with governmental and institutional OA policies varies greatly from one university to another, with an average of 11%, a maximum of 33% and a minimum of 0.7%.
OUTPUT, COLLABORATION AND IMPACT OF E-LEARNING RESEARCH: BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS AND VISUALIZATIONS AT THE COUNTRY AND INSTITUTIONAL LEVEL (SCOPUS 2003-2016) This study has demonstrated the arrival of a new contender in the scientific development of e-learning, this is Taiwan, which has grown in its production and quality performance, placing seven institutions in the first places of the production and impact indicators.
Publishing trends of journals with manuscripts in PubMed Central: changes from 2008-2009 to 2015-2016 While the current number of NIH-funded manuscripts being published by publishers that are not collected by NLM remains quite small, we noted a substantial increase between 2008-2009 and 2015-2016. In an important step toward reducing the number of NIH-funded manuscripts being published in journals from publishers with questionable practices, NIH issued a guide notice in November 2017 that encourages its funded authors to publish in reputable journals [22]. In particular, librarians can play an important role by informing patrons at their institutions about the realities (both positive and negative) of scholarly publishing.
Plurality in multi-disciplinary research: multiple institutional affiliations are associated with increased citations Multiple author affiliations may play a positive role in the production of high-impact science.
Attitudes toward Open Access, Open Peer Review, and Altmetrics among Contributors to Spanish Scholarly Journals Our findings, which indicate that most contributors to Spanish scholarly journals hold a favourable opinion of OA, generally coincide with those of similar studies.30 Our respondents were nevertheless less aware and more cautious about two other emerging trends in scholarly publishing not as well tested—open peer review and altmetrics. We suggest that further studies measure academics' specific use of each social media service with an eye to determining whether the strategies they employ lead to differing perceptions of open access, open peer review, altmetrics and other changes in the scholarly publishing landscape.
Analysis of journal content characteristics and metrics reported in the Clarivate Analytics Journal Citation Reports and Web of Science Core Collection Agricultural Engineering categories The review of the JCR AE and WoS CC AE journal categories reveals dichotomies per the journals currently indexed as AE journals. The publication trends also revealed that Chinese scientists are publishing articles at an increasingly higher rate in the 13 AE journals and that Chinese institutions have become the dominant contributors to JCR AE and WoS CC AE journal categories. The review conducted here points to the need for revised JCR AE and WoS CC AE journal categories that consist solely of comprehensive AE journals.
Scientific contribution of Professor Mahalanobis: a bio-bibliometric study Mahanalobis has shown that statistics can be prudently applied in diversified areas of human knowledge leading to future planning, better livelihood and economic development of the country. The citation impact and cita-tions history show that his idea, theory and principle are being used in statistical applications even today. His unique scientific work is still relevant and shows the path to the present-day statisticians, economists and scholars of the world.
Assessing the teaching value of non-English academic books: The case of Spain This article introduced and assessed a method to estimate the teaching value of Spanish-language monographs from their mentions in online syllabi.
Gender Productivity Gap Among Star Performers in STEM and Other Scientific Fields Overall, based on the finding that women are even more underrepresented among stars, our results highlight the urgent need to address the gender productivity gap in STEM and other scientific fields.
A Bibliometric Overview of the International Journal of Interactive Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence With a such increasing behaviour, it is expected in the coming years that IJIMAI will position itself among the best journals with similar scientific scope. This work has been done to contribute with a general vision of the state and structure of the investigations published in IJIMAI. Obviously, IJIMAI must continue to grow and position itself among similar journals and the various disciplines that it declares in its scientific scope.
Brunei Publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded (1973-2016): Bibliometrics and comparison with other tropical countries The tropical countries of Central America and Asia have a few similarities but also important differences, and both are highly heterogeneous in scientific organization and productivity.
Research performance of the National Institutes of Technology in India This study presents a detailed assessment of research per-formance of the 31 NITs in India.
An analysis of biographical information on National Bioscience awardees from 1999 to 2016 Over the past few years, the number of researchers has increased significantly and so has the number of awards.
Top 100 cited articles in ophthalmic epidemiology between 2006 and 2016 This bibliometric analysis provides useful insights into the current development in ophthalmic epidemiology in the past decade and can help recognizing the quality of the researches, discoveries, and trends steering ophthalmic epidemiology.
The Past, Present and Future of Research on Chinese Entrepreneurship Education: A Bibliometric Analysis Based on CSSCI Journal Articles For the future, It is advised to promote and improve the study on Chinese entrepreneurship education from two angles including "active change" and "external intervention".
Analysis of Spatial-temporal Distribution, Focus Trends and Evolution of Sports Culture Education Research in China The statistics on the number of papers on sports culture education show that that number in China shows an overall growth trend and reached a peak in 2014. Despite a slight decline afterwards, the number still remained high. From the perspective of the authors and scientific research institutions of sports culture education research, normal colleges are the main force. With respect to the research focus and evolutionary process, the researches on sports culture education in China mainly focus on school sports with the longest research history.
Radio studies: An overview from the Ibero-American academia Radio is a mass media of great relevance in Ibero-America, although it has not been equally studied by the academia. Regardless of the different contexts, radio is a minority research line, even within those themes of larger projection in Ibero-American Communication research. For researchers, radio has hardly interested the academia, profession or public authorities, which has had a further negative impact on its status in Communication research. Still, radio is a permanent and key line in their research career, mainly for those mid-career researchers.
Towards a Uniform Terminology for Indigenous Knowledge Concepts: Informetrics Perspectives These mixed patterns of citedness of the literature published on indigenous knowledge implies that there is no outright winner among the labels although we can safely say that there are four core labels with which indigenous knowledge can be known.
The Linguistic-Cultural Impact of the Institutional Repository of North-West University, South Africa The results show that despite the flattering Setswana pet name, Boloka has almost no Setswana linguistic-cultural impact, as only 7 (or 0.033%) out of 21389 documents are in this language while the impact on the Afrikaans culture and language are commendable. Based on the scant Setswana representation, the paper argues that Boloka has minimal impact on this language and culture. It is recommended that librarians at the Mafikeng Campus of NWU, a Batswana dominated and historical campus, should consider visiting the communities to request content written in the Setswana language.
An Analysis of Master Dissertations: A Case Study of Central University of Technology (CUT), South Africa The results revealed that Management Sciences produced the highest number of average words (40 467), the highest number of average pages (194) and the highest number of average tables (28), while Engineering produced the highest number of average images (53) per dissertation. Health and Environmental Sciences had the highest average number of supervisors (2.2) per dissertation. Future research needs to consider the bibliometric analysis of these dissertations, as well as the relationship to the academic achievement of these students.
Intradepartment scientific collaboration in Journal of Research in Medical Sciences: A co-authorship study Given the importance and position of scientific collaboration in medical research and its effect on other performance indicators such as efficiency, effectiveness, and number of citations, it is necessary for policy-makers to propose new strategies for improving scientific collaboration. Without doubt, scientific collaboration with departments and research centers with common research interests can improve the quality and quantity of scientific productions.
How to Compare Faculty Pay Across the Business School Finance professors at the B.I. Moody III College of Business Administration (MCOBA) are paid a much lower percent of the AACSB average for their rank and discipline than any other research faculty in the business school.
POLICY LABS IN EUROPE: POLITICAL INNOVATION, STRUCTURE AND CONTENT ANALYSIS ON TWITTER This article focuses on policy labs, relatively recent politi-cal institutions that are gaining relevance due to society's demands for innovation, openness and citizen participation at different levels of government (Rodríguez-Bolívar, 2017).
The Academic Library in the Face of Cooperative and Commercial Paths to Open Access This paper encourages librarians to consider how they might take advantage of the market for publishing services that the two paths are creating amid the move to universal open access as a scholarly norm. As the traditional home of the knowledge commons, academic libraries continue to be natural allies of cooperative initiatives in open access. Support for any or all of these cooperative approaches can not only coexist with the corporate sector's pursuit of open access, they have the added advantage of contributing to more of a competitive market for publishing services, which can serve as a price check on those services, while bringing more of the library's expertise in scholarly communication to bear on this market.
The impact of open access citation and social media on leading top Information Science journals The study allows us to infer that archiving an article in open access seems to contribute to an advantage in the potential number of citations and mentions in social media.
Productivity Analysis and Impact of Colombian Psychology Journals between 2000 and 2016 We conclude that Colombian production in psychology is visible on a regional level.
Emerging Trends in IS Research: A Co-word Analysis (2007-16) This study explores the intellectual structure developed in the IS field between 2007 and 2016 by four top AIS conferences.
Nurturing Novelty: Toulmin's Greenhouse, Journal Rankings and Knowledge Evolution Over forty years ago, Toulmin offered an ecological solution to the problems highlighted herein through the institutional equivalent of the incubator (see Figure 1), hedging against the risks of established disciplines overly-constraining novelty.
Highly Cited Researchers 2014 and 2015: An investigation of some of the world's most influential scientific minds on the institutional and country level Seen as a whole, the results on the HCRs at institute and country level should be interpreted with caution.
The Rutgers open access policy goes into effect The Rutgers OA policy and its implementation via SOAR has been a valuable learning experience for the authors, and it has been a rare privilege to step out of roles in technical services and public/user services/sciences in our library work in order to collaborate far and wide across a large research university in the work of OA.
Academic rankings and pluralism: The case of Brazil and the new version of Qualis "Having this in mind, we argue that the modifications maintain incentives to pluralism, besides correcting many problems in the ranking. We concluded that not only this modification contemplated a good number of subareas, but also kept interdisciplinary journals."
Russian Index of Science Citation: Overview and review Russian journals are aggregated now at the eLIBRARY.RU platform.
The diffusion of scientific innovations: A role typology In this paper, we have addressed the question of how scientific innovations diffuse within and across scientific communities. We have shown that translator publications facili-tated their diffusion by modifying the scientific innovation in ways that bridged the gap between the epistemic core of the innovation and specialized fields. Systematic empirical studies such as ours can complement detailed studies undertaken by historians and philosophers of sci-ence and thereby establish connections between historical research and more systematic analyses.
Bibliometric Analyses Reveal Patterns of Collaboration between ASMS Members The collaborative network of ASMS members shows clear geographical patterns of collaborations.
Predatory Publishing: How to Safely Navigate the Waters of Open Access Learning to critically evaluate journals is key for prospective authors and readers alike.
Open scientific journals: Emerging practices and approaches The widening agenda of issues imposed on scientific journals aligned with the open science movement in all its breadth brings into discussion the actual meaning of openness in processes of scientific com- munication and publication.
The IR Has Two Faces: Positioning Institutional Repositories for Success Dialectics are an artificial construct used to interpret events, yet they have proven to be a useful metaphor for us to frame the current environment and understand the challenges, expectations, and opportunities that exist regarding [Carnegie Classification - Doctoral University: Higher Research Activity]'s IR.
“As-You-Go” Instead of “After-the-Fact”: A Network Approach to Scholarly Communication and Evaluation The current scholarly communication system based on research papers is “after-the-fact” and can be supplemented by a modular “as-you-go” communication system.
Fifty years of the <i>European Journal of Marketing</i>: a bibliometric analysis From a general perspective, this work's objective is to provide an overview of the leading trends of the journal, according to specific bibliometric indicators. Thus, the readers of the journal obtain a general picture of the most significant data of EJM through 2016. The results indicate that the UK is the most influential country, with several of the leading authors of the journal working at its institutions.
Research Impact, the ‘New Academic Capital’: An Environmental Scan of Research Impact Indicators and Resources for the Humanities and Social Sciences across 32 Countries This article heeds the call of Watermeyer (2014) by producing a cartography of impact indicators and resources for HSS researchers.
Converting the Literature of a Scientific Field to Open Access through Global Collaboration: The Experience of SCOAP3 in Particle Physics Thanks to the tripartite involvement of academic libraries, funding agencies and publishers, in a multi-lateral international collaboration hosted at CERN, SCOAP3 has been successful in delivering its objective “to provide open and unrestricted access to all HEP research literature..." [10].
“A tie is a tie? Gender and network positioning in life science inventor collaboration” I discuss the implications of these results for innovative growth, as well as for policies that support men's and women's career development.
A warning for Chinese academic evaluation systems: short-term bibliometric measures misjudge the value of pioneering contributions To remedy a flawed bibliometric-based assessment for scientists and improve our understanding of what constitutes good selection criteria, the key point to be emphasized is to make colleagues aware of the “invisible mortal sin" when they misuse short-term bibliometric indicators (van Noorden, 2010). Pioneering work, particularly transformative research, is the fundamental source of originality in basic research. As such this type of investigation plays an essential role in scientific progress. Creating more “objective” assessments is a hard task for the scientific community: in our opinion it needs intensive cooperation among different fields and a confluence of insightful perspectives coming from diverse stake holders.
Count highly-cited papers instead of papers with h citations: use normalized citation counts and compare “like with like”! We agree with Teixeira da Silva and Dobránszki (2018) that there are unsolved problems with using the h-index for research evaluation. However, the h-index is not a natural phenomenon: it contains necessarily a model of how to relate publications and citations as two very different things (Ye et al. 2017).
Rate and factors influencing the conversion of abstracts presented at the argentinian congress of hypertension meetings to indexed full peer-reviewed publications conversion rate to full peer-reviewed articles of abstracts presented at the Argentinian Congress of Hypertension meetings is far from ideal, with potential areas where efforts should be concentrated to improve dissemination of knowledge. Our study identified some potential areas to concentrate efforts in order to foster final publication of abstracts, such as the clinical science category.
The Opportunity Costs of Becoming a Dean: Does Leadership in Academia Crowd Out Research? First, we again find no indication for a negative self-selection based on publication productivity, neither for the early nor for the late deans: the coefficient for the pre-dean dummy in our random effects regression (models 3 and 4) is non-significant for the early as well as the late deans. Third, we do find a decreased publication productivity for late deans during and after deanship (model 2): For late deans, yearly publication points decrease by 0.03-0.05 per year, which is about one third of the yearly publication output (see Table 1). Of course, our study is not without limitations. A first and obvious limitation is that we cannot distinguish correlation from causality.
Bilateral and Multilateral Coauthorship and Citation Impact: Patterns in UK and US International Collaboration The analyses in this paper add nuances to our interpretation of internationally collaborative research, particularly regarding the ways in which international partners do or do not add increasing citation impact to collaborative work, and the limits to such additionality. We recommend that for analytical purposes, any paper with more than 20 collaborating countries (Figure 7) should be assigned to a separate category.
« <i>Une bombe dans la discipline </i>» : l’émergence du mouvement génopolitique en science politique At the individual level, genopolitics provides an opportunity for political scientists to contribute to a controversial, but innovative area of research, and thus to ameliorate their position within the scientific field.
Authors and editors assort on gender and geography in high-rank ecological publications Our findings point to places where editor characteristics could play a role in shaping peer review, a previously identified gap in the empirical literature on scientific publication [20].
Missing the Mark: A New Form of Honorary Authorship Motivated by Desires for Inclusion Our study examined whether honorary authorship might occur in the name of inclusion and the role of power and status in authorship decisions. The results indicated that inclusion was often invoked by our participants to justify a practice (i.e., honorary authorship) that may fail to promote the interests of all EC team members, and thus fail to be truly inclusive.
Implementation of a Research Information Management System in a Pediatric Hospital Symplectic Elements has proven to be the best RIMS choice for Cincinnati Children's to address the immediate needs of the institution. A centralized place for all publications, ease of use, and the ability to add modules to Elements provides an opportunity to streamline other business processes and compliance requirements, which justified this RIMS selection. While the organization struggled with resourcing and implementation timelines, the project succeeded in terms of its goals and fulfilled the publication reporting needs.
Comments on the Letter to the Editor on “Multiple versions of the h-index: cautionary use for formal academic purposes” by Jaime A. Teixera da Silva and Judit Dobránszki Thus, the claim of the authors “WoS-based h-index should not be used" is not supported.
International Collaboration and Openness in Jordanian Research Output: A 10-year Publications Feedback We demonstrated an increase in Jordanian research output that is accompanied by both, an increase in number of publications in OA journals, and publications with international co-authors collaboration.
Mathematics Research in Association of Southeast Asian Nations Countries: A Scientometric Analysis of Patterns and Impacts These findings suggest that the contribution of ASEAN countries as a group to mathematics research worldwide is modest in terms of research output and impact.
High-Citation Papers in Space Physics: Examination of Gender, Country, and Paper Characteristics There are several conclusions to be summarized from this study. The analysis suggests two steps that can be taken in the research phase and manuscript preparation stage to maximize the potential for more citations to the eventual publication. The first recommendation to the community is to cite the relevant literature. The second piece of advice is that you should collaborate, especially internationally, on the research effort.
Measuring and Visualizing Research Collaboration and Productivity This study demonstrates a viable approach for research assessment of a center or program for which random assignment of control groups is not possible.
Rejoinder to “Multiple versions of the h-index: cautionary use for formal academic purposes” Finally, we confirm that the Web of Science database search function for compound family names gives erroneous output which can disadvantage those academics with such family names.
Comparative Case Studies on Indonesian Higher Education Rankings The differences in the indicators used by the higher education ranking departments lead to differences in each department such as Kemenristekdikti, Webometrics and 4icu. To bridge the indicators used by Kemenristekdikti which assess all aspects of institutional ranking of a web-based trend, then Kemenristekdikti need to encourage colleges and universities in Indonesia to open access to scientific or non-scientific information that is publicly used in a web environment. One of the strategies that can be used to improve the openness and access to the scientific work of a university is by engaging in open science and collaboration.
How to make replication the norm Journals could oversee the replication exercise after conditional acceptance of a manuscript but before publication. Although we are writing from our experience as economists, we think that similar practices could be adopted in other disciplines, particularly the social sciences. This will help to restore confidence in the credibility of science.
What are we measuring? Refocusing on some fundamentals in the age of desktop bibliometrics All this is highly relevant to the recent buzz around `responsible metrics' and this review concludes with some recommendations to different parts of the academic community in terms of how we adapt and flourish in the age of desktop bibliometrics.
Reflections around ‘the cautionary use’ of the h-index: response to Teixeira da Silva and Dobránszki TSD's letter reminds us of the multiple problems and issues related to the h-index, with a special focus on the distorting effect caused by the proliferation of sources that provide this indicator. Using indicators to understand this eco-system and developing more multidimensional and contextualized evaluations of scientific performance are more useful and reasonable approaches. Here is where we believe indicators at the level of individual scholars have most value, much more than in just ranking individuals by their Google Scholar h-index or any other one-dimensional bibliometric statistic.
Progress and Prospects in Gender Visibility at SMBE Annual Meetings Understanding the reasons for this pattern is necessary for the development of policies that aim to reduce imbalance in visibility.
Chilean sport sciences scientific production indexed in the Web of Science (1981-2016) Chilean Sport Sciences scientific production indexed in the Web of Science shows the progressive development and strengthening of this field of knowledge, clearly oriented to Life Sciences, teamwork and international collaboration. The establishment of a network including scholars from Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile and Spain, which is propelling Sport Sciences research in this country, should be also highlighted. This study complements the results of the previous works developed at the national level in Chile, allowing comparison between them and providing a deeper viewpoint of the Sport Sciences scientific production history and development in this country.
Tale of Three Databases: The Implication of Coverage Demonstrated for a Sample Query The major goal of this paper was to highlight the importance of coverage for comprehensive data retrieval. The results emphasize the need for searching in multiple databases in order to increase recall as recommended by previous studies.
Autonomy and Authority in Public Research Organisations: Structure and Funding Factors This paper has addressed the question of how variations in public research organisations are related to various dimensions of the autonomy and control of researchers over research objectives and content. We have argued that there are at least two sources of legitimate authority within research organisations, one derived from hierarchy (bureaucratic) and another derived from the community (professional), and that while the share of authority between researchers and managers over research goals is essentially structural, it is empirically mediated by the dominant funding portfolio of organisations and the corresponding endowment of resources at the disposal of directors or researchers. The relative value of our analytical exercise will need to be tested through empirical case studies which also introduce scientific fields.
Is Peer Review Still Anonymous? The main findings of this study are that that 5.2% (29/562) reviewers were guessed correctly.
An Overview of Thematic Evolution of Physical Therapy Research Area From 1951 to 2013 In conclusion, Physical Therapy citations and production are primarily focused on two large thematic areas, diseases that involve middle-aged population and muscle function and its alterations.
The <i>F</i>-measure for Research Priority In policy considerations, the AI should better be replaced by the F-measure as this measure can better show the results of science policy measures (which the Al cannot as it depends on exogenous factors).
Truebounded, Overbounded, or Underbounded? Scientists’ Personal Publication Lists versus Lists Generated through Bibliographic Information Services First of all, we intended to focus attention on the characteristics of publication lists.
English as the lingua franca of international publishing "The findings presented in this paper may be interpreted as supporting either of these views, but they complicate the extreme versions of either."
An Exploration of the Sub-Register of Chemical Engineering Research Papers Published in English Highly discipline-specific vocabulary use, including extensive use of acronyms, should be avoided where possible, to aid favourable consideration of manuscripts at higher IF journals and to increase the citability potential of the article. What our research shows is that data visualisation can provide a quick way for researchers to assess the specific areas that are most likely to be published in the journal. They can be an indispensable tool for chemical engineering students and novice researchers that wish to gain an emic understanding of the actual scope of the plethora of journals within each discipline, without having to engage in the labour-intensive close reading of a large corpus of published papers.
Exploring the Hjif-Index, an Analogue to the H-Like Index for Journal Impact Factors The hjif-index can be used as a tool to rank journals in a manner that better reflects the variable number of journals within a given JCR group and in each group's hjif-core as an alternative to the more arbitrary JCR-based percentile ranking.
Information Seeking Behaviors, Attitudes, and Choices of Academic Chemists This study helps to shed light on opportunities to identify and meet chemists' evolving information needs. Through a process of conducting a survey and follow-up focus groups, talking with chemists, reading the literature, and reflecting as a group on these experiences, we observed that a significant number of chemists continue to be anxious about their ability to remain in control of their information needs. Additionally, most chemists also fail to see the value of chemical patent information and patents in general.
Citations and Citation Metrics in a Serial Assessment Using Master's Theses The analysis of serial citations in marine biology graduate theses has enhanced our understanding of the recent use of the serial collection by marine biology master's students at our institution.
Knowledge dissemination in clinical trials: Exploring influences of institutional support and type of innovation on selective reporting Although causality cannot be proved, these results contribute to a better understanding of the drivers of publication bias, adding to prior literature on scientific misconduct (Fanelli et al., 2015; Lacetera and Zirulia, 2011), on publication bias (e.g., Franco et al., 2014; Fanelli et al., 2017), on errors in publication leading to retractions (Furman et al., 2012; Van Noorden, 2011; Azoulay et al., 2017; Azoulay et al., 2015) and on lack of replication (Aguinis et al., 2017; Baker, 2016).
Research funding’s ‘endorsement effect’ on scientific boundary work and research production: Government legitimization of alternative medicine The endorsement effect can arise when official innovation policies- especially research funding policies-appear to endorse a specific research area.
International Knowledge Flows and the Role of Proximity First, we find that all proximity dimensions have a positive and statistically significant effect at a global scale; countries tend to have collaborative ties when they share more proximity. Second, the results show that the effects of geographical and cultural proximity have decreased over time, while the opposite effect is true for social and technological proximity. When it comes to future research, several directions are worthy of further study.
Lessons learned from the <i>JACS</i> Challenge Citations not only proved rather hard to predict, but also correlated poorly with the papers chosen to share.
Use of Free/Libre Open Source Software in Sepsis “-Omics” Research: A Bibliometric, Comparative Analysis Among the United States, EU-28 Member States, and China These observations and analyses provide new insights into the use of FLOSS in sepsis omics research across three (supra)national regions.
Mapping collaboration and impact of library and information science research in sub-Saharan Africa, from 1995 to 2016 Collaboration is said to lead to increased research output and impact, hence the need for sub-Saharan African researchers and institutions to initiate strategies that will create conducive environments for research collaboration. There is need for collaborative ventures between LIS practitioners and educators as well as increased cooperation among LIS schools within and outside of sub-Saharan African countries. We further recommend a study to investigate the influence or contribution of the types of authorship and research collaboration on research impact in LIS research in sub-Saharan Africa.
Assessment of Researchers Through Bibliometric Indicators: The Area of Information and Library Science in Spain as a Case Study (2001–2015) There are important differences among the top-producing authors in the field analyzed in terms of the degree of both citation and collaboration as well as in other variables, such as participation in high-impact journals.
Library-Mediated Deposit: A Gift to Researchers or a Curse on Open Access? Reflections from the Case of Surrey The case report presented here highlights challenges that most institutions and their Libraries are facing at this point in time.
Academic consulting – income stream, impact and brand building According to this study, academic consulting could have great potential in bringing the human perspective into the digitalized society.
Citation analytics: Data exploration and comparative analyses of CiteScores of Open Access and Subscription-Based publications indexed in Scopus (2014–2016) In the long run, the data provided in this article will help policy makers and researchers in Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) to identify the appropriate publication source type and category for dissemination of scholarly research findings with maximum citation impact. The dataset generated and made publicly available based on the stipulated criteria will help foster further investigation into the importance of Elsevier CiteScore and other source ranking methods [2–4]. Presenting this data in open access format will help researchers identify relevant sources as veritable outlets for dissemination of their research findings [5,6].
Gatekeepers of Reward: a Pilot Study on the Ethics of Editing and Competing Evaluations of Value Editorial valuation practices consist of work, the type of work that goes into assessing contributions, articulating value associated with them internally and translating it to a value judgement that also has merit externally.
How research becomes impact: Librarians helping faculty use scholarly metrics to select journals The results of the survey indicated that the majority of Pepperdine faculty have both an interest in and awareness of bibliometrics. By launching the faculty publishing initiative, the authors successfully established the library as an authority on bibliometrics and altmetrics. An important future expansion of the project will be to learn more about the tenure requirements of Pepperdine's academic departments.
Publish and Who Should Perish: You or Science? If assessments did not employ bibliometric numbers, then these practices would not have a benefit, and would fade out.
Library and information science research in BRICS countries This study has attempted to highlight the research output of BRICS countries in the field of library and information science during the 10-year period 2005-2014 from the data available through Web of Science. Similar studies need to be conducted on other databases such as Scopus and LISA to identify further trends in library and information research in these important countries and vital economies of the third world.
Orthodox Core–Heterodox Periphery? Contrasting Citation Networks of Economics Departments in Vienna These findings suggest that discussions about the future of heterodox economics should pay more attention to the organizational level and seek allies from other disciplines.
Enhancing Institutional Publication Data Using Emergent Open Science Services This study aimed to enhance Brunel University London's publication records using data from open science services. The results of this paper, therefore, point to the need for interoperability between local systems and emergent open science services which are attempting to aggregate OA activity. Such two-way communication has the potential to enhance data for compliance reporting, limit the possibility of manual duplication, and free up library staff to target effort on those who have not yet engaged with OA.
The Deployment and Impact of LibGuides at Public Universities in South Africa This study sought to determine the proliferation of LibGuides in South Africa and whether this has been accompanied by impacts.
Research Article Scientometric analysis: Five years of genetic polymorphisms In the present research we found a predominance of original article publications over reviews. The country with the most number of publications was China, followed by Brazil. Our results show a development in the scientific development of countries such as Brazil and China.
Getting Scientists Ready for Open Access: The Approaches of Forschungszentrum Jülich A combination of several approaches is necessary to raise awareness of open access and to change the behavior of scientists regarding scientific publishing. Overall, the approaches of the Central Library and its initiatives supporting scientists were appreciated, and feedback from both scientists and management on the new training courses and Open Access Week events was very positive. With this outcome and the ongoing effort of all stakeholders, hopes are high that the targets set by the Helmholtz Association will be attained.
Prepublication disclosure of scientific results: Norms, competition, and commercial orientation We examine prepublication disclosure to general audiences across a wide array of fields and find that, except for engineering and computer science, disclosure is more common than not (as measured both by disclosure of a paper and our index of disclosing types), but there is substantial variation across fields, with social scientists and mathematicians being the most likely to disclose.
Incentives drive disclosure
The Modified h-Index of Scopus: A New Way in Fair Scientometrics Given the fact that the researchers' h-index has recently been the basis for the scholarly academic ranking, it is very important and essential that the values presented in this research be considered as the fair h-index of authors.
Finding the news and mapping the links: a case study of hypertextuality in Dutch-language health news websites Most importantly, this paper demonstrates that the distinction between genuine and pseudo-external hyperlinks is meaningful for journalism because pseudo-external hyperlinks less frequently present health-related information than genuine external hyperlinks.
Research Impact and International Collaboration: A Study of Ecuadorian Science Research outputs in Ecuador from 2006 to 2015 increased significantly due to international col- laboration.
Paper Impact Effectiveness (PIE): A New Way to Measure the Impact of Research Papers "This paper made the case for considering both values; the total citations and downloads, since each value separately does not provide realistic insight about the impact of an individual research paper."
Peering into peer review: Good quality reviews of research articles require neither writing too much nor taking too long From our results, it can be concluded that there is no clear relation between feedback quality, length of reports, and review time, yet some tendencies can be identified: length and time showed to be inversely associated with feedback quality, i.e., shorter and faster reviews tended to be better than longer and slower ones.
Informetrics of Scientometrics abstracts: a rhetorical move analysis of the research abstracts published in Scientometrics journal Thus, it can be concluded that there are some reasons such as situational options, community of practice, and the extent of the explicitness of the information which have effects on the information provided by the research abstracts. The findings of the current study can have pedagogical implication for the researchers who want to publish their papers in the Scientometrics journal.
What Do Chemists Cite? A 5-year Analysis of References Cited in American Chemical Society Journal Articles Our study confirms a strong tendency for chemists to reference articles rather than books or other forms of publication. It also confirms a tendency to predominantly reference recent publications, although there are some indications that this trend is gradually reversing, perhaps in response to the increased online availability of older articles. Future studies might also consider exploring heavily referenced “classic” books in chemistry to inform collection development (especially weeding projects) and the impact of open-access journals and e-repositories on citation practices.
Do review articles boost journal impact factors? A longitudinal analysis for five pharmacology journals We conclude that inclusion of review articles does not substantially affect the impact factor of a journal unless they account for considerably more than 10% of all published articles. We conclude that inclusion of review articles can increase the IF of a journal; however, this only has a moderate effect on the IF unless review articles constitute a relatively large fraction of articles within a journal.
Show Me the Data! Improving Evidence Presentation for Publication 'Show me the data'! allows greater ability to identify important phenomena and reduces the credibility of models that produce misleading results. It also shows irregularities in the data and analysis that suggest opportunities for additional theory building and empirical research.
Redesigning Academic Website for Better Visibility and Footprint: A Case of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources Effurun Website Websites now play prominent roles in education and training as millions of users visit them, searching for relevant data to meet their various research needs. The university that wishes to improve its position must enrich her website. This importance is seen both in university ranking criteria and website ranking, because there are both direct and indirect relevance between these two items.
Geographic and Gender Diversity in the Brazilian Academy of Sciences All this together allows us to conclude that the Brazilian Academy of Sciences is neither diverse in terms of geographic region nor in terms of gender, even if the male members to do not have higher indexes of scientific productivity compared to female members. This gradual concentration of male researchers in the richest region of Brazil when the career evolves has some negative consequences. It is time for Brazilians to think more seriously about policies to include more women and more people from other regions of Brazil other than the Southeast region into research.
Altmetrics: “big data” that map the influence of New Zealand research Overall, New Zealand-authored research from 2016 demonstrated great international influence a trend reflected in three of the five top venues for publication chosen by NZ authors.
A better measure of research from the global south The approach and findings of our meta-analysis now need replication in other contexts. At IDRC, we are planning another retrospective assessment in 2020. We are excited by what progress and shifts it might uncover. We are already looking at ways we can use RQ+ for grant selection, monitoring the progress of individual projects, and com- municating our organizational objectives to funding partners and applicants.
Changes in the University Research Approach: Challenges for Academics’ Scientific Productivity In this article, academics' perceptions of the new academic research approach were analysed. The data illustrated that there have been significant changes in the institutional dimension, which are reflected in the organisational structures and an observable increase in internal and external control mechanisms. Furthermore, there have been changes in the individual dimension, with a transformation being perceived in the academic function. This transformation is reflected in new demands and a decrease in professional autonomy due to the extent of the external control mechanisms exercised by the accreditation agencies. This qualitative study complements other similar studies that focus on scientific productivity data from a quantitative approach (e.g. Leišytė, 2016) and draws attention to the critical issues in the higher education institution that deserve more analysis in the future:
Academics at Play: Why the ‘Publication Game’ is More than a Metaphor Given that the distinction between academic game-playing and “real” research is difficult to sustain in any clear-cut way, it becomes incumbent upon us to recognize that we are already implicated in game-playing, whether conceived as careerist or (social) scientific. The question then becomes to identify the place of lusory attitudes in academic work, with its various risks and virtues. We hope to have opened up this line of inquiry in this paper.
Evaluating the Scientific Impact of XSEDE We evaluated the scientific impact of XSEDE by examining the publi-cations that were enabled by having access to the XSEDE resources.
Replication studies in economics—How many and which papers are chosen for replication, and why? Our results confirm previous assumptions that relate replication to impact (Dewald et al., 1986; Furman et al., 2012; Hamermesh, 2007, 2017).
Dual appointments and research collaborations outside academia: evidence from the European academic population Our findings offer two main contributions to the literature. The first is counter-intuitive: using dual appointments to promote greater levels of research collaboration with organizations outside academia is largely inefficient, and may even lead to lower engagement in collaborative research when the dual appointment of the academic researcher is with a private entity. This argument, together with the need to better identify the factors that drive academic researchers to hold a dual appointment, and what it means for their careers, is one of the limitations of this article, and one that needs to be addressed by future research.
Reply to Wray In sum, I do think that Analytic Philosophy has undergone a process of normalization. Yet, it has become a sui generis normal science, denoted by a soft paradigm and a fragmented structure. I believe that this is a topic worth investigating, especially by scientometrics-minded philosophers of science, and I hope that in the future more studies will deal with it.
The UK Scholarly Communication Licence: Attempting to Cut through the Gordian Knot of the Complexities of Funder Mandates, Publisher Embargoes and Researcher Caution in Achieving Open Access The idea behind the UK-SCL initiative is a simple one. It attempts to cut through the 'Gordian knot' of complexities of funders' mandates, publishers' policies, and researchers' caution in one single policy with the aim of achieving greater open access.
Research performance of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Countries in Library and Information Science: A scientometric analysis India emerges as a leader in LIS research in terms of a number of research documents, citable documents, and non-citable documents during the period. Rests of the SAARC countries are lagging behind in terms of research contributions as well as citations data in LIS. The study establishes that India is leading in LIS research amongst SAARC countries followed by Pakistan and Bangladesh. Rest of the SAARC countries are far behind in LIS research and needs to do more research in this discipline also.
Metabolism of Public Research Organizations: How Do Laboratories Consume State Subsidies? In response to the first question stated in the introduction, results suggest that this public research organization absorbs a high share of the revenue for the cost of personnel.
An assessment of scientific impact of Indian journals H5, JIF, ES and SJR indicators ought to be benefited of in combination and in an integrated fashion to propose a more holistic and all-inclusive view of Indian journal quality value and merit.
Approximation of citation distributions to the Poisson distribution Thus, the recommendation for obtaining CIs suggested in Bornmann (2017, [1]) seems appropriate for low impact journals. For high impact journals, the consideration of the negative binomial model seems to be more appropriate than the Poisson model (Schubert & Glänzel, (1983, [4]); Stern, (2017, [6])).
Studying grant decision-making: a linguistic analysis of review reports Interview results and reading review reports indicates that peer and panel review is weakly codified. This suggests that panels concentrate in the discussions on identifying the (in their opinion) weakest proposals (and rejecting those) instead of trying to find the best and promising ones. This may easily result in sub-optimal selections, in low predictive validity, and in bias.
Publication Overlap: Building an Academic House with Salami Shingles Our results suggest that publication overlap is a problem in both fields, and that the EEB community, though smaller than the medical field, should be vigilant of its occurrence and negative effects.
Investigating the transparency and influenceability of altmetrics using the example of the RG score and the ResearchGate platform This self-experiment shows how rapidly and relatively easily the RG score can be manipulated.
Awareness of Altmetrics among LIS Scholars and Faculty For LIS scholars, measures of research impact are both a topic of research and an area of teaching expertise as well as having potential importance for career advancement.
A new bibliometric approach to measure knowledge transfer of internationally mobile scientists It is concluded that the bibliometric approach proposed is useful when applied on a large scale.
Classic papers published by Taiwanese scientists in the science citation index expanded: A bibliometric study A total of 59 Taiwan classic publications were found in SCI-EXPANDED between 1981 and 2014. National universities contributed more to the Taiwan independent classic publications than private universities. Finally, article by A. Chao from National Tsing Hua University was the only 'high impact sleeping beauties' and article by C.C. Chang and C.J. Lin from National Taiwan University was the only ‘Green Giant' in Taiwan.
Publications of Islamic University of Indonesia in Scopus Database: A bibliometric assessment Islamic University of Indonesia has been indexed in Scopus database since 2005 and its number of documents increases continuously until recently. The growth of document also significantly increase in the last five years. The research finds important suggestions that can be implemented to improve Islamic University of Indonesia publications.
Are Papers Written by Women Authors Cited Less Frequently? Our overall conclusion is that there is no apparent relationship between author gender and citation count in this data set once author count is held constant.
Are killer bees good for coffee? The contribution of a paper's title and other factors to its future citations This suggests that finding a good title is necessary, but that other factors are more important to construct a well-cited paper.
Research Productivity and International Collaboration: A Study of Ecuadorian Science The results presented in this work provide compelling evidence about the increase in Ecuadorian scientific production for the 2006-2015 interval and also confirm benefits that Ecuador received from international collaboration, which should remain an important component of future S&T policy. Ecuador should prioritize collaboration that maximizes research in strategic areas and with the most viable partners. Overall, Ecuador needs flexibility, transparency, accountability, stability, and consistency to build a new research landscape for the future.
Gender Inequity during the Ph.D.: Females in the Life Sciences Benefit Less from Their Integration into the Scientific Community Results suggest that women may benefit less from their integration into the scientific community and may ascribe more importance to networks for their career progress.
Using Network Centrality to Inform Our View of Nobel Economists In this paper, we employ measures of internet centrality comparable to those pioneered by Google founders, Brin and Page, and citation indexes that are also measures of centrality from the more familiar network of scholarly articles.
MHq indicators for zero-inflated count data – A response to Smolinsky and Marx (2018) Based on our initial papers on the MHq (Bornmann & Haunschild, 2018; Haunschild & Bornmann, 2018), the comment by Smolinsky and Marx (2018), and the results in this study, we recommend to specify the definition of nf when using the MHq indicator for analyzing zero-inflated count data (e.g., altmetrics).
Publication Rates of Molecular Versus Non-Molecular Biologists: A Case Study of Seven Primarily Undergraduate Institutions Since the effect of sub-discipline on publications rates is not under the control of the individual scientist, our results should inform the assessment of the research productivity of biology faculty members at PUIs.
Does Interdisciplinary Integration Affect LIS Doctoral Students’ Publishing Productivity and Quality in North America? "This study presents an analysis of LIS doctoral graduates' published papers since the 1960s and shows both a clear increase in the relative number of LIS doctoral students who publish during their studies and the fact that advisors' disciplinary background has an impact on students' publishing productivity but no impact on quality."
Systematic reviews and tech mining: A methodological comparison with case study "Our comparison demonstrates that each process can be enhanced from a purposeful consideration of the procedures of the other."
Dimensions: Building Context for Search and Evaluation The democratization that we seek to bring about consists of two parts: Firstly, ensuring that all researchers, regardless of affiliation or geography, are able to access a fully faceted database of information describing research; and, secondly, ensuring that all participants in the research environment, regardless of role, have access to the context of a piece of research. In many senses, Dimensions is a study in the innovation that is possible if data is made openly available.
Diffusion, convergence and influence of pharmaceutical innovations: a comparative study of Chinese and U.S. patents Chinese and U.S. pharmaceutical innovations contributed differently to the growth and development of the global pharmaceutical industry. The findings of this study can provide rich knowledge about the influence, diffusion and convergence trends of Chinese and U.S. pharmaceutical innovations. In the pharmaceutical industry, the findings may provide implications for researchers, policy makers, health professionals, and the general public to help improve the overall health of society.
Gender differences in authorships are not associated with publication bias in an evolutionary journal Overall our results suggest that the peer review processes we investigated at the Journal of Evolutionary Biology are predominately gender-neutral, but not neutral to geographic location.
Grades of Openness: Open and Closed Articles in Norway In our study, we compared open availability by service and found that different services returned considerably different results.
DIRECT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE TERMINOLOGY OF KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER – DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES (SSH) AND OTHER SCIENTIFIC DISCIPLINES Our results clearly demonstrate that knowledge transfer is a broad field that includes several different subdomains.
How Today’s Professionals Prefer to Find the Science They Need to Do Their Jobs The emergence of new technologies over the past two decades has changed—and is continuing to change—how natural resources professionals find the science they need to do their daily jobs.
A Correlation Analysis of Normalized Indicators of Citation With only two indicators available in SciVal, the author could quickly analyze the University's publication strategy in terms of subject areas.
Analysis of Publication Trends for the 2011-2015 American Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine Annual Meeting Abstracts Podium and poster presentations accepted into AOSSM conferences had equal rates of publication in 2 years.
Toward a more scientific science Although the contributions of stars to the advancement of science are unassailable, our results suggest that once in control of the commanding heights of their fields, star scientists tend to hold on to their exalted position a bit too long.
The value of letters to the editor That is why we recommend scientists to show more interest in writing and using letters, as these publications are interesting and inspiring. Furthermore, for the same reasons, we recommend scientists to use letters for the automatic identification of common research deficiencies, main topics of interest and influential trends for research assessment and planning purposes.
Assessing the digital library research output: bibliometric analysis from 2002 to 2016 Total productivity of the research (digital library) for 15 years in the field of LIS on ISI Web of Science (WOS) is 4,206. The current data show auspicious and upright digital library research productivity from the field of LIS in the past 15 years. And it is a source to understand the current status of the literature of digital library in the field of LIS.
Overcitation and overrepresentation of review papers in the most cited papers "The citation rate of an article is influenced by many factors, one of those being the document type."
An Index to Evaluate the Journals and Publishers’ Information Sharing Capacity The N-Index for productivity will measure the capacity journals have to analyze, cure, and dis-seminate the information created in the era of quantum data.
Analysis of dataset on editorial board composition of Dove Medical Press by continent The dataset can be helpful in bibliometric and research evaluation analysis.
A system for generating research impact visualizations over medical research groups These activities enhance the role of the library in supporting knowledge management and scholarly communication and in fostering campus partnerships and collaborations.
National ETD Repository Evaluation Using Web Analyzer The analytics result shows that, in five parameters, the performance of the Shodhganga ETD portal was very poor (zero in four of them).
Solicitation for article submission by electronic journals Most of these journals were not listed in the DOAJ but were listed on Beall's so-called predatory journal list.
What Determines Citation Rate in Articles Published in the Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery? Level of evidence is critical to citation rate of an article, as indicated by our study.
A hypergraph model for representing scientific output We propose a hypergraph model that illustrates in a simple and elegant way co-authorship data.
Applying Gini coefficient to evaluate the author research domains associated with the ordering of author names Results suggest that the corresponding author is submitting the manuscript to the target journal with a core author's academic background and the personal impact factor related to the research domain and the journal scope in the future.
The K-index and the hubs of science In conclusion, the K-index seems to overcome several deficiencies of the h-index with a minimal cost for its calculation.
A mid-level approach to modeling scientific communities Mid-level modeling results may provide confidence for additional funding bodies to consider similar policies, particularly funders interested in fostering novel, pioneering science.
Predicting research excellence at the individual level with bibliometric indicators: A rejoinder on a comment by Van den Besselaar and Sandström (2018) The ROC analysis indicates thatPR and TJPhave some predictive value and could potentially be useful in selecting for excellence in some decision-making contexts.
Research output of librarians in the field of library and information science in Nigeria: a bibliometric analysis from 2000-March, 2018 Based on the analysis of 1,106 articles published by 1,021 academic librarians in Nigeria for the past 18 years (2000-2018), it could be concluded that only few authors are prolific in the field of LIS in Nigeria. The study, therefore, concludes that the author productivity was in agreement with Lotka's Law. The study, therefore, calls for LIS academics (professors, lecturers) as well as academic librarians in developing countries to publish their works with international journals that are visible and are indexed.
A bibliometric services workshop for subject librarians Based on the data in both surveys, the “Citation Analysis for Subject Librarians Workshop" was a positive training experience for participants that added to their knowledge and skills.
Do performance‐based research funding systems affect research production and impact? On the basis of the results of the paper and of the possible considerations about the costs associated with PBFS documented in the literature (see also European Commission, 2017), we can conclude that PBFS are a very useful instrument to steer the university system and increase the overall impact of scientific research of a country on a permanent basis. However, particular care should be employed in the correct design of the systems, in order to minimise possible drawbacks and increase their cost efficiency. Collecting data on these two dimensions is the content of our future research.
Publishing? You can count on knowledge, experience, and expectations The study contribute to: (1) the debate on the questionable generalization of scientific publications indexes and rankings due to the nature of research published coming from different scientific universes; (2) identify pathways for achieving higher performance in academic publishing; (3) allow research centers' managers to better manage the centers aiming to achieve upper output levels. As a result, the paper contributes to identify alternative pathways for achieving success in scientific publishing. The study provides guidance for academics, research managers and consultants.
Mapping the use of open access resources by doctoral students in the USA by employing citation analysis The findings of this study revealed that a total 6.25 per cent fully OA resources were used by the researchers of MIT, CIT and Stanford universities in the field of physics.
Stable and decentralized? The promise and challenge of a shared citation ledger This is a fairly fundamental reimagining of the form a citation ledger could take, but it would have certain benefits.
Content growth of institutional repositories in South India: a status report Although the number of IRs in South India remains low, it is encouraging to note that most repositories seem to be dynamic. The growth trend of repositories in South India is also hopeful as it shows the slow but steady progress. Universities must take the initiative to establish, maintain, and develop IRs. It will help to preserve the documents in Indian languages.
Quality and quantity are not always positively correlated: A case study of Chinese economics journals In this letter, Huang (2016) method of investigating the quality and quantity of journals is employed in a case study of Chinese economics journals, and we obtained a result that is opposite to Huang's findings: A negative correlation exists between the IF rank and the number of published articles, which is mainly due to several phenomena that are specific to China, in particular the APC costs and the supply and demand relationship. We recommend that policymakers should develop relevant scientific and technological policies based on their nation's specific publishing systems. One limitation of this study is that it does not consider the influence of the cited half-life, citation density of journals and other factors on IF which are considered to be very important (see e.g. Lee & Shin, 2014; Chen, Yang, & Khoveyni, 2017).
Reliability of scholarly journal acceptance rates The issue of unclear AR has to be solved, because its transparency can improve the scientific influence of journals (Khosravi, 2018). Further study is needed to use this formula with various journals and also to see if there are issues related to an increased focus on article-level publishing.
A Nationwide Study of Research Publication Impact of Faculty in U.S. Higher Education Doctoral Programs The h index is a useful metric to measure the research impact of faculty members in the field of higher education. We found that the index significantly varies based on faculty members' academic rank and the U.S. News and World Report ranking of their associated education school. As emphasized by many others, h indices alone should not be used as the basis for high stakes decisions, but should be considered as part of a comprehensive portfolio.
Do authors comply when funders enforce open access to research? Our findings have policy implications. They highlight the importance to open access of enforcement, timeliness and infrastructure. And they underline the need to establish sus-tainable and equitable systems as the financial burdens for science publishing shift from research libraries to authors' research funds.
Understanding Gender Equity in Author Order Assignment These quantitative results suggest that women assume different author positions than men.
Mapping and visualization: selected examples of international research networks The experience of the use of visualization to monitor project-related publication activity, based on special software, has shown its effectiveness in relation to coordination and correction of work and favourable effect on the quality of the project results. The methods for visual representation of scientometric information can serve as a basis for formulating preliminary working hypotheses in scientometric data analyses and for presenting the final results of analyses, in this case being a statistical analysis (a scholar's profile), a geospatial analysis (of member states) and a network analysis (participation in the project). Further research will be pursued, among other things, to design a thematic-based collaboration model (constructing scientific e-communication models) and to assess the effect on scientists (and individual scientists) and science in general.
Awareness, knowledge and attitude of lecturers towards institutional repositories in university libraries in Nigeria Awareness, knowledge and attitude of lecturers play a key role in the population and the sustenance of institutional repositories in universities in Nigeria. Therefore if awareness that emphasizes the benefits of institutional repository is intensified in the universities, coupled with incentives for the contributors, lecturers attitude will not only be positively affected, but they will become the key drivers of IRs in their institutions.
The Reporting Items for Patent Landscapes statement The checklist we present aims to improve the quality of reporting in such publications, but also highlights the importance of reporting quality beyond those areas in which it has traditionally been a focus.
Journal Co-Citation Analysis for Identifying Trends of Inter-Disciplinary Research: An Exploratory Case Study in a University The main purpose of this paper is to identify the research trend and the direction of the sample "university-x”, where the ongoing researches will be heading in the future. This research provides a solid foundation for understanding the publications of the “university-x”. In addition, such analysis can identify both existing inter-disciplinary researches and opportunity for the future collaboration across multiple research areas. Nevertheless, the methodologies and framework outlined in this paper could be extended for the aforementioned future studies.
Quantifying Scholarly Output: Contribution Studies and Productivity Studies in Sociology Since 1970 We conclude by discussing the implications of the contribution/productivity distinction for sociology and other disciplines-in particular, the problems that may arise when contribution studies are used to evaluate scholarly productivity. The distinction between contribution studies and productivity studies is important not only within sociology, but across the disciplines.
Open access institutional repositories in universities in East Africa Institutionally mandated deposits are essentially required if universities in East Africa would like to move beyond the slow and time consuming self-driven/voluntary process of collecting content and increase the visibility and accessibility of scholarly information locally produced to enhance development within the region. For student theses and dissertations, requiring deposit in the IR as a condition before one graduates would maximise content collection and growth.
Being there in the flex: humanities and social science collaborations with nonacademic actors Last but not least, the Flexit case demonstrates that relevance itself is not a challenge for HSS research. Researchers all appear to have more difficulty balancing the level of engagement required to be relevant and the requirements needed to have an academic career. This may imply that two of the key pillars in the dominant orthodoxy in contemporary science policy– biblimoteric driven evaluation and relevance – may be in tension.
2377 Evolution of the interdisciplinary co-citation network supported by the Georgia Clinical and Translational Science Alliance Program from 2006 through 2016 This study advances an innovative approach to modeling the system-wide impact of CTSA hub funding.
Website traffic measurement and rankings: competitive intelligence tools examination Based on the results of the research, the author can recommend the use of the Alexa and SimilarWeb tools, but one must take into account the fact that they provide approximate figures. Neither tool can accurately determine the ranks of websites on the Internet. What they can be used for is differentiating between little and widely visited websites and establishing the approximate significance of the particular website on the Internet.
When can academic researchers rest? An event history analysis on researchers’ research productivity and promotion in academia from 1980 to 2016 in Japan These findings are important in considering the success and work-life balance in academia.
Evaluating journals performance over time using functional instruments Recently FDA has received great attention in diverse areas of application, this is because it makes it possible to analyze the data by adding numerous functional tools to classical analyzes with considerable interpretations of the results as well.
Rejoinder to ‘Is there a Peter Nijkamp effect?’ by Jasper Lukkezen Perhaps this reflects that the post-controversy publication ethos among Dutch economists is a beneficial outcome and the true 'Nijkamp effect'.
Knowledge and Perceptions of Open Science among Researchers—A Case Study for Colombia These results are important inputs for building an adequate open science policy in Colombia, and they indicate the need to develop clear methodological and deontological rules regarding open science in which scientific collaboration and digital technologies are fundamental and involve both researchers and practitioners as well as rules concerning the use of data by nonscientific people.
Journal endorsement of STROBE and its extensions: a cross-sectional bibliometric survey Reporting guideline endorsement rates are low and information is vague and scattered. Unambiguous language is needed to improve adherence to reporting guidelines and increase the quality of reporting. A lack of uptake of reporting guidelines threatens the quality of research being published.
The community structure of business establishments and its properties: evidence from joint patent applications "In this article, we determined what metrics are related to agglomerative force for knowledge-creating establishments."
Persistence of false paradigms in low-power sciences This paper proposes a model regarding the adoption or non-adoption of superior scientific paradigms.
How Winning an International Scientific Award Affects Publishing Behavior of Laureates: the Case of Derek de Solla Price Medal in Scientometrics We can conclude that he reception of Price medal in scientometrics has no statistically significant effect on the medalists' scientific publication, citation impact and research collaboration patterns.
Journals that Rise from the Fourth Quartile to the First Quartile in Six Years or Less: Mechanisms of Change and the Role of Journal Self-Citations The main conclusion is that there was no evidence of widespread JIF manipulation through the overuse of journal self-citations.
Contribution of Indian scientists in PLOS ONE : A scientometric analysis This scientometric study will be helpful in knowing the contribution of Indian scientists as well as position of India in relation to the other countries in the foreign journal.
Push button replication: Is impact evaluation evidence for international development verifiable? "The findings presented here reveal that many economics, development, and public health researchers are a long way from adopting the norm of open research."
Classification of Turkish Universities by quantity and titles of Academic Staff The results of this study may be used for academic staff employment planning in Turkish Universities. Using our collected dataset, we have created a segmentation of universities in Turkey according to the number of academics they employ. In future studies, analyses are planned at the level of faculties or departments, which are sub-divisions of universities.
Twin-Win Model: A human-centered approach to research success There are many paths to twin-win research success, but working on authentic problems with partners who care about the solutions seems important.
Productivity does not equal usefulness Based on our results, we suggest that the identification of “hyperprolific” authors should consider not only quantity, but also the usefulness of research activities (measured in terms of citations).
Bibliometric and Altmetric Analysis of Three Social Science Disciplines The identification of different patterns of activity among the disciplines studied is one of the most prominent findings of this study.
Middle of the (by)line: Examining hyperauthorship networks in the human genome project Though determining where credit is due remains a conundrum in a hyper-authored setting, we find that middle authors may hold essential positions within the collaboration network in the chromosome 1 research. Recognizing that misallocation of credits may result in misallocation of funding opportunities and academic positions, we believe that providing a contribution list to describe whodunwhat in conjunction with the author byline is a necessary practice. Our future work includes examining in detail the collaboration dynamics among the first, middle, and last authors of all published works by a number of research centers affiliated with the HGP.
Scholarly Communication Practices in Humanities and Social Sciences: A Study of Researchers’ Attitudes and Awareness of Open Access Although a journal's impact factor is extremely influential in researchers' choice of journals to publish in, our findings show that researchers make little effort to contribute to increasing a journal's impact factor.
Evaluation of Research(ers) and its Threat to Epistemic Pluralisms To preserve epistemic pluralism, we need some strategy to actively dampen epistemic bias.
Coping with the Inequity and Inefficiency of the H-Index: A Cross-Disciplinary Analytical Model The analytical model developed in this study can explain, in terms of researcher incentives to pursue a given goal (i.e., maximisation of the current H index), the differences in inequity and inefficiency reported by the empirical literature. Consequently, the main empirical insight obtained by this study is that the original version of the H index used to evaluate the research activity of researchers should be replaced by a stand-ardised version per author and per year calculated after excluding publications other than articles (i.e., to increase the effort allocated to research activity) and by excluding reciprocal citations (i.e., to reduce inappropriate citations). Next, estimation of the relative effectiveness of this standardised version of the H index across disciplines will require further statistical analysis.
Library and Information Science Research in Iran: An Analysis of National and International Publications This study was carried out using a scientometric approach. The h-index (28) for international publication shows a low rate. With Iranian LIS professionals primarily pub-lishing in national, Persian-language journals rather than in international journals, one cannot look only at international journals to obtain an accurate picture of LIS research in Iran.
Is scientific novelty reflected in citation patterns? Three measures- citation take-off, average clustering coefficient and connectivity-do significantly distinguish the two groups.
Does “Evaluating Journal Quality and the Association for Information Systems Senior Scholars Journal Basket…” Support the Basket with Bibliometric Measures? These results support the broad purpose of Lowry et al., finding a wider set of high quality and relevant journals than just MISQ and ISR, and find a wider set of relevant, top quality journals.
Visibility of disciplines in academic web space The structure detected using the proposed method is clearer and the discipline cohesiveness is higher.
Do longer articles gather more citations? Article length and scholarly impact among top biomedical journals The results confirm that longer articles, on average, receive more citations and are, therefore, considered more impactful. One conclusion this paper may draw is that publishing shorter articles in these journals, which may be motivated by considering the Least Publishable Unit (LPU), might end up resulting in work that is less impactful, at least in the top biomedical journals investigated in this paper. Future research is needed to verify whether these findings are also observed for lower impact journals in biomedical fields and other fields.
Analyzing scientific collaboration with “giants” based on the milestones of career Our results show that although working with "giants” may have benefits and appeal for ambit ious young scholars who prioritize ca-reer achievement and productivity; it is hardly a require-ment for long-term success.
Landscape of knowledge sciences in JASIST Through the semantic analysis of all JASIS papers dating back to 1950, the researchers explain why knowledge management professionals do not perceive JASIS as a core journal in their field.
Collaboration matters: Faculty hiring in information school This reveals an implicit hiring decision-making factor that encourages young researchers to actively seek collaboration opportunities with well-established scholars to secure a good faculty job in the future.
How authors cite references? A study of characteristics of in‐text citations The preliminary results, on the one hand, show that authors refer more works in an article during this period. On the other hand, authors do not cite references more frequently in text-body on average.
Do Open Access Journals Have Greater Citation Impact? A Study of Journals in Health and Medical Sciences in India The findings of the present study offer a relatively strong case for OA scholarly publishing in health and medical science research in India in terms of citation impact using the h-index and citations per paper and journal. In conclusion, and to answer the research question on whether open accessibility matters as far as citation and research impact of health and medical science journals in India is concerned, this study has revealed that OA publishing of the jour- nals influences the citation and research impact of the journals, but not to the extent seen in developed countries. Another limitation of this study is it is limited to the health and medical science discipline, so there is a greater scope of research to be done in other disciplines.
Are there different types of online research impact? The results of our survey indicated significant differences regarding the usage frequencies of researchers from different career stages in regard to actions whose consequences can be measured as altmetrics. The participants' responses to the survey question about how commonly they use different online actions to express positive judgments indicated that web-based impact metrics should be differentiated by the type of action behind them, not only by the source they are from – regarding their intended meaning, e.g., Likes on two distinct platforms seem in most cases to be more similar to each other than Likes and comments on the same platform. Our findings contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the meaning of different web-based metrics for scholarly impact and provide a basis for evidence-based guidelines on how to use and interpret them.
Collaboration and friendship of scholars: A dual network analysis The academic social network promotes the integration of and scholarly communication among academic communities.
An exploratory study on institutional repository, social networking, and bibliographic databases of scholarly communication in Nigeria's academic landscape This study has brought to the fore the prospect of academics having their scholarly communications visible on the global space while simultaneously missing in their IR a situation that has ranked Nigerian universities low as compared to their counterpart in globally. This has revealed that while fac-ulty members contribute to the knowledge structure locally and inter-nationally, their respective universities libraries have not maximized these efforts via Scopus, ResearchGate, Google Citation Index among others to enrich their respective IR contents. Faculty members should be encouraged by university management to self-archive their publications into their respective IR as obtained in Covenant University in Nigeria.
Using Web Analytics to Assess Traffic to the Mandela Portal: The Case of African Countries The discussion demonstrates that web analytics could offer incredible insight, but this requires sustained efforts in exploring avenues to guarantee that the data being analysed can be trusted. While web analytics has predominantly been used to formulate online strategies that are often in corporate monetary terms, this study demonstrates the value created for a nonprofit institution that used it to better understand its web audience.
Which differences can be expected when two universities in the Leiden Ranking are compared? Some benchmarks for institutional research evaluations In this Letter to the Editor, we have presented some benchmarks for supporting the interpretation of indicator differences between two universities in the Leiden Ranking.
Openness and Impact of Leading Scientific Countries The results have important implications for policy making around investment, as well as the flows of students, researchers, and technical workers.
Highly cited papers of Ukrainian scientists written in collaboration: A bibliometric analysis (2011-2015) During the period under review, the number of highly cited documents of Ukrainian scientists of the top 1%, 5% and 10% most cited documents grew steadily and differed significantly in different scientific fields.
Understanding the Twitter usage of humanities and social sciences academic journals Results show that URL sharing was a major activity performed by academic journals. HSS journals seem to focus more on initiating conversations with other Twitter accounts, although most were of a non-academic nature. In future studies, we plan to conduct in-depth investigations on whether the activities performed by HSS journals in Twitter lead to increased citations for constituent research articles.
The preeminence of ethnic diversity in scientific collaboration These findings have significant implications.
‘Getting out of the closet’: scientific authorship of literary fiction and knowledge transfer In our analyses, we have found evidences to suggest that this path deserves attention.
Comparing published scientific journal articles to their pre-print versions These findings contribute empirical indicators to discussions of the added value of commercial publishers and therefore should influence libraries' economic decisions regarding access to scholarly publications.
Is science driven by principal investigators? All these results confirm that in the scientific community of Slovenia the PI's have a central role. By demonstrating outstanding scientific performance and having central position in the scientific network, they are certainly a very important driver of science in Slovenia. In our opinion these finding suggest that better nurture of these young people is needed if we want them to grow from outstanding young researchers to leading researcher in their domain.
The role of university's intellectual capital in creation of scientific activity's results All these factors can become decisive in the development of universities' scientific activity.
Geography, Ties, and Knowledge Flows: Evidence from Citations in Mathematics Our results add further evidence to the diverse strands of the literature finding geographic separation impedes knowledge flows. Geography matters in large part because of its role in shaping the personal ties between citing and cited scholars. The evidence suggests that “what you know” depends a great deal on “whom you know.” It is increasingly unrelated to “where you work”—except insofar as where you work influences whom you know.
Doctoral theses in diagnostic imaging: A study of Spanish production between 1976 and 2011 Despite certain limitations, the TESEO database makes it possible to analyze the production of doctoral theses in Spain effectively.
Cross-lingual analysis of English and Chinese web search The new discovery verifies that the framework is effective for finding the commonality and distinction of web search in different languages from multiple facets.
Journal endorsement of STROBE and its extensions: a cross-sectional bibliometric survey Reporting guideline endorsement rates are low and information is vague and scattered. Unambiguous language is needed to improve adherence to reporting guidelines and increase the quality of reporting. Low extension endorsement rates highlight deficiencies in communication and dissemination plans for reporting guideline authors.
Webometrics ranking: a less commercialised (and more objective) measure of ranking for institutions of higher learning This shows the relevance of Webometrics ranking and its possible implications to higher education institutions.
Geographical dynamics of knowledge flows: descriptive statistics on inventor network distance and patent citation graphs in the pharmaceutical industry Conclusively, there is progressive globalisation of inventor networks, whereby inventors increasingly use local sources in follow-up inventions. This paper provides a descriptive statistics study on spatio-temporal patterns in knowledge flows over technological trajectories. Thirdly, the distances between groups of inventors linked by immediate forward citations decreases. So, despite global diffusion and internationalisation of research collaboration, there is 'increasingly localised follow-up'.
Does counting change what is counted? Potential for paradigm change through performance metrics We have seen that the metric assemblage was meant (top down) to have effects, not only on Academe’s productivity but also on product content, for instance by prioritizing social and economic impacts.
Research Performance of Turkish Economists and Economics Departments: Another Update and a Review of the 2000s The first conclusion drawn from the study was a rise in the number of publications. The number of articles published in SSCI Economics Journals has surged tenfold from 1999 to 2016.
What Does a Successful Postdoctoral Fellowship Publication Record Look Like? We see that the number of papers, especially as displayed in Figure 5, is quite broad, with no evidence for a particular cutoff or minimum number of papers needed, reflecting the variability of a successful record and application.
Scholarly impact of student authorship on surgical research The number of SA in JACS publications is increasing, without detriment to CA scholarly advancement. Involving students in surgical research should be encouraged. Development of programs to improve faculty mentorship of student research, as well as to better integrate students into surgical research early on in training, may further encourage students' pursuit of a career in surgery.
Mapping the Brazilian microscopy landscape: A bibliometric and network analysis The network and bibliometric tools used herein to analyze the national microscopy research landscape and collaboration pattern could facilitate the incorporation of data into policy-making processes. The results presented herein have value in informing policymakers that (1) the Brazilian microscopy research community has been increasing in the past years, suggesting a strong research capacity that is largely dependent on funding. In this context, it is strongly suggested that the policy makers invest in mobility of researchers between central and peripheral institutions.
Academic Productivity of Spine Surgeons at United States Neurological Surgery and Orthopedic Surgery Training Programs We present a unified view of academic productivity as measured by the h-index among neurosurgical and orthopedic surgery spine faculty, with some noticeable differences. These results can be used for benchmark purposes to assess the relative productivity of its faculty and could be of interest to those pursuing academic opportunities in spine surgery.
Bibliometric analysis of manuscript characteristics that influence citations: A comparison of six major psychiatry journals Editors and authors of psychiatry journals can improve the impact of their journals and articles by utilizing this bibliometric study when assembling their manuscript.
Quality, impact, and quantification: Indicators and metrics use by social scientists Many social scientists use metrics, despite the literature and expert opinion that warns against it in most fields. The importance of institutional policies regarding incentives and disincentives in performance management and academic promotion came through clearly in the data. Adjustments are possible, and the introduction of engagement and impact assessment in Australia, in 2018 will provide social scientists with alternative methods to demonstrate the value of their work.
Author-based analysis of conference versus journal publication in computer science This article identified publication patterns and trends in CS conferences and journals, using individual scholars as a unit of analysis.
The first impression of conference papers: Does it matter in predicting future citations? This study contributes to a better understanding of the extent to which various factors influence the future cita-tions of conference papers. The results of our analyses show that the experts' evaluation is fairly predictive for future citations of conference papers. However, the predic-tive power of the vox populi of general readers (including students and early career researchers) is even better than the vote of the experts.
Is it possible to rank universities using fewer indicators? A study on five international university rankings One of the findings of this study is that ARWU, URAP and NTU use similar intra-indicators, so a redundancy problem exists for these three rankings.
Influence of selected factors in journals' citations This study of 16 Scopus index journals representing different ranks largely confirms that distributions of citations in these journals are highly skewed.
Exploratory analysis of Publons metrics and their relationship with bibliometric and altmetric impact The results show that there are important biases in the coverage of Publons according to disciplines and publishers. Metrics from Publons present several problems as research evaluation indicators. Correlations between bibliometric and altmetric counts and the Publons metrics are very weak and not significant.
Literature practices: processes leading up to a citation Literature practices deserve more attention in the research community, as improper practices likely contribute to citation, quotation and paraphrasing errors. Ultimately, literature practices also constitute a reflection of the state of research at the moment and offer one of many starting points towards finding a solution of the still ongoing replication crisis. Moreover, literature practices are not only relevant to disciplines that are currently affected by the replication crisis, but all scientific disciplines in general.
Academic communities The role of journals and open-access mega-journals in scholarly communication The focus groups revealed that researchers consider themselves members of multiple communities – academic school, institution, discipline, science system and society – and that the journal article plays a role facilitating conversation within each. Awareness of mega-journals amongst focus group participants was low, and the mega-journal model was viewed with suspicion by many participants. The challenge for mega-journal advocates is twofold; not only to facilitate the system-wide shift in values that is required for the mega-journal approach to find widespread acceptance, but also to adapt the model better to meet the specific needs of multiple levels of community.
Inclusion fairness in accounting, finance, and management: An investigation of A-star publications on the ABDC journal list Thus, the findings provide evidence against inclusion fairness and suggest that management faculty have a greater opportunity to publish in the A-star journals of the ABDC Journal Quality list compared to the other two disciplines.
Evidencing impact: a case study of UK academic perspectives on evidencing research impact However, the results presented in this case study paint a complex and, to some degree, messy picture of the various content, contextual and process-related factors which have come to influence researchers' perspectives on research impact at one point in time (see Figure 2).
Renewable energy source integration into power networks, research trends and policy implications: A bibliometric and research actors survey analysis The disparity of models and results is still a necessary evil as research is not mature enough to integrate in one model all the very complex parameters of VRE integration into power systems.
Predicting future citation counts of scientific manuscripts submitted for publication: a cohort study in transplantology Both findings suggest that the peer-review process at TI, in its current form, was successful in selecting submitted manuscripts with a high scientific impact in the future.
Knowledge and Influence of Predatory Journals in Dermatology: A Pan-Austrian Survey These results indicate that the majority of dermatologists are not familiar with predatory journals. This is particularly the case for physicians in training and in the early stages of their career. However, they should critically review the origins of these results, since predatory journals might be used to influence doctors' decisions.
Assessing the impact of retraction on the citation of randomized controlled trial reports: an interrupted time-series analysis Retractions of randomized controlled trial reports can be effective in reducing citations.
Predictors of 5-Year Citation Rate in the Orthopaedic Sports Medicine Literature Published articles in AJSM, those from North America, and those examining the hip were independent predictors of greater citation rates at 5 years.
Top-cited articles in the Journal: a bibliometric analysis Slightly more than half of the top-cited papers in the Journal since 1920 were observational studies and three quarters of all papers were from US authors.
Are We Spending Wisely? Impact of POSNA Grants on Scholarly Productivity and Future Funding Success Although most POSNA-funded projects led to scholarly output, 25% of them produced no publications or podium presentations.
Scientific communication or a qualification for an academic career? What use is publishing papers in psychology journals? As a result of the application of new evalua- tion criteria in psychology research in Spain, the paper addresses the diffi- culties and consequences that some of these measures may have for the survival of psychology journals that do not have a position in quartile 1 or 2 in the databases used for the evaluation of professionals' research in this discipline. The current system of evaluation, marginalises local or national studies, being not less relevant, and at the same time, relegates national and Latin-American journals to sec- ondary positions. Future research will have to answer questions regarding the ef- fect of the policies of scientific evaluation and accreditation of university professors in Spain on national and even Latin- American publications.
The important thing is not to win, it is to take part: What if scientists benefit from participating in research grant competitions? In this paper, we find that scientists participating in a research grant competition reap the benefits of the efforts spent, even if they do not obtain the desired reward.
Exploring PubMed as a reliable resource for scholarly communications services The differing scopes of PMC and MEDLINE will likely continue to affect their overlap; however, quality control exists in the maintenance and facilitation of both resources, and funding from major grantors is a major component of quality assurance in PMC.
Predatory publications in evidence syntheses Systematic review authors should be vigilant for predatory journals that can appear to be legitimate.
Development of a measure to evaluate competence perceptions of natural and social science Our study indicates that competence in scientific disciplines is a multidimensional construct.
How to stop salami science: promotion of healthy trends in publishing behavior The shape dependent index fulfils the imposed requirements pointed out in section Methods.
Publication patterns and the impact of self-citation among minimally invasive surgery fellowships Self-citation is infrequent and has minimal impact on the academic profile of program directors of MIS fellowships.
Hot and cold spots in the US research: A spatial analysis of bibliometric data on the institutional level This case study demonstrates the use of the getisord command which was introduced by Kondo [9] for bibliometric data.
Higher Impact Factor of Neuroimaging Journals Is Associated With Larger Number of Articles Published and Smaller Percentage o f Uncited Articles The current study has implied that all the abovementioned metrics should be considered together to provide multi-faceted evaluations instead of using a single metric, at least in the neuroimaging field.
The Relative Influences of Government Funding and International Collaboration on Citation Impact We confirm findings that international collaboration has a statistically significant and positive effect on the citation impact of nations. However, the effect is small. Govern-ment funding tends to have a negative or negligible effect on citation impact. This research suggests that the links between funding and outputs are partly decoupled from a national base, espe-cially at the international level (Wagner, 2008).
A bibliometric assessment of software engineering scholars and institutions (2010-2017) The ranking of researchers is quite similar regardless of the number and type of publication venues being considered. The difference in produced research output between Experienced and Consolidated researchers is not considered significant. An interesting finding of this work is that the list of highly impactful researchers and highly active researchers only have a limited overlap.
Using Data Mining for Citation Analysis The study presented in this paper approached collection assessment from a data science perspective, bringing new methods to the time-honored practice of citation analysis. The research identified core earth sciences serials, found gaps in the local collection, and developed new methodological techniques for citation analysis. Obtaining and maintaining full access to these core publications should be a priority moving forward.
A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF THE TOP FIVE ECONOMICS JOURNALS DURING 2012-2016 This study presents a bibliometric analysis of the top five economics journals over the period 2012-2016 and provides helpful insights into the document types, the distribution of countries/territories, the distribution of institutions, the geographical distribution of authors, the co-authorship network and content analysis. The analytical methods of this study are different from those of reviews or previous studies, and the results complement those works. The analysis can help scholars in economics better understand the academic trends and provides guidance for future works.
Open access solutions for biodiversity journals: Do not replace one problem with another More generally, we urge that Wiley Publishers and other commercial publishers realize that the future of scholarly publishing is not just one of open access, but rather open participation, such that the fullest scholarly community can participate in all dimensions of scholarly communications.
A Granger causality test of the causal relationship between the number of editorial board members and the scientific output of universities in the field of chemistry The Granger causality test results show that the causal relationship between the two variables is not obvious overall.
Identifying diffusion patterns of research articles on Twitter: A case study of online engagement with open access articles Our small case study suggests that most articles are shared within single-connected communities with limited diffusion to the public. Overall, this study suggests that it is possible to detect different diffusion patterns, both in terms of the structure of the network reached and in terms of the time it takes to reach them. Despite varying patterns of diffusion over time, the reach of these papers rarely extended beyond the same users who form a well-connected community.
Reviewers' Responses to Medical Research Articles An overwhelming majority of the reviewers did not reply at all despite the incentives of CME credits and honorarium, adversely affecting the processing time.
Artificial liver research output and citations from 2004 to 2017: a bibliometric analysis This study shows the process and tendency of artificial liver research with a comprehensive analysis on artificial livers. However, although it seems that the future of artificial livers seems brighter for hepatocyte transplantation, the systems of artificial livers now are inclined on focusing on blood purification, plasma exchange, etc.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Top 100 Most Cited Articles in the First 50 Years of Heart Transplantation In conclusion, our study highlights key features of the most highly cited scientific literature on heart transplantation and provides insights into trends of the published work in this field. Additionally, this work may serve as a useful guide to researchers and funding bodies by highlighting the most prolific areas of cardiac transplant research to date. The significant male predominance in first and senior author positions, with only about 15% female representation, highlights the major gender disparity that exists in terms of impactful heart transplant research output.
Intellectual contributions meriting authorship: Survey results from the top cited authors across all science categories Our survey has provoked broad interest [40] and demonstrates that people value activities beyond writing and analyzing data but the opinions are polarized.
Bigger Than You Thought: China's Contribution to Scientific Publications and Its Impact on the Global Economy With shares of articles and citations more than twice its share of global population or GDP, China has achieved a comparative advantage in knowledge that has implications for the division of labor and trade among countries and for the direction of research and of technological and economic development worldwide. In sum, China's new comparative advantage in knowledge creation appears to be fueling its economic progress in knowledge and technology intensive industries and in innovation as well. The way China deploys its scientific resources will be a key driver of the direction of scientific and technological progress and of the world economy in the foreseeable future.
Research on green supply chain: a bibliometric analysis This study presents a bibliometric overview of publications on GSC from 1995 until 2017.
Publish to earn incentives: how do Indonesian professors respond to the new policy? Generally speaking, the new regulation is seen as a legitimate way to further develop Indonesia's research culture and boost the number of Indonesia's scientific papers. The main debate is the time frame of this regulation. The pressure to publish certain number of publication as found in this study suggest that the use of other approaches and recommendations provided above may be used as considerations to revamp the regulation as well as the research policies and support systems in Indonesia to help the regulation to be implemented smoother.
Pirated Manuscripts From Radiology's Most Impactful Journals: An International Analysis of Copyright-Infringing Downloads Copyright-infringing downloading of pirated radiology journal articles occurs frequently across the world and impacts nearly all top impact-factor journals. New publisher pricing and business models, akin to those for digital music, may be necessary to disincentivize pirating and ensure journal financial sustainability.
Identification of research communities in cited and uncited publications using a co-authorship network We suggest that this may arise from a greater degree of guest or honorary authorship in the PRC than in the UK or the USA.
Identification of important citations by exploiting research articles' metadata and cue-terms from content The results of the study signify the potential of metadata parameters.
Measuring changes in publication patterns in a context of performance-based research funding systems: the case of educational research in the University of Gothenburg (2005-2014) If one adopts the aims implicit in PRFS, research performance appears to be enhanced.
Co-authorship networks and research impact in large research facilities: benchmarking internal reports and bibliometric databases Our results strongly suggest that the selection criteria applied by review committee are successfully fulfilling their task.
Can we predict ESI highly cited publications? Our findings indicate that four factors are positively correlated with the paper's scientific impact. The potential leader factor plays a more important role in short term instead of in the long run. On the contrary, team factor is more important in the long term. When we combine the four factors to predict the top 1% of the papers through neural network algorithms, the prediction results are better than the random selection, but the prediction accuracy is still low. This means that these four factors can partially but not sufficiently explain the pattern of ESI highly cited papers.
Research on Derek John de Solla Price Medal Prediction Based on Academic Credit Analysis With less manpower, lower cost, simpler manipulation, more robustness and other advantages, the method can not only acquire valuable reference information, but also predict potential winners of DJSP Medal and other academic awards.
Google Scholar to overshadow them all? Comparing the sizes of 12 academic search engines and bibliographic databases We conclude that the QHC measure is in most cases adequate to discern the sizes of ASEBDs. The iterative method used in this study has proven useful to receive plausible up-to-date information on the sizes of eight of the 12 ASEBDs examined: BASE, CiteSeerX, EbscoHost, Google Scholar, ProQuest, Q-Sensei Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science. Furthermore, our methodology of QHC-based size estimates will prove useful for longitudinal analysis of ASEBD growth and time series monitoring.
The collaboration behavior of top scientists What the results show is that scientists who move to top tend to decrease intramural col-laborations in favor of a relatively significant increase in international ones, which lead to publications with higher average impact.
Taking scholarly books into account, part II: a comparison of 19 European countries in evaluation and funding Each evaluation type has its advantages and disadvantages; therefore an exchange between countries might help to generate future improvements.
Predictive power of conference-related factors on citation rates of conference papers This study contributes to a better understanding of the predictive power of conference-related factors on the future citations of conference papers. The overall internationality of the co-authorship of individual conferences, the best paper awards and the acceptance rates contributed the most to explain the citations of the conference papers. It is recommended that future studies increase the sample size, time span and topics. This study also has a very limited way to calculate international collaborations.
A citation index for principal investigators My suggestion is that hp₁ is a better reflection of the impact of an individual PI's work than h for the purpose of comparing PIs and their research programs.
Do faculty journal selections correspond to objective indicators of citation impact? Results for 20 academic departments at Manhattan College Previous investigations have revealed a moderately strong relationship between journal citation metrics and stated preference metrics (average r=0.54). In this study, however, the average correlation between citation impact and journal selection status is substantially weaker-just 0.27.
Correlation Between Cost of Publication and Journal Impact. Comprehensive Cross-sectional Study of Exclusively Open-Access Surgical Journals From this study, the cost of publishing in open-access journals bears little correlation to their impact; this poses a dilemma for researchers without significant funding. Therefore, authors and funders must consider cautiously when submitting to these journals. Also we found the 6 studied metrics appear to have significant correlations with each other.
Shanghai Ranking's global ranking of academic subjects 2018 India has a presence in 19 of the 22 subject areas in which there are institutes globally that meet the required threshold for that area.
Academic misconduct, misrepresentation and gaming: A reassessment Concern about academic misconduct has been increasing within the academic community and elsewhere. For the Research Policy community, MMG and its impacts on the scientific enterprise would seem worthy of increased research, including the development of more sophisticated measurement and analysis. The ability to discipline deviants is constrained by the considerable costs imposed on those charged with maintaining standards, although assistance from volunteers like those contributing to PubPeer may help to spread the load.
Towards a taxonomy of research misconduct: The case of business school research We conclude with a discussion of how the tax- onomy can help shape future good research practice (thereby setting a better example to students), and offer some propositions for future research.
Scientific misconduct at an elite medical institute: The role of competing institutional logics and fragmented control This study contributes to the research on misconduct management in several ways.
Pathogenic organization in science: Division of labor and retractions We conclude with a discussion of the implications of these findings for science policy, in particular for organizing team science projects.
A walk on the wild side: 'Predatory' journals and information asymmetries in scientific evaluations Overall, our analysis suggests that the proliferation of ‘predatory’ journals reflects the existence of severe information asymmetries in scientific evaluations. Overall, our study casts doubts on the mechanical use of whitelists and blacklists in evaluation processes. In general, a more nuanced approach to evaluations may be needed, whereas lists are combined with evaluations by experts.
Self-citations as strategic response to the use of metrics for career decisions Our findings suggest that while metrics are introduced to spur virtuous behaviours, when not properly designed they favour the usage of questionable practices. Therefore, metrics designers should carefully take into account the strategic nature of scientists. First, self-citations should not be considered. Future research should monitor the existence of similar re-sponses, which would have a direct impact on the production of knowledge.
The extent and causes of academic text recycling or 'self-plagiarism' Judging by the results of our study, the inappropriate reuse of tex-tual material in research is definitely a form of misconduct that de-serves serious attention and consideration.
Guilt by association: How scientific misconduct harms prior collaborators The fact that we can detect the impact of misconduct on prior col-laborators suggests that scientific misconduct affects many more in-dividuals than previously imagined. By documenting the negative consequences of scientific misconduct for innocent prior collaborators, our results show that the implications of scientific misconduct reach beyond the fraudulent researcher, suggesting that articles by prior collaborators less often form part of the basis for future research. The far-reaching fallout of misconduct implies that potential whistleblowers might be disinclined to make their concerns public in order to protect their own reputation and career.
Open access mythbusting: Testing two prevailing assumptions about the effects of open access adoption Fully OA journals are operating comparably with the averages in the all-important JIFs.
Is open access affordable? Why current models do not work and why we need internet-era transformation of scholarly communications The catalyst for this change is for the reputation economy to accept preprints as it does articles in minor journals today.
Do we need to move from communication technology to user community? A new economic model of the journal as a club We have described an economic theory of scholarly publishing in which a journal undertakes group formation for a club of reader-makers. What are the implications of a club-theoretic model of scholarly publishing? We have argued that scholarly publishers need to nurture knowledge clubs at the local level in order to create trust value to sustain a broader publishing agenda based on the 'mediatization' of knowledge as a status good in a social network market.
Do Journal Administrators solve the reviewer assignment problem as well as editors? Consideration of reviewer rigour and timeliness Therefore, where editors rely on at least two reviewers' recommendations, JASR is equally rigorous as ESR.
How prevalent are plagiarized submissions? Global survey of editors Our findings demonstrate that – within our cohort – the average and median rate of plagiarism experienced by editors is lower than feared and reported in other studies.
Tourism publications as newly tradeable commodities: Academic performance, prestige, power, competition, constraints and consents The introduction of the tourism-group subject ranking in the 2018 ARWU has created a new pressure on the practical administration, management and funding of tourism research within universities, considerably more powerful than rankings published previously in academic journals (Jogaratnam et al., 2005; Park et al., 2011).
Retractions in the Engineering Field: A Study on the Web of Science Database In conclusion, most of the analyzed retractions were the result of unethical research and were retracted by editors. We found that much still needs to change within the system of scientific publication, both through increased awareness of researchers, as well as the process of revising and editing of research.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific publications in respiratory journals from China and other top-ranking countries between 2007 and 2017 The USA has played predominant role in respiratory research for the last 11 years.
Are network growth and the contributions to congresses associated with publication success? A pediatric oncology model A large scientific network has been developed during the recent 42 years. Growth and inter-action at congresses were correlated to publication success. Weight is suggested as a useful and simple estimate.
The global dissemination of scholarly tourism outputs from 1976 to 2016: evidence from Australia The resultant data could poten-tially inform tourism departments about their role within the wider institutional context and vice versa for university leaders who seek a better understanding of the role of tourism scholarship. It is anticipated that future researchers will be able to consider the findings of the current investigation and make extended use of the relevant techniques that have been deployed to compare developments in tourism research in different locations.
Bibliometric analysis on the evolution of applied intelligence Bibliometric analysis of the articles published in the APIN journal was conducted. In total, 1541 APIN publications from 1993 to 2018 were investigated along several different dimen- sions, including author and manuscript characteristics, productive and influential countries/territories/institutions/ authors, and research hotspots.
Visualizing the Hotspots and Emerging Trends of Multimedia Big Data through Scientometrics The paper aims to promote the development of related theories on Multimedia Big Data and provide reference for researchers to identify relevant research directions.
Honorary Authorships in Surgical Literature Despite ICMJE guidelines to reduce HA, the prevalence may still exist to a higher level than preferable.
Mapping the Literature on Nutritional Interventions in Cognitive Health: A Data-Driven Approach We conclude that a data-driven map of the nutritional intervention literature can benefit the design of future interventions, by highlighting topics and themes that could be synthesized across currently disconnected clusters of publications.
An analysis of retractions of papers authored by Scott Reuben, Joachim Boldt and Yoshitaka Fujii In conclusion, there are still improvements to be made in the way fraudulent or unethical articles are handled by journals and their editors and publishers. Our findings suggest that more work is required to harmonise attempts to maintain the integrity of the published record, beyond the 'outing' of the miscreants.
Contest models highlight inherent inefficiencies of scientific funding competitions We suggest that lost efficiency may be restored either by partial lotteries for funding or by funding researchers based on past scientific success instead of proposals for future work. Our major result is that proposal competitions are inevitably and inescapably inefficient mechanisms for funding science when the number of awards is smaller than the number of meritorious proposals. Nevertheless, whatever their other merits and drawbacks, these alternatives could restore efficiency in distributing funds that has been lost as those funds have become increasingly scarce.
So Far, Yet So Close: International Career Paths of Communication Scholars From the Global South Our current research in which we analyzed the career paths of those GS authors in communication studies who successfully published their research in leading periodicals of the field shows that in most cases, GS authors can be prosperous only if they collect GN capital.
Contemporary psychology and women: A gender analysis of the scientific production In summary, our data from the psychological field shows a slight gender imbalance in the number of author- ships and a gender parity in the number of individual authors.
Internal and External Factors of Plagiarism: Evidence from Chinese Public Sector Universities The article concludes that grade level and enrollment status (full-time or part-time) are inversely correlated to plagiarism, which proves that the higher the academic level, the less the plagiarism behaviors occurs.
Citation bias in the literature on dietary trans fatty acids and serum cholesterol Within the literature on trans fat intake and cholesterol, selective citations are based on several grounds.
Sustainable development of science and scientists: Academic training in life science labs First, the results suggest that autonomous training increases students' scientific production in the long term (H1b) but decreases it in the short term (H1a); that exploratory training increases credit allocation to students (H2a); and that autonomy and exploration jointly increase the chances of survival in academic careers. These results imply two dilemmas that hinder the development of independent scientists and the sustainable progress of science. The major contribution of the current study is to bridge this gap by linking the mode of academic training with scientific knowledge production and career development in later career stages.
Breakthrough recognition: Bias against novelty and competition for attention In this work, we enrich extant understanding of the phenomenon of idea recognition and diffusion—key drivers in the advancement of knowledge due to their cumulative nature (Furman and Stern, 2011)—by introducing a new perspective, what we refer to as the competition for attention view. From a policy and managerial standpoint, our findings provide a new dimension for decision makers who are looking to optimize public and private investment in science and technology in search of the next breakthrough idea. Our findings call for new emphasis on the recombination of ideas and on the principle of competition when exploring the spread of ideas. In other words, we break away from the prevailing assumption that a novel idea is necessarily a rare one. Finally, in light of the mechanism of competition for attention that we found in the recognition of ideas, it is worth considering whether these mechanisms documented in the literature are comprehensive or, instead, what other mechanisms may also affect the recognition of breakthroughs and how they interact with one another.
Understanding Nobel Prize-winning articles: a bibliometric analysis We report the following features of NPs: (1) They cite a large number of journals with relatively low impact factors, and not all NPs have been published in high- quality journals.
From the United States to China: the transfer of research centres in Information Science This study employs information visualization tools including CiteSpace and Google Fusion Tables to explore the migration of centres of research in the IS field through scientometric analyses from several perspectives such as the evolution of research topics, and the distribu-tion of leading research institutions and countries.
Research impact benchmarks for tourism, hospitality and events scholars in Australia and New Zealand The results provide objective and valid benchmarks for comparing the research performance of tourism, hospitality and event scholars across different academic levels, institutional contexts and fields.
A Bibliometric Profile of the Remote Sensing Open Access Journal Published by MDPI between 2009 and 2018 Our results will bring more benefits to scholars, researchers and graduate students, who hopes to get a quick overview of the RS OAJ.
Can Lung Transplant Surgeons Still Be Scientists? High Productivity Despite Competitive Funding Surgeon-scientists in the field of lung transplantation have received fewer grants and less total funding compared to other researchers but have maintained an equally high level of productivity and impact. The dual-threat academic surgeon-scientist is an important asset to the research community and should continue to be supported by the NIH.
Uncited Research Articles in Popular United States General Radiology Journals Of articles published in popular general radiology journals, only a very small number of original research investigations remained uncited a decade after publication. Given that citations reflect the impact of radiology research, this observation suggests that journals are appropriately selecting meaningful work. Investigators seeking to avoid futile publication might consider their re-search initiatives in light of these characteristics.
Challenge of Ukrainian academic librarians in an evolving scholarly publishing landscape Modern reformation to Ukrainian science has opened up new opportunities for Ukrainian academic librarians. As a result, if they are able to successfully implement such services, they can regain a prominent place in the scientific life of institutions and on the global academic platform.
A Citation Study on the Use of English Materials in East Asian Studies Dissertations Results of the study show that East Asian studies scholars' citation practices fit the general profile established by earlier studies of humanities disciplines: humanists rely heavily on books; the top publishers generally are university presses; and humanities disciplines have a low level of obsolescence.
The Scholarly Output of Faculty in Family Medicine Departments In conclusion, family medicine faculty published over 3,000 times and were cited over 13,500 times.
Measuring national capability over big science's multidisciplinarity: A case study of nuclear fusion research Large facilities and international collaboration, two core components of big science, were investigated with bibliographic data, the dynamic topic model, and revealed comparative advantage.
Structure and evolution of Indian physics co-authorship networks To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study tracing the evolution of Indian physics spanning close to a century from 1919 to 2013.
What's in a name? Exploring the conceptual structure of emerging organizations We conclude that entrepreneurial nascency is just one of several descriptive components used in academic studies.
Digital competences, computer skills and information literacy in secondary education: mapping and visualization of trends and concepts The lack of exchange between these research domains calls for more co-operation in order to boost synergy in these critical twenty-first century skills.
Science in Mexico: a bibliometric analysis In view of the data extracted from the sources and the results of this study, investment in research in Mexico has not evolve over time, if it does not remain stagnant in fact GERD as a percentage of GDP is around 0.50 on average. The 34% of Mexico’s production is due to the collaboration with strategic countries, therefore, they should create more scientific alliances, getting involved, committing their effort and experience in order to achieve a common purpose in which all of them could benefit.
The influence of highly cited papers on field normalised indicators The country-level data for 2013 and 2012 shows, as expected, that MNCS has extreme outliers.
Do altmetrics work for assessing research quality? According to the results the number of readers on Mendeley is recorded as the source of alternative metrics that best correlate with traditional metrics both at the article level (i.e. citation count) and author level (i.e. h-index).
Definition of authorship in social science journals This study confirmed that clearly stating authorship criteria on journal websites is not prevalent among social science journals. Therefore, action should be taken to establish clear authorship definitions in social sciences in order to avoid authorship disputes. Journal websites should provide clear, complete, and updated authorship criteria to efficiently communicate essential information to authors.
What connections lead to good scientific performance? First, top institutions are intensively connected into the largest component, which may furtherly increase their citation impact.
Fame in the sciences: a culturomics approach In this paper, we contribute to the literature on fame and scientometrics by taking advantage of recent advances in digital media, pointing our optic lens at the dynamics of scientists' literal fame.
Publishing in English or another language: An inclusive study of scholar's language publication preferences in the natural, social and interdisciplinary sciences To sum up, our article suggests that English is the dominant language of scientific communication. Yet, its dominance is not complete; rather, non-native speakers still submit almost 40% of their articles in a language other than English.
Large enough sample size to rank two groups of data reliably according to their means The proposed method is generally applicable to comparisons of two datasets X and Y, especially when the overlap between the two datasets and a direct one by one compari-son has a low reliability as indicated by the low probability defined in Eq. (1). Therefore, κrest can also be regarded as an indicator of the journal’s consistency, and when ranking journals, both JIF and these κ should be considered. We plan to collect a larger set of journals for a more detailed study.
hα: An index to quantify an individual's scientifc leadership A high h index in conjunction with a high ha/h ratio is a hallmark of scientific leadership.
An approach to conference selection and evaluation: advice to avoid "predatory" conferences Experienced faculty need to provide advice and mentorship to trainees on conference value.
DOI errors and possible solutions for Web of Science This paper, yet, with a special search query reminds us the existence of DOI name errors in the Web of Science, though we do not know how representative this common error is when compared to other possible mistypes.
The changing tides of Irish orthopaedic research There has been a significant decrease in publication rates by T&O trainees in high-quality journals.
Levels of evidence in pelvic trauma: a bibliometric analysis of the top 50 cited papers We have identified and analysed the publications that have contributed most to the assessment and management of pelvic trauma over the past 50 years.
Fifty years of Transportation Research journals: A bibliometric overview In 2017, Transportation Research reached 50 years of publishing outstanding research.
Strategically Unclear? Organising Interdisciplinarity in an Excellence Programme of Interdisciplinary Research in Denmark In the Programme, the lack of clear definitions and criteria for interdisciplinarity enabled a range of different research practices and collaborations across the univer- sity, meanwhile working as a reinforcement of existing (monodisciplinary) struc- tures and products. If the overall framing of interdisciplinarity is unclear, then the practices at the ground level will reflect this. Further (empirically based) research is thus needed in order to understand the connections and disconnections between higher level management strategies and knowledge production at the micro- levels of research.
The Prestige of Social Scientists in Spain and France: An Examination of Their h-Index Values Using Scopus and Google Scholar "Our findings show a positive association between the Scopus h-index and the GS h-index, which is much larger in economics and management than in sociology."
A bibliometric analysis of event detection in social media The findings from the analysis, thus, comprehensively illustrate the research trend and development of ED in SM. They could potentially help relevant researchers understand the research status comprehensively, seek scientific collaborators and optimize research topic choices. In our future work, we will consider including more academic research databases to collect more comprehensive data to avoid data bias.
A bibliometric analysis of health-related literature on natural disasters from 1900 to 2017 The current baseline information on health-related literature on natural disasters showed that this field is growing rapidly but with inadequate international research collaboration. Research collaboration in this field needs to be strengthened to improve the global response to natural disasters in any place in the world. There is a need to expand the research focus in this field to include communicable and non-communicable diseases. Finally, the health effects of other natural disasters, such as floods, droughts and disease outbreaks, need to be addressed.
National Cancer Institute Centers and Society of Surgical Oncology Cancer Research Synergy "This study suggests that CCC have significantly higher academic output and NIH funding, and this may be associated with a research environment in which MD-PhDs, women, and faculties from all academic levels thrive, and not just a select few higher ranked faculty members."
Effects of seniority, gender and geography on the bibliometric output and collaboration networks of European Research Council (ERC) grant recipients Our study suggests that research environment has greater influence on post-grant award publications than gender especially for junior grantees. Also, collaboration networks may be a useful complement to publication and citation outputs for assessing post-grant research performance, especially for grantees who already have a high publication output and who get highly competitive grants such as those from ERC. Our study demonstrated that seniority, gender and place of work are associated with the publication output and collaboration networks of ERC grantees, particularly for junior ones. Funding agencies should follow the example of journals [44] and open their grant peer review data to meta-research in order to learn more about their processes, to develop better measures to validate peer review, and to evaluate grant success.
Factors Associated With the Highest and Lowest Cited Research Articles in Urology Journals Very few articles published in the major urology journals accrued 0 or 1 citation over a 10-year period. Nevertheless, there were distinct differences between the two cohorts, showing that certain factors are associated with articles being cited more frequently. There were quantifiable differences between highly and infrequently cited articles demonstrating that certain characteristics are associated with higher citation number.
Under repair: A publication ethics and research record in the making I hope that the above has shown how the Committee’s labour makes the work of standardizing, harmonizing, separating and repairing highly normative.
Towards Team-Centered Informatics: Accelerating Innovation in Multidisciplinary Scientific Teams Through Visual Analytics Such a model should accelerate the design and analysis of CEBOs representing an instance of a broad class of “Team-Centered Informatics" approaches that enable multidisciplinary scientific teams get an integrated understanding of human biology and disease from large and diverse datasets, with the goal of improving health. Besides being useful within teams, Team-Centered Informatics solutions could also be useful to integrate knowledge across teams and organizations, and across other disciplines beyond biomedicine. Such theoretical and practical advances, especially in the age of exploding and diverse data in virtually every field, could in the future enable multidisciplinary scientific teams to overcome critical team-centric barriers, with the goal of more effectively addressing the increasingly complex real-world problems that humans face.
Social media presence of scholarly journals The potential of social media as a new method for dis-seminating research outputs needs to be explored and har-nessed by researchers, publishers, and funding agencies. These findings may help to reveal the popularity of scholarly journals on social media, thus informing researchers about publication channels that receive a lot of online attention. Future study will need to investi-gate the reasons for this by conducting surveys or semi-structured interviews with researchers from different aca-demic fields.
Altmetric scores: An early indicator of research impact "From these results we conclude that the presence of online activity discussing publications, particularly items reported in the mainstream media and trade press, can be considered a proxy for societal impact."
The field-specific reference patterns of periodical and nonserial publications Aggregated authored books (monographs) have signifi- cantly different reference patterns from journal articles. This difference between publication types suggests a cautious use of bibliometric indicators, that were originally designed for journal articles, in the context of book publications. The reference-based indicators in the SSH are as useful as those in the sciences to distinguish field characteristics, especially for revealing the gap between the reference pat- terns in the sciences and the SSH.
The effectiveness of correction & republication as quality control in scholarly communication - A bibliometric analysis The results of this study indicate that over their lifetime, corrected articles are cited half as much as compara-ble non-anomalous literature.
Portfolios of Worth: Capitalizing on Basic and Clinical Problems in Biomedical Research Groups Based on our findings, we suggest the following insights about the portfolio might be instructive for future STS research on epistemic capitalism.
What does 'green' open access mean? Tracking twelve years of changes to journal publisher self-archiving policies The data strongly suggests that achieving RoMEO green status has become a target for publishers rather than a commitment to open access per se. In answer to our original research question, it is apparent that in many cases changes to publisher open access policies over time enable the illusion of full support (sufficient to secure RoMEO code green), but in reality discourage self-archiving in a manner consistent with author preferences for discovery, preservation, re-use and increased impact. We recommend that open access advocates, institutions, funders and authors revisit together the open access future they would like to see, and create a new grading system to define and guide that future.
Forests' First Decade: A Bibliometric Analysis Overview Forests journal is 10 years old and has a strong influence in its research field.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the First 25 Years of the Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing Practical Implications: After observing the different perspectives of the journal's production, we gain another objective view on the evolution of the JBBM in prior 25 years. This approach is useful for the readers of this journal in order to obtain a quick snapshot of the leading trends occurring in the journal and is similar as performed for many cognate titles. Therefore, the information presented in this article is relevant for academics, publishers or educational institutions to make decisions about publication strategies or journal position.
A comparison of the academic impact of plastic surgery units in the United Kingdom and Ireland using bibliometric analysis This is the first study to compare bibliometric data for Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery units in the UK and Ireland, demonstrating a number of units have consistently produced high levels of academic output over the past few decades.
Imbalances between the Quantity and Quality of China's Solar Energy Research These results suggest that China's solar energy research is a quantitatively driven model, with a mismatch between quantity and quality. New policies should be introduced to encourage high-quality research and achieve a balance between quantity and quality. This paper offers two improvements to reflect the imbalance in the development of solar research in China.
Bibliometric Epilogue: Measuring the Works of DRT Zahn This analysis demonstrates that the index h will still grow more or less unaffectedly for several years, even if no new publications are added.
Becoming a scholar by publication - PhD students citing in interdisciplinary argumentation Our study shows that becoming a scholar within an emerging interdisciplinary field is a highly demanding endeavour. Our analysis deepens this understanding by demonstrating citing as a mechanism in the negotiations of different modes of knowledge production and the subsequent formation of PhD students' subjectivity. We believe that addressing two delimitations of the present study would be fruitful in future studies.
Collaboration in a distributed research program Islands of intensity in a sea of minimal interaction The minimal-interaction strategy cannot function without the islands of intense interaction.
Bibliometric differences - a case study in bibliometric evaluation across SSH and STEM "A tool which can be used both for a one-dimensional ranking of researchers and for a multidimensional description is described in the paper."
The Social Network of US Academic Anthropology and Its Inequalities In US academic anthropology, a small cluster of programs is responsible for producing the majority of tenured and tenure-track faculty in PhD-granting programs, with a very select few dominating the network.
Large teams develop and small teams disrupt science and technology These results demonstrate that both small and large teams are essential to a flourishing ecology of science and technology, and suggest that, to achieve this, science policies should aim to support a diversity of team sizes.
Bibliometric analysis of six nursing journals from the Web of Science, 2012-2017 This bibliometric analysis contributes to the understanding of the current state of nursing research and its evolution. The results of the present research allowed us to better understand the current state of nursing research and its evolution. This information is important for the future development of nursing research, both for readers and professionals, by suggesting gaps in the literature that could in turn guide both current trends and future directions of research, by allowing, among other things, to compare the most frequent topics in nursing research with the priority lines defended by experts and institutions.
Twenty years of Soft Computing: a bibliometric overview Motivated by the twentieth anniversary of the journal, this study presents a bibliometric overview of the publications of the journal between 1997 and 2016. The results show a strong increase in the journal becoming a monthly journal since 2005. Future research could expand the analysis considering additional bibliometric issues in the study including a deeper temporal evolution of the publications and more results with other graphical software such as Science Mapping Analysis Tool (SciMAT) (Cobo et al. 2011a, b, 2012).
Current trends in scientific research on global warming: a bibliometric analysis This paper has provided a broad understanding on the global warming research topic during the 2005–2014 period. The results highlighted the significant increase in the number of research papers reported from 2005 (3%) to 2014 (18%). The analysis of keywords shows that topics related with climate change, impact, temperature, models and variability are the most important issues in the studies on global warming.
Scale, style and spread of global institutional research "Here we have evaluated how countries apportion their research sector-wise."
The Winner Takes It All: International Inequality in Communication and Media Studies Today As a general conclusion, we state that both the Matthew-effect for countries and the large inequalities between the scientific contributions of world regions still exist on the field of CMS.
An EigenFactor-weighted power mean generalization of the Euclidean Index This paper proposes a simple axiom-based way to build a practical scholar-ranking metric that incorporates the reputation of the journal in which an article appears.
With open science gaining traction, do we need an Australasia PubMed Central (PMC)? A qualitative investigation Overall, establishment of an Australasia permanent biomedical digital open repository is perceived as important, with significant potential flow-on benefits to healthcare, industry and society. The key opportunities for a potential Australasia PMC identified by this research are greater discoverability and accessibility of biomedical regional research output, greater sharing of repository expertise, consolidation, improved copyright compliance, data-set integration and an increased provision of mineable and reusable content. A blueprint for a sustainable Australasia PMC is the way forward and a goal for the Australasia PMC Working Group to pursue.
A New Journal Ranking Method: The Reputation Analysis of Citation Behavior Model This study proposed a new method for journal rankings named the RACB model.
Medical Student- and Resident-Authored Publications in Academic Medicine From 2002 to 2016: A Growing Trend and Its Implications Between 2002 and 2016, trainees increasingly authored medical education publications in Academic Medicine, suggesting growing activity of medical students and residents in the field of medical education. Further work is needed to understand what trainee-, institutional-, and journal-level factors contribute to this trend, and whether similar increases in trainee authorship are occurring in other journals and fields.
Most UK scientists who publish extremely highly-cited papers do not secure funding from major public and charity funders: A descriptive analysis There are many reasons why the majority of the most influential UK authors do not hold a grant from the country's major public and charitable funding bodies. Nevertheless, the results are worrisome and subscribe to similar patterns shown in the US. Further work is needed to identify the mechanisms through which funding decisions are made as well as the most important factors that affect funding allocation.
What causes a Business and Management Education article to be cited: Article, author, or journal? Our findings showed that an author's h-index, a journal's recent h-index, and the number of references in an article are significant predictors of BME article citations.
Misconceptions surrounding the relationship between journal impact factor and citation distribution in veterinary medicine Ranking veterinary journals according to JIF is misleading, exaggerating differences while concealing minimally different citation distributions.
Bibliometrics and French healthcare institutions from 2004 to 2014 Quantitatively, analysis of the profile of scientific publications in France found an increase for each type of hospital from 2004 to 2014. Qualitatively, the author position indicated that all types of hospital are involved in research projects. This study also found that public non-teaching hospitals, not-for-profit private hospitals, for-profit private hospitals, and cancer centres collaborated with other institutions which were often distinguished by publishing in high-category journals.
The status of international collaborations in compilation of Iranian scientific articles on environmental health engineering International contribution of researchers in compilation of specialized environmental health articles was good.
Scientific publication in obstetrics and gynecology from Mainland China and other top-ranking countries: A 10-year survey of the literature The USA published the most articles having high IF, making the greatest contribution to the field of obstetrics and gynecology.
Medical and health sciences academics' behaviours and attitudes towards open access publishing in scholarly journals: a perspective from South Korea Overall, this study suggests that medical and health sciences academics in Korea are relatively positive about open access.
Exploratory analysis of the operation of institutional repositories in Asian countries First, excluding Japan, Asian countries have a low number of institutional repositories, contents, and influence. However, steady growth has been accomplished by the activation policy for institutional repositories, which was promoted around governments and national colleges. Therefore, it is suggested that the possibility of global open access to research results through institutional repositories in Japan, Korea, India, Taiwan, Indonesia, China, Turkey, and Malaysia is more feasible than that by other new and developing Asian countries.
Analysis of scientific production based on trending research topics. An Artificial Intelligence case study To conduct processing of Scientific Documentation sources it is necessary to make use of diverse methods and techniques from the following areas: data mining, natural language processing, machine learning and data visualization. Our information system selects topics, provides topic rankings, detects research areas, generates research area rankings, and compares the qualities versus quantities of the topics and research areas. For future work, this paper provides the basis for the following: a) Repeating the process for any research area, b) Making use of different machine learning methods, c) Including the temporal component in the machine learning process, showing the research areas and topics evolution, d) Breaking down results by country, and e) Making comparisons between different research areas.
Correcting duplicate publications: follow up study of MEDLINE tagged duplications Despite clear policies on how to handle DPs, just half (54%) of the DPs in MEDLINE were addressed by journals and only 9% retracted.
The balance of knowledge flows In this paper we have shown how the BKF can be constructed, at both overall and field level, and how the interchange of knowledge between countries can be analysed.
Convexity in scientific collaboration networks Based on our experiments we found that: Scholarly collaboration networks are rather convex (see Convexity in Tables 1–3), which means that their topological arrangement is somewhat close to a tree of cliques instead of a spanning tree or a random graph (see Fig. 1). There are potentially very influential scientists who are not prominent in the collaboration networks of their scholarly communities. The potential of convexity and convex networks is by far not exhausted by the present study.
Predicting publication long-term impact through a combination of early citations and journal impact factor The analysis provides several interesting indications for the early assessment of impact of scientific output. First, we provide statistical evidence that, on average, the choice of a three-year citation window is sufficient to predict the long-term impact of scientific publications with acceptable accuracy, using a linear regression model. Third, both the relative weight of regressors and the accuracy of prediction vary greatly across macro-areas, and across SCs within the macro-areas.
The many faces of mobility: Using bibliometric data to measure the movement of scientists We provide a brief analysis to highlight the utility of the proposed taxonomy to study scholarly mobility and discuss the implications for science policy.
Do researchers collaborate in a similar way to publish and to develop projects? Regarding our first question in the introduction, as a general result, we have observed that the laws governing the individual productivity are similar for the cases of publications and projects but, however, the behavior is different when analyzing more complex magnitudes such as the collaborations or other variables depending in a structural way of the idiosyncrasy of the university.
On the Shapley value and its application to the Italian VQR research assessment exercise We show that there are significant differences in the resulting scores, making room for improvements in the allocation rules used in research assessment exercises.
An empirical investigation of the tribes and their territories: Are research specialisms rural and urban? We argue that the intellectual organization of rural specialisms might indeed be qualitative different from urban ones, discouraging the straightforward application of citation-based indicators commonly applied to urban specialisms without a dedicated re-design in acknowledgement of these differences.
Gender and research publishing in India: Uniformly high inequality? The results show that research publishing in India is dominated by males in all 26 broad areas of scholarship, at least in terms of first-authored journal articles in Scopus. The substantial female minority overall and in all 26 broad areas of scholarship underlines the importance of initiatives to overcome gender inequalities in research within India (e.g., the Indo-U.S. Fellowship for Women in STEMM), although a more systematic effort is still needed (Ovseiko, Godbole, & Latimer, 2017). Indian policy-makers and research managers should also guard against the potential for gender imbalances to increase in areas where the USA has a greater discrepancy in case research cultures from the USA influence practice in India.
Measuring the knowledge translation and convergence in pharmaceutical innovation by funding-science-technology-innovation linkages analysis In order to achieve successful pharmaceutical innovation, rather than focusing on only technology, convergence with science at moderate levels (maybe 1/3) is suggested.
Gender differences in research areas, methods and topics: Can people and thing orientations explain the results? There are substantial gender differences in US academic first authoring of journal articles across academia between broad fields and between narrow fields within broad fields (RQ1).
Does the normalized citation impact of universities profit from certain properties of their published documents - such as the number of authors and the impact factor of the publishing journals? A multilevel modeling approach The results point out that the expected relationships are not observable for the FICs. Thus, universities with relatively high NCSs do not receive an additional impact bonus by the FICs (as has been expected). Since it would be interesting to repeat the current study based on those or similar datasets of these previous studies, future studies investigating FICs should invest efforts to generate them.
Measuring the academic reputation through citation networks via PageRank In this paper, we have explored the use of a quantitive, and reliable proxy, the PageRank algorithm, to assess academic reputation through the analysis of citation patterns among universities. To support the soundness of our work, we have supplied compelling evidence about the close connection of the results of the PageRank algorithm with the scores on two rankings that handle academic reputation in two distinct ways: scores partially based on academic surveys, QS, or driven by publication and staff figures, ARWU-GRAS. The work carried out in this study may be extended along several research lines, by exploiting a few Network Science techniques.
Comparing journal and paper level classifications of science This study reveals the extent of paper misclassification in the journal classification system of science based on the CSCD data. The results of this study indicate that papers are misclassified by a journal classification system since: • in the journal classification system, 46.0% of articles were not contributed from their journal's discipline(s), and • in a paper classification system, 51.1% of papers were not published in journals of the same discipline(s), but • the ratio of papers contributed from, or to, other discipline(s) varies by discipline and the methodology constructing the classification system.
Globalised vs averaged: Bias and ranking performance on the author level We found no significant difference between the averaged and globalised approach for citation counts in terms of bias and performance. However, for the percentile metric (R6) the globalised approach is the better choice. In terms of performance, the RCR metric identifies the well-established researchers best for small citation windows.
Evaluating research and researchers by the journal impact factor: Is it better than coin flipping? However, in most cases when two papers are compared, the JIFs of the journals are not so different. Then, the failure probability can be close to 0.5, which is equivalent to evaluating by coin flipping.
Do altmetrics assess societal impact in a comparable way to case studies? An empirical test of the convergent validity of altmetrics based on data from the UK research excellence framework (REF) We suggest that they may capture a different aspect of societal impact (which can be called unknown attention) to that seen by reviewers (who are interested in the causal link between research and action in society).
Standing on the shoulders of giants?-Faculty hiring in information schools Providing a better understanding of hiring practice in iSchools, the results highlight the importance of "standing on the shoulders of giants" for junior information science researchers wishing to find high-quality faculty job. Finally, our findings lay the foundation for future investigations, where stakeholders and administrators can assess the effectiveness of existing hiring strategies, which in turn provide managerial and policy implications for iSchools to adapt to the fast growing landscape of information science.
Scientific community detection via bipartite scholar/journal graph co-clustering In short, the contribution of this paper is the following: [...] 3 we provide quantitative evidence that, at least for the two areas specifically investigated in the paper, the official scholar classification currently used in the Italian national academic system is characterized by non marginally overlapping sectors, thus making us question whether such an a-priori classification (which we recall is an exception in the European landscape) should not be abandoned in favor of an unsupervised research community classification based solely on the structural properties of a bibliometric network.
How mean rank and mean size may determine the generalised Lorenz curve: With application to citation analysis In this work, we first analysed the duality between SF and RS frameworks and presented a 'conversion formula' that relates rank distribution to size distribution in a fully discrete setting.
Predicting the citations of scholarly paper Based on point estimation process, we present the PPI predictive model, which considers the following four factors: (1) inherent quality of scholarly paper; (2) scholarly paper impact decaying over time; (3) early citations; and (4) early citers' impact. Experimental results indicate that the PPI model improves citation prediction of scholarly papers. Although the predictive performance of the GBDT All model and GBDT_10 model is better than other three models in terms of MAPE and accuracy, the proposed PPI predictive model give a clear explanation for the predictive effect, indicating that an ultimate understanding of long-term impact of scholarly paper will benefit from understanding the inherent evolutionary mechanism of citations of scholarly papers.
Using Scopus's CiteScore for assessing the quality of computer science conferences The CiteScore method as implemented here shows that it is highly effective as a benchmark to evaluate and compare publication venues in computer science.
Origin, characteristics, predominance and conceptual networks of eponyms in the bibliometric literature The use of eponyms in bibliometrics accomplishes the same function of recognition or homage as in other areas of science. However, the scientific debate continues with reasons for and against their use, with some authors arguing that eponyms are an unnecessary personality cult that does not equally recognize all the researchers involved in the discoveries and that descriptive denominations are more appropriate.
Are NIH-funded publications fulfilling the proposed research? An examination of concept-matchedness between NIH research grants and their supported publications In this paper, we reported our analysis on the keyword matchedness between NIH research grants and their funded publications. Our analysis quantifies, for the first time, the evolution of research topics within the same research cycle, as represented in the abstracts of a grant and its linked publications. Given the exploratory nature of this study, a number of questions remain to be answered by future studies.
Peer and neighborhood effects: Citation analysis using a spatial autoregressive model and pseudo-spatial data The spatial autoregressive models lend themselves to pursue that aim, even when observations are not strictly and intrinsically spatial.
Interdisciplinarity as diversity in citation patterns among journals: Rao-Stirling diversity, relative variety, and the Gini coefficient We asked whether the measurement of interdisciplinarity can be improved by using a new measure of diversity DIV, when compared with RS.
On the interplay between normalisation, bias, and performance of paper impact metrics In this paper, we evaluated various article-level impact metrics according to their fairness to rank papers across fields and time, as well as, their performance in identifying high-impact and high-quality papers. We found that inherently PageRank is less field biased while citation counts are less time biased. We showed that time-normalised metrics are better in identifying the high-impact and high-quality papers early. However, for larger citation windows (usually between 5 to 10 years after publication) the standard metrics outperform the time-normalised variants.
Infinite sequences and their h-type indices Nevertheless, the h-index enjoys a number of interesting mathematical properties as an operator in the ordered positive cone (R+)∞ of all infinite sequences with non-negative real values.
Correlational analysis of topic specificity and citations count of publication venues We have found correlation of entropy of venues (topic specificity) with citation count. Therefore, one can use topic specificity score of publication venues as a ranking factor for academic entities. As a future work, it will be interesting to apply the topic specificity of text based on entropy idea on other textual data sets, such as blogs, news, product reviews, etc.
Scientific collaboration networks in Pakistan and their impact on institutional research performance A case study based on Scopus publications The study shows that Pakistan has improved both relative research effort and an absolute number of overall publications.
Trend analysis of co-authorship network in Library Hi Tech The objective of this study is to explore the co-authorship network in Library Hi Tech community. As researchers' collaboration can be described from different perspectives to show a more comprehensive co-authorship network, the contribution of this study is to illustrate the application of different metrics in the analysis of co-authorship in Library Hi Tech in past 12 years. The results identified key actors, important subgroups and the research trend.
More descriptive norms, fewer diversions Boosting Chinese researcher performance through social media It is suggested that universities apply academic social media (ASM) indicators to measure researchers' contributions so that they self-regulate their SM usage attitudes. Also, universities should also promote ASM platforms.
Bibliometric networks and analytics on gerontology research This paper highlighted the most crucial research topics and subfields in the gerontology field. Researchers can use the findings of this study to determine directions for subsequent research as this study provides a comprehensive view of the research field as well as an understanding of the subfields and their interrelations. Additionally, this paper provides government departments with directions for formulating and executing policies affecting older people not only in setting academic and professional priorities but also in understanding the key topics related to older people.
Supply chain management scholar's research impact: moderated mediation analysis This paper has applied social capital theory to explain the factors that determine a supply chain management scholar's academic impact. The results inform that the mediation effect of a scholar's social capital explains the relationship between a supply chain management scholar's research skills and academic impact. In addition, the moderation analysis shows that a country-level moderator can influence the academic impact of the scholar. The results thus provide supply chain management scholars with suggestions about how to enhance their academic research impact.
Relative Value of Adapted Novel Bibliometrics in Evaluating Surgical Academic Impact and Reach Adapted bibliometric indices appear to be equally valid measures of evaluating academic productivity, impact and reach.
Visualising and mapping the intellectual structure of medical big data This study analysed the overall knowledge structure of research on medical big data from 2003 to 2016, including research hot spots, possible knowledge gaps, connections among keywords and commonly used theories and methods.
The relation between research priorities and societal demands: The case of rice This paper provides a first exploratory estimation of the relation between research priorities and societal demands in agriculture.
Predatory Open-Access Publishing in Anesthesiology In conclusion, potential or probable predatory open-access publishers and journals are widely present in the broad field of anesthesiology and related specialties.
Key nodes mining in the inventor-author knowledge diffusion network In this paper, we quantitatively investigated the bridging roles of inventor-authors in knowledge diffusion network. We found that researchers with high extensity centrality-Newman contribute to the diffusion of acquired knowledge to other scholars in network, making them effective “knowledge gatekeepers”. Suggestions are proffered accordingly to make full use of the key nodes' roles as “bridges” to promote knowledge flow from science and technology journals to technology patents.
The correlation between paper length and citations: a meta-analysis Our results suggest that the correlation between paper length and citation count is positive and medium. The longer the paper is, the more citations it receives. Moderators such as cita-tion window length and journal quality are also identified. Future studies will be conducted with a view to overcoming these issues.
Edge factors: scientific frontier positions of nations Our analysis has shown that countries continue to differ in their ability to take advantage of cutting-edge ideas.
Comprehensive evaluation of h-index and its extensions in the domain of mathematics In this study, we have evaluated the role of h-index, m-quotient, hw-Index, hm Index, h₁ Index, h Index, fraction-count-on-paper and fraction-count-on-citations on a diversified data set from the field of Mathematics. Overall, all of the parameters have brought 45% of the awardees at top 10% of the ranked list. Among the societies, IMU's awardees are aligned most closely with the top ranked authors by the indices, suggesting that IMU's perspective is closest to that given by the indices.
An evolutionary analysis of the innovation policy domain: Is there a paradigm shift? The anticipated paradigm shift is expected to lead to a more de-centralized and distributed understanding of the world for innovation policy making.
A bibliometric visualization of the economics and sociology of wealth inequality: a world apart? The main conclusion of this paper is that future interdisciplinary research cannot build on historical experiences. While the future of economics-cum-sociology approaches in the field of wealth inequality research remains to be seen, this research reveals that future interdisciplinary endeavors cannot build on past ones. An interdisciplinary future thus requires substantially intensified “inter-disciplinary encounters” (Bridle et al. 2013), graduate programs that do not prioritize specialization but interactions across disciplines (Schmidt et al. 2012), and funding agencies that promote interdisciplinary research (König and Gorman 2016), otherwise the existing professional incentives to stay within disciplinary confines will help perpetuating the current situation in which disciplines simply borrow from each other without engaging in real dialogue.
Do the best papers have the highest probability of being cited? Competition between research works pushes the best papers to raise their salience sufficiently to overcome the distortive effects of reader's imperfect attention on the relative popularity of the competitors.
Universities' structural commitment to interdisciplinary research The results indicate that the best way to measure universities' structural commitment to IDR is to incorporate information about not only the prevalence but also the nature of academic units: whether they are interdisciplinary or not.
Competing, complementary and co-existing paradigms in techno-scientific literature:A case study of Nanotechnologyfor engineering Fascinated by its very potential to replace and improve many of the life and industrial practices, we have analysed the literature of ‘Nanotechnology' for the research area ‘engineering' during the last 25 years, from 1st January 1989 to 22nd December 2014 after creating a scientific citation network.
Highly cited researchers: a moving target Changes in the rules for allocating a researcher to the HCR category have a significant influence on the membership of the list: the extent of consequential influences on institutional rankings depends on the way that rule changes re-distribute the population of HCR researchers among their affiliated institutions.
A new parameter for (normalized) evaluation of H-index: countries as a case study We proposed a new index, denominated MZE, which characterizes the relative standing of a research group, institution, or author to those of his/her peer groups.
Citations and certainty: a new interpretation of citation counts The implications of this finding for the interpretation of citation counts are discussed, and the directions for future research. Overall, our findings shed new light on the standard interpretations of citation counts. Finally, the often ignored and undervalued "method paper” assumes greater significance as a beacon of certain knowledge.
Learning about learning: patterns of sharing of research knowledge among Education, Border, and Cognitive Science fields This is consistent with Border Fields being a bridge between fields. So, limiting analyses to WoS journals tends to discount the roles and influences of ED research relative to those other fields. Our future research agenda calls for break out of the 14 finer grain CORE categories (see Footnote 21) to analyze research interconnections and differences.
Measuring academic influence using heterogeneous author-citation networks This paper proposes Author PageRank (APR) as a method for measuring academic influence of authors in a heterogeneous author-citation network. We demonstrate that it outperforms 10 other methods on two very large data sets. We also show that the ranking results differ greatly with all the other methods.
Impact assessment of a support programme of science-based emerging technologies The analysis of projects of the FET programme confirms the main attributes of emerging technologies and shows their specific form in the context of complex science-based technologies.
The berries on the top A bibliometric analysis was performed to identify the 100 most cited berry-related papers. Antioxidant and anti-cancer benefits seemed to be the major topics. Berries species that were mentioned in at least 10% of the 100 papers were strawberry, blueberry, cranberry, raspberry, blackberry, bilberry, and grape berry.
Examining the Factors Behind the Success and Sustainability of China's Creative Research Group: An Extension of the Teamwork Quality Model Firstly, it is clear that good TWQ and ROTS are important factors that have a positive impact on SSCRG.
Top 100 Most Influential Articles in the Field of Myeloid Neoplasms: A Bibliometric Study Our analysis sheds light on the quality of work and driving trends, listing the most cited and impactful guideline articles within this field and aiding clinicians.
Continued Citation of Retracted Radiation Oncology Literature-Do We Have a Problem? Postretraction citations are an avoidable phenomenon.
"One is the loneliest number"; are we witnessing the death throes of the single-author research paper in the field of biological invasions? The similarity in the relative contributions of single-author papers to the research output of a general ecology journal such as JAE (less than 4%; Barlow et al. 2018) and that witnessed in these three more specialised invasion science journals (3–5%) within the past decade, is noteworthy.
Puberty in the Last 25 Years: A Retrospective Bibliometric Analysis In general, we are pleased with the state of the field. Puberty-related publications are increasing in sheer number, and have reach in many fields as befits an interdisciplinary science.
A multi-criteria approach to the h-index The h-index measures the scientific output of researchers, according to their number of publications and number of citations.
Perceptions of Ethical Climate and Research Pressures in Different Faculties of a University: Cross-Sectional Study at the University of Split, Croatia Our study is the first, to the best of our knowledge, to show differences in perceived ethical climate at a medical school compared to other schools at a university. Further studies are needed to explore the reasons for these differences and how they translate to organizational outcomes, such as job satisfaction, commitment to the institution and dysfunctional behaviour, including research misconduct.
The Game Between a Biased Reviewer and His Editor This paper has introduced the reviewer-editor game, which represents some stages of the peer review process. We have shown that, for a large range of parameters, the editor prefers to delegate the choice to review the submission to the biased referee. Our model has shown the importance of costly reviewer reports as a necessary condition for informed opinions about the manuscript's quality.
A Bibliometric Study of Authorship and Collaboration Trends Over the Past 30 Years in Four Major Musculoskeletal Science Journals Publication in peer reviewed journals is important for tenure, career advancement, and funding in academia [8, 9, 44].
Potential predatory journals are colonizing the ICMJE recommendations list of followers Predatory journals should be deleted from the ICMJE-R list of followers to prevent misleading authors. ICMJE-R following journals need to be reevaluated with pre-defined published criteria. A similar approach has been suggested to ensure that PubMed is free of predatory journal articles: journal candidates should satisfy the three MEDLINE preapplication requirements and should be a member of DOAJ, OASPA, COPE or WAME.
Influence of study abroad factors on international research collaboration: evidence from higher education academics in sub-Saharan Africa The study assessed the role of specific factors of study abroad in influencing levels of inter-national collaboration. The benefits could easily be realized by selecting destinations higher on the HDI. Duration of the study abroad experience and participant demographics have little impact on future levels of inter-national collaborations.
Co-authorship trends in English literary studies, 1995-2015 This article provides new information about the rate of co-authorship of peer-reviewed journal articles in literary studies.
Emerging Trends and New Developments in Transient Elastography: A Bibliometric and Cocitation Analysis from 1999 to 2017 We identified and analyzed the 100 most-cited articles focusing on transient elastography. The research of transient elastography is in rapid development. The combination of transient elastography with other noninvasive assessment of liver fibrosis could be a more accurate evaluation of liver fibrosis in the future.
Independent markers of master's theses show low levels of agreement We conclude that thesis grading is about as reliable as the determination of the merit of journal submissions, which is usually regarded as rather poor. If the objective of the grading of our sample was to provide a fair and accurate estimate of the academic merit of individual theses as reflected in a particular grade or grade-point, then our results indicate that this objective was not met. Applying a more objective rubric to thesis marking might raise the reliability, but such a change might also lower the creative and unique nature of theses, and hence reduce the contri-bution that an individual thesis can make to its particular discipline.
The Political Science 400: With Citation Counts by Cohort, Gender, and Subfield "Our data reflect important changes in the profession, including the retirement or death of faculty with PhDs from the 1960s and earlier."
Measuring scientific prestige of papers with time-aware mutual reinforcement ranking model This study offers an intelligent method for researchers, authors, and entrepreneurs to quantify the importance of scientific papers and the conclusions are likely to be of importance for researchers in both the academic and enterprise domains.
Research characteristics on health law in China: Social network analysis In summary, although health law is both a natural and social science, there was a minimal collaboration by every measure, especially regarding international cooperation, and the research network was loose and unstable.
The use of departmental journal lists in promotion and tenure decisions at American research universities This study found that the majority of the R1 respondents indicated that research is the most important criteria for granting tenure at their institution.
Preprint policies among 14 academic publishers Preprints for the biomedical sciences within scientific publishers are on the rise. Our analysis of the Sherpa/RoMEO database shows that just under 50% of publishers have clear preprint-related policies in place, 64% of 14 scientific publishers studied and listed in Table 1 had a policy for preprints in 2017 but this rate increased to 78% by February of 2018 and remained the same in June of 2018. Policy standardization should be carefully crafted and monitored to increase confidence in the use of preprints by academics in science.
The impact of caring for children on women's research output: A retrospective cohort study Our results revealed a complex picture, with differential impacts on output depending on the number of children, the outcome considered, and the presence of statistically influential women.
Co-authorship Network Analysis in the Accounting Discipline We hope that emphasis on collaboration metrics motivates and encourages researchers to engage with other scholars both locally and abroad.
Paper evolution graph: multi-view structural retrieval for academic literature In this paper, we have presented a method for creating structured paper retrieval results, which we call paper evolution graph (PEG).
How to identify peer-reviewed publications: Open-identity labels in scholarly book publishing Most importantly, our analysis shows that an open-identity label can be used as a criterion for delineating peer-reviewed scholarly publications, and as such, it is a type of peer-review label similar to the Finnish and Flemish instruments.
S&T indicators in the wild: Contextualization and participation for responsible metrics I conclude by arguing that these shifts are necessary to preserve epistemic diversity and pluralism in the face of ongoing managerial push for standardization via 'platforms' run by commercial oligopolies.
Multi/inter/transdisciplinary assessment: A systemic framework proposal to evaluate graduate courses and research teams The proposed framework is suitable and broadly relevant for both researchers and decision makers for analyz- ing courses and research teams."
Formative, embedded evaluation to strengthen interdisciplinary team science: Results of a 4-year, mixed methods, multi-country case study In conclusion, formative evaluation using an embedded, participatory approach demonstrated utility, acceptability, and researcher engagement. A trusting relationship between evaluators and other project members built on joint identification of team science objectives for the evaluation at project outset, codeveloping guiding principles, and encouraging team reflexivity throughout the evaluation.
Challenge-led interdisciplinary research in practice: Program design, early career research, and a dialogic approach to building unlikely collaborations Distal interdisciplinarity not only nourishes novel and unlikely research projects that respond to complex problems; with good program design and meaningful relationships it can, we argue, also build research careers differently from an early phase.
Referees or sponsors? The role of evaluators in the promotion of research scientists in a public research organization The study found that the PRO promotion system was designed as a refereed contest but was operating as a sponsored contest in which evaluators, particularly APA supervisors, could serve as enablers of subordinates’ promotion. The study highlights the challenges of enacting a well-supported contest for mobility in a large, research-diverse PRO, and how the role played by evaluators is determined by both the design of the evaluation system and contextual factors such as workload and reporting lines. All the organizational factors identified in this study as contributing to the default system of sponsorship are being experienced across the sector.
Does counting change what is counted? Potential for paradigm change through performance metrics Emphasis on international publication may also lead to increasing distance between social sciences and the local society they are entrusted to study.
The missing link: How university managers mediate the impact of a performance-based research funding system While Richard Whitely has emphasized how systems of evaluation can be either strong or weak (Whitley 2007), this study has shown that, to some extent, local managers make national systems strong or weak. Based on their assessments of actionability and legitimacy, managers decide whether they should copy, modify, or reject the BRI. These include the financial incentives of the BRI and local problem definitions when assessing the actionability of the BRI as well as indicator competition and identity and culture when assessing the legitimacy of the BRI.
Detecting the Interdisciplinary Nature and Topic Hotspots of Robotics in Surgery: Social Network Analysis and Bibliometric Study This study provided important insights into the interdisciplinary nature related to RS, which indicates that the researchers with different disciplinary backgrounds should strengthen cooperation to publish a high-quality output.
How international are the editorial boards of leading spine journals? A STROBE-compliant study A lack of international representation on editorial boards exists in leading spine journals. Editorial board members from high-income countries are substantially overrepresented, while editorial board members from low- and middle-income countries are severely underrepresented. Further efforts are needed to change this unsatisfactory situation.
Evaluation of US Orthopaedic Surgery Academic Centers Based on Measurements of Academic Achievement This algorithm may provide faculty with an assessment tool that can establish benchmarks to help focus efforts toward increasing the academic productivity of their respective programs. In conclusion, this study represents an evaluation of orthopaedic surgery academic centers in the United States using a well-established algorithm. This algorithm is easily reproducible annually with publicly available information and therefore provides a tool in the future for departments to focus efforts toward increasing academic productivity in a longitudinal fashion.
How Much Do You Have to Publish to Get a Job in a Top Sociology Department? Or to Get Tenure? Trends over a Generation Figure 3 provides clear empirical evidence in support of what many senior sociolo- gists seem to believe: Today, publishing expectations are substantially higher than they were a generation ago for sociologists seeking their first assistant professor positions or promotions to associate professor.
Measuring researcher independence using bibliometric data: A proposal for a new performance indicator Overall, this paper illustrates how to derive more indicators for different quality dimensions of scholarly work. This seems more relevant than trying to marginally improve the existing ones [48].
Theoretical research without projects In this paper, we have proposed a family of schemes to fund theoretical research. Contrary to the rule in academic funding, these schemes do not rely on a project proposal, but on recent academic performance, as quantified by a given figure of merit.
Size, Internationalization, and University Rankings: Evaluating and Predicting Times Higher Education (THE) Data for Japan The results showed that both FTE (size) and IntStud were statistically significant in explaining rankings for all universities, as well as separately for private and non-private (that is, national and public) universities, in Japan for 2017 and 2018. Further empirical analysis could be undertaken for private and non-private universities in Japan, as well as for the US, Europe, Asia, and Latin America; however, the distinction between private and non-private universities is prevalent primarily for the US. The paper is an application of applied econometrics to evaluate and predict university rankings using size and internationalization from the Times Higher Education (THE) data for Japan.
A gender perspective on career challenges experienced by African scientists Our survey of African scientists does not, however, support this general hypothesis. These priorities are addressing women’s work-family role conflict; job security among younger women scientists; and women in North African and Western African countries.
Forty years of Safety Science: A bibliometric overview The study shows the significant growth of the journal during the last decades, as it published 64% of its total publications from 2007 to 2016.
Degrees of freedom analysis in educational research and decision-making: leveraging qualitative data to promote excellence in bioinformatics training and education The DoFA method, with slight modifications in construction, can be used to summarize the qualitative data that are commonly collected in higher, graduate and postgraduate education and training.
The Evolution of Social Work from Disconnected Groups to a Scientific Community: A Social Network Analysis Specifically, nodes with a high number of connections are associated with a higher probability of acquiring new connections than other nodes, as well as becoming hubs.
INTERNATIONALIZATION OF POLISH JOURNALS IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES: TRANSFORMATIVE ROLE OF THE RESEARCH EVALUATION SYSTEM The following conclusions relevant especially for policy makers can be drawn from the present study. A research evaluation system might motivate the internationalization of journals, but it should deemphasize the corrupted parameters.
BUILDING A REPUTATION IN GLOBAL SCIENTIFIC COMMUNICATION: A SWOT ANALYSIS OF SPANISH HUMANITIES JOURNALS The insights gained from this SWOT analysis suggest that national journals "have strong reasons to exist” (Salager-Meyer 2015: 20).
PUBLICATION AND CITATION PATTERNS IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES: A NATIONAL PERSPECTIVE "In general, our results are in line with the results of similar studies, showing that Serbian scholars manifest typical differences in publication and citation behavior, but also face same challenges as the other transition or scientifically small countries."
RECIPROCITY IN BOOK REVIEWING AMONG AMERICAN, BRITISH AND CANADIAN ACADEMICS First, we observe a high rate of homophily between reviewers and reviewed books, with reviewers being primarily interested in the books that have been written on their own country. Hence, despite the now widely held discourses on the globalization of science, humanistic and social scientific research remains a highly localized activity. Second, the circulation of ideas between the three countries analyzed is not random but follows preexisting social hierarchies. In particular, researchers from the United States display an autarky-leaning behavior and tend to show relatively little interest in books written by researchers affiliated to foreign institutions, whereas Canadian and British academics are more opened to those.
Authorship order Contributorship may be a solution to recognizing and rewarding authors, but it needs greater detail and standardization to be useful.
Internationalization of China's English-language academic journals: An overview and three approaches The authors conclude that there are three criteria for successful international CELJs: increased visibility, good editorial boards, and international publishing partnerships.
Reflections on the international impact of Chinese STM journals So far, we still think the IF index itself is not wrong; the wrong thing is to use it as the most important indicator of a good journal and the only thing that drives the operation.
Is Google Scholar useful for the evaluation of non-English scientific journals? The case of Chinese journals In response to the research questions of this study, we believed that GS covers sufficient Chinese journals, articles, and citations for the evaluation of Chinese scientific journals. However, GS Metrics is not applicable enough to provide impact information for Chinese journals. Citations from GS are useful to present evaluation results highly correlated to traditional citation results for Chinese journal evaluation.
What does better peer review look like? Underlying principles and recommendations for better practice The future of peer review is better peer review, both in the perception of its stakeholders and in its application.
Korea Institute of Science and Technology Information's scholarly journal publishing: A case study JISTaP uses KISTI’s human resources, budget, and information technology infrastructures for publishing, archiving, and distribut- ing.
A Time-Series Analysis of the Scale of Coercive Journal Self-Citation and its Effect on Impact Factors and Journal Rankings First, clear evidence of coercive self-citation practices has been provided through regress-ing current on lagged change in actual rates of self-citation.
Neurooncology Research in Nigeria: Great Untapped Potential There is a small but growing amount of scholarly literature on neurooncology from Nigeria.
Sci-Hub: The new and ultimate disruptor? View from the front Sci-Hub is used as much for convenience as necessity; use is not connected to the strength of library provision and and it has been suggested that it represents a bigger threat to publishers than ResearchGate, whose star might be waning. Is Sci-Hub the ultimate disruptor, then? In the short to medium term, possibly. Certainly, Sci-Hub is no fly-by-night platform.
Examining research productivity of faculty in selected leading public universities in Kenya In conclusion, knowing the faculty's research productivity is vital especially for a country that envisions to become competitive globally and dependents on higher education for its socioeconomic development.
Same Question, Different World: Replicating an Open Access Research Impact Study "Although we originally set out to closely replicate Antelman's study, we found this was not possible and the more interesting questions were around changes in how articles are shared online."
If Research Libraries and Funders Finance Open Access: Moving beyond Subscriptions and APCs Such findings can inform libraries and funding agencies, as well as publishers, in their consideration of a direct-payment open access model.
Global performance and development on sustainable city based on natural science and social science research: A bibliometric analysis The bibliometric method and visualization tools were employed to figure out research performance, research emphases and trends of sustainable city research based on natural science dataset of SCI-EXPANDED and social science dataset of SSCI.
From North American hegemony to global competition for scientific leadership? Insights from the Nobel population Our results based on the Nobel population can be summarized in three points. First, North America's rise as a global power in science started in the 1920s. Second, although North America was effective in transferring capacities for conducting ground-breaking research from one generation of scientists to another for a long time (via master-apprentice relations), Europe and the Asia-Pacific region seem to be catching up. Third, North America's scientific hegemony has often been attributed to the organizational design of its research universities, which compete more actively for scientific talent and adopt scientific innovations faster than universities and research institutions in Europe (and elsewhere).
The determinants of academic salaries in Russia Overall, we found that academic salaries are mostly dependent on administrative duties and seniority, while the impact of research productivity is low.
A nation's foreign and domestic professors: which have better research performance? (the Italian case) The study confirms the data of preceding analyses, which indicated a truly minimal representation of foreign researchers working in Italy (Todisco et al. 2003).
CCRO: Citation's Context & Reasons Ontology This ontology successfully distills down into eight distinct and mutually exclusive classes, all routed from ‘Positive', 'Negative' and 'Neutral' sentiments.
The "Dark Side" of Academics? Emerging Issues in the Gaming and Manipulation of Metrics in Higher Education The potentials for gaming and manipulation of academic metrics are emerging as themes in discourse about higher education, possibly serving to motivate the examination of the systems involved and initiate changes. The complexity and situational ambiguity of many of the issues outlined in this article are only expanding with the advances of social media and the emergence of new platforms for the measurement and ranking of academic efforts. Without pressure on the social action systems involved from external forces or the public (or effective technological "solutions" of some sort, if they are even conceivable) the unfairness and misallocation of resources that are often linked with gaming and manipulation practices may probably continue for some time along with their deleterious impacts on academic identity and life.
Examining scientific writing styles from the perspective of linguistic complexity This study investigates the differences between authors from different ethnic backgrounds in the linguistic com-plexity of scientific writing.
Identifying author heritage using surname data: An application for Russian surnames This identification method can contribute to advancing research in scientific mobility and migration, patenting by certain groups, publishing and collaboration, transnational and scientific diaspora links, and the effects of diversity on the innovative performance of organizations, regions, and countries. The general principles of the morphology-based method outlined in this article can be tailored to identify a variety of types of ethnic and national heritage. We also offer conceptual contributions by distinguishing ethnicity and heritage and by outlining a research agenda for the further use of this method.
Do citation chimeras exist? The case of under-cited influential articles suffering delayed recognition We conclude that we have shown that there do exist articles that are hibernators and are at the same time under-cited influential, or in other words, citation chimeras of this type do exist.
Statistical significance and effect sizes of differences among research universities at the level of nations and worldwide based on the leiden rankings The main conclusion is that large groups of universities can be classified as belonging to the same group, and that differences among universities are often small if not negligible.
Participation of Mexican Civil Society Organizations in scientific publications Based on our findings, it is concluded that the increment in their participation by them, as secondary effect, is related to the implementation of public policies that encourages the activities carried out by this sector since 2004, even though, its goal was not to encourage specifically the participation of CSO in research processes. We can conclude that this study offers empirical evidence that is new and valuable, contributing to the field of knowledge on transdisciplines and ways of producing knowledge.
Aspect based citation sentiment analysis using linguistic patterns for better comprehension of scientific knowledge In this paper, we have presented the aspect-based citation sentiment classification approach which is a qualitative bibliometric pattern of research impact evaluation complementing the citation aspects with its purpose and polarity.
Knowledge generation in the wake of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant disaster It is noted that immediate high volume papers were seeking to describe the apparent effects while papers published (3 years) post-accident were becoming more reflective and analytical.
The h-index and multi-author hm-index for individual researchers in condensed matter physics We have studied the h-index of individual researchers in the field of condensed matter physics using high-quality data from ResearcherID data base. This allowed us to define a parameter δh that describes the normalized difference of a researcher's h value from the best fit model. If we have to measure scientific quality by simple numbers then, surely, h and δh are better quantities to optimize than P.
Evaluation of h-index and its citation intensity based variants in the field of mathematics We have evaluated the h-index and its citation intensity based variants in this research. Our results show that none of the indices prospered in fetching even 50% awardees, which is much astonishing. We aim to assess the other indices on the comprehensive dataset from different fields, in the future.
Probability and expected frequency of breakthroughs: basis and use of a robust method of research assessment The indicators of research activity derived from the percentile-based double rank analysis have a strong theoretical foundation and they are simple, statistically sound and robust.
Few research fields play major role in interdisciplinary grant success The results showed noticeable disparity in the disciplines assigned within the multidisciplinary projects.
Balance: a thermodynamic perspective In this paper, we have taken an alternative thermodynamic perspective that leads to a very simple dimensionless and size-independent measure of balance that ranges from 0 (perfect balance or evenness) to 1 (perfect unevenness or absolute concentration). This is seen as the main advantage of the proposed indicators (balance and the inequality indicator). Although only an illustration, has been provided that this indicator satisfies the required properties, the author is thankful to a reviewer for pointing out that there is an indirect proof as η (the equity index) is equal to the Simpson diversity index divided by the number of cells (publications in a bibliometric application) and, it is well-known that the Simpson index and its reverse satisfy all required properties.
Bibliometric-enhanced information retrieval: a novel deep feature engineering approach for algorithm searching from full-text publications In this work, we present an advanced deep learning-based technique to improve the search capabilities of an information retrieval system.
The Brazilian academic genealogy: evidence of advisor-advisee relationships through quantitative analysis This study seeks to examine science in Brazil from the standpoint of academic genealogy. Finally, it can be concluded that the use of topological metrics applied to academic genealogy, can be a useful approach when adopted at a micro-level. It offers alternative and evolving information about a researcher's profile, which can be useful for evaluative purposes, for example, in funding agencies.
A century of scientific publication: towards a theorization of growth behavior and research-orientation This paper has provided an overview of scientific publication trends over a period of 117 years. The rate of publication for the period of 1990–2017 elongated the cycle and witnessed a longer trend towards saturation. The findings of this paper along with the narrative (see Fig. 6) are seen as instrumental for future research on publication and research history.
A data science-based framework to categorize academic journals This research addressed the problem of academic journals' categorization using a data science-based methodology. The proposed framework enabled to categorize the computer sciences journals into four groups. This will assist researchers to identify a venue for publishing their work or studying published articles.
Tracing the "swangroups' of physics and economics in the key publications of nobel laureates Our new model of the ‘swan groups' allows us to verify the ‘black swan' and its relational ‘white swans' in both science and social science, based on Nobel prize-winning research from both physics and economics.
How latecomers catch up to leaders in high-energy physics as Big Science: transition from national system to international collaboration The 13 latecomer countries that we examined have strengthened their research capabilities in HEP, a fundamental and a Big Science, by developing a National System of PRIs, and by active participation in IC, and have also been coping with ever-increasing demand for experimental facilities. However, the influence of the establishment of the PRIs and accelerator facilities on the quantity and quality of output has varied among countries and over time, and has gradually become less important than IC. Therefore, PRIs have only a partial influence on productiv-ity, whereas IC has had a clear positive influence among countries, over time, and in the number of citations.
Influential tweeters in relation to highly cited articles in altmetric big data In this article, we investigated the relation between influential tweeters and highly cited articles. We found that the score for influential users was the most important feature in the dataset, using the Extra-Tree Classifier and PR curves, when tested on individual features. In future, we seek to examine the influence of time to explore the duration for which a user remains influential within a subject area.
Thirty-fifth anniversary of the International Journal of Hospitality Management: A bibliometric overview In 2016, the International Journal of Hospitality Management celebrated its 35th anniversary. Thus, this paper provides a general overview of the journal's evolution during this period.
International research collaboration: Novelty, conventionality, and atypicality in knowledge recombination Based upon findings that international collaboration is more highly cited, more diverse, and possibly structured for combinatorial dynamics, we expected to find that it also would be fall into the Uzzi et al. (2013) characterization of articles that are both highly novel and highly conventional, or consisting of "atypical" references, combining diverse parts into new knowledge (Category 1). This is not upheld by the analysis. International collaboration, in aggregate, indicates high conventional measures and low novelty measures for reference combina- tions.
Research collaboration in Large Scale Research Infrastructures: Collaboration types and policy implications Our findings suggest that the co-existence of multiple collaboration types within the same organisation plays an important role in the long-term success of LSRIs.
Analytical mapping of research on disaster management, types and role of ICT during 2011-2018 Disaster Management has gone through a paradigm shift from reactive to technology supported proactive approach in this planet which is at risk from various natural, industrial as well as humanistic hazards. This study presents the results from in-depth analysis that help in understanding the development of this particular field from broad perspective to more specific one and is helpful to researchers, administrators and industrialists from various perspectives. We finally concluded that Disaster Management has gained immense importance with the time and is moving in a new direction by alliancing with latest technologies of Computer Science.
Authorship Trends Over the Past 30-Years in the Annals of Biomedical Engineering Overall, these findings highlight the improvements made and the challenges that still exist related to publishing within the bioengineering field.
Discovering thematic change and evolution of utilizing social media for healthcare research This systematic mapping of the research themes and research areas helps identify research interests and how they evolve across time, as well as providing insight into future research direction.
Dynamic credit allocation for researchers The results for the APS datase sine that in identifying the laureates from the author list of all of the 26 multiauthor prize-winning papers, the accuracy of our method is 80.77%.
Impact Assessment of Non-Indexed Open Access Journals: A Case Study The present case study strongly suggests that, measured according to our selected four descriptive categories—popularity, prestige, geographic reach, and readership- Societies Without Borders is a valued venue for scholarly communication and impactful research. Taken together, these findings reveal that the journal's content is considered of good quality and has substantial research impact, despite not being indexed in Web of Science or having an impact factor.
Research Front Detection and Topic Evolution Based on Topological Structure and the PageRank Algorithm Through this study, we aimed to detect research front and identify topic evolution. The experiment's results proved that our proposed approach could obtain reasonable clustering results, and that this was an effective approach for research front detection and topic evolution. However, there were still some limitations in this study, which need to be addressed in future work.
International positioning of the Spanish psychology journals There is no doubt that we have moved forward, and that we are witnessing a situation that is very different from the first years of the XXI century (Osca-Lluch, Civera, Tortosa, Quiñones, Peñaranda, & López, 2005). Despite of this, there is a lot to be done in order for Spanish Psychology to achieve a good international position, even though we cannot deny that a great advancement has been done during the past few years. Also, we cannot say that this process has been guided by fortune or luck: it responds to strategies, not only promoted by the State, but also generated by universities, associations and professional associations, which are growing closer and closer among themselves, and this constitutes yet another big change within the field of Spanish Psychology.
Is there a fair allocation of healthcare research funds by the European Union? The uneven allocation of healthcare research funds across EU countries was influenced by GDP per capita, medical research excellence and population size.
Predatory Journals on Trial: ALLEGATIONS, RESPONSES, AND LESSONS FOR SCHOLARLY PUBLISHING FROM FTC V. OMICS "Depending on its ultimate outcome, the case against OMICS may be a turning point in the practices of questionable open access online publishers, making this interim case assessment pertinent to all concerned about the future of academic publishing."
Contribution of Experimental Animal Research Studies to the Emergency Medicine Literature In conclusion, experimental animal studies are essential in the progress of contemporary scientific knowledge. EM journals should encourage and consider giving more place to experimental research given their undisputed worth and potential future contributions to science, including the field of EM. We hope that future experimental studies respecting EM will be encouraged by the augmented number of reports published in prominent EM journals while supporting the inevitable contribution of animal research to the evolution of science.
Best practices and inclusion of team science principles in appointment promotion and tenure documents in research intensive schools of nursing Conclusions: Schools of nursing should revisit their promotion and tenure criteria and include a greater commitment to encouragement of team science.
Publish, Perish, or Salami Slice? Authorship Ethics in an Emerging Field In a developing academic field as diverse as sport management, we contend the same to be true. Rather than placing the impetus on outside forces or formal rules that can be manipulated or broken, it is up to the collaboration among academic stakeholder groups, ranging from journal editors to editorial board members to administrators to author, to maintain an ethical perspective.
Biobibliometric portrait of B.K Sen: A librarian, information scientist and scientometrician This study highlights the major aspects of the career of the Indianinformation scientistBimal Kanti Sen. His academic and research activity steadily increased with his age. Biobibliometric studies help to analyse profiles of individual scientists over the years that enables identification of the knowledge generation and development cycle at different phases.
Hyperauthorship: A comparative study of genetics and high-energy physics research Physics and biomedicine are two widely mentioned disciplines with a high number of hyperauthored articles; however, this study determined that high-energy physics has a more apparent nature of hyperauthorship than does genetics. Although a low percentage of hyperauthored articles in the two fields of high-energy physics and genetics was identified, increasing trends were observed. In addition to the possible continuing increase in the number of hyperauthored articles, whether hyperauthorship extends to other disciplines, what factors elevate the growth of hyperauthored articles, and the researchers' perceptions of hyperauthorship are further research focuses.
The structure and evolution of scientific collaboration from the perspective of symbiosis In this paper we have introduced a novel metric for analyzing the symbiotic relationship between subjects and demonstrate its potential for producing new insight into the nature of research collaboration.
Malaysian early career researchers on the ethics of scholarly publishing This paper has provided valuable insights into the ways in which ECRs publish their research and the ethics attached to it.
Exploring the influence of scientific journal ranking on publication performance in the Hungarian social sciences: the case of law and economics "We have developed arguments that journal evaluations in a country with specific research strategies and unique language environment generate noticeable influence on publication output and performance."
Exploration of an interdisciplinary scientific landscape We have introduced a multi-dimensional approach to the understanding of interdisciplinarity, based on citation network and semantic network analysis.
Sections-based bibliographic coupling for research paper recommendation Comprehensive experiments on a dataset of bibliographically coupled research papers show that the proposed approach using the logical sections outperformed the content based and bibliographic coupling based paper recommendation approaches.
Formational bounds of link prediction in collaboration networks Based on averaged empirical results from four datasets that represent different disciplines and a region, our findings show that roughly speaking, 25% of links represent continued collaborations (Type A), 25% of links are new collaborations between existing authors (Type B), and 50% are formed between an existing author and a new network member (Type C).
Generating a representative keyword subset pertaining to an academic conference series In this paper a novel method is presented to extract undiscovered knowledge from a large volume of conference papers through the interrelationship of research topics, thereby obtaining a compressed set of keywords that act as a representative set for the conference.
Structural characteristics of institutional collaboration in North Korea analyzed through domestic publications Results show that while the political system strongly coordinates the North Korean innovation system, better linkage of research and production is needed in science-based problems, including better collaboration between universities.
A research framework to explore knowledge evolution and scholarly quantification of collaborative research For any research area, a coherent understanding of its knowledge evolution and scholarly quantification is very important to different stakeholders including policy makers and funding organizations.
What characterises funded biomedical research? Evidence from a basic and a clinical domain This study analyses funding acknowledgements in articles published by Spain-based researchers in two biomedical domains, CARD and VIROL, as covered by the WoS database.
A characterization of professional media and its links to research There is little to no apparent time lag in the diffusion of information from research literature to professional media.
Publications from university-affiliated anaesthesiology departments: a look at Belgium, France and the Netherlands from 2001 to 2015 "In Belgium, France and the Netherlands, the number of publications increased from 2001 to 2015 as compared to other European countries such as Austria, Germany, Swit- zerland and United Kingdom."
What is the difference in global research on Central Asia before and after the collapse of the USSR: a bibliometric analysis We evaluated the differences in global research on Central Asia before and after the col- lapse of the USSR from 1900 to 2016 with statistical analyses and analysed the relation- ship between global Central Asia research outputs and the number of tourists, exports of fuel oil and GDP.
The age at which Noble Prize research is conducted In conclusion, using the Advanced Information document with scientific background published by the Nobel Foundation for each awarded Nobel Prize since 1995 for physics and economics, since 2000 for chemistry and since 2006 for medicine, we have determined the average Laureate age at the time that the papers cited by the Nobel committee was published. This clearly indicates that Laureates in physics are awarded the Prize for a single scientific discovery while Laureates in economics are given the Prize for establishing and promoting a new economic theory over many years. Finally, we showed that Laureates wait an average of 22.3 ± 10.8 years between conducting their award-winning research and receiving the Nobel Prize.
Altmetrics, alternative indicators for Web of Science Communication studies journals Through altmetrics, the scientific impact of a study is visualized and we can study the scientific dissemination of the journals themselves in the media, using them as an evaluative element in the processes of transformation and improvement.
Research fund evaluation based on academic publication output analysis: the case of Chinese research fund evaluation Then, this paper designs an indicator system from three perspectives, covering quantity, quality and relative influence, and takes a program funded by National Program on Key Basic Research Project of China (973 Program) as an example.
Examining national citation impact by comparing developments in a fixed and a dynamic journal set "Overall, we show that the fixed journal sets largely mirrors the dynamic sets in terms of the long-term developments in relative citation scores at the country level."
In quest of new document relations: evaluating co-opinion relations between co-citations and its impact on Information retrieval effectiveness Consequently, the co-opinionatedness can be presented as a new document relation and used as a normalization factor to improve retrieval performance and research evaluation.
Scientific Quality Index: a composite size-independent metric compared with h-index for 480 medical researchers Therefore, the SQI may be approached as an interesting alternative way for assessment of the scientific output of an individual researcher.
Finding high-impact interdisciplinary users based on friend discipline distribution in academic social networking sites In this study, we found 128 high-impact interdisciplinary users through the discipline distribution of ASNS users' friends, this method provides a new perspective on interdisciplinary users based on user connections. By analyzing the answers directly provided by the questionnaires, we confirmed that it is feasible to measure users' interdisciplinarity based on user's friend's disciplines.
Factors associated with publication speed in general medical journals: a retrospective study of bibliometric data This study provides insight into the accept-ance, publication and total delay times in general medical journals. Researchers inter-ested in reducing publication delays when submitting their research to general medical journals should focus on journals with online publication as well as on alternative forms of dissemination such as preprints.
One category, two communities: subfield differences in "Information Science and Library Science" in Journal Citation Reports "Furthermore, the results suggested that MIS and LIS pertain to two different research communities."
Analysis of retractions in Indian science The analysis showed several interesting phenomena related to an increasing problem in the scholarly publishing world: retractions.
A bibliometric analysis of publications in computer networking research Our study provides a methodology and framework for performing a comprehensive biblio- metric analysis on computer networking research and the public release of a comprehen- sive dataset.
Bibliometric analysis of publications from post-Soviet countries in psychological journals in 1992-2017 The output of psychology papers in the international journals has been rather poor after the dissolution of the USSR. However, the growth of post-Soviet countries' output in psychological journals, especially in Russia and Estonia, is observed. Further studies of the rise of psychological science in post-Soviet countries are needed in order to fully understand the causes and nature of the growth of their publication output and impact.
The Pinski-Narin influence weight and the Ramanujacharyulu power-weakness ratio indicators revisited At the non-recursive level, the two indicators, which are non-network measures of popularity, are identical. After recursion (i.e. repeated improvement or iteration) these become network measures of prestige of the journals. We are also able to show the distorting effects when self-citations are taken into account.
How well does I3 perform for impact measurement compared to other bibliometric indicators? The convergent validity of several (field-normalized) indicators Thus, the results point out that the indicator could be a valuable alternative to other indicators in bibliometrics.
A new approach to the analysis and evaluation of the research output of countries and institutions In this paper we have introduced a straightforward methodology to analyse the scientific contribution of territories and institutions that combines size-dependent and scale-free measures.
Zero impact: a large-scale study of uncitedness Our results clearly con- firm the importance of document types, field and time when studying uncitedness. However, our results also show that the interaction of these three important factors also need to be taken into account. Consequently, our study finds that future studies of uncitedness needs to consider the field, document type and time as interacting factors.
ResearchGate Score, full-text research items, and full-text reads: a follow-up study In this contribution, we delve (again) into the relationships among the metrics provided by the scholarly social network RG. Here we show that, although no causal nexus can be established, the RG Score is strongly correlated with overall reads and, to less extent, to the ratio between full-texts deposited in the repository and overall research items featured in the researcher's profile page.
National criteria for academic appointment in vascular surgery "Total number of publications was independently associated with associate professor, with number of first or last author publications particularly important for professor."
Making a difference in the real world? A meta-analysis of the quality of use-oriented research using the Research Quality Plus approach We conclude that those located closest to a development challenge are generally those best positioned to innovate a solution. The results present novel evidence for those supporting, using, and doing research for development. Our results show that scientifically excellent research is useful research. Conventional wisdom suggests a trade-off between the rigor and the utility of research. In our analysis, a strong positive correlation between research integrity and positioning for use suggests the opposite.
Creating research impact through the productive interactions of an individual: an example from South African research on maritime piracy To conclude, the SIAMPI approach as applied in this study— focussing on an individual and using documentary evidence—mainly provided an account of interactions with linked stakeholders that turned productive. For SIAMPI to also adequately address the link between productive interactions and observed high-level transfor- mations, follow-up case studies involving downward linking are needed. Self-documentation as a form of data col- lection to trace productive interactions, although valuable, would therefore need to be supplemented with interview (or other) data. At the same time, it seems possible—as this study has shown—for those assessed to construct a first narrative of their interactions and to visualize it for ease of understanding.
Bibliometric Analysis of Algal-Bacterial Symbiosis in Wastewater Treatment Results showed that this research has drawn wide concern, and the number of published articles has continued to increase rapidly over the past two decades. Methane production, biofuel production, and extracellular polymeric substance were future focal frontiers of research, and this field had gradually become a multi-perspective and inter-disciplinary approach combining biological, environmental and energy technologies. In addition, the incorporation of bioenergy technology and algal-bacterial symbiosis has become an emerging research frontier, which can produce biomass energy such as methane and biodiesel while achieving water purification.
Motivations for self-archiving on an academic social networking site: A study on researchgate Self-archiving research on RG is a way to promote open science that makes scientific results accessible to and reusable by a wider audience; this will create an era of networked science, thus accelerating the progress of science, which will be beneficial to our society (Scheliga & Friesike, 2014).
Alphabetic or Contributor Author Order. What Is the Norm in Danish Economics and Political Science and Why? The article finds that alphabetic authorship is the norm in economics, and also across national borders (see Figure 2D).
Comparing research performance of private universities in India with IITs, central universities and NITs It is interesting to observe that private universities show a significant growth in the research output during the recent years. Given this rate of growth, they may sur- pass the CUs in terms of research output in the years to come. Private universities, however, have a long way to go to match the funding levels of top performing Government institutions, particularly on funds for research and innovation activities and research support to faculty members.
Identification of Cognitive and Social Framework of Tissue Engineering by Science Mapping Analysis These results point toward the conceptual consolidation of TE and the existence of different patterns of publication, in which the USA tended toward international cooperation whereas Asiatic countries showed a robust trend toward regional collaboration.
MAPPING OF PLANT SCIENCE RESEARCH PRODUCTIVITY IN PAKISTAN This study reveals a rising trend in scientific production within the discipline of plant science occupying 10th rank in Asia and the number increased from just 16 publications in 1975 to 1276 in 2017. As Pakistan is an agrarian country, more research is needed to be done in this field and scientists should be encouraged to publish their research in peer-reviewed journals.
When "Normal" Becomes Normative: A Case Study of Researchers' Quotation Errors When Referring to a Focus Group Sample Size Study Our study shows very high rates of one type of quotation error: the misrepresentation of descriptive information about focus group sample size as normative. Researchers referring to other researchers’ work carry most of the responsibility for ensuring that they do this appropriately. However, the authors of the research being referred to also need to consider how they can make their results clearer.
Searching by grant number: comparison of funding acknowledgments in NIH RePORTER, PubMed, and Web of Science This study shows that while PubMed returns the most robust list of publications, variations in the format of reported funding support and indexing practices meant no one resource was sufficient to capture all publications that cited a given NIH project grant number.
Bibliometric analysis of scientific publications in rheumatology journals from China and other top-ranking countries between 2007 and 2017 The USA has played predominant role in rheumatology research for the last 11 years.
Status Quo of Professional-Patient Relations in the Internet Era: Bibliometric and Co-Word Analyses We identified eight focal research directions, namely: website building (especially for professional-patient interaction), telemedicine, professional-patient communication and network public opinion, professional-patient contradiction and health education, new media, follow-up interaction platform, healthcare reform and computer network, and medical ethics.
THE EVOLUTION OF "TECHNOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF ECONOMY": A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS This study presented a bibliometric analysis on all the TEDE publications indexed in the SSCI database.
Starting Line for Scholarly Activity in New Residency Programs: Lessons Learned for Institutional Success In conclusion, newly accredited GME training programs can produce successful scholarly work by developing structured research curriculum and readily available resources within the research department.
Publication Productivity of Nursing Faculty in Selected Schools of Nursing Across the United States The findings of this study provide the first documentation of scholarly productivity of nursing faculty, as measured by the number of publications, number of citations, and h-index of nursing faculty across schools of nursing. These data can be used by appointment, promotion, and tenure committees as they assess the scholarly productivity of nursing faculty for advancement in both tenure and nontenure ranks, and by faculty themselves to gauge their publication productivity. Future studies could expand the number of schools using random sampling and a larger sample to capture and document the full range of productivity across the field.
Plagiarism in Predatory Publications: A Comparative Study of Three Nursing Journals This study found a substantial level of plagiarism via duplicate publications in the three analyzed predatory journals, further diluting credible scientific literature and risking the ability to synthesize evidence accurately to inform practice.
The emergent integrated network structure of scientific research Overall, this work demonstrates the value of network analysis in gaining insight into the structure of scientific knowledge, paints a picture of the surprisingly integrated nature of scientific ideas, and reveals a potentially important positive relationship between interdisciplinarity and scientific engagement. Broadly, this work suggests that complex and dynamic patterns of knowledge emerge from scientific research, and that structures reflecting intellectual integration may be beneficial for obtaining scientific insight.
The Geography and Concentration of Authorship in the Top Five: Implications For European Economics Institutions outside the United States should thus bear in mind that – although the top five journals publish many articles each year – only a small share of these include junior co-authors from outside the United States, and even fewer are written only by non-USA researchers who publish in a top-five journal for the first time.
Scientific misconduct and accountability in teams The analysis shows that scientific misconduct is not equally likely to arise from all members of an author team. These findings suggest that a guarantor-like model where first authors are ex-ante accountable for misconduct is highly likely to not miss catching the author responsible, while not afflicting too many bystanders. Guarantor models should instead prove to be more efficient, to the extent that they allocate accountability to authors with a central role.
A Bibliometric Analysis of International Competitiveness (1983-2017) The objective of this study was to review the last 34 years of research on competitiveness in the international context, from its formal inception in 1983 to 2017.
Flight Path 2050 and ACARE Goals for Maintaining and Extending Industrial Leadership in Aviation: A Map of the Aviation Technology Space This highlights the lack of capacity of universities in Europe, as well as in the USA, to translate basic research into products and industrial innovation. Future innovation and research policies should contribute to closing the existing research and innovation gap between academia and the aeronautical industry to encourage the integration of academic research and applied research so as to promote the development of the subject and the level of aerospace industry.
The influence of editorial decisions and the academic network on self citations and journal impact factors Effective policy needs to change the editorial decision calculation by removing the benefits of manipulation; removing self-citations from journal metric calculations drastically reduces those benefits.
Predicting Long-Term Scientific Impact Based on Multi-Field Feature Extraction The experiment results demonstrate that the proposed model can stably improve the accuracy of scholars' scientific impact prediction, and it also offers a prediction pattern for long-term prediction problem.
Impact factor, eigenfactor, article influence, scopus SNIP, and SCImage journal rank of occupational therapy journals The findings indicate that the range of available bibliometric measures should be used collectively to yield a more comprehensive assessment of journal and article rankings rather than the singular use of IF scores that currently and frequently occurs in many jurisdictions.
Biomaterials research of China from 2013 to 2017 based on bibliometrics and visualization analysis After statistics and analysis, we found that biomaterials is a promising research field. The study may be helpful in understanding research trends in this field. The keywords “in vitro”, “scaffold”, “nanoparticle”, “mechanical property", "biocompatibility”, “drug delivery”, and “surface” have been the research hotspots during the period of 2013 to 2017, while the keyword "surface modification” may be the frontier in this field, and the researchers should pay attention to the related studies in the future.
A dataset of publication records for Nobel laureates As our quantitative understanding of science deepens, this dataset is expected to have increasing value.
The expanded scientific and technical human capital model: the addition of a cultural dimension We have argued that the original STHC model, albeit with its significant contributions, fails to address one important dimension of scientists' careers—cultural experiences. The cultural dimension of the expanded STHC model includes an explicit focus on how interacting with people from different cultural backgrounds (including gender, race, SES, nationality and discipline) can increase STHC and S&T performance.
Cognitive Distance and Research Output in Computing Education: A Case-Study Three recommendations emerge for policy mak-ers and educational leaders: 1) departments should be cross-functional and focused on societal interests; 2) communities of practice should be created at the level of doctoral education and upward; and 3) departments should hold matchmaking and speed-meeting events regularly within and across institutions.
Open access availability of Catalonia research output: Case analysis of the CERCA institution, 2011-2015 Based on a sample of 3,730 articles published by CERCA's researchers between 2011 and 2015 our findings indicated that 75.8% of the articles were available online in open access for- mat, applying the broadest definition of open access. When only articles in repositories or open access journals were taken into account, just 52% of the scientific output was openly available. The study also revealed that the number of articles published in open access journals (567) was very similar to the number of articles published in hybrid magazines or journals with embargo periods (624).
Production Trends, Collaboration, and Main Topics of the Integrative and Complementary Oncology Research Area: A Bibliometric Analysis "The present article shows potentially important information that allows understanding of the past, present, and future of research in integrative and complementary oncology."
Skill ranking of researchers via hypergraph In this paper, we make both empirical analysis and data analysis to figure out factors affecting the result of skill ranking.
A bibliometric analysis of the global research in ankylosing spondyloarthritis (2008-2017) The present study was the first to evaluate the global productivity on AS research from 2008 to 2017. Although China had exceeded the United States in the quantity of yearly AS publications, the quality of papers from China was lower compared to the United States. European countries may have better performance relative to their their population and economic size.
Analysis of highly tweeted dental journals and articles: a science mapping approach Ground breaking issues such as genomic medicine, stem cells, tissue engineering, nanotechnology, and artificial intelligence were not seen among the highly tweeted dental articles. The journals are strongly recommended to be proactive in Twittersphere, to set up their own Twitter profile, and to promote their visibility and social impact by immediately tweeting the articles. Researchers should be alert to the overuse of Twitter in scholarly communications.
Robotic Surgery Research in Urology: A Bibliometric Analysis of Field and Top 100 Articles This analysis of research activity has the potential to guide future robotic surgery research trends in the field of urology. There has been an explosion in robotic surgery urological research activity over the last decade, with level 3 evidence dominating the top 100 articles of the field. Examination of urological robotic surgery literature reveals a tremendous increase in publication activity over the past two decades.
Altruism or Self-Interest? Exploring the Motivations of Open Access Authors The findings from our collected data have implications for local practice and suggest possible directions for future research. We found promotion and tenure unlikely to motivate USU authors toward OA while self-reported altruism reigned supreme. If we are to help them meet their goals in publishing their work, it will be through conversation rather than blind assumptions.
Citing East Asia: A Citation Study on the Use of East Asian Materials in East Asian Studies Dissertations Data collected for this study yield many interesting results: citation patterns varied widely among scholars in terms of number and percentage of East Asian citations; most scholars cited 50 or more East Asian sources; heavy use of East Asian materials appears more often in institutions with larger East Asian collections; books are the most frequently cited format for East Asian studies scholars, serials are the next most frequently cited; and scholars cite books and serials published in all periods but fewer sources published in the most recent five years. Findings from this study highlight the importance of collecting East Asian materials in North America and have important implications for collection development decision making.
Tracking the popularity and outcomes of all bioRxiv preprints Biology preprints have a growing presence in scientific communication, and we now have ongoing, detailed data to quantify this process.
Citation performance of thirty keywords in economics We show that citation performance of articles that use different keywords are different.
Variation in Valuation: How Research Groups Accumulate Credibility in Four Epistemic Cultures In this paper we have compared the ways in which research groups accumulate credibility across four different epistemic cultures. On the basis of this, we propose to refine the credibility cycle (CC).
The Ethos of Science in Contemporary Poland The results of the study show a vast complexity in the normative structure of science, one that goes beyond the expectations formulated in our hypothesis.
The Perception of Scientific Authorship Across Domains Academia seems to lack universal agreement about what kind of a contribution ought to define authorship of a publication. We found several differences in the perception of authorship across domains on the supply (journals) and considerable differences on the demand side (researchers). Consequently, researchers of domains with much narrower definitions of authorship may be disadvantaged when compared to their colleagues from domains that rely on broader authorship definitions, domain-specific perceptions of authorship should be taken into account when allocating funding and jobs.
What are Clinician Scientists Expected to do? The Undefined Space for Professionalizable Work in Translational Biomedicine Considering our findings, the idea that clinician scientists should embody the role of clinicians and scientists simultaneously seems unrealistic.
Assessment of Korea's Orthopedic Research Activities in the Top 15 Orthopedic Journals, 2008-2017 Orthopedic research in South Korea demonstrated high productivity in terms of the number of publications in high-quality journals between 2008 and 2017. However, total citations and average citations per article were still relatively low. Efforts should be made to increase citation rates for further improvement in research productivity in the field of orthopedics.
Impact of a Resident Research Grant on Scholarly Output During Pediatric Residency We found that receipt of an institution-based resident research grant was associated with increased scholarly output by pediatric residents.
A bibliometric analysis of top-cited papers in the biogas field Despite the limitations of this study, the results of our study are a starting point for the identification and characterization of the 100 top-cited papers in the field of biogas basing on the Clarivate Analytics Web of Science database. Our results show that the papers were published between 1988 and 2015, with the majority published between 2006 and 2011, and the top-cited papers were research papers. For future research, we suggested consider the limitations mentioned here.
A framework for researcher participation in Research Information Management Systems This article describes a Framework for researcher participation in RIMS. The Framework can guide the design of RIMSs by defining typologies of researcher activities in RIMSs, researchers' motivations related to these activities, their levels of RIMS participation, and their metadata profiles. RIMS managers and scholarly communications librarians can use the Framework to assemble RIMS service and metadata profiles that are tailored to the researcher's context.
Popular research topics in the recent journal publications of library and information science Based on the results, the authors believe that in the most recent decade the most popular research topics in the LIS journals are closely related to Social Media, Data, Web, Information Retrieval, Information Literacy, Students, Evaluation, Collaboration, Knowledge Management, User Studies, and Information Management; while the authors are attempted but more cautious about drawing conclusions on the research topics of government-related or digital libraries. It can also be interpreted that the popularity of these research topics has three implications: the library service transition to digital platform, the patron-centralization concept, and the emergence of data governance and librarianship. There are still some limitations in the present study, however, that need to be rectified in future studies.
The top 100 cited articles on Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD): A citation analysis The present study provided a detailed list of the top cited 100 articles in the field of OCD. This list should be an invaluable reference to all the students of psychiatry and to those particularly interested in field of OCD. This list provides an important insight into the historical developments in OCD and allows for the recognition of important advancement of the field.
Spatial bibliometrics on the city level The spatial maps produced for this Brief Communication demonstrate that the analysis of bibliometric data on the city level produces overviews of the performance of countries with high information content.
An evidence rating service provided valid correlates of the clinical importance of medical articles and journals Measures of scientific merit and clinical importance of medical journal articles were strongly correlated with each other, less so with JIFs.
Factors impacting accounting research output in developing countries: An exploratory study The findings in this paper indicate that an individual academic's commitment, motivation and research competency are important factors in determining the research productivity of accounting academics in the region. The object of this paper was to identify those factors that impact accounting research output in Anglophone SSA's universities. In addition, extending the study to other developing regions to establish whether the Anglophone SSA is an outlier or whether accounting scholars in these areas experience similar problems could provide insights into the support that these individuals need to join the community of scholars.
Global research mapping of substance use disorder and treatment 1971-2017: implications for priority setting This study offers a comprehensive picture of the global trend of publications of substance use disorder.
Clustering Scientific Document Based on an Extended Citation Model In this study, we not only considered the frequency and distribution of scientific documents that are cited in a document and the proximity between two scientific documents cited in a document, but also integrated text and citation analysis.
The adoption of Article Processing Charges as a business model by Brazilian Open Access journals Among Brazilian journals adopting APC, it was observed that the applied fees mainly vary in accordance with the geographical origin of authors, length of articles, journals' fields of study, language of the publication, as well as discounts offered by publishers (for instance, to members/associates of scientific societies), among other factors. The issue of prestige arises as a moderate determining factor for APC prices when considered from the perspective of citations, but significantly increases from the point of view of the evaluation system of Brazilian scientific production, impacting access to resources. Further developments of this study could include in-depth research with publishers to make, for example, their key motivations for the adoption of APC explicit, as well as the how they have tried to conciliate the flow of resources (institutional, grants, APC etc.) with the increasing costs of publication.
Highly cited articles in the Education and Educational Research category in the Social Science Citation Index: a bibliometric analysis We concluded that the USA, its institutions and journals, are the absolute leaders in the category of Education and Educational Research.
Towards a second generation of 'social media metrics': Characterizing Twitter communities of attention around science The findings presented in this research are framed around the idea of developing a second generation of social media metrics, focused on characterizing the different social media communities of attention around science and their activities and interactions around scientific results. This work contributes to pave the way for reconciling ‘altmetric’ and bibliometric approaches in what can be seen as a broader perspective of social media studies of science (i.e. bringing together the interactions and network perspectives between both social media and science-related entities, activities and objects) [1, 16].
A Laplace transfer-based citation model and its application in detecting the obsolescence characteristics of articles Experimental results show that the obsolescence time parameters identified in this study represent the obsoles- cence characteristics of this field.
Diversification versus specialization in scientific research: Which strategy pays off? The results seem to indicate that research outputs in a field other than the scientist's prevalent one achieve lower impact on scientific advancement than those produced in their own field. However, the current research reveals a risk that scientists, both expecting and then observing lower citation impacts from diversified output, could resist engagement in research projects outside their core fields of research. The findings of the current study would seem to present further observable justification of the hesitation for academics to enter into collaboration involving the private sector and multidisciplinary studies.
Patterns of the China-Africa research collaborations from 2006 to 2016: a bibliometric analysis The China-Africa collaboration is still growing and despite suspicions regarding the motives of China, Africa stands to gain in terms of access to new fields and boosting research quality, especially in the STEM disciplines. The study has the implication that while Africa needs to address issues of policy on sciences and funding for research in higher education, China equally needs to go beyond the current locations in Africa and equally engage with the lesser developed players on the continent.
Co-Authorship Network Analysis of Prevention Research Centers: An Exploratory Study Our findings support the value of network analysis for describing health-related scientific collaborations and the collective impact of organizational performance.11-13
Do prestige and trust sustain knowledge-based communities? Evidence from Medical Ethics co-authorship networks in France: A micro study The current study attempted to answer some long-standing research questions while opening up a discussion on the mutual importance of prestige and trust as to why authors remain embedded in social structures.
Twenty Years of Information Systems Frontiers This paper examined the focus of ISF over the past 20 years. The analysis revealed that ISF topics are largely into two groups: one group represents the anchor of ISF within the traditional IS themes. Another group reflects ISF research adapting and responding to key trends. We anticipate that these topics will feature more strongly within the next decade of ISF.
Citation metrics of excellence in sports biomechanics research "This study confirmed previous studies that recent career research award winners in sports biomechanics have outstanding publication and citation records, consistent with senior scholars in biomechanics and kinesiology/exercise science."
The academic-practitioner gap in Spanish library and information science: An analysis of authorship and collaboration in two leading national publications Based on the examination of authorship types in the publications studied in this paper it is clear that a gap exists between the practitioner and academic sectors in Spain. It is essential that the many actors involved in LIS in Spain – and Europe in general, according to the indicators we mention analyse the situation and make a strong commitment to supporting and promoting common ground for practitioners and academics. The study also highlighted some aspects for future research.
Scientific output in library and information science: A comparative study of the journals Anales de Documentacion and BiD textos universitaris en biblioteconomia i documentacio The comparative study between the journals AD and BiD suggests that in spite of sharing a fair number of similarities, such as their preferred geographical reach and being published by a university, each journal has a distinctive thematic approach and caters to a different researcher segment. As regards the methodology used, we consider that this is a future avenue for research to compare a larger number of journals, not too large but large enough to gain an adequate view of the journals individually and of the discipline in general. This type of study is useful in disciplines that are still in the process of consolidating or to verify the existence and emergence of subdisciplines.
Multi-authoring and its impact on university rankings: a case study of CERN effect on Turkish universities The influence in terms of the percentage of CERN articles and citations in the total number of articles citations is salient. The CERN impact, and more generally the impact of multi-authored articles play an unintended role in university rankings due to citation credit per affiliated institution. This influence has a significant impact on ranking systems and their indicators.
An index-based ranking of conferences in a distinctive manner It differentiates conferences, even such conferences which have quite a similar research record, in a better manner as compared to the other indices. The experiments performed on a huge data set of DBLP confirm that the DS-index assigns a unique rank to each conference, and no two conferences are assigned the same rank up to top 100 conferences. Thus, in the future, the authors intend to apply the proposed index to rank conferences based on their domains of research.
Grey literature archiving pattern in open access (OA) repositories with special emphasis on Indian OA repositories Institutional repositories are becoming a part of the technical infrastructure at research and academic institutions with a preferred channel of providing open-access to their intellectual output. Indian repositories, both academic and R&D, have failed to adequately archive GL, except for the theses document type. Indian repository managers need to study and emulate the OA polices and strategies adopted by European and North American repositories to enrich Indian OA repositories with valuable grey content generated by institutions.
An effectiveness analysis of altmetrics indices for different levels of artificial intelligence publications This study lays the foundation for further investigations about effectiveness of altmetrics indices from new perspectives, and it has important implication for the studies about the impact of social media on the scientific community. Our work makes important contributions to altmetrics research and business practice. Some available research directions for the future are given as follows.
Are journal and author self-citations a visibility strategy? It can be concluded that self-citations and first self-citations play an important role in the citation of the works and in the increase of their visibility.
Scientific knowledge in South Africa: information trends, patterns and collaboration It is evident from the analysis that South African science has been growing significantly over the years. If these distinguishing characteristics have facilitated South Africa to move ahead in its science then there are lessons to be learnt from them. These are lessons for many African countries, particularly those in the sub-Saharan region, if they choose to develop and advance their science for a better future.
A probe into 66 factors which are possibly associated with the number of citations an article received Possible strategies were hence proposed for identifying high-quality and high-impact articles.
A hierarchical approach to analyzing knowledge integration between two fieldsa case study on medical informatics and computer science In this paper, we put forward a new method to explore the knowledge integration of CS by MI and its evolution from the perspective of hierarchy.
Influence of international authorship on citations in Brazilian medical journals: a bibliometric analysis In summary, while collaborative international authorship increased citations in the investigated journals, language, type of document, and subject category had a stronger impact on the number of citations. In documents published in Brazilian medical journals in 2012, citations were increased when the authors were internationally collaborative. However, the magnitude of effect was small-an increase of 0.17 citations over 5 years compared to documents with national authorship.
Examining how country-level science policy shapes publication patterns: the case of Poland Overall, the Polish experience from 2009 to 2016 shows that science policy can shape publication patterns in a targeted way but only when the instruments are well fitted, science policy expectations are explicitly stated, and instruments are used coherently throughout the evaluation system, academic promotions regulations, and grant agencies.
Which can better predict the future success of articles? Bibliometric indices or alternative metrics "Experimental results on articles published in the seven journals in PLOS showed that both traditional bibliometric indices and alternative metrics are valuable predictors for future HCPs."
Interdisciplinary scholarly communication: an exploratory study for the field of joint attention This paper provides a foundation for further research that may improve communications across disciplines, thereby facilitating interdisciplinary innovation.
Examining the influence of open access on journals' citation obsolescence by modeling the actual citation process OA does have an impact on the obsolescence characteristics of journals.
A nonlinear collective credit allocation in scientific publications In this paper, we propose a nonlinear collective credit allocation method (NCCA method) to assign credits to authors in a given paper.
The integrated impact indicator revisited(I3*): a non-parametric alternative to the journal impact factor We argue in this paper that an indicator can be developed that reflects both impact and output, and that combines the two dimensions of publications and citations into a single measure by using non-parametric statistics.
Using mutual information as a cocitation similarity measure In this paper, we proposed to use mutual information as a cocitation similarity measure in author co-citation analysis.
Fragmented publishing: a large-scale study of health science In conclusion, some subdisciplines have published more per study over time, whereas other subdisciplines have published less.
The secrets behind Web of Science's DOI search We are surprised to find that millions of records can be retrieved by Web of Science's DOI search queries “DO=A*”, “DO=P*”,“DO=S*", and “DO=U*”.
Emphasizing the experiences of researchers after RCR instructions: Introduction to Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) in Malaysia The findings of this study should be valuable for policy makers and those involved in the management of research programs and ethics, as it demonstrated the importance of RCR training in equipping researchers with the necessary knowledge to conduct research responsibly, and to avoid research misconduct.
Exploring two decades of research on classroom dialogue by using bibliometric analysis This study presents a comprehensive overview of the publications relating to classroom dialogue during years 1999–2018, using bibliometric analyses.
Productivity, prominence, and the effects of academic environment These results identify an environmental mechanism for cumu-lative advantage, in which an individual's past successes are "locked in" via placement into a more prestigious environment, which directly facilitates future success.
Nursing and midwifery research activity in Arab countries from 1950 to 2017 Nursing and midwifery research activity in Arab countries has dramatically increased especially over the past five years.
Researchers' online visibility: tensions of visibility, trust and reputation This study elucidates aspects of how expectations of being visible online are expressed as part of what it means to be an academic researcher. In conclusion, it becomes evident that the documents of traditional scholarly communication and equally traditional informal activities and science communication – different in different epistemic cultures – are what scaffolds trust and builds reputation. Rather than challenging the status of the formal scholarly publication, new social network sites seem to reinforce its importance by adding yet another indicator or at least the possibility of an indicator through altmetrics – with which to establish traditional rewards, such as career opportunities and funding.
Spatial mobility in elite academic institutions in economics: the case of Spain In this paper, we have presented some evidence on geographic mobility patterns in elite academic institutions in economics. Moreover, our correlation results on productivity comparisons justify a scientific policy for attracting foreign talent, minimizing brain drain, and promoting brain circulation. One may wonder how the mobility patterns studied in this paper have been affected by the severity of the 2008 economic recession in Spain. A proper answer requires another paper.
BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF THE JOURNAL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT BETWEEN 2008 AND 2018 In this paper, we mainly analyzed all the papers of the JCEM journal from 2008 to 2018 by using bibliometric methods and knowl-edge map tools, and revealed the knowledge structure and development process of this journal. This paper made a bibliometric analysis of all publica-tions of the JCEM journal and it hopes to contribute to the field of engineering. In the future, we will analyze the research hotspots and their changes of the journal from different perspectives in combination with the method of text mining.
Reciprocity and impact in academic careers Our results characterize the structure of author networks in a time of increasing emphasis on citation-based indicators, and we discuss their implications towards a fairer assessment of academic impact. All in all, these results suggest that even potentially sophisticated shortcuts to artificially boost bibliometric indicators based on the exchange of citations, rather than on mere self-citations, cannot circumvent the fact that consistently high-quality publications are, by far, the main determinant of academic impact.
Citation classics: ranking of the top 100 most cited articles in nephrology The top 100 list of articles in nephrology helps delineate the major interests of this medical discipline.
The 100 top-cited articles focused on magnetic resonance: a bibliometric analysis Our study presents a detailed list and analysis of the 100 top-cited articles on MR, which provides an insight into historical development in this field.
Publication rates after the first retraction for biomedical researchers with multiple retracted publications In summary, most authors with multiple retractions are associated with scientific misconduct.
Mapping social media attention in Microbiology: identifying main topics and actors "In this paper we have shown that the combination of advanced visualization techniques, network analysis and different altmetric data sources, provides valuable information not only to identify topics of social interest, but also to better assess how such attention is generated and better interpret such differences on topics and communities."
A comparison of bibliometric indicators in occupational therapy journals published in English Multiple metrics should be used to comprehensively understand occupational therapy journal performance.
The Influence of Conception Paradigms on Data Protection in E-Learning Platforms: A Case Study We have addressed the influence of conception paradigms on data protection in virtual learning environments such as Moodle.
Understanding the topic evolution of scientific literatures like an evolving city: Using Google Word2Vec model and spatial autocorrelation analysis Overall, this paper presents a topic evolution analysis based on the keyword semantic mapping.
Can Google Scholar and Mendeley help to assess the scholarly impacts of dissertations? In summary, the new method now makes it possible for research funders, institutions and others to system-atically evaluate the impact of dissertations, although additional Google Scholar queries for other online repositories are needed to ensure comprehensive coverage.
Predicting citation counts based on deep neural network learning techniques In this paper, we proposed a novel method for citation count prediction, which is based on artificial neural networks.
Are all citations worth the same? Valuing citations by the value of the citing items The new indicator shows evident advantages, particularly in terms of greater capacity to detect significant differences in impact between publications.
Biblioranking fundamental physics We applied improved bibliometric indicators to the INSPIRE database, which covers fundamental physics mostly after 1970. The metrics that we explored are: The number of individual citations Nicit - defined as the number of citations divided by the numbers of authors of the cited paper and of references of citing papers - that compensates for the recent inflationary trends towards more authors and references. The PaperRank R, which applies the PageRank algorithm to the citation network among papers and that approximates a physical observable: how many times a paper is read. The AuthorRank [R which applies the PageRank algorithm to the individual citation network among authors. The Citation-coin ¶ equal to the difference between the number of received and given individual citations. An important feature of all these metrics is that they can be computed in practice.
The value and credits of n-authors publications This paper attempts to quantify the expected value of an n-authors publication.
The rhetorical structure of science? A multidisciplinary analysis of article headings The results show, apparently for the first time, that the headings used in scientific articles vary throughout academia, with none being close to ubiquitous in any broad category.
Authorship analysis of specialized vs diversified research output "We observe that the association between the type of collaboration and the spezialized/diversified character of research output, is very weak at both overall and disciplinary levels."
Public-private collaboration and scientific impact: An analysis based on Danish publication data for 1995-2013 In this paper, we have addressed the question of whether public-private collaboration is beneficial or detrimental to scientific research from various angles. Our analysis does not show any indication that a focus on industry collaboration leads to lower impact. Both international collaboration in general and international public and private research in particular are clearly associated with higher citation impact on average.
A refined method for computing bibliographic coupling strengths By reviewing Kessler's method for computing bibliographic coupling strength, and analyzing relevant research about different approaches for calculating bibliographic coupling and related similarity measures the present study puts forward a new method for computing bibliographic coupling. We are convinced that the new formulae (7) and (8) offer a valid approach to the notion of bibliographic coupling. They are moreover based on a better logic than the Vladutz-Cook formula as they are derived from the probabilistic interpretation of the TF-IDF idea.
Ranking scientific articles based on bibliometric networks with a weighting scheme Therefore, it is confirmed that the link weight of bibliometric networks plays a significant role in improving scientific article ranking algorithms.
Comparison of two article-level, field-independent citation metrics: Field-Weighted Citation Impact (FWCI) and Relative Citation Ratio (RCR) We calculated RCR for all publications in the Scopus database and demonstrated that the RCR metric can be extended beyond biomedical research to a broad range of subject areas.
How to consider fractional counting and field normalization in the statistical modeling of bibliometric data: A multilevel Poisson regression approach Fractions: The special technique of fractional counting (e.g., equal weighting, first author weighing) does not play any role (Smith & Beretvas, 2014).
Should citations be counted separately from each originating section? An important practical implication of the research is that section headings are not reliable as indicators of the purpose of a citation, in terms of the six-section structure used here.
Measuring scientific contributions with modified fractional counting MFC is thereby useful whenever the research output from institutions with different research profiles are compared, as e.g., in the Leiden Ranking.
Does the public discuss other topics on climate change than researchers? A comparison of explorative networks based on author keywords and hashtags The comparison of the networks based on publications which were tweeted and mentioned in news outlets with those publications that were not tweeted reveals the public discussion around climate change topics which can be separated from topics being of interest for academia only.
Testing for universality of Mendeley readership distributions Mendeley readership counts seem to follow a log-normal distribution, as in Radicchi and Castellano (2011) for citations.
An empirical approach based on quantile regression for estimating citation ageing Our estimates, albeit following a different strategy, corroborate many of the findings previously reported by model-based approaches.
The effect of open access on research quality I find that moving to APC-based open access makes journals, including the top journals, more lenient and the more readers value research quality the bigger the effect on journal quality of moving to open access.
Rooted citation graphs density metrics for research papers influence evaluation Based on these findings, we believe that the proposed measures can serve complementary to existing measures and provide a richer picture of scientific impact.
For ethical 'impactology' The paper concludes by considering what an ethical impactology might look like, and finds at its heart the responsible use and non-use of metrics.
Designing responsible research and innovation to encourage serendipity could enhance the broader societal impacts of research The ultimate measure of RRI should not be whether we can set up a regulatory regime to make sure researchers have what the procedure determines are the ‘right’ impacts, but rather whether RRI actually empowers researchers to produce (the right) societal impacts. The point is to empower researchers to recognize and pursue ways in which their research can have impact. This will require us to rethink not only how altmetrics or RRI ought to be designed, but also how to retool the entire system for the governance of science.
Age and the Trying Out of New Ideas Our primary findings indicate that as biomedical scientists advance in age, they become less likely to publish papers that build on new ideas. This negative correlation between age and the likelihood of trying out newer ideas is mitigated when an older scientist works together with a young scientist—a combination that is more likely to try out newer ideas than a team consisting of only young scientists. Our results buttress the case for funding young researchers but also provide a caution against unconditional idolatry of youth over experience.
Quantifying and predicting success in show business Based on our findings, we have then constructed a statistical learning model that predicts with up to 85% accuracy whether an actor or actress is likely to have a brighter future, or if the best days are, unfortunately, behind them.
Profile and scientific output of researchers recipients of CNPq productivity grant in the field of medicine Strategies to improve the scientific output qualitatively possibly can be enhanced by the knowledge of the profile of researchers in the field of Medicine. This study of the profile of CNPq researchers in the area of Medicine has shown that the majority of them are males, concentrated in the southeast region of Brazil, particularly in the state of São Paulo. We have shown that CNPq researchers in the field of Medicine have a relevant quantitative and qualitative scientific output, although with a significant discrepancy among the diverse subareas included in this field of knowledge.
Access to Top-Cited Emergency Care Articles (Published Between 2012 and 2016) Without Subscription In conclusion, this study showed that one in every five of the top 500 EM papers published in EM journals over a five-year period were not accessible without a subscription, and that access for scientists from low- and middle-income countries is significantly hampered by cost. Authors, specifically those from high-income countries, should consider the citation advantage afforded by open access publishing when deciding where to publish. It is also important to acknowledge the value this has for authors from low- and middle-income countries.
Research on sulfur oxides and nitric oxides released from coal-fired flue gas and vehicle exhaust: a bibliometric analysis This paper dealt with SCI papers about sulfur oxides and nitric oxides in flue gas and vehicle exhaust, and some significant points on the worldwide research trends throughout the period from 1995 to 2018 were obtained.
Readers and Authors of Educational Research: A Study of Research Output on K-12 Education Policy In describing the characteristics of this body of educational research, I showed that 65% of the journal litera-ture conducted by scholars was locked behind paywalls.
Impact factor correlations with Scimago Journal Rank, Source Normalized Impact per Paper, Eigenfactor Score, and the CiteScore in Radiology, Nuclear Medicine & Medical Imaging journals Our findings support our hypothesis that the IF does not show the best correlation between other metrics.
Scholars' preferred solutions for research misconduct: results from a survey of faculty members at America's top 100 research universities A key takeaway for university administrators is that a multifaceted approach to dealing with the problem of research misconduct, which prominently features enhanced formal sanc-tions, will be met with the support of university faculty. First, the scholars included in the sample generally favored a punitive approach to dealing with the problem of research misconduct. Either way, investigating this matter is a critical next step for lawmakers, administrators, and scholars in addressing the problem of research misconduct.
Pseudo or perish: problematizing the 'predatory' in global health publishing The case story method has helped this paper to argue predatory journals may be considered a form of production, that frequently originates in the global south, and that seeks to access resources from the global north, enacting a form of social banditry for the well-being of its community. Embedded in this argument is the idea that such redistributional exploitation is a cost of the overdeveloped global north's privilege, and a price to pay for the liberty and democracy of open access. Through a lens of social banditry, it has proposed an alternative analysis: that predation in publishing can operate as a force to disrupt exploitation, redress injustice, and further equity's reparational, emancipative ideals.
Rewarding the quantity of peer review could harm biomedical research Pressuring or inducing academics into creating a list of peer review reports raises serious questions about the quality of such peer review and the value that such an action adds to biomedical research.
Identifying historical roots of knowledge development in cardiovascular nursing using bibliometrics Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy Analysis showed to be a viable approach to analyse the historical roots of knowledge development in cardiovascular nursing.
Plagiarism in South African management journals: A follow-up study The findings indicate that plagiarism in South African management journals is on the increase, thus supporting other studies that indicate the rise of plagiarism internationally.
Gender diversity in the management field: Does it matter for research outcomes? Our findings corroborate recent sociological research suggesting that cultural norms and expectations are channeling women and men towards different areas of work and study. We argue that the broadened repertoire of perspectives, values and questions resulting from gender diversity may render management research more responsive to the full gamut of societal needs and expectations.
Academic breeding grounds: Home department conditions and early career performance of academic researchers The evidence presented here suggests that PhD students whose theses are shaped by the nature of the (external) funding, in the sense that the choice of thesis subject is decisively shaped by the conditions for funding, are more likely than other PhD students to remain within academia.
The geography of scientific citations This paper investigated how scientific citations are affected by geographical co-location of scientific teams at the organizational, re- gional and national level, and tested how these effects vary for different levels of knowledge relatedness.
Evaluation in research funding agencies: Are structurally diverse teams biased against? Our empirical results, based on EPSRC data, indicate that diverse teams are not only penalized but are also biased against.
Methods to account for citation inflation in research evaluation Thus, our study points to the need for a systemic overhaul of the counting methods used evaluating citation impact – especially in the case of researchers, journals, and institutions - which can span several decades and thus several doubling periods.
Comparison between Scopus, Web of Science, PubMed and publishers for mislabelled review papers Results from the current study indicated that the PubMed database is the most accurate in assigning document type labels compared to WoS and Scopus, which can be an important consideration for librarians, researchers and academicians working in the medical field or healthcare sector, when such a parameter is used for subscribing to journals, conducting a literature review or evaluating academic performance.
Author misrepresentation of institutional affiliations: protocol for an exploratory case study We are reporting the protocol for an exploratory study to be conducted in Chile on the potential problem of author affiliation misrepresentation. We expect that the findings of this study might apply to other countries as well. We hope that our study results will contribute to raise awareness and guide key stakeholders in developing standards for reporting institutional affiliations.
Selective citation in the literature on the hygiene hypothesis: a citation analysis on the association between infections and rhinitis There is clear evidence for selective citation in this research field, and particularly for citation bias.
Knowledge and motivations of researchers publishing in presumed predatory journals: a survey This work provides some evidence to inform policy to prevent future research from being published in predatory journals. Our research suggests that common views about predatory journals (eg, no peer review) may not always be true, and that a grey zone between legitimate and presumed predatory journals exists.
A bibliometric analysis of the most cited articles about squamous cell carcinoma of the mouth, lips, and oropharynx Etiology and risk factors were the most commonly represented topic in the list of the 100 most cited articles. Narrative reviews and experimental studies are the most common types of studies among the top cited articles. Our findings could be used to guide future research efforts.
How to strengthen clinical research in Shenzhen, China: qualitative study Despite the established strengths, Shenzhen still needs to develop suitable technical platforms, human resources training programmes and strong human research subject protection programmes pertaining to clinical research.
A cross-sectional study of predatory publishing emails received by career development grant awardees ASEs are a common distraction for career development grantees that may impact faculty productivity. There is an urgent need to mitigate this growing problem. This suggests that academic faculty who are junior and/or who feel pressure to publish might be most susceptible to these types of predatory solicitations.
Sourcing Research Papers on Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises' Competitiveness: An approach based on authors' networks The results obtained presented the most relevant authors as well as their research networks on subjects as competitiveness and its measurement; KPIs and SMEs.
Tools to Support Scientific Online Publishing The conclusion is obvious: presently, to get a wide readership, the author simply has to choose open online publishing.
Large-scale analysis of micro-level citation patterns reveals nuanced selection criteria Finally, our study expands on the previous hypothesis of a 'winning combination' of references that is strategically used by successful papers, suggesting that the authors of impactful papers have better 'scientific taste' when selecting the scientific foundation on which to build their own work.
Post retraction citations among manuscripts reporting a radiology-imaging diagnostic method Our study provides the first insights regarding the post retraction citations in radiology-imaging diagnostic methods scientific literature available in PubMed.
Conceptual Structure of Lodging-Context Studies: 1990-2016 This study makes several important contributions to the body of knowledge.
The effects of network structure on research innovation: an analysis from a content perspective using the data of R&D funding Regarding the first question, we found that high centralisation in networks constructed from a content perspective can limit research innovation.
No proxy for quality: why journal rankings in political science are problematic for political theory research This study of the disadvantage that accrues to political theorists from the use of disci-plinary journal rankings permits two main recommendations to be made.
Using Google Scholar to track the scholarly output of research groups While research metrics have been tracked for decades, Google Scholar profiles can provide a wide variety of research groups with an easy, simple, free, and scalable solution to the problem of tracking their collective scholarly output.
Knowledge discovery through text-based similarity searches for astronomy literature We present a new technique for knowledge discovery by using a text similarity approach to find similar papers to a given reference paper. This technique performs robustly and finds relevant papers that are not discovered via citations, references or suggestions from ADS. Our recommendation method might be further improved by linking our algorithm with citation information and using an algorithm like PAGERANK (popularized by Google; Page et al. 1999).
Identifying emerging scholars: seeing through the crystal ball of scholarship selection committees First, I find that total scores are positively related with program completion and with job market outcomes 10 years after the competition suggesting that reviewers are able to identify the potential of doctoral candidates. Second, I show that male evaluators give higher scores to candidates who signal convincingly that they will complete their program quickly. Female evaluators may not be as good as male evaluators when predicting shorter time to degree or they may not give as much weight to this outcome as do males.
Predicting authors' citation counts and h-indices with a neural network We have demonstrated here that neural nets are powerful tools to make predictions for the citations a researcher's work accumulates.
Discovering related scientific literature beyond semantic similarity: a new co-citation approach We have proposed a new model based on co-citations that is able to recommend highly related articles. The system can recommend articles similar to a given one in terms of terminology, but it is also able to capture other kind of relations. We are also planning to extend the study to collections in other scientific domains.
Rural informatization policy evolution in China: a bibliometric study Rural informatization policies have a history of more than 20 years and have entered into a new stage since 2006.
Ranking scientific publications considering the aging characteristics of citations By validating in the APS citation network, we find that the new method can improve the effectiveness with respect to identifying the influential papers as well as the outstanding scholars.
A novel method to identify emerging technologies using a semi-supervised topic clustering model: a case of 3D printing industry The key findings and contributions include the following: First, this study proposes a novel method that can be used to identify the emergence of new technological topics and differentiate new topics by contrasting to old technological topics. Second, according to the analysis using the new method, the major promising technologies in new innovations of 3D printing is identified. This provides an opportunity for policy-makers and industrialists to develop 3D printing innovation strategies in the future.
Patent sleeping beauties: evolutionary trajectories and identification methods The patent text is similar to the scientific literature in that they both have demonstrated the "Sleeping Beauties” phenomenon.
Mining network-level properties of Twitter altmetrics data This study explored multiple aspects of the ATSN using an SNA approach.
Can scientific productivity impact the economic complexity of countries? This relationship, however, only remains stable for high-income countries, where university-industry-government capabilities interact to stimulate and generate innovation and strategies for economic growth of firms. Our findings are linked with the ideas above when we try to understand the relationship between the economic complexity of nations and their scientific productivity. However, such connection proved to be clear and stable only for high-income countries while low-income economies did not exhibit this same pattern.
Comparison of publication-level approaches to ex-post citation normalization In this contribution, we have investigated two sophisticated article-level approaches to ex-post citation normalization.
When disasters strike environmental science: a case-control study of changes in scientific collaboration networks This study compares the structure of a scientific collaboration network before and after the ecological and social impacts of serial environmental disasters—events that are likely to increase with increasing climate uncertainty.
High-ranked citations percentage as an indicator of publications quality It can be concluded that HCP should be employed for the individuals' evaluation especially in combination with the h-index.
Emerging trends in cloud computing security: a bibliometric analyses The proposed analytical study will serve as an important tool for significant debate on future research schemas.
The Intellectual Structure of the American Behavioral Scientist: Five Decades of Research This work has developed a bibliometric analysis of the American Behavioral Scientist to identify the intellectual structure of the journal. In the process, the most active research areas as well as the hot topics were identified. Moreover, information is provided regarding the knowledge base used by the researchers of the journal.
Worldwide scientific productions with immunotherapy of sepsis: a bibliometric analysis Our present study analyzed all types of articles concerning immunotherapy for sepsis over the past 57 years and countries with high GDP tends to make more contributions to the medical field of this field.
Research and Publishing Ethics among Iranian Researchers: The Realities To conclude, we are of the opinion that addressing ethics should be the first step in ensuring transparency in scientific publishing, especially among research and publishing stakeholders in Iran.
Federal research funding and academic productivity in pediatric urology: from early career to research independence Fellowship programs should consider adding oppor-tunities for self-selected applicants to pursue addi-tional research training and degrees.
50 Years of ITAL/JLA: A Bibliometric Study of Its Major Influences, Themes, and Interdisplinarity The results of this study demonstrate that ITAL is undoubtedly a library science journal, but that it invites a high-level of interdisciplinarity and has experienced a growing impact from the disciplines of information science, computer science, and information systems (which combined presently comprise about 30 percent of total ITAL references).
The landscape of urological retractions: the prevalence of reported research misconduct Retractions of urologic literature, similar to retractions of other biomedical literature, have been rising over the last decade. The majority of these retractions stem from research misconduct. Despite retractions, flawed articles continued to be cited.
The most mentioned neurointervention articles in online media: a bibliometric analysis of the top 101 articles with the highest altmetric attention scores This study presents a detailed list of the 101 most mentioned neurointervention articles in online media, thus providing useful information on the dissemination of neurointervention research to the general public.
Characteristics of educational sciences research activity in European post-socialist countries in the period 1996 to 2013: Content analysis approach "We found that the field of educational sciences in the analysed sample has changed over time in terms of quantity, content and methods, becoming more expansive and diverse, which is equally evident from papers published in CEE journals as well as in international journals."
Should the deceased be listed as authors? First, the general stance in handling authorship should be that the Vancouver rules ought to be respected. We have shown that in principle the deceased can meet the require-ments laid down in these authorship guidelines. To include a deceased researcher as author requires a strong justification. The more the person has been involved in the research and writing process before he or she passes away, the stronger the justifi-cation for inclusion.
Discovering and Visualizing Knowledge Evolution of Chronic Disease Research Driven by Emerging Technologies This study revealed the development status of research in the field of chronic disease research driven by emerging technologies, analyzed and discussed the research hotspots and future development trends in this field, and provided important knowledge support for researchers in this field to carry out follow-up research.
Longitudinal relationship between social media activity and article citations in the journal Gastrointestinal Endoscopy For original articles published in GIE, there was a strong association between social media expo- sure on Twitter and rates of journal article citations.
"Getting Attention" Creating and Presenting the Visible, Online, Researcher Self There is no doubt that social media and SNSs can offer new and potentially useful ways of extending the reach of our research, and open up new audiences for that research.
Order matters: Alphabetizing in-text citations biases citation rates Therefore, alphabetizing in-text citations biases citation decisions toward authors with surnames occurring early in the alphabet.
BiosensorsPublication Trends and Knowledge Domain Visualization This study has provided an overview of the patterns of scholarly publications on the topic of biosensor(s). These findings are indicative of developments in the field. We hope that these findings may be of use to scholars in the biosensors field.
Quantifying a scientist's intellectual leadership To conclude, we have provided a new metric, the ILQ to quantify the intellectual leadership demonstrated by a researcher. In our view, both the ILQ as well as the h index should be considered concurrently when judging the scholarly work of a scientist. We propose that to be considered a leader who is shaping the field, ILQ values in excess of 80 in conjunction with a high h index would be necessary.
Composing Scientific Collaborations Based on Scholars' Rank in Hypergraph Our experiments (using this approach) show that the proposed algorithm is significantly better than the other algorithms for forming successful collaborations.
How do self-archiving and Author-pays models associate and contribute to OA citation advantage within hybrid journals When coexisting, Author-pays and Green models seem to gather more citations, while competing in terms of the number of their papers. The results help academic librarians involved in advocating and managing OA to better understand authors' behaviors towards OA models and adopt a more supportive role for OA according to their preferences.
Open science disrupting the status quo in academic libraries: A perspective of Zimbabwe Overall, the librarians demonstrated an understanding and appreciation of OA and IRs and their role in scholarly communication and publishing. The university libraries have not made a collective decision as to which rank in the library should shoulder IR responsibilities the university libraries, a factor which could demotivate staff and ultimately affect the success of IR innovation.
Linguistic equity as open access: Internationalizing the language of scholarly communication So long as English remains the de facto language of global research and scholarship, the high costs in time and money that it imposes on non-native learners will inhibit information exchange, handicap aca-demic careers, and impede public participation in research, especially in those regions where there is the greatest need for the opportunities that engagement with global scholarship promises and where articulate voices are most acutely missing from broader global conversations.
Some Effective Factors on the Webometric Status of Selected Universities of Medical Sciences: Lessons Learned from Iran The presence of websites play a vital role in the academic community.
Citation Count Prediction using Abstracts The future impact of a research paper can be roughly predicted using only its abstract, but most factors used in the prediction are related to the trend in research subjects rather than the abstract's writing style.
Analyzing the impact of news trends on research publications and scientific collaboration networks In this paper, we have analyzed the impact of news diffusion on the research publications and scientific collaboration networks.
Testing Hypotheses on Risk Factors for Scientific Misconduct via Matched-Control Analysis of Papers Containing Problematic Image Duplications This suggests that promoting good research practices in all countries should be a priority for the international research integrity agenda. All these analyses consistently suggest that developing national misconduct policies and fostering an academic culture of mutual criticism and research integrity might be effective preventive measures to ensure the integrity of future research in all countries.
Text Recycling in Scientific Writing Whether any instance of text recycling is deemed appropriate or inappropriate, preferable or undesirable depends on a number of interrelated factors including the genre, context, and authorship of the source and the new document; the amount and nature of the reused material; and whether the new document cites the source or explicitly identifies the recycled material—all of which are judged according to the conventions of the discourse community for which the document is produced. Such research is essential for shaping the more expansive guidelines that are needed to serve the various constituencies in STEM research and publishing communities. It is hoped that in addition to helping the STEM community better understand the nature of text recycling, this essay may be of use to those who undertake scholarly investigation.
Retracted Publications in the Biomedical Literature from Open Access Journals In the current study, misconduct was the leading cause of retracted publications in OAJs. The trends, causes and rates of retractions from OAJs were similar to non-OAJs. The responsibility to limit misconduct falls on authors, editors, publishers, and the government. It is of paramount importance to reform the incentive system to relieve the “publish or per- ish" pressure.
Scale-free collaboration networks: An author name disambiguation perspective This study illustrates that name ambiguity can contribute to the emergence of likely scale-free collaboration networks mainly by merging author entities when author names are improperly disambiguated.
Motivations, understandings, and experiences of open-access mega-journal authors: Results of a large-scale survey However, soundness-only peer review-arguably the most distinctive and radical feature of OAMJs is still widely misunderstood in the community.
Assessing the long-term fragmentation of information systems research with a longitudinal multi-network analysis In this article, we introduced a comprehensive con- ceptual framework and a related method for reflect- ing on the progress of IS research published in the AIS basket journals.
The Reverse Matthew Effect: Consequences of Retraction in Scientific Teams We thus find a “Reverse Matthew Effect,” developing Merton's canonical ideas about team production, showing that the less established team members appear especially vulnerable in the aftermath of negative events.
Clinical research in Dermatology: resources and activities associated with a higher scientific productivity We have demonstrated that some factors are associated with a higher scientific productivity. Residency program, more research staff, clinical workload redistribution and research motivation/initiatives are key strategies that could improve scientific productivity of a center. Resources are limited and have to be distributed wisely.
Mapping the literature of dental hygiene: an update These findings indicate that dental hygiene research is growing and that indexing coverage for this field has improved dramatically in the past two decades.
Alignment of library services with the research lifecycle Findings from this study suggest that tradition-based service models of health sciences libraries are insufficient to meet the needs of biomedical researchers.
Historical Roots of Modern Plastic Surgery A Cited Reference Analysis The roots of modern plastic surgery began in the late 19th century with early efforts to describe cutaneous vasculature. Historical studies that either establish principles or lead to an advancement in our reconstructive methods have the best chance of achieving classical status. These findings reiterate the importance of vascular territories to current practice and further suggest the origins of modern plastic surgery began in the late 1800s when an ambitious medical student attempted to describe cutaneous vasculature in exquisite anatomic detail.
Readability and research impact I provide evidence that the quality of anor's writing contributes to his/her research's impact. Being more than one standard deviation above the mean in esti-mated grade level correspo' ds1) approximately one-fifth of a standard deviation reduction in citations, or rather, approximately 155 few citations. Absent a randomized trial holding constant the authors, institutions, and scientific cont nt but arying the article's readability only, causal claims cannot be made. I provide suggestive corre¹ tions.
Programmatic research and the case for designing and publishing from rich, multifaceted datasets: Issues and recommendations Expectations and guidelines for editors, re-viewers, and authors are offered.
Human resources training: A bibliometric analysis Through this study we show that human resources training is an established yet still challenging topic in business and management literature.
Misconduct as the main cause for retraction. A descriptive study of retracted publications and their authors Currently, misconduct is the main cause of retraction. Specific strategies to limit this phe-nomenon must be implemented. It would be useful to standardize reasons and procedures for retraction. The development of a standard retraction form to be permanently indexed in a database might be relevant.
Research productivity of faculty at 30 leading marketing departments Our findings also suggest that productivity in the immediate past is a much better predictor of future productivity than academic age.
Collaborative patterns, authorship practices and scientific success in biomedical research: a network analysis In summary, our study has four fundamental impli-cations for biomedical research and policy: (1) intel-lectual collaboration has a competitive advantage over solo authorship across all academic ranks; (2) while researchers gain from expanding their network of collaborators, they should redistribute collabor-ators across multiple teams and refrain from exces-sive co-authorship; (3) there are differential benefits of collaborative and authorship practices depending on the stage of the researcher’s career; and (4) research institutions and funding agencies should encourage and reward a team-based approach to scientific production and engage in a systematic and transparent measurement of collaboration and multiple authorship, in order to develop effective assessment and recruitment policies that will ultim-ately translate into the highest-quality research and patient care.
Ranking Hospitality and Tourism Journals In summary, existing journal rankings in hospitality and tourism are subject to various concerns. The contribution of ranking journals to knowledge development is, therefore, limited, and it may even cause undesirable consequences to the hospitality and tourism academia. To conclude, the essence of knowledge production process should not be distorted by any form of ranking practices and judgments.
Blacklists and Whitelists To Tackle Predatory Publishing: a Cross-Sectional Comparison and Thematic Analysis Our study indicates that the blacklists and whitelists examined are helpful to inform researchers about journals that are likely fraudulent or likely legitimate.
Scholarly Productivity and Impact: Developing a Quantifiable, Norm-based Benchmarking Methodology for Academic Emergency Medicine This benchmarking method can serve as a model for norm-based scaling of scholarly productivity for emergency medicine.
Measuring Usage: A Comprehensive Analysis of a Social Work Journal Collection Fortunately for the McGill University faculty and students, the library has access to nearly all of the social work journals and has full access to titles identified as "top" journals.
Journals removed from DOAJ appearing within SCImago's ranks: A study of excluded journals This finding indicates that some of DOAJ's criteria published on its website to review journal applications are rather subjective.
Open access journal publishing in the Nordic countries The overall conclusion of this study is that around a third of the scholarly journals published in the Nordic countries are currently OA. Due to national policies as well as OA initiatives like Plan S (Else, 2018), in which the Nordic countries are strongly engaged, the share is likely to grow rapidly in the near future, particularly in the social sciences and humanities. Nevertheless, this study has highlighted the fact that its coverage of OA journals from different regions of the world and journals published in other languages than English is far from complete.
So, are early career researchers the harbingers of change? Change is said to be the only constant these days, and it comes as no surprise to find it occurring everywhere in ECRs' scholarly attitudes and practices.
On the skewness of journal self-citations and publisher self-citations: Cues for discussion from a case study In this paper, I rely on a case study involving one of MDPI's journals, Sustainability. Starting from a retracted article then cited twice - by the retraction notice and another piece, published in the same journal - I try to show that the journal in question is characterized by citations and self-citations diverging from a uniform probability distribution. I suggest the issue deserves further investigation, and similar research should be undertaken on other journals, especially because self-citations have several implications, ranging from impact factors to visibility and influence of scientific journals.
Linguistic differences between well-established and predatory journals: a keyword analysis of two journals in political science We conclude that articles published in so-called predatory journals do not conform to linguistic norms used in higher-quality journals.
Nursing Research Literature Production in Terms of the Scope of Country and Health Determinants: A Bibliometric Study Conclusions: The positive trend in nursing research literature production (both funded and nonfunded) reveals a growth in nursing research funding.
The 100 top-cited studies in cancer immunotherapy This study provides insights into development and most important papers in cancer immunotherapy and will provide evidence for future research in cancer immunotherapy. In conclusion, our study provides a comprehensive list of the true landmark publication in cancer immunotherapy and recognizes contributions made by essential authors, institutions, published scientific journals, research types. Increased research productivity is clearly indicated on numerous fronts of cancer immunotherapy.
The role of women scholars in the Chilean collaborative educational research: a social network analysis Our results show that the presence of women in the research space is stable across time, but they tend to collaborate more than men, acting as important bridgers since 2000, and that their contribution is relevant in promoting networking.
CHOICES AND CONSEQUENCES: IMPACT OF MOBILITY ON RESEARCH-CAREER CAPITAL AND PROMOTION IN BUSINESS SCHOOLS The findings of this study have implications for academic researchers who consider domestic and international mobility, and for Ph.D. supervisors whose duty it is to prepare their students for successful careers in academia. Our findings suggest that it is important for a Ph.D. graduate to settle into the profession for a short while, building a research and teaching portfolio, before making international moves.
Mapping the emergence of international university research ventures This paper has presented the results of a large-scale study of international university research ventures created by U.S. universities.
Decoding team and individual impact in science and invention We have presented a computationally feasible method for analyz-ing team and individual outcomes and deployed this methodology across large repositories of papers and patents. Overall, the methodology un-covers universal regularities that inform team organization while also providing a tool for individual evaluation in the team production era. The findings provide guidance to research institutions, science funders, and scientists themselves in predicting team output, forming teams, and evaluating individual impact.
The impact of the open-access status on journal indices: oncology journals Publishing in oncology OA journals will yield more impact, in term of citations, and will reach boarder audience.
Reference terms identification of cited articles as topics from citation contexts In this study, we performed experiments on textual contexts of citations to determine the effectiveness of reference terms representation when generated as topics from the CCs.
Information mining and visualization of highly cited papers on type-2 diabetes mellitus from ESI In this study, we have employed the bibliometric method to analyse HCPs on type-2 diabetes mellitus from ESI. The interaction among productive countries/territories, organizations, authors and keywords was analysed. Results obtained from this study can provide valuable information for researchers to better identify present and future hotspots in type-2 diabetes-related fields.
Humanities and Social Sciences Dissertation Bibliographies and Collections: The View from a STEM University Despite the small sample of dissertations, the results of this study reflect strong library holdings supporting doctoral research, especially in social sciences and humanities programs that rely on English-language materials. This research has proved useful in several ways. It has provided a reliable quantitative assessment of the library's collection strengths in relation to graduate student research.
Do Download Reports Reliably Measure Journal Usage? Trusting the Fox to Count Your Hens? Our results strongly indicate that the COUNTER data currently available to university libraries does not enable libraries to reliably compare the value of journals received from different publishers. We suggest that, if librarians wish to use download statistics to compare the cost-effectiveness of journals offered by different publishers, they should consider adjusting the reported download statistics for each publisher to account for the platform effects shown in table 11. In the long run, if download statistics are to be a credible and reliable tool for estimating usage, it seems that it would be advisable for libraries to develop a uniform interface for downloading articles from all publishers and to maintain their own records of journal downloads, which they would share as public information.
Scrutinizing predator journals in pharmacology and calculating their predatory rate It should be an eye-opener to the researchers, and they should deliberately select the journals to get real recognition of their work.
Final outcome of articles rejected after revision at Obstetrics & Gynecology: An investigation Most peer reviewed manuscripts at Obstetrics & Gynecology that are invited for revision are accepted for publication. We found that manuscripts rejected after an invitation for revision were more likely to have higher-than-average reviewer quality scores compared to those accepted after revision. Reasons for rejection after revision were generally modifiable, such as better analysis and discussion.
Maximizing dissemination and engaging readers: The other 50% of an author's day: A case study Be strategic. Find and use a toolkit that will create a Conversion Funnel to build awareness and draw users through the interest, desire, and action steps. Be data-driven. Log, measure, and track your audience's progress through the Conversion Funnel. Measure your owned media promotion efforts, so you can find out what works and what does not. Hassle your publisher for download data. Until publishers make download data publicly accessible in real time, regularly ask for it with as much detail as possible (where, when, who, etc.).
Seasonal Entropy, Diversity and Inequality Measures of Submitted and Accepted Papers Distributions in Peer-Reviewed Journals Our outlined findings suggest intrinsic behavioral hypotheses for future research.
Comparison of the impact factors of subscription access and open access orthopedics and sports medicine journals in the SCImago database We can predict that the mean IFs of OA journals in the field of orthopedics and sports medicine will reach the mean IFs of SA journals after several years.
Radiological Clinical Practice Guidelines Published in the Last Decade: A Bibliometric Analysis Our study presents several interesting insights into the characteristics and impact of radiological CPGs. A higher number and longer duration of increase of annual cita-tions for CPGs than for review articles reflect the strong scientific impact and high citation power of radiological CPGs. In conclusion, this bibliometric analysis revealed several interesting insights into the characteristics and impact of radiological CPGs.
Examining differentiation in academic responses to research impact policy: mediating factors in the context of educational research Impact brings a new element to research evaluation policy that gives conceptual and functional space for interpretation.
UK universities compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity: findings from cross-sectional time-series Over 6 years after the publication of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, nearly half of UK universities are not complying with all its recommendations and do not provide contact details for a staff member with responsibility for RI or an annual statement. A revised version of the Concordat is due to be published shortly and, if it is to have an impact, the signatories should investigate reasons for non-compliance and work with universities to diminish them.
What Influences Business Academics' Use of the Association of Business Schools (ABS) List? Evidence From a Survey of UK Academics It would seem that the use of the AJG/ABS list is greatest among early and middle-stage academics working in low and middle-status business school organizations.
SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATION PRODUCTIVITY OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS: A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF THE LAST DECADE The number of articles increased from 2008 to 2017 in the whole world and in the United States. EPs from the United States were the most productive, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The United States is the country with the highest productivity, having published more than half of the total articles.
Worldwide scientific production in obstetrics: a bibliometric analysis Total scientific production rate in obstetrics increased from 2002 to 2013, especially randomised clinical trials. However, randomised clinical trials continue to represent a small proportion of total production.
Over-optimization of academic publishing metrics: observing Goodhart's Law in action Academic publishing has changed considerably; now we need to reconsider how we measure success. Our study’s extensive analysis of academic publications re- veals why using citation-based metrics as measures of impact is wrong at the core: First, not all citations are equal; there is a big difference between a study that cites a paper that greatly influenced it and a study that cites multiple papers with only minor connections. We believe the solution to the aforementioned issues is to use data-science tools and release new and open datasets in order to promote using existing unbiased measures or to develop new measures that will more accurately determine a paper’s impact in a specific research field.
Comparison of the Impact Factors of the Most-Cited Cardiovascular Journals Why a Median-Based Impact Factor Is to Be Preferred Lumping the papers of journals of the category Cardiac & Cardiovascular Systems into a (theoretical) single journal yields an amalgam of the first 4 journals: Eur Heart J, Circulation, J Am Coll Cardiol, and Circ Res. There are no statistically significant differences in the citations of the papers of these 4 journals.
User behaviors and network characteristics of US research universities on an academic social networking site This study adds to ongoing research efforts in understanding the scholarly use of social media and social networking sites, and to the debate on whether and how associated altmetrics may serve as valid and credible evaluation measures for higher education institution evaluation, an important topic facing higher education today.
Bowling Together: Scientific Collaboration Networks of Demographers at European Population Conferences The analysis of the determinants of co-authorship in general and co-authorship across institutions reveal key aspects in the collaboration amongst demographers in the past decade.
Evaluations as value-measurement links: Exploring metrics and meanings in science In this paper, we have argued that evaluations link measures and values in at least three different forms, described above as operationalisation, nomination and indetermination. We conclude that in the case of measured values such as impact factors, these chains are driven by the interplay between the interpretative openness of language and the seeming tendency of numbers to fixate meaning thus continually re-creating, transforming and modifying values. It is precisely this interplay between words and num-bers that functions as the driver of the genesis and movement of chains of evaluation.
A bibliometric analysis of classic publications in web of science category of orthopedics This study evaluated the development and trend of orthopedics research by adopting bibliometric analysis.
Knowledge Maps of Disaster Medicine in China Based on Co-Word Analysis "Medical rescue" is the core key word, and it serves a pivotal “bridge” function. “Emergencies” and similar terms are key words with special statuses. “Natural disaster medical rescue” and “fundamental theories of disaster medicine” constitute the primary and secondary core themes, respectively. “On-site emergency treatment techniques” is a marginalized theme. The other themes are emerging themes that offer considerable scope for future development. Generally, the scope and depth of investigations in this field should be improved.
Science peer review for the 21st century: Assessing scientific consensus for decision-making while managing conflict of interests, reviewer and process bias The work presented here reflects a model for conducting science peer reviews that engages a diverse group of scientists using a review process that integrates the best features and design choices from journal peer reviews and science advisory panel reviews.
Characteristics of a Highly Cited Article: A Machine Learning Perspective In this paper, the impact of publication features (number of views, number of characters with no spaces, number of figures, number of tables, number of equations, number of authors, and title length) on the citation rate of articles was examined. There is a significant positive correlation between the number of citations and the number of views, tables, and authors. Moreover, the number of citations is significantly negatively correlated with title length.
Productivity of CNPq Researchers from Different Fields in Biomedical Sciences: The Need for Objective Bibliometric Parameters-A Report from Brazil "Overall, the results obtained in this study demonstrated that researchers from Phar- macology presented better performance in terms of total articles, citations and h-index than the other sub-fields evaluated."
Contract employment policy and research productivity of knowledge workers: an analysis of Spanish universities In this study, we proposed that contractual employment practices impact universi-ties' research productivity.
Modeling study of knowledge diffusion in scientific collaboration networks based on differential dynamics: A case study in graphene field Based on the previous research results, policy makers can regulate the structure, degree distributions, and transition probarity of states in scientific collaboration networks through various means to achieve differert evo tir a effects of knowledge diffusion, and can control the knowledge diffusion process in cientific collaboration by promoting or inhibiting it.; In addition, bad of the current scientific collaboration network, the future trend of knowledge difusion can be predicted by the iteration of time steps to master the evolution trend of knowledge diffusimely and accurately, and realize the effective management and regulation of knowledg diffusion in scientific collaboration networks from the perspective of differential dynar in light of actual demand.; It is worth noticing the obvious differences between the disease spreading process and knowledge diffusion process based on scientific collaboration.
Scientometric analysis of Current Science This article presented a scientometric analysis of Current Science. Growth of the published items was clearly observable from the journal output over the years. The publications mostly arise from India, which indicates that the journal remains India-focused. The theme of publications however, has gradually shifted towards physical sciences. Majority of the contents now published in the journal is related to environmental science and geological sciences.
A gender analysis of top scientists' collaboration behavior: evidence from Italy Because international collaboration is positively correlated to research performance, findings can inform science policy aimed at increasing the representation of female top performers.
Heuristics as conceptual lens for understanding and studying the usage of bibliometrics in research evaluation To conclude, a heuristic research program on the evaluative use of bibliometrics might reveal the following: (1) BBHs can be similarly accurate as complex procedures (such as peer review) even though they are simpler. (3) Users of bibliometrics can learn to select BBHs from an adaptive toolbox (e.g., pro-vided by the ISSI society) as a function of the task environment and goals at hand. (5) In addition, so one of us dares to hope (J.N.M.), such a systematic research program might also help to reflect to what extent research should be evaluated in the first place.
Academic rising star prediction via scholar's evaluation model and machine learning techniques To conclude, we formalize the problem of ARSP (Academic Rising Stars Prediction) as a binary classification task which predicts whether the given young scholar will be fast-rising in terms of academic impact in the future.
Mapping of topics in DESIDOC Journal of Library and Information Technology, India: a study "Therefore, researchers in Library and Information Science in India should pay more attention to the topics which are under-researched."
A new approach to journal co-citation matrix construction based on the number of co-cited articles in journals This paper has proposed and validated a new co-citation matrix construction approach based on the number of co-cited articles.
Technical research innovations of the US national security system In this article, we considered the US national security system as a sectoral system of innovation.
Complex network analysis of keywords co-occurrence in the recent efficiency analysis literature This paper has carried out a NA of the co-occurrence network of the keywords appearing in the DEA papers published during the period 2008–2017. The relationships between those keywords reflect the knowledge structure of the field and its evolution along this period. The NA carried out has provided a wealth of information, that cannot be found in the existing literature, on the key concepts involved in the DEA field, assessing their relevance, showing the differential evolution of their strength, identifying their closest-related concepts (i.e. their conceptual neighbours) and grouping them into meaningful communities of concepts.
Is there convergence in international research collaboration? An exploration at the country level in the basic and applied science fields The results of our analysis for all fields combined show a convergence in four clubs instead of a global convergence among countries in relation to the number of interna- tionally co-authored papers per capita.
On the development of China's leadership in international collaborations This study shows that China's leadership in both Natural Sciences and Social Sciences has increased since 1990s, with a majority of China-affliated scholars assuming leading roles in most disciplines.
Are classic references cited first? An analysis of citation order within article sections There is a tendency for the first paper in the Introduction, Background, Discussion and Conclusion to be relatively highly cited in most fields, although the effect of order is not huge. Nevertheless, the findings add weight to previous research suggesting that early citations in these sections can be perfunctory. If highly cited papers tend to be initial general references that add little to the citing paper, research evaluators should either (a) avoid citation impact formulae that overvalue highly cited papers by treating their citations as equal to the citations of less cited papers and use instead log based or percentile indicators, or (b) attempt to detect general low value citations, perhaps through their order or position in the citing article text, and award them a lower citation score.
The troubles of high-profile open access megajournals In the present study, we provided the first evidence that the change in the perception of megajournals is associated with the deterioration of their bibliometric characteristics. The future of megajournals as a major publishing platform is now threatened. Despite that, if megajournals fail to apply selection criteria that focus not only on “sound science" but also on the impact of the papers they publish, they are destined to increasingly serve as a “dumping ground" for lower quality work as previously suggested by Spezi et al. (2017).
Gender gaps in international research collaboration: a bibliometric approach Our study has shown that there are notable gender differences at the overall level. However, when field, academic rank, and productivity are taken into consideration there are only minor and non-statistically significant sex differences in the propensity to collaborate with colleagues in other countries. Concerning gender inequality in science, the main challenge seems to be the lower productivity level of female researchers, which obviously hinders their academic career development.
Impact of country self-citations on bibliometric indicators and ranking of most productive countries In the light of the present study findings, one can conclude that the top ten countries represented around two third of the world's publications and self-citations and approximately 81% of world's citation over the 20 years period, according to SciVal/Scopus database. Excluding self-citation from calculating various citation-based bibliometric indicators, will not remove the entire effect, but at least, it will produce a more reliable and real impact of each publication. Therefore, comprehensive investigations must be undertaken by implementing suitable strategies at individual and institutional levels by each country, as well as at journal and ranking agencies' levels to dilute the negative impact of self-citations.
The strong nonlinear effect in academic dropout The findings in this paper may provide useful guidance for young scholars to allocate their research effort in the early career.
Collaboration and impact of research in different disciplines with international funding (from the EU and other foreign sources) In conclusion, this paper provides interesting information, both for funders and researchers, discussing the various characteristics and disparities between disciplines and funding sources. This paper offers a joint analysis, showing the relationship between collaboration, research impact and international funding (from the EU and other foreign sources). The findings of this work show how the different characteristics of disciplines and fund- ing types require a detailed analysis in order to improve the available data.
The careers behind and the impact of solo author articles in Nature and Science the entire dataset indicates that no clear relationship exists between juvenility or maturity of authors' careers and the impact of published SAAs, leading to the conjecture that the impact might rather be controlled by specific article related factors such as quality, novelty and the interest of the subject.
Normalisation of citation impact in economics Field- and time-normalisation of citation impact is the standard method in bibliometrics (Hicks et al. 2015), which should be applied in citation impact analyses across different time periods and subfields in economics.
Characterisation of the χ-index and the rec-index Geometric indices, such as the rec-index, capture a core set of the publications that represent a researcher's total output.
Examination of correlates of H-index as a measure of research productivity for library and information science faculty in the United States and Canada H-index is a unique and likely worthwhile measurement of research productivity for LIS researchers that represents well the number of publications and citations a researcher has received while mitigating the effect of a few highly-cited publications.
Publication Performance Through the Lens of the h-index: How Can We Solve the Problem of the Ties? In this study, we add to the available metrics aiming to increase fairness in ranking and selection processes.
The harsh world of publishing in emerging regions and implications for editors and publishers: The case of Vietnam "It suggests that there are opportunities for publishers and other organizations to improve ethical and practical pub-lishing issues and to develop co-publishing agreements that will increase the visibility of the country in international academia."
Additive manufacturing technologies for biomedical engineering applications: Research trends and scientific impact The findings from this work suggest that AM technologies for biomedical engineering applications are emerging tech-nologies, i.e. they are at an early stage of development, which agrees with the results obtained by other studies for additive manufacturing technologies (Rodríguez-Salvador; Río-Belver; Garechana-Anacabe, 2017; Zarrabeitia-Bilbao et al., 2019). The findings from academic impact and industrial and commercial impact indicators suggest that AM technolo-gies for biomedical engineering application research, in general, produces good results, and, consequently, fine quality research is performed. Finally, future work related with this study could take many forms, given the diversity of the current situation for additive manufacturing and informetrics.
Disruption index depends on length of citation window Our results for the disruption in-dex reveal that it would also appear to be necessary to have recommendations for an appropriate citation window.
Evolution of strategic management research lines in hospitality and tourism The research findings corroborate that strategic management research in H&T emphasizes research lines in the areas of strategic management process, firm performance, industrial organization, and theory of firms. Therefore, the theoretical body of strategic management in H&T fails to contribute to the mainstream strategic management research (Okumus, 2002). Several strategies can assist researchers to enrich the theoretical body of strategic management research in H&T.
The use of social media in scientific research and creative thinking Taking these all aspects in consideration, Twitter can be an ideal fertile material for inception of new research ideas. To wrap-up, creative thinking should be about making scientists more open to the global picture. Make science a better forum for cross-fertilization of ideas by providing placeholders to nurture creativity and discussion within researchers.
Performance-based research funding in EU Member States-a comparative assessment This research is the first comprehensive overview of the assessment systems used to inform funding allocation systems in all EU Member States.
Research network emergence: Societal issues in nanotechnology and the center for nanotechnology in society The greater part of the evidence presented in this article suggest that CNS-ASU has the characteristics of being associated with the creation of a network of societal research on nanotechnology.
Williams and Morrone misunderstand and inadvertently support my argument: Mexico's SNI systematically steers ecological research I firmly believe that science can and should serve to advance societal goals.
Does Science Advance One Funeral at a Time? In this paper, we leverage the applied economist's toolkit, together with a novel approach to delineate the boundaries of scientific fields, to explore the effect that the passing of an eminent life scientist exerts on the dynamics of growth, or decline, for the fields in which she was active while alive.
Increasing trend of scientists to switch between topics To summarize, we study the research dynamics of scientists by constructing a network of each individual scientist’s publications characterizing their co-citing relations. We find that though the total number of communities stays almost unchanged, the switching between communities tends to increase and becomes more frequent during the years. Therefore, our results suggest that funders and decision-makers should encourage young scientists to concentrate on their current topics.
Publication trends in pediatric renal transplantation: Bibliometric analysis of literature from 1950 to 2017 The most-cited papers were concentrated in three journals, but the top three cited papers were published elsewhere.
A 20-year evaluation of PLAAS research outputs: Impact on the scholarly domain and in social media This study demonstrates that the use of bibliometric and altmetric analyses can yield a rich picture of research output and significance, providing insight into the patterns of scholarly communication of research and policy institutions.
Transition to open: A metrics analysis of discoverability and accessibility of LIS scholarship We have reported on the use of multiple metrics (as advised by Harnad¹) as an objective means of determining the discoverability and accessibility of LIS scholarship via the South African Journal of Libraries and Information Science (SAJLIS) in its open years (2012-2017).
Open access publishing and soil science - Trends and developments It is in the interest of the soil science discipline that our research findings are rigorously screened, peer-reviewed, promptly-available, globally-shared and stored. The future of scholarly publishing is just not one of open access but rather open participation so that the whole community can participate (Peterson et al., 2019) Whatever happens to the world of scientific publishing, that increase should continue for an expansion of scientific information is good for the discipline, the journal, and to make a bold statement: it is good for humankind.
The 100 top-cited studies on vaccine: a bibliometric analysis This is the first bibliometric analysis to provide a detailed list of the 100 most-cited studies on vaccine and helps to recognize the quality of the works, discoveries, and trends in the field. The observations of the present study reflect the exciting potential and the increasing role of vaccine in basic research and clinical practice. It also helps funding agencies to assess the whole significant research areas in the field to direct future research trends.
Filling in the gaps: The interpretation of curricula vitae in peer review We have argued that CVs and the information they contain do not enter peer review processes as some kind of monolithic ahistorical entity. Instead, the representational function of biographical evidence is effectively renegotiated in every review situation. In any case, our findings emphasize the need to take into account a more detailed understanding of the CV in future studies of peer review.
Dissemination of PhD Dissertation Research by Dissertation Format: A Retrospective Cohort Study Findings of this study demonstrate outcomes from one research-intensive school of nursing.
Plagiarism and data falsification are the most common reasons for retracted publications in obstetrics and gynaecology The consequences of propagating invalid scientific information and article retractions to the scientific community can be significant. Thorough screening of manuscripts prior to publication is important and additional education of investigators to ensure compliance should be prioritized.
Faculty awareness, use and attitudes towards scholarly open access: A Pakistani perspective In light of the findings of this study, it is concluded that although the majority of the Pakistani faculty members were aware of scholarly open access before this survey, their awareness level about OA-related resources and initiatives was very low. The study also concludes that an active participation of Pakistani LIS professionals is needed to promote the OA movement in the country.
Competencies for bibliometrics The listing of competencies can inform institutions in recruiting and training staff; and professionals in planning their own self-development.
Do Mendeley reader counts indicate the value of arts and humanities research? Thus, Mendeley can be used as an early citation impact indicator in the arts and humanities, although it is unclear whether reader or citation counts reflect the underlying value of arts and humanities research. The results suggest, for the first time, that Mendeley reader counts can be used as an early impact indicator instead of citation counts in the arts and humanities. Nevertheless, since citation counts reflect the value of arts and humanities research less well than in other areas of academia... Mendeley reader counts should be interpreted at least as cautiously as citation counts.
Acceptance of altmetrics by LIS scholars: An exploratory study Both the survey and the altmetric study show that there is interest in altmetrics.
A novel method for topic linkages between scientific publications and patents Extensive experimental results indicate that our approach is feasible to build topic link-ages with more superior performance than the compared ones. This investigation will benefit the topic navigation between different information resources (Zhang & Zhang, 2008), technological fronts detection (Shibata et al., 2011), business opportunity identification (Lee & Lee, 2017), and so on.
Interdisciplinary Centers in Latin American Universities: The Challenges of Institutionalization Finally, our analysis shows the actual diversity among institutionalization processes and does not propose a single desirable model for interdisciplinarity institutionalization.
The catalytic role of a research university and international partnerships in building research capacity in Peru: A bibliometric analysis This analysis suggests that international training of Peruvian physician-scientists who built and sustained longstanding international partnerships with funding accelerated quality research on diseases of local importance.
Comparing the topological rank of journals in Web of Science and Mendeley The paper shows that biological journals in Web of Science and Mendeley demonstrate the same Wakeby distribution of topological rank (cf. [25, 41, 72]). This finding suggests that biological journals in Web of Science and Mendeley are subjected to an analogous ranking, being influenced by a socially similar communication environment and selection mechanism. Isomorphism of the two information processes supports the opinion that study of the readership data in Mendeley, available before citation data, may aid with prediction of journals citation in Web of Sci-ence.
Adjusted Citation Rate, an Alternative Metric to Measure the Impact of General Radiology Journals Adjusted citation rate is an objective index for assessing journal impact that can serve as an alternative and complementary metric with which to measure the journal impact.
The Scientometric Profile of Boreskov Institute of Catalysis Thus, this analysis shows a high citation rate of BIC SB RAS publications and the broad involvement of the institute into national and international scientific cooperation, which helps obtain significant additional funding for its studies. The experience of the Boreskov Institute of Catalysis SB RAS, attributed to the 1st cat-egory by the results of the RAS institutes' ranking, proves that rational scientific policy can solve many current problems of domestic science.
Knowledge Bias: Neo-feudalism and Other Reasons to Avoid Sharing Knowledge by Knowledge Workers The principal aim of this article is to show that, even if the underlying assumption about the moral and ethical behavior of a knowledge worker is omitted, nothing really changes.
Quantifying a Paper's Academic Impact by Distinguishing the Unequal Intensities and Contributions of Citations Finally, the three indices are integrated into the overall evaluation of the academic impact of the paper, and the weight of each index is calculated by the entropy weight method. Quite different overall impacts in the paper are shown due to their different performances in the three indices, even though they have the same total number of citations.
Science policies: How should science funding be allocated? An evolutionary biologists' perspective We use these observations to provide constructive suggestions for the future, and urge the need to further gather informed considerations from scientists on the effects of funding policies on science across countries and research fields.
Scientific activity by medical students: the relationship between academic publishing during medical school and publication careers after graduation Medical students who conducted research leading to a publication before graduation were more likely to be scientifically active after graduation.
Scholarly productivity and citation impact of Australian academic psychologists Indices of research productivity and impact are important when evalu-ating academic psychologists' performance, and the present article provides up-to-date, comprehensive, and representative norms of Australian academic psychologists.
Research dynamics in Indian fisheries and aquaculture: a scientometric analysis Our study represented a snapshot on the scientific litera-ture in fisheries and aquaculture published in journals indexed in Scopus database. The network visualiza-tion is expected to be useful to the scientific community in analysing the research trends in subject under study and further strengthening the research collaborations.
Evaluating 'impact' in the UK's Research Excellence Framework (REF): liminality, looseness and new modalities of scholarly distinction "Furthermore, reports of ambivalence from our respondents concerning the efficacy and integrality of evidence as a resource for critical deliberation suggests that impact as a new form of scholarly distinction is far more a matter of taste – however norm-referenced – than an ability to interrogate or theorize 'the facts'."
Management research outcome: a comparative assessment of BRICS nations Our investigation on research outcome of BRICS nations, vis-à-vis, the US reiterates the findings of previous researchers (Tewari, Gihar, and Jianhong 2013; Abrami, Kirby, and McFarlan 2014; Reddy, Xie, and Tang 2016). Enhanced participation in research is a scalable indicator of productive contribution to the knowledge continuum of global networks. Investigation can also be attempted in institutional and individual levels within nations.
A bibliometric analysis of Fuzzy Optimization and Decision Making (2002-2017) This study shows a bibliometric analysis of the FODM publications between 2002 and 2017 based on the Scopus database.
Intellectual structure and evolution patterns of archival information resource research in China Archival information resource research in China has a good prospect. This study found that research topics of archival information resource in China involve a wide range but are concentrated and unbalanced. In addition, the archival information resource research in China has strong continuity with regard to integration and differentiation in the evolution of research topics.
A Decade of Empirical Research on Research Integrity: What Have We (Not) Looked At? Our review highlights the areas, methods, and actors that have been most studied, and sheds light on points that have been overlooked. Being aware of unanswered questions in research on RI is a first step toward generating executable knowledge that will allow us to better align the research agenda with the goal of promoting integrity in research.
The most mentioned neuroimaging articles in online media: a bibliometric analysis of the top 100 articles with the highest Altmetric Attention Scores This study presents a detailed list of the 100 most mentioned neuroimaging articles in online media, thus providing useful information on the dissemination of neuroimaging research to the general public.
Citation.js: a format-independent, modular bibliography tool for the browser and command line Citation.js is a library supporting various formats of bibliographic information in a broad selection of use cases and environments.
Fifty top-cited classic papers in orthopaedic oncology: a bibliometric analysis In doing citation analysis, it provides us perspective in the history and progress of orthopaedic oncology. Recognition of cornerstones of orthopaedic oncology may guide future investigations.
A Bayesian model on the merging errors of coauthorship data This study provided a Bayesian model, which has two functions.
Research environment of clinician-scientists in China in health policy/health services research This study gives one an impression of the professional and personal challenges of this group. They seem undervalued and undercompensated for the level of their training and their value to rapidly growing healthcare system.
An Automatic Method for Extracting Innovative Ideas Based on the Scopus® Database We proposed an automatic approach to extract the knowledge claims in abstracts and judge whether they are innovative by comparing them with retrievals from the Scopus® database.
The Growth of Poorly Cited Articles in Peer-Reviewed Orthopaedic Journals We found no difference in the likelihood that an article would be cited based on whether the article appeared was published in a subscription-model journal or an open-access journal.
The Impact of Individual Mentored Career Development (K) Awards on the Research Trajectories of Early-Career Scientists Receipt of Mentored Career Development Awards was linked to increased likelihood that early-career scientists successfully transitioned to an independent research career.
Progressive Increase in Scholarly Productivity of New American Board of Anesthesiology Diplomates From 2006 to 2016: A Bibliometric Analysis Publications by new diplomates of the American Board of Anesthesiology have increased between 2006 and 2016.
Perceptions of research integrity and the Chinese situation: In-depth interviews with Chinese biomedical researchers in Europe The concept of research integrity needs more elaboration among Chinese biomedical researchers. To improve this situation, we recommend placing more emphasis on the quality of research and the research environment, instead of the number of publications, and to develop an evaluation system that is independent of short-term profit motivations. More effective measures should be explored and applied, for example customizing the assessment process to academic positions and professional positions, encouraging more active involvement of research supervisors, providing authors with clear guidance on research integrity by scientific journals.
The funding sources of implantology research in the period 2008-2017: A bibliometric analysis This study revealed an overall increase in the funding of research in implant dentistry in recent years.
A bibliometric overview of International Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics between 2010 and 2017 The bibliometric analysis results of the papers published in the IJMLC from 2010 to 2017 have indicated that the number of publications, the total number of authors, the cooperation rate, and the degree of cooperation have generally shown an increasing trend. Through the analysis of keywords co-occurrence, clusters detecting and analyzing we found that the IJMLC has paid special attention on the application of rough sets and fuzzy sets in machine learning and cybernetics. In short, the IJMLC has formed its own unique style in the past 8 years of development, formed a relatively stable academic reporting direction, and had an important academic position in the field of machine learning and cybernetics.
The relationship between forward and backward diversity in CORE datasets Our initial hypothesis is confirmed: the present study finds a positive, significant and robust relationship between forward and backward diversity. First, the finding of the present study indicates that the I Score and forward diversity index are a mutually consistent measure of interdisciplinarity. Results indicate that backward diversity attracts forward diversity. From this we maintain if you want to be cited diffusely, do the same yourself.
Comparative analysis of book citations in social science journals by Central and Eastern European authors This study aimed to gain better insight into the role of authored and edited books in scientific communication of 15 CEE countries.
On the bibliometric nature of a foreseeable relationship: open access and education The analysis of the distribution of articles and reviews by OA models in this research study shows a slight upward trend for OA publications during the period studied (2010–2016), ranging from 6% to 11% and 1.5% to 2% for the Gold OA and Green OA models, respec-tively.
Evaluation and comparison of influence in international Open Access journals between China and USA First, it was found that in terms of academic influence and societal influence, the evalua-tion scores of international OA journals are quite different between China and USA. The influence of American OA journals is far greater than that of Chinese OA journals. Third, eight altmetrics indicators including Number of mentioned outputs, Total mentions, News mentions, Blog mentions, Twitter mentions, Facebook mentions, Wikipedia mentions, and Google+ mentions show highly positive correlations based on Altmetrics Explorer, and the indicators have a significant consistency both overall and internally. To sum up, agreeing with Liu et al. (2013), Amath et al. (2017) and Maggio et al. (2018), altmetrics is a powerful tool to measure the societal impact of jour-nals, but it cannot replace the traditional bibliometrics at present. However, the limitation of this work is that we only select OA journals in WoS and Alt-metrics.com for influence comparison and evaluation. In future, we will compare and evaluate China and other countries, such as China and G20 countries or China and other developing countries.
How much is research in the top journals of industrial/organizational psychology dominated by authors from the US? The aim of this study was to analyze the extent to which the field of I/O psychology has become more international over the last 11 years. However, the absolute numbers demonstrate a continuing dominance of U.S. authors (around 60%), and the numbers are even higher when the location of the researcher's academic socialization was considered (i.e., whether they received any education at a U.S. institution) or if they had at least one U.S. co-author (around 73%). Nonetheless, continued efforts are needed in order for research in I/O psychology—and likely the field of psychology (Arnett 2008; Henrich et al. 2010)—to become truly international.
Qualifying threshold of "take-off" stage for successfully disseminated creative ideas We find that most (greater than 87%) of the highly cited papers attract an average of 50.46 and 102.93 citations within 2 years and 4 years of publication, respectively. This study also explores the influence of discipline, number of references, and Price index on the threshold of “take-off” period. In our next study, we will try to test longer citation windows for papers, for example, in the 1990s.
Publication modalities 'article in press' and 'open access' in relation to journal average citation Our main findings show evidence of a positive correlation between average journal impact and advancing the publication of accepted articles, moreover this correlation increases over time. The open access modality, in a ceteris paribus context, also correlates positively with average journal impact.
The language of peer review reports on articles published in the BMJ, 2014-2017: an observational study This study revealed that positive words primarily concerned the manuscript's research ques-tion, the methodological rigour and the quality of the writing featured prominently in review-ers recommendations that a submitted article be accepted in the BMJ. Manuscripts initially rejected but later accepted were commonly described in peer review reports as being “at high risk of bias”. Making researchers aware of the wording of peer reviews and the subsequent editorial decisions can potentially help to level the playing field when it comes to the evaluation of submissions to the BMJ.
Where and what do they publish? Editors' and editorial board members' affiliated institutions and the citation counts of their endogenous publications in the field of communication The results indicated that the diversity of a journal's editorial community was related to its affiliated institution, international orientation, and interdisciplinary nature.
How collaboration type, publication place, funding and author's role affect citations received by publications from Africa: A bibliometric study of LIS research from 1996 to 2015 In conclusion, higher visibility and funding through international collaboration as revealed in this study is a positive incentive to researchers in Africa to engage in international collaboration. However, there is a need to also increase intra-Africa collaborations as this study has revealed that intra-African collaboration attracted more citations than other types of collaboration and single authorship. The limitations of WoS as the data source for Africa's research publication data is acknowledged and future research using data from other citation databases is suggested.
Editorial team scholarly index (ETSI): an alternative indicator for evaluating academic journal reputation This study proposes a new index, called the editorial team scholarly index (ETSI), which uses editorial team characteristics to measure and rank academic journals.
What might get published in management and applied psychology? Experimentally manipulating implicit expectations of reviewers regarding hedges Moreover, the findings call for research on implicit expectations in the publishing process, may have important consequences for reviewers' and editors' awareness of this topic, and raise attention in novice and international researchers to subtle aspects of language that might influence chances of publishing. The current study uncovered implicit expectations from editors and reviewers of high impact journals in management and applied psychology that authors probably need to fulfill in order to enhance their chances of publishing a paper. Therefore, this study is one of the first to highlight the importance of more research regarding the topic of implicit expectations in the publishing process.
An evolutionary explanation of assassins and zealots in peer review This explains the evolutionary success of zealots and assassins in peer review, since they use a coarse partition of manuscripts, and therefore, do not distinguish acceptable from unacceptable.
On an approach to boosting a journal's citation potential The main contribution of this study is that it reveals a quantitative correlation between citing and cited items at the journal level, instead of qualitative analysis, for instance a set of papers published in higher-quality journals has a greater probability of being highly cited (Liang et al. 2014); there is a positive correlation between publication-average number of a journal's citations and that of the journal's references (Zitt and Small 2008).
The increasing dominance of science in the economy: Which nations are successful? If we narrow the effect of science on the economy to science-dependent innovations, the number of these innovations have increased gradually over time, so now the greater number of patents with the highest economic value are science-dependent. At the country level, scientific production and producing innovational science are necessary for introducing wealth-generating innovations that are dependent on science, but they are not sufficient. Demonstrating the economic impact of science through evidence-based measures is essential for scientific progress.
Types of DOI errors of cited references in Web of Science with a cleaning method Though our cleaning approach can improve largely the quality of DOI names of cited references in the WoS database, several situations cannot still be conquered by our approach: (a) similar characters are confused with each other (Zhu et al. 2019), such as “O” versus “0”, “b” versus “6” and “O” versus “Q”; (b) it is very difficult to distinguish the correct one from multiple DOI names assigned to the same cited reference; (c) A DOI name assigned to some cited reference cannot be resolved by the DOI system; (d) A DOI name is resolvable, but points to some knowledge unit within the interested cited reference.
The citation advantage of foreign language references for Chinese social science papers There is a significant citation advantage for papers that play this role: those papers incorporating foreign language literature receive significantly more citations than those that do not.
Comparing capture, usage and citation indicators: an altmetric analysis of journal papers in chemistry disciplines The altmetric indicators covering three dimensions related to scholarly communications are compared in this study and significant correlations at different degrees among each other were reported.
Green IT and sustainable technology development: Bibliometric overview In this study, a publication search related to GIT and technology sustainability was performed in Scopus without filtering the period of time.
TOPICS AND GEOGRAPHICAL DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE IN TOP ECONOMIC JOURNALS This paper studies the evolution of the economic discipline and the process of diffusion and decay by topic and geographical area over this long period of time (1985-2012) focusing on seven top journals that constitute the core of the field and on their forward citations.
Science Means Never Having to Say You're Sorry? Apologies for Scientific Misconduct It seems, then, that retractions invoke not only one but two "things of bound- aries" (Abbott, 1995, p. 57): a technical, factual, and value-free science and a social, emotional, and ethically bound community. By opening up ambivalences, retractions create space for move- ment in the present while entrusting time with cleaning up afterward: resolv- ing the conflicts of interpretation and drawing a then permanent and equivocal line between true and false.
Content, Contribution, and Knowledge Consumption: Uncovering Hidden Topic Structure and Rhetorical Signals in Scientific Texts Overall, our analyses show how and why the thematic substance and argumentation style of scientific articles drive knowledge consumption in management research.
Academic Hiring Networks and Institutional Prestige: A Case Study of Canadian Sociology Overall, this study aims to encourage collective self-reflection and motivate discourse about status-based inequalities in our own discipline.
Institutional Repositories Located at Universities: An Analysis of the Cuban Experience The number of Cuban institutions of higher education moving forward with the development of institutional repositories has increased from the first decade of the twenty-first century until now.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Latin American Research on Stroke 2003-2017 Despite the continuous increase in research output from Latin American countries, more effort is needed to strengthen the research capacity by developing networks and collaborative research projects, ideally among the Latin American countries themselves.
The 100 Most Influential Contemporary Social Work Faculty as Assessed by the H-Index The individuals appearing in Table 1 deserve to be recognized for their significant contributions to the profession’s intellectual life. This listing of the 100 most influential contemporary social work faculty may serve as a stimulus for future research into the causes and correlates of such high achievement (see Corcoran, Robbins, Hepler, & Magner, 1987).
Which leading journal leads? Idea diffusion in economics research journals Our results indicate that leadership depends on the topic.
Reaching across the aisle: Cross-disciplinary collaboration in otolaryngology research The majority of articles published during a 3-year period in three influential otolaryngology journals had cross-disciplinary collaboration.
University ranking based on faculty hiring network with minimum weighted violation rankings This paper proposes MWVR model under the inspiration from work conducted by Clauset et al. We reveal the essential mechanism of MVR by deriving the formula from the idea of maximum likelihood. Because this model is more general, it will be more powerful.
Scientific Research on Nanotechnology in Latin American Journals Published in SciELO: Bibliometric Analysis of Gender Differences Overall, our analysis predominantly shows serious gender inequality in the scientific field of nanotechnol- ogy in Latin American countries. It even shows that the first half of the 2010s was marked by two instances of a significant widening of the gender gap with respect to nanotechnology publications in SciELO, both to the detriment of women. While in the meantime this trend may have been halted or reversed, it still deserves our attention.
Outcomes from an elective medical student Research Scholarly Concentration program Participation in the SC program was correlated with increased research outcomes, including more publications after medical school and almost four times higher likelihood of obtaining a job in an academic health center.
A Complex Network Method in Criticality Evaluation of Air Quality Standards Overall, this study showed the effectiveness of the application of social network analysis methods in identifying the criticality of air quality standards' citation networks. Firstly, the air quality standards with relatively high criticality, as evaluated by the TOPSIS method, play dominant roles in the citation network and impose great control over other standards in the transmission of information and knowledge. Secondly, we found that the critical standards changed over time as the introduction of new technologies or the issue of government policies.
Research collaboration model in academic social networks Through the experiment analysis, we proved that scientists tend to collaborate with other scientists who have more common collaborators.
Analysis of inequality in nanomedicine using clinical trials and disease burden This study cannot determine the impacts of all of nanotechnology on inequality, but there is no evidence that nanomedicine will reduce inequality.
Effects of providing manuscript editing through a combination of in-house and external editing services in an academic hospital Our experience of employing two professional editors to form the basis of an in-house editing team demonstrated that such a team was able to effectively manage > 2000 yearly editing requests while providing quality manuscript editing services themselves. Importantly, the establishment of the in-house editing team was associated with a significant increase in the number of editing requests, and subsequently, the number of research publications from our medical center. Thus, our model system may be adapted in academic hospitals to better address the editing needs of non-native English-speaking researchers and to encourage research publication.
The development of political science in Central and Eastern Europe: bibliometric perspective, 1996-2013 Our main findings are in line with the conclusions of other authors (Klingemann 2008; Coakley and Doyle 1998; Eisfeld and Pal 2010a, b), implying that political science in Central and Eastern Europe is country-specific, even in the case of countries sharing common backgrounds as in the case of the former Yugoslav states, the Czech and Slovak Republics or the Baltic states.
A Crisis in "Open Access": Should Communication Scholarly Outputs Take 77 Years to Become Open Access? Much is left to be desired in OA communication development. Again, undeniably, it can be considered as "crisis in scientific publishing" as mentioned by Miguel et al. (2016). Given this stunning information, it is the time for a global call for "open access" by communication scholars across the world. Future research should investigate whether the current business models of publications in communication scholarships are encouraging open access or pose unnecessary restrictions on knowledge development.
Identifying translational science through embeddings of controlled vocabularies I proposed a method to place publications onto the translational spectrum, by learning embeddings of controlled vocabularies.
Research misconduct, NSF v NIH: Its nature and prevalence and the impact of their respective methods of investigation and adjudication These findings are most likely related to the nature of their respective sciences, scientists and publications. The DOJ should consider revising its current criteria for prosecution to increase the likelihood that serious research misconduct offenders are criminally prosecuted. The increased threat of criminal prosecution could serve as a deterrent.
Knowledge in the dark: scientific challenges and ways forward To tackle the challenge of dark knowledge, we need to develop and implement an array of tools.
Sentiment classification based on linguistic patterns in citation context The experimental results show that the CRF model achieves better results in both subjective/objective classification and positive/negative polarity classification compared to the SVM model. It shows that the combination features based on linguistic patterns are more helpful in identifying the implicit sentiments in citation context. This indicates that the extraction of linguistic patterns in citation context and the use of CRF to achieve the expression of more complex logical structures in these patterns can better capture the language organization patterns used by the authors, thus helping to identify the implicit sentiment in citation context.
International comparisons of themes in higher education research This study makes a detailed comparison of various countries in higher education research. The scientometric method was used to divide higher education research into 20 themes. Although we cannot present all of the factors that cause the research differences between different countries, this quantitative description is of great significance for the development of international higher education and research therein.
The Pernicious Effects of Compression Plagiarism on Scholarly Argumentation In this article I have argued that compression plagiarism constitutes a distinct variety of plagiarism.
Exploring the role of interdisciplinarity in physics: Success, talent and luck In conclusion, in this paper we have shown, through both a statistical analysis performed on the APS data set and a comparison with the numerical results obtained by an agent-based model (calibrated on the real data), that the attitude to broaden the scope of their researches, mixing different fields of physics, is able to provide more rewards to the scientists, since their productivity and their scientific impact increase with their level of interdisciplinarity.
Perceived publication pressure in Amsterdam: Survey of all disciplinary fields and academic ranks Taken together, publication pressure concerns researchers from all disciplinary fields and seems to be a particularly detrimental stressor for postdocs and assistant professors.
Social attention and scientific articles on stroke: Altmetric analysis of top-50 articles There are some discrepancies in perspectives between scientific articles and general social media, and the Altmetric Attention Score is considered to more dynamically reflect the interests of the general public. We therefore suggest that physicians can use Altmetric analysis to identify what the general public actually wants to know about in the real world, while they should also have a critical view of the social media that attracts the public with a stimulating theme rather than a worthy subject.
Predatory journals: Do not judge journals by their Editorial Board Members The results dispute the common belief that it is possible to identify predatory journals by checking their edi-torial boards. Scientists should not rely on the editors to determine if a journal is predatory. If an author has doubt, the edi-tors should be contacted.
Perspectives From Authors and Editors in the Biomedical Disciplines on Predatory Journals: Survey Study Authors publishing in suspected predatory journals are alarmingly uninformed in terms of predatory journal quality and practices.
RESEARCH CONSORTIA DETERMINE A SIGNIFICANT PART OF THE BIBLIOMETRIC VISIBILITY OF ESTONIAN SCIENCE The current study used a bibliometric analysis to examine the relationship between collaboration and the quantity and quality of Estonian research publications.
A standardized citation metrics author database annotated for scientific field We hope that the availability of standardized, field-annotated data will help achieve a more nuanced use of metrics, avoiding some the egregious errors of raw bean-counting that are prevalent in misuse of citation metrics.
Peer review assessment of originality in tourism journals: critical perspective of key gatekeepers The analysis has sought to provide a comprehensive picture of the multidimensional nature of originality with overlapping dimensions such as novelty, significance and relevance.
Mapping knowledge domains of non-biomedical modalities: A large-scale co-word analysis of literature 1987-2017 By employing a network approach, this paper has mapped the various terms in the literature on non-biomedical modalities into four clusters: alternative medicine, unclassified drugs, herbal medicine, and traditional medicine.
Open access principles and practices benefit conservation As conservation professionals, we should try to ensure that we develop and uphold values that make conservation and science better.
Globalization of science and international scientific collaboration: A network perspective Our analysis shows that globalization of science is an on-going process, with a growing number of countries taking part in the inter-national collaboration and ties between countries are much closer than before. Geographical distance impedes international collaboration in science, even though it is not significant. Third, the relationships between scientific collaboration networks and interna-tional trade, FDI, cross-border migration, and international students, are also hot topics.
Bibliometric analysis for highly cited papers in operations research and management science from 2008 to 2017 based on Essential Science Indicators This paper adopted bibliometric methods to analyze ESI-HCPs in OR/MS from 2008 to 2017. The results showed that EJOR, ESWA, IJPE and Omega have the most numbers of ESI-HCPs. The results of our work can provide some benefits for practitioners and researchers in OR/MS.
Mapping the global network of fisheries science collaboration Broad-based collaboration, it is argued, is crucial to solving the challenges ongoing with respect to fisheries. Although likely shaped by an array of both micro- and macro-sociological factors, the patterns of collaboration and the geography of topics uncovered across the field betray a number of political-eco-nomic influences, which merit reflection by both policymakers and scientists alike. This pattern is likely to limit the potential gains of collaboration and could have conse-quences in terms of pushing the boundaries of fisheries science in new and fruitful ways, in a manner that may help address some of the ongoing challenges within this area.
From zero to one: A perspective on citing We find that in the beginning stage, that is, from zero to one citation, high-, medium-, and low-cited publications do not exhibit obviously different lengths of time.
Does the web of science accurately represent chinese scientific performance? In Social Sciences and Humanities, in which Chinese scholars publish few WoS articles compared to the large number of publications in national journals, WoS does not represent Chinese research activities. Instead, Chinese bibliometric databases should be used to evaluate Chinese research performance, as suggested by Moed (2002b) and Liang (2003). In Natural Sciences including Life Sciences & Biomedicine, Physical Sciences, and Technology, in which Chinese scholars diffuse their research results in both international journals and national journals, Chinese research performance could be evaluated using a combination of WoS and national Chinese bibliometric databases.
Performance assessment and major trends in open government data research based on Web of Science data "Motivated by the demands to explore the recent research development in OGD, this study carried out an empirical analysis of OGD based on WOS, focusing on six dimensions."
Does this title bug (Hemiptera) you? How to write a title that increases your citations Our survey of entomology and ecology journal titles corroborates investigations of journal titles in other fields and highlights the risk of choosing a title that is too specific. In particular, the use of Latin names in a title reduced citation rate and probably readership for papers. Our research provides guidance on how to write your perfect ‘Goldilocks’ title that will increase recognition and citations of your research.
A roadmap for exploring the thematic content of ecology journals Our study provides a thematic review as a potential roadmap for junior ecologists to browse and publish journal articles.
MEDICAL DEVICE INNOVATION IN SOUTH AFRICA: EVOLUTION OF COLLABORATION NETWORKS (2001-2013) The results presented here give insight into the collaborative activities that have occurred over a 13-year period by identifying the key actors and presenting trends seen in the development of the medical device field.
Low income countries have the highest percentages of open access publication: A systematic computational analysis of the biomedical literature "This work identifies geographic regions and fields of research that could be priority areas for open access advocacy."
Measuring and exploring the geographic mobility of American professors from graduating institutions: Differences across disciplines, academic ranks, and genders This paper explores the variation of geographic mobility from graduating to hiring institution of United States-based researchers using two novel measures.
Solution by step functions of a minimum problem in L<SUP>2</SUP>[0,1], using generalized h- and g-indices Considering an L2[0,T] minimum problem led us to the study of a set of generalizations of the continuous h- and g-indices. This illustrates the use of the h-and g-indices and their generalizations in a context which bears no relation to the context in which these indices were originally introduced (Egghe, 2006a; Hirsch, 2005). As such this article shows the usefulness of the h-index and g-index construction as mathematical constructions.
Mapping the backbone of the Humanities through the eyes of Wikipedia In the present study, we have extrapolated the methodology for representing science on the basis of co-citation maps to a different context.
Publication counting methods for a national research evaluation exercise Our paper shows that selecting the publication counting method for national evaluation purposes needs to take into account the current situation in the given country in terms of the excellence of research outcomes, level of internal, external and international collaboration, and publication patterns in the various fields of science.
Analyzing linguistic complexity and scientific impact The results suggested no practical significant relationship between linguistic complexity and citation strata in either discipline. This suggests that textual complexity plays little role in scientific impact in our data sets. This suggests a weak relationship between the linguistic complexity of a paper and scientific impact, which is reinforced by the results in our regression analyses. Most of the differences aforementioned are not practically significant according to the point estimation results, although there exists some relationship between scientific impact and linguistic complexity.
When research assessment exercises leave room for opportunistic behavior by the subjects under evaluation The possibility that some very productive professors allowed few of their works to be signed by unproductive colleagues, to avoid penalties to the university, cannot be excluded but does not find sound systemic support in the analysis.
Who posts scientific tweets? An investigation into the productivity, locations, and identities of scientific tweeters With these results we suggest number of scientific tweets is not a good indicator of measuring either popularity or impact, tweeter's productivity, location and identities must be taken into consideration in interpreting the meaning of Twitter altmetrics.
Exploring all-author tripartite citation networks: A case study of gene editing The following conclusions can be drawn as follows: our all-author tripartite citation networks are able to help identify the most influential scholars in the field of gene editing, and the intellectual structures from exclusive tripartite citation networks are optimal.
How does collaboration affect researchers' positions in co-authorship networks? The results show that collaboration improves research. Increasing the number of collaborations results in more papers and more collaborators and increases the influence of researchers.
Postgraduate publishing output in pediatric neurosurgery: correlation with fellowship site and individual scholars Approximately 90% of fellowship-trained pediatric neurosurgeons have 1 or more publications, but the spectrum of output is broad. There is a strong correlation between where surgeons complete their fellowships and postgraduate publications. An area of future research would be to investigate the association and possible impact between prefellowship and postfellowship research.
An overview of Open Access publishing in palaeontology There is a clear relationship between journal impact and prices levied by journals for publishing OA.
Punishing crimes of the mind: Sanctions for scientific misconduct as a case for the cultural theory of punishment Returning to state punishment and the penal practices described by Smith, the left sacred conjured by punishment seems a lot less out of hand. The counter-readings identified by Smith do not really seem resistant, but rather necessary invocations of danger that justify the need for an enclosure through ritual authority. The left sacred plays its role in a performance that ultimately legitimizes and consolidates the power of the state.
The Influence of the Circular Economy: Exploring the Knowledge Base This paper provides a bibliometric overview of the leading trends in the field of CE.
The Effect of Heterogeneity and Leadership on Innovation Performance: Evidence from University Research Teams in China Our study contributes to a deeper understanding of the value of interdisciplinary research collaboration.
Toward citation recommender systems considering the article impact in the extended nearby citation network In this paper, we focus on citation recommendation for re- searchers based on the extended nearby citation network of a given article. The experiment results show that, our ap- proach outperforms the other baseline systems in terms of precision, and recall to predict the author's actual selections for the articles in the reference list.
Winning awards and gaining recognition: An impact analysis of APSA section book prizes At the outset we posed two questions but our analysis answered the second with more certainty than the first.
How much research output from India gets social media attention? First, the overall social media coverage of research output from India is 28.5%, which is significantly lower than the world aver- age of 46.7%. Second, some disciplines like MED, BIO and MUL get more social media coverage compared to their publication volume, whereas some other disciplines like ENG, INF and MAT get less social media coverage in comparison to their publication volume.
A bibliometric analysis of scientific production in the field of lingual orthodontics Bibliometric indicators point to an irregular increase in the numbers of published works in lingual orthodontics over time. Research output is dominated by methodological articles as a technique-driven subspecialty. The number of articles is generally lower compared with other dental or medical specialties, which include several research fields.
Analysis of Publication Interest on Preterm Birth Over Two Decades A significant increase in research concerning PTB was observed over the last two decades.
Toward more rapid and efficient peer review: A case study on publication in Ecological Research These investigations revealed some critical bottlenecks for rapid and efficient peer review, which have been reported in similar studies conducted for other journals (Kovanis et al., 2016; Nguyen et al., 2015; Willis, 2016).
The citation from patents to scientific output revisited: A new approach to Patstat/Scopus matching The percentage of correctly matched references can still be improved with respect to the total available references.
El profesional de la informacion (EPI): Bibliometric and thematic analysis (2006-2017) The evolution of El profesional de la información is positive since its launch to date.
Evolution of the visibility of scholarly monographs in the academic field From the point of view of the systems for assessing faculty members research output, scientific monographs are little valued in the majority of the scientific areas.
Funding APCs from the research funder's seat: Findings from the EC FP7 Post-Grant Open Access Pilot A summary of lessons learnt is offered at the end of the paper, both for institutions and funders.
A cross-sectional description of open access publication costs, policies and impact in emergency medicine and critical care journals Authors should take due care when selecting a journal for publication. Dissemination options should be strongly considered, specifically access options following publication. The database described here can be used as a guide to navigate the various open access options with due consideration of journal impact at the same time.
Gambia publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: bibliometrics of institutions and subjects With the information and insights provided in this paper, we managed to obtain a quick overview of Gambia publications that can help make strategic decisions for researchers and governors of scientific research.
Text recycling: Views of North American journal editors from an interview-based study This study has demonstrated and reconfirmed significant variation in how editors of peer reviewed academic journals view the subject of TR across disciplinary areas.
Network analysis to evaluate the impact of research funding on research community consolidation Overall, we believe our results support the hypothesis that the Sloan Foundation-funded researchers consolidated as a community over the course of the program during 2008-2010. In particular, while the Sloan Foundation-funded community was initially less connected than the control community it reached a similar level of consolidation by the end of our study period. This suggests to us that the program was successful in the stated goal of increasing collaboration between researchers.
Follow the leader: On the relationship between leadership and scholarly impact in international collaborations Strategies for international collaboration do not equally benefit all countries. A disproportionately high reliance on international collaboration may imply that a country lacks the resources necessary to be independent. For relatively disadvantaged countries, there is no citation benefit to lead research, but there is one for collaborating. Robust science policy must take into account inequalities in labor and reward rather than defaulting to a universal strategy towards international collaboration.
A snapshot of pneumonia research activity and collaboration patterns (2001-2015): a global bibliometric analysis Pneumonia research increased steadily over the 15-year study period, with Europe and North America leading scientific production.
Creative Careers: The Life Cycles of Nobel Laureates in Economics The empirical analysis of this paper provides strong support for the proposition that the life cycles of important scholars in economics vary continuously between two very different poles.
Scientific Twitter: The flow of paleontological communication across a topic network Our findings demonstrate that a diverse assortment of members have interest and impact on paleontological practice within a digital, social world that was created organically through people's use of paleontology hashtags. This study adds to our understanding of the important scientific contribution being made by members of the public as they interact with professional scientists and educators as peers in one open digital social space within an ever-expansive habitat. The Twitter platform is supporting the practice of citizen science in paleontology for a diverse group of participants in unique ways through interactions that illustrate the inherently social and humanistic way science is practiced.
Academic Habitus and Institutional Change: Comparing Two Generations of German Scholars First of all, it becomes clear that academic careers and behaviors are in no way based upon uniform habitual dispositions. The second important finding is that the distinct habitus formations occur across generations, which can be read as evidence for their relative stability over time. In conclusion, academics still respond differently to institutional changes due to different basic habitus formations.
Inbreeding and Research Productivity Among Sociology PhD Holders in Portugal Findings suggest that academic inbreeding, defined at the institutional level, has no negative effect on research productivity, contrary to what was expected. However, internationalisation emerged as a factor affecting research productivity, particularly in terms of recognition and impact, as academics who obtained their PhD abroad had a higher probability of being cited in Scopus than those who obtained their PhD in the country (see also Katranidis et al. 2017). Moreover, further research in other disciplinary areas is needed.
The evolution of IJHCS and CHI: A quantitative analysis The results confirm some of the intuitions we have about the difference in nature between journal and conference papers.
Top-cited articles in medical professionalism: a bibliometric analysis versus altmetric scores Altmetric scores of articles were significantly correlated with citations counts for articles published in 2007 and after.
Russian Science Citation Index on the WoS platform: a critical assessment The authors propose that this situation is due to the non-transparent and partly defective process of journal selection involved; primarily it can be attributed to problems with the RSCI expert pool.
Comparison of Scientific Publications from Three Different Clinical Disciplines of German Universities In summary, we demonstrate in this investigation that the number of publications in German universities appears to be a function of the number of academic personnel working in the department and not of the discipline.
Concepts of Originality in the Natural Science, Medical, and Engineering Disciplines: An Analysis of Research Proposals This paper shows that different concepts of scientific originality are identifiable in NSME disciplines and that the modes of presenting originality resemble those usually found outside science. This study uses research proposals from the NSME disciplines submitted to a funding initiative called Experiment! If it turns out that the modes of scientific originality have great similarities with extrascientific concepts, then the autonomy of science might be challenged.
How do field-specific research practices affect mobility decisions of early career researchers? We have demonstrated that in spite of strong standardising forces of uniform terms of contracts across all research fields, the mobility of ECRs shows field-specific patterns. We traced these patterns to field-specific practices of knowledge production and resulting field-specific epistemic functions of mobility.
On the use of blockchain-based mechanisms to tackle academic misconduct Overall, this paper attempts to present the importance of new technology to tackle a serious issue facing the academic community that evidence suggests is only going to worsen over time.
Diversity of backgrounds and ideas: The case of research evaluation in economics Therefore, if fos- tering diversity of backgrounds and ideas is a stated aim of research policy, it should be explicitly included as an objective of research evaluation procedures, with clear and binding guidelines. Moreover, tack- ling one does not automatically address the other. For both candidates hoping to qualify as associate or as full professors, working on peripheral topics significantly reduced the chances of qualifying for the ASN procedure.
Research addressing emerging technological ideas has greater scientific impact This study contributes to scholarly endeavors toward elucidating the determinants of the degree to which scientific knowledge is consumed. First, our analysis shows robust and consistent empirical evidence indicating that research addressing emerging technological ideas (topics) within a technology domain have a greater impact on further scientific research. Second, our study provides a practical guideline for individual researchers who seek future promising research topics.
What people learn about how people learn: An analysis of citation behavior and the multidisciplinary flow of knowledge Taken together, these results are a caution that, even for a highly regarded multidisciplinary work cited widely by publications from multiple disciplines, its direct influence could be largely disciplinary.
Gender discrepancies in publication productivity of high-performing life science graduate students The NSF GRFP provides competitive R&D funding for early career graduate students with demonstrated research potential. Although we find evidence that men and women receive the award at comparable rates that reflect trends of graduate program matriculation, the program does not produce the same outcomes across gender.
Who moves to the methodological edge? Factors that encourage scientists to use unconventional methods By enlisting both quantitative and qualitative evidence, we identified the status and identity advantages that shape the use of unconventional methods, the conditions under which these associations hold, and strategies scholars use to manage the risks associated with doing so. Taken together, results from this mixed methods study advance knowledge on scientific practice, extend organization theory, and provides guidance to policymakers and administrators who aim to foster risky, path-breaking research. This study has policy implications for governments and organizations seeking to promote unconventional, 'high risk, high reward' research.
Natural language processing applications in library and information science The results of this paper draw a general framework for LIS field and guides researchers on new techniques that may be useful in the field.
Dynamic Changes in Maritime Research Capability in Chinese Universities First, HKPU and NUS are the two leading universities, not only in the Chinese league, but also in the world league. Sixth, the future of China's rankings is bright in view of their increasing proportion of papers in the world and their strong basis in quantitative methodologies. The policy of hiring eminent foreign scholars in China is also expected to catalyze Chinese institutions to greater competitiveness in the near future.
Changes in revenue structure of a leading open access journal publisher: the case of BMC Judging from the trends in the two components of revenues, there is no room to be overly optimistic about the open access journal market, irrespective of the present overall market growth.
Who is peer reviewed? Comparing publication patterns of peer-reviewed and non-peer-reviewed papers in Japanese political science The findings of this paper can be summarized as follows. First, since the introduction of PR in Japanese political science in the 1980s, the number and proportion of PRd papers has increased, but the share of NPRd papers remains large. The results provide the following interpretation of the actual functions of PR: researchers in the early stages of their academic careers are likely to choose PRd papers to gain an advantage in the job market. If the generalized norms and behavioral patterns of PR are referred to as the PR culture, there is the PR culture that reiterates that “PR is a young person's game” in this area. Will these norms and patterns of behavior persist? The rate of PRd papers among the younger generation is increasing, and researchers' attitudes seems to be changing.
Are articles in library and information science (LIS) journals primarily contributed to by LIS authors? First, a proportion of 50% or more articles written by LIS authors is not an appropriate indicator of an LIS journal, because some LIS journals do not meet this threshold.
Who reads international Egyptian academic articles? An altmetrics analysis of Mendeley readership categories Overall, this study concludes that Egyptian researchers have great international influence on global society. The study suggests that Mendeley readership may reflect usage similarly to conventional citation impacts if the data are limited to readers who are also authors, without the delay of influence measured by citation indicators. Meanwhile, Mendeley data can disclose the invisible impact of research publications, such as educational value for non-author users inside academia or the impact of research papers on practice for users outside academia.
An integrated solution for detecting rising technology stars in co-inventor networks Detecting rising stars in a technology domain is a unique and meaningful problem that has not yet been addressed in the literature.
Core journals and elite subsets in scientometrics In most cases, any of the studied elite subsets may be used for publication evaluation.
Building journal's long-term impact: using indicators detected from the sustained active articles The indicators presented in this paper that describe the long-term impact of journals will be a useful complement to journal quality assessment.
A transition stage co-citation criterion for identifying the awakeners of sleeping beauty publications The main advantage of the proposed transition stage co-citation criterion is that it can find AWs missed by the traditional co-citation criteria.
Development strategy and collaboration preference in S&T of enterprises based on funded papers: a case study of Google Taking Google as the example, the paper makes an in-depth analysis of articles funded by Google from 2007 to 2018. Funded research not only influences the development of S&T indirectly, but also reflects the scientific field where funders are interested. The method in this paper is feasible to detect development strategy and collaboration preference of S&T in Google.
Early identification of intellectual structure based on co-word analysis from research grants These discoveries, to some extent, confirm the early identification of intellectual structure based on the research grant.
Corrective factors for author- and journal-based metrics impacted by citations to accommodate for retractions The existence of such corrective factors could make the use of these metrics more transparent, and might allow them to be used in a world that is adapting to an increase in retractions and corrective measures to deal with erroneous scientific literature.
Universities through the eyes of bibliographic databases: a retroactive growth comparison of Google Scholar, Scopus and Web of Science This work proves that the url-based method to calculate institutional productivity in GS is not a good proxy for the total number of publications indexed in WoS and Scopus. However, the main reason is not directly related to the operation of GS but with a lack of commitment of universities with open access and the use of institutional repositories. For this reason, even when the url-based method of GS is not the most accurate, it could constitute a barometer of the evolution of university policies around open access.
Comparison of the share of documents and citations from different quartile journals in 25 research areas The level of exigence for a researcher to publish in Q1 journals (related to the probability to publish in Q1 journals compared to other quartiles) as well as the quality of the publications in Q1 journals (measured in terms of different citation indicators compared to other quartiles), is largely different depending on the research area.
A cooperative game model for the multimodality of coauthorship networks The model provides an example of how can the individual strategies based on positive benefit-minus-cost and specific randomness generate the complexity emerged in coauthorship networks.
What can Bookmetrix tell us about the impact of Springer Nature's books The results of the current study provide evidence that usage-based and social media-based metrics could act as the comple-ment of traditional citation-based measures for assessing the impact of books and book chapters in a multidimensional way. This study also provides insights into different types of impact that scholarly books have and how they are being cited, downloaded and discussed in book-oriented and article-oriented disciplines.
Peer review versus bibliometrics: Which method better predicts the scholarly impact of publications? We have ascertained that, in the sciences under examination (which exclude medicine), the predictive power of bibliometrics proves superior to that of peer review as early as 1 year after publication, and this is true for all DAs. Furthermore, the longer the citation time window, the more accurate the bibliometric approach becomes in predicting future impact. Thus, we can conclude that the real question is no longer whether either methodology is better at assessing the scholarly impact of a given research product, but rather what sorts of trade-offs exist between accuracy and timeliness of research evaluation or, in other words, what decision makers want to evaluate and how long they are willing to wait in order to make accurate, informed decisions.
Is there plagiarism in the most influential publications in the field of andrology? These findings support the need for the development of similarity index guidelines as a major pre-requisite for establishing a more transparent and efficient system to address plagiarism in scientific publications.
Explore with caution: mapping the evolution of scientific interest in physics In this work, we have analysed the different strategies adopted by researchers, during their career in the Physics community, and test the presence of "the essential tension" between exploration and exploitation described by Kuhn [1]. Our results demonstrate that, even if the vast majority of the authors almost completely change (gradually) their research interests during their career, they remain in the broader area of Physics—i.e. the first level of the PACS classification—where they started. Finally, we believe that the results presented in this work can help the design of specific policies to foster the future advancement of Physics and related scientific disciplines.
Academic output of German neurosurgical residents in 35 academic neurosurgery residency programs The most impor- tant factor for higher academic output is the possession of a doctoral degree.
Understanding Quality in Research: Avoiding Predatory Journals Recognizing predatory journals and the consequences of publishing in them is crucial for evidence-based practice, education, and personal growth as a professional.
Linking YouTube and university rankings: Research performance as predictor of online video impact This study unveils that the online video impact is positively related to the research performance for highly prestigious universities, but not for the rest. Being research performance a key element of prestige, results suggest that high levels of prestige help universities improve their online video impact. In addition to video uploads and account oldness, future research may consider the inclusion of other variables when explaining the online video orientation of a university, such as budget allocation or the management efficiency of the social media activities in YouTube.
Investigation of challenges in academic institutional repositories A survey of academic librarians Overall, the participants pointed to resource constraints – lack of budget, resources and/or staff as significant factors that could hinder the development, deployment or services of institutional repositories. Acknowledging these limitations, we plan a future study that investigates the perceptions and opinions from multiple stakeholders, such as end-users and library administrators, in addition to librarians.
Bridging identity challenges: why and how one library plugged ORCiD into their enterprise As libraries continue to grapple with the growing research information requirements and mandates from their institutions, research funders and others, there are opportunities to create efficiencies in the scholarly communications workflow through integration of ORCiD with internal systems. Libraries can integrate a tool like the ORCiD@LANL profile wizard into research information systems (RIS), human resources and internal researcher profile systems. These integrations can standardize data flows, save time, eliminate redundancies and reduce errors. ORCID@LANL has become an integral part of workflows and outreach both within, and outside the LANL Research Library.
Does increased interdisciplinary contact among hard and social scientists help or hinder interdisciplinary research? These results point to the need for policies that incentivise new collaborations between hard and social scientists and foster interdisciplinary contact.
The effect of "open access" on journal impact factors: A causal analysis of medical journals First, overall, choosing OA has enhanced JIFs in the field of medicine.
Profiles of Malaria Research in Portugal: Organizing, Doing and Thinking in Science Under Capitalism This study reveals the construction of Portugal's scientific system and unveils the assimilation of dominant modes of organizing, doing and thinking despite malaria's research low profit potential. Extending this approach to other biomedical fields can unravel the dimensions underlying science's (re)construction.
Research Networking and Collaboration: A Case Study This article illumi es forms of collaboration typically deemphasized in social work research. It was not characterized by consensus, but required role friction and creative reflexivity, where uncertainty and ambiguity often were productively endemic.
The Impact of Open Access Status on Journal Indexes of Radiology Journals This study found that the trend toward OA publishing in the fields of radiology and nuclear medicine has slowed in recent years, although the percent cited (i.e., the proportion of documents that receive at least one citation) is higher for OA journals.
A study of publication trajectories of the Brazilian Computer Science community In this paper, we evaluated characteristics of the Brazilian Computer Science community.
Investigating Familiarity and Usage of Traditional Metrics and Altmetrics Findings suggest altmetrics have attracted attention in academia and could be considered complementary to traditional metrics.
The Influence of Personal and Organizational Factors on Researchers' Attitudes towards Sustainable Research Productivity in Saudi Universities These results will help to improve the sustainability of publication in Saudi universities in order to enhance the universities' rankings and the reputation of academic staff. This means that Saudi universities should enhance the sustainability of their publication. Also, Saudi universities and Saudi higher education institutions can use those factors to build new policies for research purposes. For future work, researchers can use ICT to enhance the discussion and interaction between academic staff and university students.
Latin American triple-A journals 2: The Venezuelan case Data collected for the purposes of this article allowed updating the regional picture that we presented previ-ously (see Machin-Mastromatteo et al., 2017).
Citations to chemical databases in scholarly articles: to cite or not to cite? This study shows that the total number of article citations to SciFinder, Reaxys, PubChem and ChemSpider has steadily increased since 2000.
Study on the research evolution of Nobel laureates 2018 based on self-citation network This study proves the feasibility and effectiveness of self-citation analysis as a new way to examine research evolution. In summary, we propose an approach to track the scientific research evolution of a scientist through self-citation network, and initially prove its feasibility and effectiveness based on the empirical research on Nobel laureates 2018. Compared with the bibliometric methods in the previous studies, it provides us a new perspective to examine relevance and inherence among documents, as well as to identify the transformation and progress of scientific research.
Self-Citation Analysis on Google Scholar Dataset for H-Index Corrections In this paper, we have addressed the self-citation problem in h-index papers on Google Scholar datasets.
Is Microsoft Academic a viable citation source for ranking marketing journals? Based on these findings, MA seems to constitute a rather viable citation source for assessing a marketing journal's impact. For MA's development team, it identifies some issues that need to be fixed. These issues delve around journal title entry, wrong year allocation and field misclassification. Finally, the here offered rankings, when used with care and caution, can constitute interesting alternatives to the SSCI and its JIF that can be useful for hiring, tenure, promotion, granting and merit pay decisions.
Characterizing the highly cited articles: A large-scale bibliometric analysis of the top 1% most cited research This large-scale study, both in terms of sample size and the number of areas considered, analyses metadata associated with the publications and concludes that some of them have a significant influence in explaining the impact of documents. The practical implications of these results are related mainly to the impact of the publication journal and the impact of the article. This may allow scientific journals to have evidence when writing their submission rules for authors in order to maximize the impact of published articles.
The h<SUP>(3)</SUP> - index of academic journals Determination of a journal's h(3)-index requires considerably less information, i.e. citations of the most-cited articles, than the h-index. The proposed h(3)-index for journals offers an alternative for the rankings or classification of journals. As a suggestion for further research we propose to investigate the correlations between the h(3)-index for journals and those contested indexes.
Quantitative portrait of open access mega-journals Today, OAMJs has been identified as a fast growing segment and an innovative publishing platform in the scholarly communication system.
Internationalizing a national scientific community? Changes in publication and citation practices in Chile, 1976-2015 Although it is wise to exercise caution in drawing more general conclusions from analyses of a single case, it is also reasonable to assume that other national scientific communities are being confronted with similar pressures and transformations. Internationalization pressures have often been translated into output requirements; internationalization has become measured in terms of publications and citations in indexed journals, especially in WoS-indexed journals. Building on these findings, we conclude with some suggestions for research policy.
Construct validity maps and the NIRF 2019 ranking of colleges In terms of the construct validity paradigm, we are able to recognize possible biases in the peer review perception scores and also recommend that the X-score, which is based on an input-output model, may give a better representation of reality.
Extended co-citation search: Graph-based document retrieval on a co-citation network containing citation context information This study proposes a novel extended co-citation search technique, which is graph-based document retrieval on a co-citation network containing citation context information.
Motivating scholars' responses in academic social networking sites: An empirical study on ResearchGate Q&A behavior Our study contributes to a number of new theoretical insights.
Open Access initiatives in Zimbabwe: Case of academic libraries The study examined OA initiatives in academic institutions in Zimbabwe that are transforming the scholarly communication land-scape in Zimbabwe by broadening access. Academic libraries also play a greater role in OA initiatives by providing practical support and capacity building for researchers. The study recommends a robust infrastructural development and preservation of content in IRs.
Biomedical researchers and students knowledge about predatory journals Our results indicate the beneficial use of the designed infographic to improve young researchers' awareness of predatory journals.
A bibliometric analysis of the 103 top-cited articles in endodontics The present citation analysis provides insights into the historical progress and current trends in endodontics.
A Scientometric Analysis of "Water" from 2006-2019 The year distribution of water research literature peaked at 3983 in the year of 2011. We found that "Peru water sector", "water footprint", "Rio Grande basin", "residential water demand", "water market" and "urban water reform" are the major research areas in water research domain using co-citation analysis by CiteSpace. "Water quality", "climate change", "water utilities", "water resource management" could be the emerging trend, and new hot spots in the domain of water, researchers involved could keep eyes on these topics.
Most-cited public health articles of scientific journals from Brazil In Brazil, the most-cited articles in public health mainly report Epidemiology research, are written by groups of authors and by researchers affiliated to public institutions and are published in journals with a greater impact.
Correlation Between Altmetric Score and Citations in Pediatric Surgery Core Journals This study is the first to link traditional bibliometric measures with newer measures of digital dissemination for publications in pediatric surgery. Although the Altmetric score of the top cited articles did not correlate with journal IF, it did weakly correlate with citations. Currently, Altmetric and traditional bibliometric measures appear to have distinct but complementary roles in measuring dissemination and impact of scientific articles in pediatric surgery.
The online attention to oral cancer research: An Altmetric analysis Research topics of general interest to the public such as HPV transmission and vaccination, risk factors, and treatment of oral cancer generated the highest online attention. No significant association was observed between article online attention and journal's ranking, number of citations or the quality of evidence offered by the article. Altmetrics should be combined with citation metrics to develop a more comprehensive approach for assessment of research impact.
Predictors of Citations in Neurosurgical Research This is the largest investigation analyzing predictors of citations in the neurosurgical literature.
Exploring the scholarly communication styles of Arab social science and humanities scholars This study has provided insight into the scholarly behaviour of Arab scholars in the digital age.
Misrepresentation of institutional affiliations: The results from an exploratory case study of Chilean authors The inability to validate affiliations might indicate misconduct, and if it is an indication of misrepresentation, it could have profound implications for many stakeholders (universities, journals, ranking houses, funders, and higher edu-cation policy-makers) due to inflated publication counts and under-reporting the actual input from individual institutions.
How publishers and editors can help early career researchers: Recommendations from a roundtable discussion This is perhaps our biggest challenge: to keep learning from each subsequent generation of researchers, so we continue to deliver relevant services and value to those researchers.
Citation of Retracted Articles in Engineering: A Study of the Web of Science Database Based on our results, we conclude that the scientific publication system has faults, due to the publication of articles with misconduct and their propagation through continued citation.
Early-career setback and future career impact Overall, these results document that an early-career setback has powerful, opposing effects, hurting some careers, but also, quite surprisingly, strengthening outcomes for others.
Surgical publication activity in the English literature over a 10-year interval Surgeons from the USA were the most productive in total number of publications during both time periods.
Publications, Citations, Position, and Compensation of Economics Professors This paper explored the determination of salary among economics professors. We found that only three variables—top-5 publications, non-top-5 publications, and job rank—explain 81 percent of variations in faculty pay. Our study sheds light on the determination of economics professors’ salary and may be useful for hiring/retention and for current and prospective employees to have rational expectations.
The making of professors: Assessment and recognition in academic recruitment Making professors – and becoming a professor – is a social process with no definite conclusion.
Job Mobility, Tenure, and Promotions in Political Science PhD-Granting Departments, 2002-2017: Cohort, Gender, and Citation-Count Effects We found extensive turnover in terms of retirements and deaths among the set of scholars identified in 2002 as being employed at an R1 US political science department.
An analysis of the intellectual structure of research on the financial economics of precious metals We conclude that there are significant areas of potential synergy as yet unexploited in this research domain. From the perspective of researchers in the field, a key finding here is that the field is fractured. One major gap exists in the split between the industrial/ecological area and the financial economics area.
The national MD-PhD program outcomes study: Relationships between medical specialty, training duration, research effort, and career paths In summary, this additional analysis of the data from the national MD-PhD program outcomes study supports 3 major conclusions. The first is that medical specialty choices affect critical aspects of the physician-scientist career path, including where people work, the time away from research, the time to first independent position, and the amount of time available to focus on research. The final conclusion is that "current workplace" and NIH research awards are, by themselves, inadequate as surrogate markers for program success, since they mask important differences in how alumni divide their time between research and other activities, where they obtain research support, and how much impact they have had in the twin realms of biomedical research and patient care.
Engineering applications of artificial intelligence: A bibliometric analysis of 30 years (1988-2018) This paper explores the 30 years of EAAI publications as indexed by WoS and Scopus. Various bibliometric and statistical techniques are used to unearth the trends followed and certain characteristics of the publications. Since its inception, EAAI has played a pioneer role in shaping the academic research and is truly discovering the trends in artificial intelligence.
Reading practices in scholarly work: from articles and books to blogs Not all types of readings are the same – different types of publications are read in different ways and for different purposes.
Patterns of citations for the growth of knowledge: a Foucauldian perspective Organic citation patterns build the foundation of our current study, clearly demarcate the conceptual space in which our current study is located, and provide the necessary background for its deliberations and potential contribution.
Bibliometric Analysis on Research Trends of International Journal of Computers Communications & Control This paper studies research trends of International Journal of Computers Communications & Control from 2006 to 2019 by performing bibliometric analysis.
The Policy of Co-First Authorship and Co-Senior Authorship in Radiology Journals The concept of ECA has been generally accepted in the policies of the high impact factor radiology journals, particularly for first authors (80%). However, the utilization of these designations is uncommon for first authorship (8.6%) and rare (1.8%) for senior authorship based on our 2018 sampling. There has been no standardized policy for designation of co-authorship in radiology journals.
The top 100 most-cited papers in Paediatric Dentistry journals: A bibliometric analysis "The evaluation of the top 100 most-cited papers in Paediatric Dentistry journals allowed for a better understanding of the world scenario regarding this research field."
Changes in Scholarly Reading in Finland Over a Decade: Influences of E-Journals and Social Media Some reading patterns among Finnish scholars have changed noticeably over a decade.
Understanding the Social Structure of Academic Social Networking Sites: The Case of ResearchGate This study drew on AST to investigate the social structure of RG, which we suggest presents a new research perspective for RG and other ASNSs beyond.
An Investigation into the Underpinning Factors of Plagiarism among Universities in Iran Plagiarism is a complex and a multi-dimensional phenomenon, like an intertwined coil. In the present study, indifference is a central phenomenon that results from previous factors. One of the research's implications is that plagiarism in Iran seems not to result from individual-psychological factors but from cultural, economic, legal and organizational factors.
Lotka's law for the Brazilian scientific output published in journals In a massive sample that gauges the publications of Brazilian researchers, we found a power law in the number of publications beyond the threshold of 50 papers in journals listed on either the SJR or the JCR of Thomson Reuters.
Open Access Publishing and Subsequent Citations Among Articles in Major Cardiovascular Journals Among contemporary articles published in major cardiovascular journals, open access publishing account for over 40% of articles and was significantly associated with increased short-term citations.
Using Journal Impact Factor to Assess Scholarly Records: Overcorrecting for the Potter Stewart Approach to Promotion and Tenure When departments weight articles by impact factor in this context, they introduce structural inequalities based on gender and subfield.
Comparing the Scholarship Contributions of Five Disciplines to the Occupational Licensure Literature Indexed in Web of Science™ Differences in the focus and volume of published content were observed, with nursing, law, and economics being the most prolific disciplines.
The Relationship Between Interdisciplinarity and Journal Impact Factor in the Field of Communication During 1997-2016 To conclude, this study has found both exciting developments and undesirable characteristics pertinent to the interdisciplinary status of communication research. Interdisciplinarity has been well sustained for more than half a century as a precious tradition, driving the field to gain more impact and reputation across time. So far, our findings suggest that the interdisciplinarity of communication is highly centralized and lacks diversity. We suggest communication journals consider a more inclusive policy, in order to accept heterogeneous, if not deviant, communication-related research from distant disciplines, which can, according to our findings, generally contribute to the communication field in terms of rankings and visibility.
From Journal Selection to Open Access: Practices among Academic Librarian Scholars "In this study of academic librarians, the top criteria for journal selection were the fit or scope of the topic and whether a journal is peer-reviewed. Many academic librarians in North American consciously try to practice what they preach by publishing in open access journals or by adding their preprint or post-print copies to their institutional repositories. Although there has been progress, open access options might yet become more straightforward, more visible, and a higher priority in the field of academic librarianship."
A Selected Comparison of Music Librarians' and Musicologists' Self-Archiving Practices The findings suggest a need for continued advocacy and enhanced understanding of green OA policies and opportunities, as well as a continued assessment of personal repository platforms such as Academia.edu and ResearchGate. Authors who wish to self-archive their work should have stable and easily navigable options for doing so.
Characterizing interdisciplinarity of Nobel laureates' key publications Using interdisciplinary indicators, such as BI and HI, we conclude that interdisciplinarity is small in key publications of Nobel laureates during 2001-2010. Both BI and HI indicate that less interdisciplinarity benefits the work of Nobel laureates, with high concordance and high correlation (>0.8). Thus, the result suggests that smaller interdisciplinarity may benefit high-quality scientific research and publications. Since the start of century, perhaps interdisciplinary research and multidisciplinary collaboration are becoming a new tendency in sciences, which presents an opportunity for further research.
Trends in the conduct of information systems research In this article, we proposed that since the turn of the millennium, there have been substantial changes in the IS research environment-IT, institutional, and global. Our observations suggest that within the IS research community, large and diverse collaborations are increasing, frequently researched topics have coalesced to a few dominant areas, inter-organizational studies are growing, and there is no distinct pattern in direction-setting initiatives that consolidate and extend research. Thus, developing sensitivity to the co-evolution of the IS research community with its environment is critical to sustainability of the discipline.
Implementing and assessing a service to demonstrate public impact of faculty research in news and policy sources This Policy & News Media Impact Service pilot was successful and resulted in the establishment of a permanent service that is available to all departments in the Academic Health Center. Faculty feedback indicated that the service was valuable in demonstrating the public impact of their research. Despite these caveats, we believe that this service offers faculty additional data points and that these reports can function as tools for self-advocacy as faculty demonstrate the significance of their accomplishments and potential to administrators, funding agencies, and the broader community.
Bibliometric mapping for current and potential collaboration detection Data visualization and bibliometric mapping are invaluable tools in detecting and analyzing current and potential collaborative research.
Twitter and Academic Geography through the Lens of #AAG2018 Twitter increasingly is being used by academics for a variety of purposes from networking to spreading research to gathering data. An initial analysis of the 2018 AAG Annual Meeting hashtag,
A BIBLIOMETRIC OVERVIEW OF THE INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF STRATEGIC PROPERTY MANAGEMENT BETWEEN 2008 AND 2019 This paper has presented a bibliometric overview and visualized research structure of the IJSPM between 2008 and 2019.
Stronger together-A framework for measuring interdisciplinary understanding The need for crossing the border of disciplines is widely discussed and considered necessary when hoping to tackle complex social, technical, ecological, and economic challenges. By presenting the “MIU” framework to MIU, this paper contributes to the literature on interdisciplinarity in two main ways. First, interdisciplinary understanding can be measured and improved from inside a research group. Second, interdisci-plinarity between projects can be measured to assess any possible difficulties to communicate, but also the interdisciplinarity value of joint research.
Ranking Accounting Journals by Topical Area and Methodology This study provides a citation-based ranking of top accounting journals, preliminary rankings using Altmetric's Attention Score, and analysis of characteristics of AIS articles that are associated with more citations. These rankings, in conjunction with the analyses in Summers and Wood (2017), suggest that the traditional top-3/6 journals in the academy are not of sufficient general interest to warrant blanket acceptance as the best journals in all areas of accounting research. The myopic focus on a set of largely specialized top-3/6 journals significantly harms scholars in some areas of accounting who publish in the best journals for their topical area but who are not given credit because those journals do not 'count.' We encourage future researchers to dive further into each topical area to provide a list of the best journals for each topical area.
Hot topics and trends in cardiovascular research Growth in clinical and population research emphasizes improving patient outcomes through novel treatments, risk stratification, and prevention.
No evidence of citation bias as a determinant of STEM gender disparities in US biochemistry, genetics and molecular biology research The tendency for a small male citation advantage overall 1996–2014 for biochemistry, genetics and molecular biology journal articles contrasts with an overall 0.2% female US first author citation advantage for journal articles published in 2014 (Thelwall 2018), mitigating against citation advantages being able to account for the relatively high proportion of females in this category. There is also not a pattern for narrow fields within the 14 analysed here to have a higher proportion of females if they have a female citation advantage, or the opposite. For example, the two female fields in 2018, Developmental Biology and Endocrinology, have differencing gender effects signs in the main regression model, suggesting that citation-related gender effects are unlikely to have been a substantial factor in their recruitment and retention of females.
Generating process of emerging topics in the life sciences Our results provide insights on the detection and development of potential emerging technologies for those in industry or policy-making who are responsible for appropriating resources.
Measuring the Cuban scientific output in scholarly journals through a comprehensive coverage approach The overall trend and also the productivity measures of the Cuban scientific output in foreign and national-certified scholarly journals were provided, bringing for the first time real data on yearly output in both types of sources. Altogether, these results set the ground for more elaborate countrywide studies of scientific output in scholarly journals, useful for the National Science Systems.
Effects of journal choice on the visibility of scientific publications: a comparison between subscription-based and full Open Access models In this sense, the results of our analysis show that the Open Access Citation Advantage has still yet to occur: In response to the first research question, regarding publications and citations according to the journal type, the proportion of Gold OA publications is similar to that of previous studies (Archambault et al. 2014; Bjork 2017b; Erfanmanesh 2017). Our results confirm that Gold OA journals are far from having gone full circle (Huang 2016; Joint 2009). OA journals have difficulties in attracting citations in the same proportion that their output rises.
Web of Science and Scopus language coverage The results obtained at document level, combining language and research area, differ from journal-level analysis and from the average values of aggregate data, even at the same document level.
A plea for minimally biased naturalistic philosophy The upshot of this investigation is that, if naturalistic philosophers wish to reduce bias in philosophy, as it is here assumed that they should, they should consider ways to supplement their traditional tools for literature search and review by including systematic reviews. Finally, it is also advisable to introduce training in systematic methodologies in educational contexts, in an attempt to equip students with tools and guidelines to better navigate extensive and growing bodies of literature.
Academic inertia: Examining changes of scholarly output over time among academic minimally invasive surgeons Self-citation remains infrequent within MIS.
Rethinking resource allocation in science Over time, this simple process will lead to a funding distribution that reflects the entire scientific community, fosters young scientists, and reduces overhead.
A bibliometric analysis of global research on the arctic (with special interest in environmental issues) Thus, the conducted bibliometric analysis gives us the general picture of a variety of research on the Arctic with special reference to environmental problems and makes possible to uncover research trends in this scientific field in the nearest future.
Is the trend to publish reviews and clinical trials related to the journal impact factor? Analysis in dentistry field In conclusion, in the field Dentistry, Oral Surgery and Medicine the journals of the top quartiles showed a tendency to publish a greater number of systematic reviews and meta-analysis than the ones of the third and fourth quartile, but there is virtually no increase in narrative reviews, clinical trials and randomized controlled trials in any of the quartiles.
Detecting errors that result in retractions Based on the retraction notices published in Science over the past 35 years, we have presented a taxonomy of errors in the scientific literature and an account of how the errors are distributed over the categories.
Evaluation of h-index and its qualitative and quantitative variants in Neuroscience We have evaluated the indices belonging to two different factors Quantitative (h-index, hg-index, e-index and m-quotient) and Qualitative (R-index and f-index) on the large dataset of neuroscience field. The results showed that there exists strong correlation among most of the indices. Performance of f-index remained lowest among all qualitative and quantitative indices that were considered in this study.
Metrics-based profiling of university research engagement with Africa: research management, gender, and internationalization perspective The paper, overall, contributes to the science, research management, and gender perspectives of university internationalization goals and initiatives. This study provides quantitative data-driven evidence and fills the knowledge gaps on the quantity and quality of research outputs and partnerships on Africa-related research, and the contribution and role of gender and local experts in advancing research on and with Africa by a U.S. university. Overall, the data, metrics, and analytics offer useful information for the development of institutional policies and action items, including: 1. the need to sustain and/or increase quality scholarly publications related to Africa; 2. identification and establishment of more collaborations and co-creation of knowledge and information on Africa by MSU and global research institutions and experts, especially from the African continent; 3. the need to sustain and/or increase women's participation in African research and innova- tion; and 4. tapping into the existing research network of interconnections among MSU and global researchers to further advance research that addresses African issues and challenges.
Funding, is it key for standing out in the university rankings? From the statistical point of view, we may conclude that funding explains 51% of the excellence measured for the top universities of the QS ranking.
The relationship between usage and citations in an open access mega-journal Throughout this paper we have aimed to understand the relationship between usage and citations in the first two years of a published article's life. This paper proposes that research looking at the usage of articles and its relationship with citations can successfully and reliably use the HTML+PDF usage metric for its analysis. We intend to explore these elements in future research projects and hope that the findings we have presented here are used as a basis for experimentation and analysis by others.
The effect of collaborations on scientific research output: the case of nanoscience in Chinese regions Findings from this analysis indicate that international collaborations might not be beneficial a priori. Whether or not one region benefits from international col- laborations depends on this region's local capacity.
Innovation in Latin America through the lens of bibliometrics: crammed and fading away Research on innovation in BMA from LATAM has surpassed the expectations in terms of net output, yet its current impact and inter-regional gaps outline several concerns for the field in the upcoming years. First, six out of 20 countries from LATAM remain with no intellectual production on innovation in BMA. This detachment creates a profound inter-regional gap between Central America and the Caribbean, and the rest of the countries from LATAM. The results obtained in this study provide an outlook to be considered for research evaluation entities and scholars on the subject of BMA and innovation.
Inter-ranking reputational effects: an analysis of the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) and the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (THE) reputational relationship This study examines the existence of intra- and inter-ranking reputational effects in two very different global rankings: ARWU and THE rankings.
Assessing social capital in academic research teams: a measurement instrument proposal This result leads us to conclude that the 20-item scale is valid and reliable and is suitable to measure social capital in academic research teams.
The open access citation premium may depend on the openness and inclusiveness of the indexing database, but the relationship is controversial because it is ambiguous where the open access boundary lies The results presented in the previous section suggest that the hypothesized relationship is neither so strong as to be generally accepted nor so weak as to be neglected. Although some OA documents benefit from a citation premium that may be emphasized by the openness and inclusiveness of the indexing database, the main limitations are as follows. Whether the assumed relationship—between the OA citation premium and the openness and inclusiveness of GS—takes place or not also depends on where the OA boundary lies, as well as on how articles are clustered into the OA subtypes.
Cooperation, scale-invariance and complex innovation systems: a generalization The results of the study confirmed that collaborative activities appear to represent a competitive advantage for enhancing the impact of complex innovation systems.
Social network analysis as a field of invasions: bibliographic approach to study SNA development Our study uses the bibliometric approach to studying SNA.
Enhancing access to scholarly publications with surrogate resources We have presented a generic framework to identify OA surrogates of access-restricted research publications in a digital library. We believe OA surrogates can be immensely helpful to researchers who are unable to access the original papers. Including more sources, analyzing the design heuristics used, and extending SURROGATOR to other academic disciplines are important directions for future work.
Software survey: ScientoPy, a scientometric tool for topics trend analysis in scientific publications This paper describes a new scientometric open-source tool called ScientoPy.
Investigating the applications of artificial intelligence in cyber security The knowledge map of AI applications in cyber security is visualized.
Scholarly understanding, mediating artefacts and the social impact of research in the educational sciences In this article, we studied the development of social impact of research on learning difficulties.
Money, morale, and motivation: a study of the Output-Based Research Support Scheme in University College Dublin The findings are consistent with the studies of SDT in that intrinsic motivation can be undermined if rewards and evaluation systems are perceived as instrumental and controlling, and as such, not conducive to innovative and original research.
Measuring scientific impact of fisheries and aquaculture research-for-development projects in South East Asia and the Pacific These findings could inform future overseas aid investments, policies and strategies. This study offers useful benchmarks for gauging scientific impacts of R4D programs and shows the value of using approaches that go beyond bibliometric measures.
European Research Council: excellence and leadership over time from a gender perspective The findings show that grants are not equitably distributed, with women participating more intensely in the initial StGs than in the more pres-tigious AdGs in all areas, with a greater presence in social sciences than in physics and occupying a growing proportion of review panel seats but not chairs.
Do we need a book citation index for research evaluation? On the contrary, the results obtained in this paper show that adding book citations to journal citations does not produce a significantly different outcome in authors ranking than the one obtained solely from citations in journals.
Using mixed methods to map vaguely defined research areas The example has demonstrated that the individual analyses not only validate each other, but also refine the results of one another, which provides a more solid and nuanced picture of an otherwise opaque research area, such as the Danish RI-area.
Developing a scholar classification scheme from publication patterns in academic science: A cluster analysis approach Our study used Scopus publication data from a lead, middle-tier, and a noncomprehensive university in the Australian higher education sector.
International authorship in leading world journals on incontinence and pelvic floor disorders: Is it truly international? The majority of NAU and IUJ articles originate from countries belonging to the OECD group.
Mavericks and lotteries The world in 2018 contains three research funding streams that allocate funds randomly amongst qualifying proposals.
The optimal amount of information to provide in an academic manuscript We have found that there is an intermediate number of manuscript attributes that maximizes the probability of acceptance. We showed that the optimal author's strategy is to trade off the amount of research information provided in the manuscript with the average informativeness of these items by selecting an intermediate number of attributes. For those reviewers with a less favorable prior attitude, the author should provide only the most important manuscript attributes.
Mapping and clustering analysis on neuroscience literature in Turkey: a bibliometric analysis from 2000 to 2017 In this paper we used web technologies to create a scientometric picture, using bibliometric analysis methods, of the Neuroscience from its creation in 2000 until 2017 of the Turkish neuroscience indexed at WoS.
Research performance and trends in child sexual abuse research: a Science Citation Index Expanded-based analysis Lastly, this article discusses the type of research that contributes to the body of knowledge about CSA and the challenges this poses for the projection of future studies.
Stocktaking scientific publication on bi-regional collaboration between Europe 28 and Latin America and the Caribbean The analysis has confirmed that international collaboration has strongly intensified in the last decade thanks to scientific bi-regional synergies.
TrendNets: mapping emerging research trends from dynamic co-word networks via sparse representation The results suggest that using TrendNets helps us understand topic evolution in the target conference.
The sources of academic localism and globalism in Russian sociology: The choice of professional ideologies and occupational niches among social scientists Read in the light of our hypotheses above, these conclusions might be regarded as a strong argument in favour of the worldview model.
Limited replication studies in functional magnetic resonance imaging research on taste and food The present survey has assessed 1568 taste and food fMRI articles, and revealed that 0.7% of all articles explicitly stated their attempts to replicate previously reported results. The research community should take extra initiatives to promote the conductance and reporting of replication studies, so that the expensive findings can be more substantiated.
Financializing epistemic norms in contemporary biomedical innovation Ultimately, social epistemological analyses that are attentive to market forces are required to make sense of emerging bioscientific research models, which are increasingly tethered to or a manifestation of increasingly financialized models of science research and innovation.
Attitudes and Knowledge About Plagiarism Among University Students: Cross-Sectional Survey at the University of Split, Croatia The overall results of the study are crucial in informing the development of strategies for plagiarism avoidance at Croatian universities, but they are also important for understanding plagiarism on a general level.
Uncovering diffusion trends in computer science and physics publications Knowledge diffusion is the process of sharing knowledge between scientific disciplines, organizations and individuals. The purpose of this study is to find and interpret the micro level diffusion trends among computer science and physics publications at the journal level via Shannon Entropy, COC and research keywords and illustrate how these indicators evaluate the diffusion patterns. In the future, we are interested to examine the diffusion patterns at the macro-level (subareas of the disciplines).
Bibliometric analysis of the papers on urban education The results show that the “urban education" field attracts more attention of the researchers and the impacts of these publications are increasing from year to year.
Academic Team Formulation Based on Liebig's Barrel: Discovery of Anticask Effect The experimental results show that the investigated model is effective in academic team formulation. We then analyze the underlying reasons for the anticask effect and multiple-factor interaction on academic teams.
A bibliometric analysis of past and emergent trends in animal welfare science In conclusion, animal welfare science is still in an exponential phase of growth which will bring opportunities, such as for the publication of new journals, but also challenges. The insights generated by this study suggest bibliometric analysis to be a useful addition to other approaches investigating the trends and concepts of animal welfare. Language and geography appear to be challenges for research activity and wider dissemination of results.
Understanding Australian Academic Authors in the Humanities and Social Sciences Their Publishing Experiences, Values, and Perspectives The findings of this project highlight a number of contradictions and tensions within the scholarly publishing landscape, and they have tangible implications for practices in HSS for authors and publishers, as well as for grant funders and university administrators who adopt policies and assign criteria for research evaluation.
Back on track: Factors influencing Chinese returnee scholar performance in the reintegration process Regardless of the types of returnee scholars, we found that return migration may have longer-term impacts on returnee scholars' post-return research impact. From a policy standpoint, this study has raised concerns about the post-return performance of established returnee scholars. Crucially, building a healthy academic culture which consistently supports returnee scholars in conducting high-impact research is far more important than who is brought back.
Towards making research evaluation more compatible with developmental goals It is hard to imagine and even harder to implement alternatives to the prevailing global research evaluation system.
The unintended consequences of performance-based incentives on inequality in scientists' research performance Overall, this study suggests that we may be able to reduce the inequality of research performance using a non-competitive minimum reward structure, which effectively helps motivate less productive scientists to advance their research capability and performance.
Comparing the collaboration networks and productivity of China-born and US-born academic scientists Overall, the findings suggest important implications for science policy, particularly as they relate to the potential for a Chinese brain drain.
Paths of Baltic States public research funding 1989-2010: Between institutional heritage and internationalisation In each of the three countries, public research funding policy evolved from the hierarchical and planned model of the Soviet research funding system towards a research funding system that included competitive principles.
Achieving the social impact of science: An analysis of public press debate on urban development The article illustrates how productive interactions, strengthened with the notion of framing, support the achievement of the social impact of science.
Organisational responses to alleged scientific misconduct: Sensemaking, sensegiving, and sensehiding "Our analysis provides fruitful heuristics for organisations to reflect on, or plan their response strategies to allow for optimal learning."
Making sense of altmetrics: The perceived threats and opportunities for academic identity While an appetite for changes to research evaluation was apparent in our study, altmetrics was perceived to introduce a number of different threats as well as opportunities to the academic identity, which will influence its potential uptake and use.
When international mobility meets local connections: Evidence from China Our study reveals that the strongest and most reliable predictor for national academic recognition is local connections, while inter-national mobility overall has a heterogeneous effect on career pro-gression at the late phase, depending on the types of overseas academic experiences.
Evaluation complacency or evaluation inertia? A study of evaluative metrics and research practices in Irish universities The discrepancy between what the participants think how evaluative metrics should be used and their own uses of metrics presents a conundrum, which has been explained by evaluation inertia, meaning the lack of engagement in the discourse about metrics in everyday research activities due to their perception of the importance of metrics and the necessity of productivity, on the one hand, and the seemingly non-existent platform for discourse about issues related to metrics, on the other.
The impact of journal re-grading on perception of ranking systems: Exploring the case of the Academic Journal Guide and Business and Management scholars in the UK Our analysis of what drives individual's attitudes towards rankings indicates that researchers who benefit from changes in rankings through the re-grading of journals where they have published are less hostile/more positive than those researchers who did not benefit from these changes.
Mining university rankings: Publication output and citation impact as their basis We conclude by discussing policy implications and opportunities on how a nuanced and re-sponsible use of rankings can help decision-making at the institutional level.
Construction and validation of a short multidisciplinary research performance questionnaire (SMRPQ) Therefore, it can be considered a valid and economical approach for assessing research performance of individual researchers across different disciplines, especially within nomothetic research (e.g. regarding personal antecedents of successful research).
A framework for coordination center responsibilities and performance in a multi-site, transdisciplinary public health research initiative The success of multi-site, transdisciplinary research depends on communication and coordination (Gray 2008); furthermore, successful coordination coordination relies on shared understanding of what constitutes quality, as well as processes for measurement that are accepted by participating actors (Lepori 2011).
Influential cited references in FEMS Microbiology Letters: lessons from Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy (RPYS) Taken together, our results indicate that methods developed to quantify or characterize biochemical substances such as proteins, nucleic acids, lipids, or carbohydrates and improvements of techniques suitable for studies of bacterial genetics were important for the studies published in FEMS Microbiology Letters.
Worldwide inequality in access to full text scientific articles: the example of ophthalmology Regardless of the solutions chosen, it is urgent that the scientific community as well as decision-makers, mobilize effectively to limit these inequalities of access to scientific "paywalled articles" in order to solve this problem which has persisted for far too long, and finally free researchers from this daily dilemma: Sci-Hub or not Sci-Hub?
Comparing Bibliometric Analysis Using PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science Databases This study provides a base for using literature databases for bibliometric analysis. It was indicated that the friendliest and the easiest tool to use for bibliometric analysis services is Web of Science; however, its drawback is that its services are not available for free. Researchers aiming to do bibliometric analysis using the aforementioned databases should be aware of their limitations; journal coverage by Scopus and Web of Science in almost all disciplines does not reach half of the journals in Ulrich's periodicals dictionary²⁸.
One size does not fit all: the influence of individual and contextual factors on research excellence in academia A ‘one size fits all’ policy and consequent incentive system may not be the best solution to promote research excellence, because they generate disparate outcomes that are not always in line with institutional expectations.
Is statistician involvement as co-author associated with reduced time to publication of quantitative research in general medical journals? A bibliometric study Papers co-authored by statisticians have a shorter time to publication. We encourage researchers to closely involve statisticians in the design, conduct and statistical analysis of research, not only to ensure high standards of quality but also to speed up its publication.
The Structure and Dynamic of Scientific Collaboration Network among Countries along the Belt and Road Our analysis shows that the number of countries participating in the collaboration network gradually increases and inter-country cooperation happens frequent. The spatial pattern of the network evolves from “strong Western and weak Eastern” to “weak Western and strong Eastern" due to the decline of Central and Eastern Europe and the rise of the Asia-Pacific region. This study has several important policy recommendations.
Shorter distances between papers over time are due to more cross-field references and increased citation rate to higher-impact papers The evidence presented above suggests that science has become more interconnected over time, despite continuous expansion.
Self-citations in musculoskeletal radiology: frequency and pattern analysis Self-citations in musculoskeletal radiology is no different than other medical fields.
Current trends in orthodontic journals listed in Journal Citation Reports. A bibliometric study American Journal of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedics, Angle Orthodontist, and European Journal of Orthodontics were the 3 main journals with regard to production volume, with the United States being the most productive country.
Importance of Quality Assessment in Clinical Research in Japan This study revealed that the quantity of papers published by an institution does not necessarily correspond to their quality.
Research productivity across different ophthalmic subspecialties in the United States In this study, we described the research productivity in different ophthalmic subspecialties in the US, providing, to the best of our knowledge for the first time, valuable in-formation on the research performance of each field and on the expected academic accomplishments within it.
Mapping the physics research space: a machine learning approach The construction of the physics research space by embedding topics in a high-dimensional space allows the fingerprinting of the patterns of specialization of urban areas, and the prediction of the evolution of cities’ patterns of specialization across different research topics, providing additional support to the principle of relatedness [57, 58, 76].
Biomedical and health research geography in the Eastern Mediterranean Region The overall global share of EMR health research publication is smaller than its global share of population or wealth.
Open access levels and patterns in scholarly articles from India "This study characterizes OA levels in research output from India during the last five years."
Visualization analysis of research on rice with fertilizer from the 'agronomy' category based on CiteSpace In this bibliometric study, we analysed 1757 research articles published on rice and fertilizer from the 'agrono- my' category based on the WoS for the period 1990– 2018.
Unconventional ideas conventionally arranged: A study of grant proposals for exceptional research Our findings indicate that scientists who applied for funding of exceptional research hardly ever submitted grant proposals that presented extraordinary or heterodox approaches. Adapting to the standard form and functions of applications, these researchers arrange their potentially ground-breaking ideas in scientifically acknowledged ways. We doubt that sticking to scientific criteria is preferable for funding heterodox research and encourage new methods of supporting this research.
P-score: a reputation bibliographic index that complements citation counts We have compared the P-scores and H-indices of 794 conferences in Computer Science to understand how P-score, a reputation based index that does not rely on citation data, can be used in conjunction with citation based indices to provide insight on scientific impact assessment.
The role of South African researchers in intercontinental collaboration Based on the conducted analysis, we can conclude that, even though the South African research community has a major role in intercontinental scientific collaboration, this influence is mainly manifested in the fields of Zoology, Ecology, Water Resources, and Plant Sciences.
Comprehensiveness and uniqueness of commercial databases and open access systems Search engine demonstrate greatest coverage comprehensiveness, followed by commercial databases, and lastly by institutional repositories. The uniqueness of the open access systems is low and shows 0% bibliographic unique-ness compared to Google Scholar. The results of the present study may provide suggestions to researchers, thereby enabling them to select better information and reference sources for scholarly assessment of individual research productivity and influ-ence; consequently, their international visibility and diffusion may be enhanced.
The author's ignorance on the publication fees is a source of power for publishers Based on the analysis in this paper, we have learned that as journal competition increases, the expected number of informed authors may decrease without optimal regulation in the research field.
Predicting the research performance of early career scientists This study presents an exploration into how a variety of early career-related factors can help predict future research performance of computer and information scientists.
Can authors' position in the ascription be a measure of dominance? A negative or low DI or DC scores of a scientist or an author do not mean that the scientific or research contribution is low or insignificant.
The evolution of research article titles: the case of Journal of Pragmatics 1978-2018 Through qualitative and quantitative analysis of research article titles published in JoP, our study identified an evolutionary trend towards longer titles with higher lexical density, an increasing preference for compound constructions over nominal-group and full sentence constructions, and a more prevalent presentation of research method/design plus topic related information in titles over the past four decades. These findings suggest that research article titles published in the journal appear to be diachronically more informative. Second, faced with the current great reliance on retrieval technology and the ever-growing considerable amount of paper and journal publications that can be electronically accessed, designing highly informative titles for an academic article will be ever more crucial.
Measures of linear type lead to a characterization of Zipf functions In this article we introduced the notion of a measure (or indicator) of linear type. Combining ideas related to power functions, in particular Zipf's function, and h-type indices, we come to a novel characterization of general power functions and Zipf's functions. Our article moreover illustrates the use of a generalized g-index in a context bearing no relation with research evaluation.
Visual topical analysis of library and information science In recent 30 years, research on LIS has developed along the road from information ordering to mining and application of information value.
The data source of this study is Web of Science Core Collection? Not enough The non-transparency of the data source will hinder the reproducibility of some corresponding studies especially for bibliometric analysis.
Cognitive Bias in the Peer Review Process: Understanding a Source of Friction between Reviewers and Researchers The conclusion from this research is that role bias driven by motivational differences between researchers and reviewers contributes to differences in the importance that researchers and reviewers attach to validity and reliability practices.
Predatory journal preference in the field of Orthopaedics and Traumatology in Turkey The number of articles in predatory journals is increasing all over the world. This situation also valid in the field of Orthopaedics and Traumatology in Turkey. Authors should pay attention regarding predatory journals not only article processing charges but also very short evaluation period.
Quantifying the dynamics of failure across science, startups and security Together, our findings unveil detectable yet previously unknown early signals that enable us to identify failure dynamics that will lead to ultimate success or failure.
Re-disciplining Academic Careers? Interdisciplinary Practice and Career Development in a Swedish Environmental Sciences Research Center In this paper we have investigated how mid-career researchers in a Swedish research center at the intersection of natural and social sciences try to balance their interdisciplinary ambitions with the institutional career structure and funding conditions that underpin their work. Under such circumstances, the work-arounds themselves become an insidious mechanism that allows researchers to stay in academia, but systematically marginalizes their voices and epistemic ambitions in the process. A key implication is that interdisciplinary funding programs must be accompanied by interdisciplinary career policies.
Comparing selection strategies for engineering research hotspots We found that the proposed mixed selection strategy performs best. The strategy was used in the 2018 project and led to an improved edition [3], when compared to the 2017 edition [2]. We believe that our experience obtained from the implementation of the Engineering Fronts project can be used as reference for other similar bibliometric projects.
The citation trap: Papers published at year-end receive systematically fewer citations In this research we identify the citation trap: papers published at year-end receive systematically fewer citations than papers published at other months in the year.
Early coauthorship with top scientists predicts success in academic careers Nevertheless, our results are systematic enough to suggest that the latter is the most plausible explanation, i.e. that the collaboration with a top scientist creates the aforementioned competitive advantage, whose echo can still be detected 20 years later.
Optimal scientific production over the life cycle While there exist many papers describing the life cycle behavior of scientific production, in our normative approach we focus on the optimal way in which different age-patterns of publication output comes about.
Predatory and exploitative behaviour in academic publishing: An assessment Widening the definition, we believe, weakens the ability to deal with the perceived threat, and thus we caution against expanding the lexicon, but instead focusing on quantifying unscholarly behaviour in order to home in on concrete solutions.
National Institutes of Health-Funded Anesthesiology Research and Anesthesiology Physician-Scientists: Trends, Promises, and Concerns The results show that NIH funding of research in Anesthesiology departments has, overall, declined, has not kept up with inflation, and is characterized by a distinct inequality both in department and individual investigator funding.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Publications on Oxycodone from 1998 to 2017 Despite these limitations, this extensive bibliometric analysis provides a comprehensive overview of the hotspots within oxycodone-related publications over 20 years. The findings illustrate a considerable growth in the number of papers of oxycodone research. In view of the addiction and adverse effects of oxycodone and opioid drugs, there are a lot of things to do, various countries should increase support to complete high-quality oxycodone studies both in basic studies and clinical trials.
Five Decades of the ACM Special Interest Group on Data Communications (SIGCOMM): A Bibliometric Perspective We have presented a longitudinal study of publication trends across SIGCOMM venues.
A Network Theory-Based Approach for Importance Assessment of Drafters in Standardization Based on these conclusions, we suggest that more attention should be paid on the core standards and core drafters, the integration of isolated standards into the network, strengthening exchanges and cooperation between drafters, and encouraging drafters to participate in standards development.
Exploring researchers' perspectives on authorship decision making Authorship guidelines portray authorship decisions as being black and white, effectively sidestepping key dimensions that create ethical shades of grey.
100 Years of the Journal of Dental Research: A Bibliometric Analysis In conclusion and based on these limitations, our analyses show the breadth of topics that receive high citation rates at the JDR and highlight how citation patterns have changed over time. Our findings may help to inspire future research in tackling these inequalities and highlight the need for conceptualizing research priorities.
The high resource impact of reformatting requirements for scientific papers We demonstrate that there is significant resource utilization associated with resubmitting manuscripts, heretofore not properly quantified. Addressing these issues by reconciling reformatting require-ments among journals or adopting a universal format-free initial submission policy would help resolve a major subject for the scientific research community and provide more efficient dissemination of findings. Our data supports reconciling reformatting requirements among journals and adopting a uni-versal format-free initial submission policy.
Reasons for and time to retraction of genetics articles published between 1970 and 2018 Genetics is a discipline with a high article retraction rate (estimated retraction rate 0.15%). Fabrication/falsification and plagiarism were almost mutually exclusive reasons for article retraction. Retracted MG articles were more frequently subject to investigation than NMG articles. Retracted articles due to fabrication/falsification required 2.0-2.8 times longer to retract than when plagiarism was involved.
Explaining Heterogeneity in the Organization of Scientific Work Using a parsimonious model, we showed that the variance in the net productivity of research staff—that is, their productivity relative to the focal scientist minus the opportunity costs to the scientist of advising and of raising funds for the staff—brings about two different organizations for scientific research.
Evaluating the implications of Brexit for research collaboration and policy: a network analysis and simulation study This study suggests what has long been argued, namely that the UK-EU research partnership has been mutually beneficial and that its continuation represents the best possible outcome for both negotiating parties.
Bibliometric structure of IJCHM in its 30 years IJCHM celebrates its 30th anniversary in 2019. To celebrate it, this paper presents a general overview of the documents published in IJCHM throughout these years. The journal has a prominent place among hospitality journals, thus becoming a reference among the top journals in the hospitality field. This work reveals a significant evolution of the journal in relation to publications, topics analyzed and research approaches. It provides relevant information on the status quo of IJCHM and establishes a roadmap to researchers who want to publish in this journal.
Online video impact of world class universities In this paper we set out to analyze the online video impact of universities.
Effects of homophily and academic reputation in the nomination and selection of Nobel laureates Here, we have shown that these requests are definitively justified.
The top 100 most influential articles in allergic rhinitis from 1970 to 2018: A bibliometric analysis This study identified the top 100 most influential articles in the area of AR. Recognition of important historical contributions to this field may guide future investigations into AR. The findings indicate that guidelines and articles with novel discoveries, advanced technologies, and high-quality evidence will receive more citations.
Financial Support and University Performance in Korean Universities: A Panel Data Approach The Granger causality test results show that both central and local governmental financial support have endogenous associations with the job-finding rates. However, central governmental financial support shows no interaction with the number of publications in KCI journals per full-time faculty member. Further, local governmental financial support and research performance indicators show a reverse causality association. This study enhances the understanding of the environment and realities faced by Korean universities, deriving significant implications for how universities respond to such circumstances.
Digital Heritage as a Scholarly Field-Topics, Researchers, and Perspectives from a Bibliometric Point of View Regarding a community perspective, most of the researchers in the field of cultural heritage are Europeans and have a disciplinary background in the humanities and, in particular, in archaeology, followed by computing. Even if digital heritage is a relatively new subject and a still emergent community, I identified several facilitators on a structural level. Moreover, the lack of competency especially in technical domains is frequently named and vice versa would be seen as most important prospect.
Bibliometric and academic network analysis of Spanish theses on drug dependence in the TESEO database The analysis of doctoral theses on substance abuse provides an overview of the structure and the most influential participants in this area.
Assessing the Attractions of MOOCs From the Perspective of Scientometrics This study shows how to assess MOOCs' attraction by using the general idea of typical scientometric indicators.
The position of Distance Education in a journal network It is evident that DE is a leading journal in the special field of ODE, and authors publishing in DE refer mainly to other prolific distance education journals such as the International Review of Research in Open and Distributed Learning (IRRODL), the American Journal of Distance Education (AJDE), and Open Learning: The Journal of Open, Distance and e-Learning (OL). However, in the wider and much bigger journal network of educational technology and the learning sciences, the position of DE and the DE journal group is clearly in the periphery. This leads to the paradoxical situation of a simultaneous gain and loss of importance and relevance of distance education as a research discipline of its own. However, it is clear from our analysis that a separate community of distance education researchers still exists today.
A comparative analysis of Twitter users who Tweeted on psychology and political science journal articles In summary, this study provided an in-depth analysis of demographics for psychology and political science journal articles discussed on Twitter by introducing a machine learning approach and investigated what the Twitter users discussed about the journal articles.
Studies in Informatics and Control: A Bibliometric Analysis from 2008 to 2019 Overall, this paper provides an objective and intuitionistic view of SIC by employing bibliometric analysis.
Examining the Correlation Between Altmetric Score and Citations in the Urology Literature At this point in time, Altmetric score is only weakly correlated with citation counts in the urology literature.
An evaluation of Web of Science, Scopus and Google Scholar citations in operations management The study lends further credence to contentions that the use of citations reported in GS is appropriate for evaluating research impact in disciplines where other formats beyond the English-language journal article are valued.
Searching for new breakthroughs in science: How effective are computerised detection algorithms? The detection rates of the algorithms vary, but overall, they present a powerful tool for tracing breakout papers in science. Whether or not our early-stage breakout papers present a 'breakthrough' remains a matter of opinion, where input from subject experts is needed for verification and confirmation, but our detection approach certain helps to limit the search domain to trace and track important emerging topics in science. We conclude that "It is possible to design, develop, implement and test an analytical framework and measurement model as a general-purpose tool that uses bibliographic information for early detection of potential breakthroughs in science".
Examining the dynamics of an emerging research network using the case of triboelectric nanogenerators Results show communities emerging through actors' close proximity rather than from their shared thematic orientation. For individual researchers, the boundary between prior research and TENG research was negligible partly questioning the existence Kuhnian paradigm shifts. This has policy implications, as it emphasizes the need for the creation of regional policy in supporting emergent technology at an early phase.
Collaboration networks of arab biomedical researchers Our results show that there is an increase of both researchers and publications over time and that researchers prefer to collaborate with other researchers than working individually. Moreover, our results reveal that researchers' productivity is affected by several measures, such as adding new collaborators, deleting old collaborators, and the stability rate of collaborators in different ways. Our study can take other issues to be considered.
Mapping the research of energy subsidies: a bibliometric analysis The results showed that energy subsidy-related research signif-icantly increased after 2006.
Beall's List and Cabell's Blacklist: A Comparison of Two Lists of Predatory OA Journals Since 2017, there are two lists of predatory journals: the new site of Beall's List and Cabell's Blacklist, with the former being free and the later subscription-based.
Citation practices in tourism research: Toward a gender conscientious engagement This research provides evidence of the gender gap in authorship of the top-cited articles in tourism and hospitality and the gendered nature of citation practices. It also emphasizes on the importance of reflexive research on the sociology of tourism knowledge. We hope that this article contributes toward a gender conscientious engagement in citation practices among tourism scholars, raises awareness about the dangers of the perfunctory use of citations and citation analysis, and paves the way for further debates on the politics of citations in tourism research.
Monitoring Academic Studies of Turkish Lexicography: A Bibliometric Study of 84 Years One of the general and most important results is that there has been an increase in nearly all text types in recent years.
A bibliometric analysis of supply chain analytical techniques published in Computers & Industrial Engineering This study analysed the publications regarding supply chain analytical techniques in Computers & Industrial Engineering during a period of twenty-five years between 1993 and 2017.
Mapping pharmacy journals: A lexicographic analysis Pharmacy journals that can be objectively classified into six different classes that represent different research subareas with uneven coverage in bibliographic databases. Pharmacy Practice researchers should consider that scattering the articles of this scientific discipline among many journals from different disciplines may be weakening Pharmacy Practice as an area [45].
Representing anything from scholar papers We evaluated the effectiveness of Unified_Paper2Vec on two tasks.
The historical roots (1880-1950) of recent contributions (2000-2017) to ecological economics: insights from reference publication year spectroscopy Using citations analysis and the recently introduced methodology of RPYS, we have identified the historical roots (1880–1950) of the recent (2000–2017) articles published in EE. Our results: Show that the historical foundations of recent contributions to ecological economics have a low degree of interdisciplinarity, especially when considering contributions from outside the humanities; Confirm the 'complementary' or 'big tent' (Howarth, 2008) view to the relationship between neoclassical and heterodox historical roots in ecological economics (that it should or not be the case is another issue, see Spash, 2012).
COMPREHENSIVE BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY OF JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND LANDSCAPE MANAGEMENT FROM 2007 TO 2019 In this paper, we have made a comprehensive over- view and clearly visualized analysis of JEELM. We have analyzed the current status and development trends of JEELM's research.
Games academics play and their consequences: how authorship, h-index and journal impact factors are shaping the future of academia Senior faculty should establish the ethical standards, mentoring practices and institutional evaluation criteria to create the needed changes.
The Flow Network of Chinese Scientists and Its Driving Mechanisms Based on the Spatial Development Path of CAS and CAE Academicians Based on the spatial information database of 2406 Chinese scientists represented by academicians of the CAS and CAE, we adopted spatial statistics, complex network analysis, and a modified location quotient model to reveal the spatial distribution characteristics of Chinese scientists at each development stage to depict the Chinese scientists' flow network, and to analyze the driving mechanisms behind the flow of Chinese scientists.
Do special issues offer something special? An overview of research trends in Telecommunications Policy special issues We have explored the characteristics of TP's special issue articles compared with its general issue articles.
Bibliometric analysis of international cooperation in biomass energy research In the field of biomass energy, the number of research papers has grown rapidly, indicating that researchers are paying more attention to this field.
Increase in articles published by authors from Mainland Chinese hospitals in high-impact journals: a comparison between 2012 and 2017 The number of articles published in HIJs by authors from Mainland Chinese hospitals has increased rapidly from 2012 to 2017. Domestic and international cooperation and research funding are found to play an important role. First, according to the findings of the original articles published in the four popular general medical journals, researchers may consider establishing and expanding domestic and international cooperation in order to carry out high-quality research.
Publication performance without calculations: an analysis based on the p-index This is an im-portant merit since it improves access and transparency in the bibliometric assessment of publication performance.
Bibliometric analysis of medical journals included in the Mexican Science and Technology Journals Classification System Approximately half the 2018 SCRMCYT M&HS journals lack publications indexed in 2018; this suggests that national and international relevance of these journals can be improved. The SCRMCYT represents an effort to promote quality, visibility and national and international impact of the medicine and health science journals of the country. However, a significant percentage of journals included in the SCRMCYT 2018 list have no current indexing even in the analyzed international databases, and most journals on the list have little international impact and few citations.
Megajournal mismanagement: Manuscript decision bias and anomalous editor activity at PLOS ONE These anomalous activity patterns are consistent with the perverse incentives and the temptations they offer at scale, which is theoretically grounded in the "slippery-slope" evolution of apathy and misconduct in power-driven environments. By applying quantitative evaluation to the gatekeepers of scientific knowledge, we shed light on various ethics issues crucial to science policy – in particular, calling for more transparent and structured management of editor activity in megajournals that rely on active academics. And finally, megajournals should consider implementing additional levels of oversight in an effort to reduce temptations associated with perverse incentives.
The distinction machine: Physics journals from the perspective of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic This study could help practitioners to make decisions based on a deep understanding of the structure of scholarly communication.
Bibliographically coupled patents: Their temporal pattern and combined relevance This study notices a temporal pattern between bibliographically coupled patents, indicating that ages and spans of BC pairs may strongly affect their coupling strength measurement.
Journal ranking should depend on the level of aggregation We have presented an impossibility theorem in journal ranking: a reasonable method cannot be invariant to the aggregation of journals, even in the case of a substantially restricted domain of citation graphs. To summarise, the derivation of similar impossibility results may contribute to a better understanding of the inevitable trade-offs between various properties, and it means a natural subject of further studies besides axiomatic characterisations. In addition, the impossibility result clearly shows that invariance to aggregation is a rather strong requirement, similarly to its peer independence of irrelevant alternatives (Malawski & Zhou, 1994).
Measuring dissatisfaction with coauthorship: An empirical approach based on the researchers' perception The cognizant authorities should take steps to regulate authorship, tailoring rules to each area of knowledge, with an eye toward reducing discrimination, gender bias, and abuse of authority.
Do we measure novelty when we analyze unusual combinations of cited references? A validation study of bibliometric novelty indicators based on F1000Prime data Thus, we propose – based on our results – the use of novelty score U for measuring novelty quantitatively, but question the use of novelty score W.
Coping with methods for delineating emerging fields: Nanoscience and nanotechnology as a case study We do not proclaim that this classification proposal is definitive or exclusively appropriate. Rather, within the context of classifying emerging and interdisciplinary fields like NST, we conclude it is necessary to keep striving to combine techniques and units of analysis in the search for a process that will lead us closer to consensus among the scientific community.
Forward search path count as an alternative indirect citation impact indicator Experimental results proved that knowledge decay and path capping both play important roles and typically a larger K requires a smaller η.
Emerging research topics detection with multiple machine learning models Emerging research topic detection can benefit the research foundations and policy-makers in terms of R&D policy and portfolio management, technology opportunities analysis, and management of innovation.
Power and publications in Chinese academia By constructing a unique dataset that includes pub- lication records and time of gaining power of deans in Chinese universities, we document a sizable impact of power on publications.
Distribution and retention trends of physician-scientists in Japan: a longitudinal study This study indicates that it is likely for the total number of PSs to decrease in the future.Although the Japanese government has implemented various measures to retain PSs, these have not been effective.The possible measures include increasing opportunities for medical students and younger physicians to understand the role of PSs and the benefit of working as a PS, providing career paths for PSs and securing PS positions, and increasing compensation for PSs.
What Is the Harm in Gendered Citation Practices? In this article, I have shown that the gendered citation practices in science constitute a participatory epistemic injustice against women and that the harms caused in aggregate are greater than the sum of their individual impacts.
A comparative analysis of National Institutes of Health research support for emergency medicine-2008 to 2017 Compared to other select specialties, EM investigators accounted for a small proportion of grants submitted and funded over the past decade. Though findings illustrate promising trends, to foster success, more submitted grant applications are needed from within EM along with systematic approaches to support faculty members in their pursuit of NIH funding. Among the six specialties reviewed over ten years, EM had the lowest number of awarded grants and total support.
Unprofessional peer reviews disproportionately harm underrepresented groups in STEM "Our study shows that unprofessional peer reviews are pervasive and that they disproportionately harm underrepresented groups in STEM."
The Evolution of Turing Award Collaboration Network: Bibliometric-Level and Network-Level Metrics This article is the first research for the evolution of the Turing Award Collaboration Network. The observations from the Turing Award Collaboration Network show that collaboration at different times has different types of strength and collaborative behavior. Consequently, we draw a conclusion that the closer the authors are to the Turing Award, the better the metrics.
Citations of articles in predatory nursing journals This analysis revealed that predatory publishing in nursing continues to exist despite studies and discussions among academic communities about the significance and seriousness of this problem. In response, nurse researchers, authors, editors, and reviewers must remain aware of predatory nursing publications and concerns about citing these articles in the non predatory nursing literature. Information literacy skills education should include not only the importance of reviewing the content of the literature, but also the source.
Historical, descriptive and exploratory analysis of application of bibliometrics in nursing research Applications of bibliometric in nursing is comparable to bibliometrics use in general, however there are some gaps including the use of altimetric and big data analysis. This historical bibliometric analysis showed that the research literature related to the application of bibliometrics in nursing exhibits a positive trend, not only in the number of publications, but also in the number of journals and countries publishing the research.
Journal retractions in oncology: a bibliometric study The data presented in this paper indicate that the number of retracted articles in oncology is on an upward trajectory, as is the share of retracted articles of the overall oncology literature. However, this increase in retractions is accompanied by a trend of lowered citation rates and lower article lifetimes. Clinical oncologists must remain alert to the dangers posed by misleading information that may be gleaned by patients from retracted publications.
Top 100 Publications as Measured by Altmetrics in the Field of Central Nervous System Inflammatory Demyelinating Disease We identified the 100 research outputs most discussed on online platforms shared by a broad audience of scientists and laypeople.
Open Access and Academic Journals in Canada: A Political Science Perspective Our assessment suggests that while Open Access is a positive development that should be actively supported, it comes with important challenges.
pybliometrics: Scriptable bibliometrics using a Python interface to Scopus The capability of pybliometrics to help researchers in bibliometric studies is based on the consistent, simple interface automating all the data retrieval, json serialization, caching and error handling. It allows researchers to speed up their analyses in reproducible ways and science evaluators to automate the retrieval of evaluation data. Using pybliometrics, scientists working in the field of Science of Science [23] (alternative names include Economics of Science [24] and Sociology of Science) can increase both the reproducibility and exactness of their projects.
CSTeller: forecasting scientific collaboration sustainability based on extreme gradient boosting In this paper, we introduce a general model to predict scientific collaboration sustainability. Extensive experimental results show that our proposed model outperforms the baseline method. Since this work is the first of its kind to study the task of collaboration sustainability prediction, there is much room for future studies in this direction.
Predictors of Citation Rate for Original Research Studies in the Canadian Association of Radiologists Journal Only a very small number of original research studies published at the CARJ remained uncited 5 or more years after the publication.
Research productivity in the United Arab Emirates: A 20-year bibliometric analysis Over the past 20 years, the UAE witnessed a significant increase in research productivity, coupled with a slight increase in quality and diversity of research.
Evaluating the impact of books in Chinese Studies: A case study of books authored by UCLA scholars This effort can benefit academic efforts to evaluate the impact of books using multiple indicators. This diversity suggests that there are two important aspects of the impact of books in the social sciences, i.e. academic impact and social impact. Therefore, in the evaluation of the impact of books, these two aspects should be considered comprehensively.
Structural equivalence in a library and information science journal network in Taiwan This structural equivalence analysis has shed light on the CLIS journal network in Taiwan as follows: First, the block structure of the LIS journal network shows both stability and change through the two individual periods, and also reveals journals' positions and their evolutional change.
Institutional repository as an information infrastructure for scholarly communication: An exploratory study in Indonesia The presence of IRs as an infrastructure for scholarly communication contributes greatly to the dissemination of knowledge in the context of scholarly communication.
The difference in referencing in Web of Science, Scopus, and Google Scholar Scopus and Google Scholar on average have a higher citation count than WoS, whereas the difference is much larger between Google Scholar and WoS.
The shifting position of the Journal of Transport Geography in 'transport geography research': A bibliometric analysis First, it is clear that JTRG is indeed part of a diverse LIGTS litera-ture. This suggests the need for a continuous reflection about its position vis-à-vis a range of overlapping and competing fields of knowledge production. This implies that the journal should actively discourage using the USA and/or Western Europe as 'the silent referent' (see Chakrabarty, 2000: 28), thereby circumventing and reworking understandings of transport in the spatial formations of Africa, Asia and Latin America in terms of lack, absence or incompleteness relative to a (western) other.
Evaluation of institutional repositories of South Asia Development of IRs in the South Asian region is steadily increasing, though the pace is slow when compared with the developed world. The administrators of IRs need to sensitize the scholarly community (faculty and scholars) about the submission procedures so that IRs can be populated with diverse digital content which in turn will bring a high score graph in terms of populated items.
The contributor roles for randomized controlled trials and the proposal for a novel CRediT-RCT The present study provides empirical data on the use of CRediT for RCTs, and some limitations of the taxonomy are discussed.
Visualizing the History and Perspectives of Disaster Medicine: A Bibliometric Analysis Research works have provided a solid foundation for disaster medicine, but its development has been in a slow growth period for a long time. Obstacles to the development of disaster medicine include the lack of scientist communities, transdisciplinary research, innovative research perspectives, and continuous research. Future research should overcome these obstacles so as to make further advances in this field.
Courtesy Authorship in Academic Surgery Publications Courtesy authorship use is common by both first and senior authors in low impact factor journals and high impact factor journals.
Assessment of Citations of the Retracted Article by Wakefield et al With Fraudulent Claims of an Association Between Vaccination and Autism The findings suggest that improvements are needed from publishers, bibliographic databases, and citation management software to ensure that retracted articles are accurately documented. To ensure the integrity of scholarly articles and research, we believe that better care needs to be taken to ensure that retracted articles are properly cited and that it is ultimately the authors' responsibility to ensure that their citations are accurately documented. Improvements can be made to the indexing procedures of bibliographic databases, journal publisher procedures for updating retracted articles, and citation management software products to make it more apparent when articles have been retracted.
Coauthor Country Affiliations in International Collaborative Research Funded by the US National Institutes of Health, 2009 to 2017 The findings suggest that international collaboration is a vital and growing component of the NIH's research output and likely reflects increased globalization of biomedical research.
MAPPING KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN OF "TRANSPORT": A BIBLIOMETRIC STUDY OF ITS STATUS QUO AND EMERGING TRENDS This paper has provided a comprehensive bibliometric overview and visualizes the research domain of the famous journal TRANSPORT.
Bibliometric study of research productivity in occupational therapy and physical therapy/physiotherapy in four Western countries and five Asian countries/regions Professors and associate professors in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong and the United States are productive in occupational therapy and physical therapy/physiotherapy research.
The NIH public access policy did not harm biomedical journals Our results indicate that the NIH policy did not accelerate the death of biomedical journals, impede new journals from appearing, or stop commercial publishers from turning massive profits [16,19], providing a quantitative basis for recent commentaries [20].
The NIH Open Citation Collection: A public access, broad coverage resource Thus, comprehensive open citation data can both enable the attribution of scientific progress and convey fore-knowledge that research discoveries will culminate in downstream applications. Using the NIH-OCC as the source of citation data means that this work will be transparent and reproducible. Outside the NIH, open citations may help to power tools and services that do not yet exist, such as next-generation literature recommendation engines.
Predicting translational progress in biomedical research Translational progress in biomedicine can therefore be assessed and predicted in real time based on information conveyed by the scientific community's early reaction to a paper.
On the challenges ahead of spatial scientometrics focusing on the city level Challenges on spatial bibliometrics and scientometrics focusing on the city level stem from three main problems: there are no standardized methods of how cities should be defined and metropolitan areas should be delineated; there is no standardized method of how bibliometric data on the city level should be collected and processed; and it is rather unclear regarding what city level scientometric analysis should demonstrate and justify. To avoid problems due to the lack of a standardized delineation method of metropolitan areas, it would be an ideal solution to accept the metropolitan area definitions of national and/or international statistical organizations. In conclusion, there are some major challenges ahead of spatial scientometrics focusing on the city level, but the necessity of this kind of research is clear and well underpinned.
Career Age-Aware Scientific Collaborator Recommendation in Scholarly Big Data Our work may shed light on designing scientific collaborator recommendation systems via scholars' demographic characteristics.
Citation Analysis of Master Dissertations at the Central University of Technology, South Africa The original research question stated “What types of citations have been used by postgraduate students over a 10-year period where the Internet has gained prominence? The results indicate that journals, books and Internet-based sources account for 78% of the total references (17063).
Invited Viewpoint: How well does the Information Systems discipline fare in the Financial Times' top 50 Journal list? We have proposed a measure of journal impact, the HMJ index, that comprises three elements: H index, median citations, and JIF. Using this metric, we find that the Information Systems discipline is in reasonably good health when placed in the context of the FT50.
The 100 Top-cited Articles in Main Allergy Journals: A Bibliometric Analysis The100 top-cited studies reflect major advances in allergy researches and a number of hot topics during the last few years. Our findings provide important insights into priorities and trends of allergy and could serve as sources for future studies.
Humanities, Citations and Currency: Hierarchies of Value and Enabled Recolonisation South African research auditors often confuse measures with targets. If metrics are to be applied to measuring performance management, then universities should develop a much more nuanced index. For humanities scholars, learning to negotiate and navigate citation measurement systems is crucial, for the STEM disciplines will always be the benchmark for academic auditors. The overlay of financially weighted national incentive schemes will further disadvantage local journals by effectively leaving them with the "leftovers" (Gibbs 1995).
Predicting the Evolution of Physics Research from a Complex Network Perspective Our results represent the first step from a descriptive understanding of the science of science (SciSci), towards one that is ultimately prescriptive.
Peer-Reviewed Literature on Grain Legume Species in the WoS (1980-2018): A Comparative Analysis of Soybean and Pulses This imbalance questions the capacity of research to develop knowledge that would enable more food outlets for pulses, as expected by the United Nations during the IYP.
Impact of open access scholarly publications on the Web Our study has shown how scientific literature from a largely open access hosting platform is re-appropriated and repurposed in the public arena. Our study has also shown that it is possible to expand citation studies in a qualitative direction by focusing not only on counting their numbers but on their real impact by studying their contexts of reuse. The work presented here is still in progress.
Pressure to publish: a bibliometric study of PhD students (1993-2009) PhD-students have increased their publication rate although the citation rates have not changed. The increase in publication counts combined with stable citation counts may suggest that researchers increasingly sense a pressure to publish, which to some extent compromises the quality of their work (as measured by received citations).
Evolution of the big deals use in the public universities of the Castile and Leon region, Spain "Downloaded data, which we consider indicators of the use that universities make of electronic journals, show how, from 2007 to 2018, article downloads increased gradually and even increased decidedly in 2018." "The data obtained, which may represent the situation in other regions, puts into question the current electronic content purchase system through multidisciplinary big deals." "The universities analyzed used a limited number of titles from the bundle subscriptions and that a few journals agglutinate most of the downloads."
Altmetrics as a research specialty (Dimensions, 2005-2018) This study of the most recent developments in altmetrics was based on the construction and analysis of journal and author co-citation networks.
Communication systems for scientific collaboration and mobility. Evidence from Spain The results obtained have allow us to identify the main parameters for the use of communication systems in collaboration processes linked to scientific mobility in the case of Spain. Our results can contribute to articulate effective policies to improve this mobility for the benefit of the processes of creation and transfer of scientific knowledge of the countries of origin.
Academic misconduct and criminal liability: Manipulating academic journal impact factors Following our argument that impact factor manipulation is illegal, we propose policy measures aimed at curbing the use of such manipulative strategies.
Does public outreach impede research performance? Exploring the 'researcher's dilemma' in a sustainability research center This insight has implications for the academic incentive and evaluation system.
Governing research through affects: The case of ecosystem services science Our analysis deepens the understanding of how academic work is transformed in the context of redefined relations between science and society. Our results show that also policy institutions, research funding bodies and dedicated promoters and organisations employ affective strategies or work affectively when governing research.
Leap2Trend: A Temporal Word Embedding Approach for Instant Detection of Emerging Scientific Trends In this paper, we propose Leap2Trend, a new approach to instant detection of research trends, and we show how it performs in the research areas of computer science and bioinformatics.
Improving Bibliographic Coupling with Category-Based Cocitation The results show that BCCCC is an improved version of BC, as it performs significantly better than state-of-the-art variants of BC.
Refining the Measurement of Topic Similarities Through Bibliographic Coupling and LDA We refined the estimation of similarity between cross-topic pairs, without textual similarity, by integrating Bibliographic Coupling (BC) and Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). This describes a range of possible cross-pairs, each with a unique similarity value. We believe that finding such an association between unrelated innovative inventions across various industries may help public and private research units in planning research direction and serve as a reference for future research.
Research on the Relevancy of Scientific Literature Based on the Citation-Mention Frequency In summary, our main finding is that the citation-mention frequency can represent the relevancy of a cited paper to the citing paper and can reflect the concrete situation of each citation comprehensively.
A decade of Australian and New Zealand orthopaedic publications: a bibliometric trend analysis from 2008 to 2018 Publications on ACL surgery have increased over the past decade, likely due to the presence of competing surgical approaches and the recently recognized risk of osteoarthritis following ACL reconstruction.
Opening the Black Box of Citations: A Qualitative Analysis on the Basis of the Taxonomy of Erikson and Erlandson The conclusions of this article point to the predominance of citations that, in many cases, reveal a disturbing disregard for the cited works and a general lack of scholarly debate between authors and conflicting paradigms. In connection with the content and qualitative analysis of the citations, this study brings to light a clear privileging of mercantile alignment, whose main func- tion is to give credit and a position of influence to the citing authors, the majority of whom have just set out on their academic career paths and therefore need to resort to a peripheral field in which it is easier to make headway than in other areas of knowledge dominated by senior researchers. Citation practices signal an internal implosion of the field of CDSC. Although we have focused here on the analysis of the field of CDSC in Spain, this study may inform future work considering communication scholarship more broadly, particu- larly critical to explore if these practices limit our contribution to evolving commu- nication theories.
A Rare Case of Gender Parity in Academia Our analyses of roughly 10,000 publications in economics, political science, and sociology yield a clear finding: if trying to predict how many citations a paper will accrue over time, knowing the author's gender is not a useful piece of information. The presence of a rare null situation, we contend, provides new insight into why gender continues to matter in the workplace. A promising avenue for future research would be to formally investigate the hypothesis that gender gaps in workplace outcomes are diminished when commitment bias and self-selection mechanisms are not activated or are situationally irrelevant.
The research performance of Iranian medical academics: a National Analyses Nevertheless to the great scientific production of medical academics, individual and institutional characteristics were identified as effective variables in academics research performance and should be considered in their assessment. Academicians affiliated with type 2 and 3 universities (based on national ranking of medical universities) had weaker research performance compared to those affiliated with type 1 universities. However, low rate of international research collaborations was a common challenge in medical universities.
Bibliometric evaluation of orthopaedics and traumatology publications from France: 20-year trends (1998-2017) and international positioning OT publications from France have kept pace with the steady increase seen worldwide over the last 20 years. Although the US and UK remain in the lead, and despite the considerable growth in the output of Asian countries, France occupies a prominent position on the international OT scene. The creation of OTSR has elevated the international profile of French OT centres.
Publication output of French orthopedic and trauma surgeons: Quantitative and qualitative bibliometric analysis of their scientific production in orthopedics and other medical fields Over the past 10 years, French orthopedists have both increased their scientific productivity in orthopedics and in several closely related disciplines such as sports medicine, spine surgery and more recently, biomedical engineering and biomaterials. The increased visibility of French orthopedists is in large part attributed to the establishment of Orthopaedics & Traumatology: Surgery & Research.
The top 100 most-cited Orthopaedics & Traumatology: Surgery & Research articles The 100 articles identified in this study deserve to be viewed as influential. The number of citations will continue to rise, thereby amplifying the impact of OTSR on worldwide research in orthopaedic surgery.
Mapping the KO Community The publication base is growing. Over the last decade there has been a generally upward growth in the number of articles published in Knowledge Organization, with the article count doubling from 2009-2018.
Revisiting the Open Access Citation Advantage for Legal Scholarship In sum, this study reconfirms that there is a citation advantage for open access law journal articles. It also suggests that Web of Science is inadequate for obtaining citation metrics for student-run law journals, the venue where most legal scholarship in the United States is published. Open access studies can easily be biased by the definition of open access used.
Global Experience in Interaction with Compatriot Scientists: Lessons for Russia In finishing our review, we can conclude that the experience of India and especially Iran shows that, even in the absence of a consistent state policy relative to the scientific diaspora, emigrant scientists are actively assisting the development of their homeland's scientific and technological potential by maintaining contacts with colleagues, visiting their country of ori-gin to deliver lectures, and participating in scientific collaborations. Foreign experience shows that intense and systems cooperation with compatriot scientists favors both the repatriation of members of the scientific diaspora and their involvement in the scientific life of the home-land. This result can be attained due to efforts of the state bodies that adopt official documents, determin-ing the formats and models of the interaction and implementing concrete initiatives.
Russia in the Global Array of Scientific Publications Our study shows that at present Russia is gradually restoring its previously lost positions in the global rating by the number of publications in the WoS CC. The observable positive changes allow us to hope that Russia will soon enter into the Top-10 of the countries that have publications in the WoS CC. However, the analysis of the publication activity of the preceding years shows that it will be rather difficult to attain this indicator by 2024.
Informing library-based digital publishing: Selected findings from a survey of scholars' needs in a contemporary publishing environment Situating support for publishing in the research library creates possibilities for addressing challenges related to access and sustainability of digital scholarship.
Attractiveness of jobs in academia: a cross-country perspective We complement the literature on comparative higher education with a view to shed more light on the asymmetric mobility of talented researchers. Our results indicate that overall at the time of data collection, the US research universities offered the most attractive jobs for early stage researchers, consistent with the asymmetric flow of talented researchers from all over the world towards the US. The findings are hence directly relevant for policies aiming at improving the attractiveness of research universities. Other options to expand on this paper are the inclusion of more countries as our effort was very limited in terms of budget.
Collaboration cosmopolitanism: what are the effects on the "overlooked majority" of scientists and engineers? The finding is quite remarkable that collaboration cosmopolitanism is salient not only to more advanced degree holders across sector (Jung et al. 2017) but also to bachelor-level STEM degree holders on their job satisfaction and salary.
Reply to "Research incentives and research output": a caution on quantity incentives and the use of economic models for higher education policy A number of reasons are provided to substantiate the view that such models are likely to be inappropriate for this purpose and any policy proposals derived in this fashion ought to be treated with considerable caution.
Evolution of the social structure of hospitality management literature: 1960-2016 This study generates important contributions to hospitality management literature and represents one of the first published attempts to explore the social structure of hospitality management literature via authorship and co-authorship analysis.
Gender disparities and positioning in collaborative hospitality and tourism research The findings have generated potentially important contributions for the hospitality and tourism literature and for policymakers.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Top-Cited Journal Articles in Obstetrics and Gynecology This study found substantial differences between top-cited OBGYN articles published in nonspecialty vs OBGYN journals. This study provides insight into how specialty and nonspecialty journals work together to facilitate the dissemination of scientific knowledge in OBGYN. Although their goals are different, these journals work together in a complementary fashion to ensure optimal dissemination of impactful articles to all women's health care professionals.
Trends and Bibliometric Impact of Research Grants of the Spanish Society of Cardiology/Spanish Heart Foundation (2007-2012) Despite the economic crisis, the mean number and size of the grants awarded by the SEC/FEC increased in the period analyzed. The bibliometric impact of the funded projects is acceptable, although efforts should be made to improve it. Thus, the SEC should identify ways to improve the publication rate of its grants.
Journal editors' perspectives on the roles and tasks of peer reviewers in biomedical journals: a qualitative study This study provides context for, and details about, the roles and tasks of peer reviewers in biomedical journals and helps to explain attitudes and opinions expressed in existing surveys of editors, reviewers and authors on the peer-review process.
An investigation into the impact and implications of published papers from retracted research: systematic search of affected literature We found evidence that this group of affected trial reports distorted the evidence base.
SwICS: Section-Wise In-Text Citation Score The proposed approach can play a significant role for search engines and citation indexers in terms of improving the quality of their results.
Where are the breaks in translation from theory to clinical practice (and back) in addressing depression? An empirical graph-theoretic approach These analyses suggest that the domain of depression is fragmented, and that advancements of relevance to one stakeholder group (academics, industry, or patients) may not translate to the others.
Cuban Scientific Production on Diabetes, 2000-2017: Peer-reviewed Publications, Collaboration and Impact The volume of publications on diabetes by Cuban authors illustrates that diabetes motivates research by Cuban scientists and institutions but their work is insufficiently reflected in the peer-reviewed literature, particularly top-ranked journals.
Death of the Salesman but Not the Sales Force: How Interested Promotion Skews Scientific Valuation<SUP>1</SUP> The upshot is clear evidence of informational inefficiency, which derives from the challenges of absorbing the massive volume of research produced by the scientific community and from its ambivalence about the norm of disinterestedness.
Visualizing the knowledge structure of medication-adherence research: A bibliometric analysis (1997-2016) Finally, the evolution of the medication-adherence research has occurred in approximately three stages: The first stage involved the introduction of the term “compli-ance" into medicine, then the primary focus shifted to patient adherence to HIV/AIDS medication, and the final stage has involved a diversifying trend with more diseases and methods for measuring adherence being researched in the current stage.
A novel approach for finding research areas for new researchers In this paper, we examined the issue of identifying attractive research areas for new scientists. Our strategies have been confirmed tentatively by utilising a vast set of self-crawled research articles. The first is that there exist some research areas which in spite of their popularity, they are not attractive for researchers who are presently beginning of their research career.
Awareness of predatory journals and open access among medical oncologists: results of an online survey The problematic topic of 'predatory journals' is still unknown by a considerable amount of oncologist, although the survey was taken in a cohort of oncologists with scientific experience. Dedicated educational initiatives are needed to raise awareness of this problem and to aid in the identification of predatory journals for the scientific oncology community.
Evaluating the impact of citations of articles based on knowledge flow patterns hidden in the citations In this paper, different knowledge flow patterns hidden behind the number of citations were identified to describe the impact of articles.
Identifying publications in questionable journals in the context of performance-based research funding In summary, we have provided insight in the workings of the Flemish PRFS and how the yearly screenings for POA publications 'fit in'.
Leaders in industrial marketing research: 25 years of analysis The main goal of the current study is to demonstrate the evolution of industrial marketing by bibliometric analyses, focusing on the most influential journals, ranking journals quinquennial, ranking of keywords, who-citation-who journals and co-citation during 1992-2016. The results of this investigation show a few major findings. A strong increase in industrial marketing research, which is aligned with the growth of marketing science.
Citation patterns in economics and beyond We have shown how citation patterns in current economics systematically differ from patterns found in other disciplines and thereby further substantiated past results regarding the peculiar disciplinary character of academic economics (e.g. Dobusch & Kapeller 2009; Fourcade et al. 2015; Leijonhufvud 1973; Morgan 1988).
Six Dimensions of Concentration in Economics: Evidence from a Large-Scale Data Set The constitution of economics as a discipline has been much debated over the last few decades.
On the evolution of the glass ceiling in Italian academia: the case of economics Our analysis contributes to the study of how institutional changes and the use of centralized research evaluation methods as the basis of recruitment and promotion can influence diversity in the composition of research staff and pluralism.
Confronting the anomaly: directions in (German) economic research after the crisis Thus, economic research does react to political or societal issues to a certain extent despite its stable topical core.
Confirm or refute?: A comparative study on citation sentiment classification in clinical research publications A convolutional neural network model that uses part-of-speech and dependency-enhanced word vectors as input and incorporates additional high-level features yielded the best performance and seemed to generalize better than traditional machine learning (SVM) and rule-based methods.
Journals' instructions to authors: A cross-sectional study across scientific disciplines In conclusion, our study showed that transparency in reporting and research integrity topics are insufficiently addressed in journals' Instructions to Authors, leaving much to be desired in terms of what is asked of or recommended to authors.
Citation gaming induced by bibliometric evaluation: A country-level comparative analysis Our results show that the behavior of Italian researchers has indeed changed after the introduction of the evaluation system following the 2010 university reform.
Scientific sinkhole: The pernicious price of formatting Our results suggest that scientific formatting represents a loss of 52 hours, costing the equivalent of US$1,908 per researcher per year. We hope that this quantification, although suggestive and not definitively conclusive, will bring more attention to the costs associated with formatting for scientific journals and will help to encourage more flexible formatting practices for publications, at least at first submission, as well as more recognition of the burden of formatting by employers and funding agencies.
Scientific output scales with resources. A comparison of US and European universities Our results move beyond the current debate on the use of bibliometric indicators for evaluation showing the association of such indicators with the volume of resources [21].
The occurrence of 'Sleeping Beauty' publications in medical research: Their scientific impact and technological relevance We find that the increasing trend of the relative number of SBs comes to an end around 1998. It confirms our earlier observations in the natural science and engineering fields and supports our conjecture that the expanding worldwide facilities to access scientific publications seems to have stopped increasing trends in the occurrence of SBs.
Visualizing a field of research: A methodology of systematic scientometric reviews We have proposed and demonstrated a flexible method to improve the quality of data retrieved for systematic scientometric reviews.
Size matters! Association between journal size and longitudinal variability of the Journal Impact Factor Consequently and in accordance with the genuine intention of the JIF to serve as a basis for decisions on journal subscriptions, evaluation of current changes of the JIF have to be accompanied by consideration of the journal's size in order to be accurate and sensible.
Acknowledgements are not just thank you notes: A qualitative analysis of acknowledgements content in scientific articles and reviews published in 2015 Our findings also reveal the importance of disclaimers as part of the current scholarly communication apparatus, an aspect which was not highlighted by previous analyses and typologies.
The Use of Scientometric Indicators to Evaluate Publishing Activity in Modern Russia Our analysis shows that the current situation regarding the use of scientometric indicators to attest the publishing activity of the academic staff of Russian universities and associates of academic institutes is unsatisfactory.
Rxivist.org: Sorting biology preprints using social media and readership metrics In this work, we hope to make it easier for readers to find relevant research on bioRxiv and to improve the visibility of preprints currently being read and discussed online. While readers are narrowing down their reading lists, we hope it will help elevate work that they may not otherwise have seen. The future feature set of Rxivist.org is currently constrained primarily by development resources: With enough time and contributions from the open-source community (see Methods), there are a number of possibilities for future improvements, and we would gladly welcome contributions from external developers.
Open access policies of leading medical journals: a cross-sectional study Most leading medical journals do not offer to authors reporting commercially funded research an open access licence that allows unrestricted sharing and adaptation of the published material. The journals’ policies are therefore not aligned with open access declarations and guidelines. Commercial research funders lag behind academical funders in the development of mandatory open access policies, and it is time for them to work with publishers to advance the dissemination of the research they fund.
The evolution of citation graphs in artificial intelligence research The gap between social science and AI research means that researchers and policymakers may be ignorant of the social, ethical and societal implications of new AI systems.
Excellence everywhere? Regional development of French scientific output and visibility On the contrary, the present paper shows that in the period considered – which extends from 1985 to 2010 – spatial inequalities are increasingly less marked in provincial cities in terms of both output and visibility.
Predicting the results of evaluation procedures of academics Such results allow the development of an automated system for supporting both candidates and committees in the future ASN sessions and other scholars' evaluation procedures.
Academic salaries and public evaluation of university research: Evidence from the UK Research Excellence Framework Our empirical analysis, guided by a simple theoretical model where academics differ in ability and are inputs into the production of research, and universities seek to maximize the weighted average research quality, shows a positive pay-performance relationship in all disciplines.
A New Metric for the Analysis of the Scientific Article Citation Network "In this work, we introduce a new quantity called network influence to measure the importance of an article when a citation network is given."
Effects of work environment and collaboration on research productivity in Vietnamese social sciences: evidence from 2008 to 2017 scopus data The linear regression analysis in this study yields three statistically significant findings. First, the study confirms that work environment, narrowed to be 'universities' and 'research institutions' here, and collaboration do indeed affect the adjusted productivity of Vietnamese social scientists. Based on the above findings, the study suggests Vietnam professionalize its higher education system so as to reduce the cost of doing science and encourage a healthy, self-reliant research culture.
Maintaining Scholarly Integrity in the Age of Bibliometrics To maintain scholarly integrity in the age of bibliometrics, we cannot count on professional ethics of law schools and scholars alone given the material consequences likely to accompany favorable bibliometrics. With these safeguards in place, scholarly integrity and bibliometric integrity can co-exist.
Sustainable Computing Based Deep Learning Framework for Writing Research Manuscripts The paper proposes application specific sustainable computing based deep learning framework for effective writing of research manuscripts.
Making Research Evaluation More Transparent: Aligning Research Philosophy, Institutional Values, and Reporting Our proposal can be summed up in one sentence: Give faculty a voice in deciding how their work should be evaluated and allow them to report details of their scholarship relevant to their evaluation.
Impact of national science policy on academic migration and research productivity in Russia The study showed that, as in the case with universities of the Project 5-100, the increase in the number of Russian publications is primarily caused by the outpacing increase in the number of authors. We hope that further study of processes of involvement of new researchers, mobility and migration based on bibliometric data will allow us to detail and clarify complex processes occurring in Russian science arising from continuous reforms and changes in national science policy.
CRIS with in-text citations as interactive entities If the in-text citations become interactive elements, it opens a new way for developing in CRIS the direct scholarly communication tools. That potentially creates an opportunity for better research performance and makes research cooperation and collaboration more efficient. The next step is the creation of the conditions for the emergence of full-fledged collaboration between citing and cited scholars, which normally arises only in small groups.
Research assessment and evaluation in Russian fundamental science Despite the visible progress in models and methods of research evaluation applied by the Russian authorities, we can also note an expanding chaos and inconsistency associated with the use of quite different approaches for different government bodies. The strength of this assessment is its multidimensional nature expressed in the separate evaluation of main activities, and formal quantitative basis of the first stage limiting the bias of experts. The main weakness is relatively low verifiability of some indicators used, ability to spoof the values by manipulating of the number of researchers measured in full-time equivalent, and the design of reference groups that led to the presence of groups with a very small number of participants. We suppose that professional scientometric discussion and involvement of the scientific community in the process of refinement of principles and methodologies of research assessment, alignment of basic principles and key performance indicators with those adopted in the EU countries is vital to the Russian science in general.
Faculty Applicants’ Attempt to Inflate CVs Using Predatory Journals We caution search committees at other pharmacy schools to thoroughly examine applicant curricula vitarum (CVs) for predatory publishing. In this commentary, we encourage colleges of pharmacy to include a discussion of predatory publishing as part of the mentoring program for faculty. Additionally, faculty applicant profiles should be analyzed using a variety of resources, such as those provided by Google Scholar, Web of Science, and consider looking at metrics such as the h-index and i10 index, with the understanding that any cataloging system may be contaminated to some degree.
Visibility study in strategizing for web marketing and webometric university ranking in malaysia After analyzing the data for each of the webometric indicator, the results will show the specific webometric indicator of visibility, presence, openness and scholars' indicator would either represent weak parameters or strength parameters for an effective improvement for webometric ranking.
hα: the scientist as chimpanzee or bonobo The empirical attribution of credit among co-authors is not captured by abstract models such as h, h_c, or h_a.
To What Extent Do Successive Cohorts Adopt Different Publication Patterns? Peer Review, Language Use, and Publication Types in the Social Sciences and Humanities Our study of author cohorts in Flemish SSH provides an extension to and a more nuanced understanding of the insights from past inquiries into publication practices and patterns.
“When You Use Social Media You Are Not Working”: Barriers for the Use of Metrics in Social Sciences The results have implications for future developments of scholarly online tools and show that researchers could benefit considerably from additional formal training regarding the correct application and interpretation of metrics. Our findings and recommendations have implications for various stakeholders, among them platform providers and -developers, community managers, research instructors, libraries, policy makers, research administrations, and of course the researchers themselves. Hence, developing tools to overcome these concerns is not only a necessary step to increase Social Science publications' visibility online and thus allowing the discipline to benefit from web-based impact measurement, but also a way of addressing everyday needs social scientists will most likely continue to face in the times to come.
Creative corporate culture and innovation We show that a creativity-oriented corporate culture is associated with success in innovation activities (as measured by the number of patents, the patent citation, and the market value of patents), which in turn leads to higher risk-adjusted returns of creative companies. This positive association with firm value explains why firms are strongly focused on advertising creativity among their corporate values.
Bibliometric Profile of an Agbioscience Research Enhancement Grant Program This bibliometric analysis is a first attempt to produce a summary-level profile of the article output of a long-standing, intramural grant program focusing on agbioscience research at a large land-grant university.
Acceptance and adoption of open access publishing by researchers in India From the findings of the study, it may be concluded that the trend of OA availability of scientific research in India is increasing.
The effect of publishing peer review reports on referee behavior in five scholarly journals These findings suggest that open peer review does not compromise the process, at least when referees are able to protect their anonymity.
The Potentials of Open Access Initiative and the Development of Institutional Repositories in Nigeria: Implications for Scholarly Communication This study has found a low exploitation of opportunities offered by development of institutional repositories in Nigeria in terms of number and size of contents. It appears that not much have been done by the stakeholders in articulating sustainable policy framework for repository development in Nigeria. University administration and Nigerian government should see to it that all funded research be made free to all to provide international visibility of Nigeria research output to the global scientific community.
Factors Related to Knowledge Creation and Career Outcomes in French Academia Our findings can help individuals' career decision-making and institutional investment in human-capital. We offer an original contribution to facilitate the understanding of factors that may influence research performance outside the Anglo-Saxon academia by opening of the black box of knowledge development, exposing the role of academic publications and recognition.
Measuring research in the University via senior academic promotions and faculty research metrics Arising out of the success of Senior Academic Promotions, HR are considering a new web application for managing academic career progression including performance review, probation, 4 year tenure review and promotion.
Implementation of the Evaluation of Researchers’ Bibliographies in Slovenia IZUM has developed the COBISS and SICRIS systems, both on a national level, together with the Researchers' Bibliographies application, which links both systems. Slovenia has very well-managed and transparent systems for maintaining researchers' bibliographies within the framework of the library information system, which is directly connected to the Web of Science and Scopus databases.
A Preliminary Study of Alternative Open Access Journal Indexes The alternative journal indexes discovered and analyzed by this study are largely associated with “predatory” OA journals. Comparisons among their indexes reveal a great amount of overlaps of journals, indicating intermarriage among them. With profitability as their sole purpose, such alternative practices have created an unhealthy academic publishing environment that erodes scientific morality, although the practices are predominantly found in only a few countries at this moment.
Collaboration in Design Research: An Analysis of Co-Authorship in 13 Design Research Journals, 2000–2015 Taken together, these key findings indicate that collaboration is becoming an important driver of research in design, too.
The DOAJ Spring Cleaning 2016 and What Was Removed—Tragic Loss or Good Riddance? We see from the data presented that many journals were removed as a result of not having submitted an application for re-accreditation may have problems with their publishing competence.
Federal funding of doctoral recipients: What can be learned from linked data This paper has shown that it is technically feasible to combine a new administrative dataset (UMETRICS) with a major established survey dataset (SED) to provide new insights into the links between federal funding structure and the composition of the doctorally trained workforce.
A single, open access journal may prevent the primary publishing problems in the life sciences The novel idea put forward herein is to knit these processes together without the need for profit-driven publishing companies and establish an overall LSJ.
The Leadership Quarterly: State of the journal All the numbers suggest that the journal continues to strengthen.
Health-related knowledge production in Brazil: regional interaction networks and priority setting On the basis of this empirical evidence, the main contribution of the paper is to highlight the role of Health Policy and Science Technology and Innovation (STI) Policy, to inform knowledge production that meets public health needs.
Collaborative Authorship Trends in AMTA-Published Journals, 1988–2017 Collaboration, despite logistical difficulties, may be beneficial and worth the effort. Research supports the concept that co-authorship and collaboration, despite logistical difficulties, may be beneficial and worth the effort in both academic publication and in clinical application. Collaborative authorship may provide important opportunities to incorporate specialized skills and knowledge in music therapy research and may offer greater insight into the betterment of clients.
Hidden patterns First and foremost, the project achieved its primary goal of showing that there is a strong, positive relationship between collaboration (as measured through co-authorship network centrality measures), productivity and promotion.
The fame monster: Unintended consequence of fame for psychological science Fame is not inherently a negative. My point is that, applied, as-signed and used poorly, it can have unintended negative results.
Correlation of Altmetric Attention Score and Citations for High-Impact General Medicine Journals: a Cross-sectional Study In this cross-sectional analysis of full-length original research articles published in specific high-impact general medicine journals, we demonstrated that AAS poorly correlated with the number of citations in the subsequent 3 years.
Co-authorship networks of Argentine economists We have presented data and analysis of co-authorship related to the state of the economics profession in Argentina by analyzing a major event: an annual congress where a vast group of diverse economists in the country regularly exhibits its academic production.
The impact of on generations of research BB68 is a seminal research paper in capital markets research leading to many citations over a period of fifty years. Direct citations are only small part of the contribution of BB68. This analysis identifies 6795 publications that are up to "two degrees" of separation from the BB68 research, which is substantially more than any other accounting publication from 1968. We document the networks of citation relations between the publications that cite BB68.
Using Current Research Information Systems (CRIS) to showcase national and institutional research (potential): research information systems in the context of Open Science Institutional OA policies and technical possibilities alone do not suffice as necessary preconditions for the integration of CRIS and OAR. Rather, the firm establishment of a CRIS infrastructure is vital. The institutionalization of CRIS, however, seems to be closely connected to national and institutional governance mechanisms of quality control.
SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION IN SPORTS SCIENCE JOURNALS: BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS The analysis of the scientific production of periodicals on SESPE in the Portuguese language that were indexed in Scopus allowed us to conclude that production increased until 2013, when the number of publications started to decline. The publications with the largest number of citations and the most studied themes are related to the area of biodynamics. The predominance of researches by authors of Brazilian institutions shows that Portuguese-language SESPE journals indexed in Scopus are not yet targeted by research groups from other countries.
Trainee Contribution Is Not Associated With Citation Frequency: A Retrospective Study Including trainees does not alter the citation frequency of the manuscripts published in JOMS. This finding is encouraging to both academic surgeons and their trainees, as a higher volume of students and residents can be engaged in research while preserving the influence of the published works. In consideration of future studies, examining the relationship between research productivity in predoctoral training and that in residency may be beneficial.
Quality of Research Practice – An interdisciplinary face validity evaluation of a quality model The research quality model based on four basic concepts and 28 sub-concepts has-overall-been found valid, as an important contribution for describing the quality of research practice, by 42 senior researchers from three major Swedish universities. Our study indicates that the research quality model proposes the opportunity to move to a more systematic and multidisciplinary approach to research quality improvement, which has implications for how scientific knowledge is obtained.
Predatory publishing or a lack of peer review transparency?—a contemporary analysis of indexed open and non-open access articles in paediatric urology Open access, peer reviewed publishing allows rapid international knowledge dissemination, and can arguably lead to higher average citations.
Scientific novelty and technological impact This paper adds to our understanding of the interplay between science and technology, by taking the science perspective of industry science links and examining what types of science is most likely to have a technological impact, in particular, whether novel science is more likely to have a technological impact and displays a distinct impact profile compared with non-novel science.
Correlations between submission and acceptance of papers in peer review journals We conclude that, in this sample, the type of journal, specialized or multidisciplinary, seems to be the drastic criterion for distinguishing the outcomes rates.
The financial benefits of persistently high forward citations In summary forward citation counts have been used to indicate successful patenting out-comes, but their link to benefitting firms' financial performance remains elusive as results presented herein were weak.
Balkan web of physics Most positive observation is the increased collaboration among physicists from the region. We hope that it will be of a common interest to continue to further increase the cooperation among Balkan countries. In the circumstances the problem of brain drain is very common and becomes serious drawback for general progress in many countries in addition to the handicap for the development of sciences and physics in particular.
Avoiding predatory journals: Quick peer review processes too good to be true Authors can sidestep the trap of publishing in predatory journals by paying attention to the peer review process when selecting a journal for publication.
Citation indicators’ comparison of LIS open access and subscription publications based on Scopus Based on the findings of the present study, it can be said that in the field of LIS, OA to information at the article level is an advantage, but not at the journal level. This can affect the willingness of researchers, universities and research organizations to pay the publication of articles in the hybrid journals. A detailed study on the amount of fees received for publishing articles in various types of subscription, OA and hybrid journals can provide more accurate data for publication plans and policies for organizations responsible for publishing journals and authors.
Who Is (Likely) Peer-Reviewing Your Papers? A Partial Insight into the World’s Top Reviewers Our analysis contributes to the ongoing global discourse on the health of scientific peer-review, and it raises some important questions for further discussion.
Gender differences in peer review outcomes and manuscript impact at six journals of ecology and evolution In our study of >23,000 manuscripts submitted to six journals of ecology and evolution, we find evidence that papers authored by women receive lower peer-review scores and, cumulative across the entire manuscript review process, are ~4%-10% (depending on author position) less likely to be invited for revision or resubmission (Table 1).
Usage, captures, mentions, social media and citations of LIS highly cited papers: an altmetrics study Altmetrics indicators can be used as complement traditional indicators of Scientometrics to study the impact of papers. The research data suggest that altmatrics indicators, as complementary alongside scientometrics indicators, can be used to study the impact of scientific productions and scholars' accomplishments. We hope the study results could help promote altmetrics studies as a new field in LIS.
An investigation of impact of research collaboration on academic performance in Italy The results suggest that international collaborations have a higher impact on the research quality index in Italy.
Open Access Publishing Trends in the Forest Sciences Open access is becoming an increasingly important segment of the academic publishing industry, due in part to demands for greater access and lower costs. Open access in the forest sciences is increasingly available in a few open access and hybrid journals. Open access publishing appears to be a viable and growing model in the forest sciences.
Expected, observed and relative paper scores from heterogeneous author-paper-citation networks A dual score system that simultaneously evaluates the relative importance of authors and their papers from a given author-paper-citation heterogeneous network allowed us to derive separately an observed or actual citation score for each paper, an expected score for each paper based on the author scores and therefore a relative paper score for each paper.
Missing documents in Scopus: the case of the journal Enfermeria Nefrologica This study shows that while Scopus needs to improve its quality control systems, editorial management teams need to routinely check the information being indexed by the databases.
Social media coverage of scientific articles immediately after publication predicts subsequent citations: #SoMe_Impact Score Social media attention predicts citations and could be used as an early surrogate measure of scientific impact. Due to the cross-sectional study design, we cannot determine whether correlation relates to causation.
Comparison of several author indices for gauging academic productivity Academic achievement by scholars, based upon quantitative publication characteristics, has recently become of interest for evaluating job candidates, for determining work performance, and for bestowing awards and honors.
A Bibliometric Analysis on Tuberculosis Research of Korea from 1979 to 2017 Articles on TB, especially those on clinical aspects, and published by researchers based in Korea have been increasing rapidly since 1979.
Institutional Repository Promotion: Current Practices and Opinions in Texas Academia We found that most active promotion efforts are geared towards faculty in order to increase the IR size. Many libraries have accepted that items in the IR are found through search engines, and less marketing efforts are made for end-users.
Japanese universities test collaboration Without more fundamental reform of universities and research funding, Japanese science overall will continue to decline, critics say.
Peer review and publication delay These figures confirm the existence of a peer review crisis which is significantly increasing the publication delay. Reducing the remaining 61 days will depend on our ability to convince pharmacy practice researchers that acting as a peer reviewer is probably the most important part of a collaborative publishing scheme.
Geographical trends in academic conferences: An analysis of authors’ affiliations The results, in accordance with previous studies [18,22,25], showed that distributions of papers and institutions across countries still follow a power law in the period 1996–2016. In addition, our analysis of the turnover rate in country rankings highlights that not only top ranks in research are generally limited to a handful of countries and institutions, but that the situation appears also to be stagnant towards the lower ranks. In conclusion, we advocate openness and transparency for research literature metadata so as to foster reproducibility and evaluation of different approaches within the field of scholarly knowledge analytics [19].
Correcting Corrupt Research: Recommendations for the Profession to Stop Misuse of <i>p</i> -Values Statistics is an indispensable tool to understand complex sys- tems where many variables can influence diverse outcomes.
Chinese Academic Library Research Evaluation Services The research evaluation services in Chinese academic libraries appear to be still in the initial development phase as there is not yet a single universal service model and in many cases, the services are somewhat unbalanced.
Trustees in Turbulent Times: External Affiliations and Stratification among U.S. Research Universities, 1975–2015 Our results suggest important implications for future research on the relationship between governance and institutions' financial positions. Our results suggest that many private AAU universities were able to consolidate their positions or move to the top of the hierarchy, displacing public boards (e.g., the University of California in 1985) that previously had maintained extensive affiliations. Finally, and perhaps most crucially, our results provide initial evidence for the connection between financial resources and university governance.
Diversity measurement: Steps towards the measurement of interdisciplinarity? Otherwise, we agree with Rousseau that one cannot expect that a single measure meets all requirements. One can expect large differences between measuring diversity with 2D³ or DIV* in empirical applications.
Substantial numbers of easily identifiable illegal DOIs still exist in Scopus Regardless of the possible sources of these illegal DOIs in Scopus, the existence of these illegal DOIs demonstrates that the database provider has not done enough to improve the data quality. Besides, a retrospective DOI correction should also be made by Scopus. Our finding of substantial numbers of incorrect DOIs in Scopus indicates that more efforts should be made by database providers to improve the data quality, as was also suggested by Franceschini, Maisano, and Mastrogiacomo (2016b).
Contribution of national congress presentations to scientific literature: An analysis of efficiency The PRs found in this study were quite low compared with the international EM congresses, and they were similar to the PRs of presentations given at national congresses held by other specialty branches. Most of the presentations in the present study consisted of case reports. The high number of case reports in the present study was thought to be one of the reasons for a decrease in PRs.
The Two-Way Street of Open Access Journal Publishing: Flip It and Reverse It Our findings establish that reverse flips do not constitute merely a few marginal outliers, but instead a common pattern within scholarly publishing, which offers a unique perspective of the contributing factors to OA striving and thriving.
Few Open Access Journals Are Compliant with Plan S We conclude that a large majority of open access journals are not Plan S-compliant, and that it is small publishers in the humanities and social sciences (HSS) not charging article processing charges (APC) that will face the largest challenge with becoming compliant. Plan S needs to give special considerations to smaller publishers and/or non-APC based journals. We are not arguing that these requirements should not be made. But we want to warn that the current timeline will pose a threat to a number of open access journals of good scholarly quality that scholars do not want to lose. The current timeline will remove the non-APC journals from the market, leaving APC journals the winners.
214 If I tweet more about my paper, will I improve my citation index? However, this work suggests that whilst downloads and citations appear to capture a common construct, Altmetric is capturing something distinct. In answer to the title question: tweeting about your research does not appear to influence citations.
The Visibility of Authority Records, Researcher Identifiers, Academic Social Networking Profiles, and Related Faculty Publications in Search Engine Results Although our sample was small and contained only library faculty, this study offers concrete evidence that authority records may increase the visibility of scholars in search engine results. Our results suggest that faculty with more ASN profiles were more visible in search engines and faculty with authority records ranked more highly in Google, although findings would need to be reproduced in other samples to support firmer conclusions.
Can Openly Accessible E- Theses Be Published as Monographs? A Short Survey of Academic Publishers The findings of this study can at best serve as an inference, or indeed an intervention of a field in need of constant study and data collection, as is its ever-changing nature.
Researchers collaborate with same-gendered colleagues more often than expected across the life sciences We found evidence that researchers work with same-gendered coauthors more often than expected under the null model, even after implementing stringent controls for Wahlund effects of the kind illustrated in Fig 1. Assuming that papers published in high-impact jour- nals are of higher average quality (which is contentious; [67]), our results provide non-experi- mental support for the hypothesis that mixed-gender teams produce better research than single-gender teams [42-48]. Our study therefore reaffirms earlier studies' conclusions [49-57, 62] using stricter methodology, and generalises their results across the life sciences.
Development and validation of a questionnaire to measure research impact To conclude, this study demonstrates that the easy-to-use questionnaire developed here is capable of measuring a wide range of research impact benefits and provides good internal consistency.
A responsibility to commercialize? Tracing academic researchers’ evolving engagement with the commercialization of biomedical research Our qualitative case study of how emerging and established researchers respond to commercialization found that established researchers wrestle with the tensions of commercialization and ultimately express ambivalence about its role in science.
Scientific Production and Productivity for Characterizing an Author’s Publication History: Simple and Nested Gini’s and Hirsch’s Indexes Combined To characterize a PH in terms of heterodoxy, orthodoxy, and interdisciplinarity, traditional bibliometric indexes of a researcher's PH must be modified. In the present study, I modified one of these indexes (Hirsch's H) by accounting for the feasible standardizations that have been suggested in the literature. I also accounted for the dispersion of a researcher's PH among disciplines or subjects by using the Gini index. This study provides a simple methodology based on insights from the literature that allows researchers and their managers to easily characterize a researcher's PH.
Disruptive papers published in Scientometrics The concentration of disruption values around zero in our set of Scientometrics papers as well as the percentiles of the comparison set indicate that a notable variance in the disruption index can only be found for a small proportion of papers. It would appear that the index is particularly suited to discriminate between papers at the extreme ends of its distribution. One possibility in this respect would be to field-nor- malize the index. Beyond that, a further examination of how the citation behavior of the focal paper's authors affects the disruptiveness values (e.g. the influence of the number of cited references) would allow a better interpretation of the index values.
Enriching Our Understanding of Health Care Management Journals: A Career Value and Cognitive Mapping Approach The results of this study provide a two-dimensional configuration of how academicians in health care view journals in their field. This suggests that journals maintain their prestige, reputation, and focus over long periods of time as perceived by health care academicians. For scholars, it provides a stable environment for targeting the journal outlets for their research.
Advancing scholarly publishing through open access biomedical repositories: A knowledge management perspective The research based on action research methodology is proving an effective approach to producing new knowledge about scholarly communications whilst also addressing practical problems.
Two new kids on the block: How do Crossref and Dimensions compare with Google Scholar, Microsoft Academic, Scopus and the Web of Science? Our comparison of coverage across six data sources showed that the two new kids on the block, Crossref and Dimensions, hold their own when compared to Scopus and the Web of Science, but are beaten by Google Scholar and Microsoft Academic. This means that if our findings with regard to Crossref and Dimensions can be confirmed by larger-scale studies, our options for literature search and citation analysis would certainly have wid- ened further. All of the four free data sources have an edge in terms of recency as they often record publications within weeks of them being published online.
Open Access Mega-Journals: Quality, Economics and Post-publication Peer Review Infrastructure If so, then the case can be made that PPPR by verified, named or anonymous peer reviewers is an essential element that should be incorporated into an OAMJ's reviewing system.
Responsible science: Celebrating the 50-year legacy of using a registration-based framework This virtual special issue of the PBFJ brings together a group of papers to celebrate the 50-year legacy of Ball and Brown (1968) (BB68).
Research Interest: another undisclosed (and redundant) algorithm by ResearchGate Contrariwise, that score suffers from two major issues. One of these lies in its redundancy, being essentially tied with the citation count, thus providing negligible additional information. The other—and possibly more important—troublesome aspect concerns its lack of transparency, being built using an unknown algorithm, which seems to go beyond the disclosed weighting scheme.
Measuring team science: Associations between a clinical-translational science institute and investigator ego networks We demonstrated that MICHR, a CTSA program hub, has significant associations with the structure of and changes in the ego networks of individual investigators.
R package for producing beamplots as a preferred alternative to the h index when assessing single researchers (based on downloads from Web of Science) We recommend the use of beamplots as a significant and preferred alternative to the h index whenever the assessment of single researchers is required.
Did the Research Faculty at a Small Canadian Business School Publish in “Predatory” Venues? This Depends on the Publishing Blacklist This huge difference between Beall's blacklisting and that of Cabell or Crawford implies that there is a large type I error (i.e., false positives) in the Study's assessment using Beall's blacklists. We believe that faculty members published in these journals because they preferred an OA choice, even though we detected that some publishers were not OA (e.g., IABE).
Discussing Arab Spring’s effect on scientific productivity and research performance in Arab countries To sum up, it is clear that the political situation of the Arab world only explains in part the changes of research productivity and efficiency of Arab countries after 2011 and that the research policy and behaviour of Arab countries is more likely to be behind these variations. I invite interested scientists to give more interest to this feature when working in the next years on explaining the fluctuations of Arab research performance.
Bibliometric synthesis of educational productivity research: Benchmarking the visibility of German educational research In consideration of the reported bibliometric data, we can conclude that the visibility of German educational research in international journals is not as low as is often claimed. This conclusion applies to topics and issues of general interest as well as particular orientations.
Cite This Economics Paper! It Is Time for the House of Cards to Fall Down The paper argues that counts of citations by the last two categories offers greater credibility in the application of citation counts to evaluate economic literature.
Aiming for impact: Differential effect of motivational drivers on effort and performance in knowledge valorisation This study finds that motivational drivers differentially influence ef- fort and performance in the four societal impact domains of know- ledge, culture, economy, and well-being.
Economic Modelling of Predatory Journal Publishing Articles published in predatory journals are in low quality which reflects a supply-demand equilibrium.
Google Scholar Citation metrics of Pakistani LIS scholars: an overview Their research has shown that, while the uptake has continued to be relatively low, the platform offers a potentially useful tool that addresses some of the issues currently faced by this cohort, including publishing in languages and/or journals that are not indexed by traditional citation databases. Furthermore, as advisers in scholarly communication and impact, the role of academic librarians can be extended to support scholars in the adoption of new online platforms for communication and visibility.
Inter-field nonlinear transformation of journal impact indicators: The case of the h-index We have shown that, based in a well-established biliometric principle that has been recently proved -the principle of universal citation distributions–, the crude application of the h-index computed using the original definition is introducing a big distortion in the scientific evaluation based on the couple production/ quality. But if we assume so we must accept also some modifications in order to translate the information given by the h-index among different scientific fields.
Data analytics and research evaluation The Research Data Analytics Service is significant in showcasing a new role for librarians in relation to research evaluation metrics data.
Short‐term impact of Altmetric Attention Scores on citation counts in selected major pharmacy journals However, we found no short-term correlation between the AAS and the number of citations for articles published in major pharmacy journals in the year 2017. At this time, the AAS should only be used as a complement to traditional measures, not a replacement. Further research is warranted to determine the best use of altmetrics when evaluating pharmacy faculty.
Information Resources: Differential Characteristics between Ibero-American and Dutch JCR Psychology Journals from 1998 to 2017 The results found in the present study show a clear discrepancy between Psychology journals published in Ibero-American and Dutch journals, differences that may bias their JCR position and the evolution of journals over the years.
Metrics of activity in social networks are correlated with traditional metrics of scientific impact in endocrinology journals Our results suggest that the dissemination of research on social networks is moderately related to the traditional metrics of impact.
Reporting errors and biases in published empirical findings: Evidence from innovation research Our analysis shows that reporting errors are widespread in innovation research, with almost one out of two articles affected.
Japanese women researchers: Are they active? – Trends in numbers of members in JSAP In conclusion, our analysis of women researchers in JSAP can illuminate the situation of women in Japanese academia and industry. An improvement in the situation of women researchers would provide advantages not only for women but also for the whole of industry and academia in Japan.
How hyped media and misleading editorials can influence impressions about Beall’s lists of “predatory” publications The issue of "publish or perish” that Kolata (2017a) describes, and which Prof. Coelho refers to as “classic” is in fact not that simple or that “classic”, in the sense that it is not only limited to OA journals, as had been suggested by Beall. Any element of fake corrupts the scholarly record (Teixeira da Silva, 2017c), and sting operations of the type used by Bohannon (2013) and Sorokowski et al. use unethical methods to achieve their conclusions and thus reduce public trust in academics, thereby endangering academics more than they inform them (Al-Khatib and Teixeira da Silva, 2016).
Most scientists prefer small and mid-sized research grants In contrast to the current trend towards larger grants in research funding, the survey clearly showed that most scientists prefer small or medium-sized grants to pursue their ideas and advance their scientific careers.
Croatian scientists’ awareness of predatory journals The sample of the survey is small, but the results indicate there is a lack of awareness among Croatian scientists (and also librarians) about the threat of predatory journals. Academic librarians are essential for educating their users about predatory journals and publishers - they should teach them how to find, evaluate and use scientific information properly by developing their information literacy skills through different forms of education (individual approach, workshops, webinars, seminars, conferences, online courses, etc.). Raising awareness about predatory journals among scientists could prevent negative consequences such as the loss of faith in scientific integrity and a dramatic reduction in the visibility of research results.
Author’s Index: Without Distortions To conclude, replacement of the Q-classes in the Aindex with a variable to better represent the prestige or influence of the scientific journals would improve the accuracy of the formula.
Indian geology research as reflected by Web of Science during 1998-2017 From the study we can conclude that the Indian geologists have preferred to work in groups rather individually. In terms of number of collaborations, domestic dominates international ones; however the impact of internationally collaborated papers is more than that of domestic ones. We can infer that the nature of collaboration as well as nature of publishing journal clearly influences the impact of research publications.
The alleged citation advantage of video abstracts may be a matter of self-citations and self-selection bias. Comment on “The impact of video abstract on citation counts” by Zong et al. Nonetheless, those results could also be an outgrowth due to a phenomenon of spurious correlation. Self-citations push the citation premium of articles with a video abstract. All this suggests that the alleged citation advantage due to video abstracts is, at least, of doubtful occurrence.
Contribution of Indian women scholars to Indian output in bibliometrics/scientometrics and the pattern of co-authorship and collaboration The relative contribution of women is slightly more than their male counter parts. The study indicates a gradual increase in the number of articles authored by women over the years. Major domestic as well as international collaboration resulted from R&D institutions like CSIR-NISTADS and CSIR-NISCAIR.
The most cited articles and authors in dermatology: A bibliometric analysis of 1974-2019 Overall, women represented a small percentage of top cited articles irrespective of authorship placement, and even fewer among the top cited authors.
Contributorship, Not Authorship: Use CRediT to Indicate Who Did What There seems to be little reason to not move toward a contributorship model; it provides a more inclusive and realistic recognition of their research contributions.
Open Access Routes Dichotomy and Opportunities: Consolidation, Analysis and Trends at the Spanish National Research Council CSIC is a high-intensive research-performing organization with remarkable publication performance and citations. In total, nearly 60,000 CSIC research articles dated between 2008 and 2018 are already available in Open Access, either through publisher platform or through an Open Access repository. From the point of view of those responsible for CSIC libraries e-journals management and development, and especially from the team that deals with institutional negotiations, it is now mandatory to add a new criterion to traditional ones before making decisions on what to subscribe and how.
Authorship and Gender in <scp>ESA</scp> Journals Once papers are submitted, however, there is no observed bias in acceptance, with a possible small anomaly for one journal, Ecological Monographs.
Open science and modified funding lotteries can impede the natural selection of bad science Our results suggest a cautious affirmative. Overall, our results indicate that funding agencies have the potential to play an outsized role in the improvement of science by promoting research that passes tests for rigour. In the short run, we encourage institutional efforts that increase the publication of negative results, enforce methodological rigour in peer review, and above all, attempt to funnel funding toward high-integrity research.
Response to Dr. Copiello’s comments on “The impact of video abstract on citation counts” The results of the current study (citation counts were gained via Scopus on 2nd June 2019) showed that articles with video abstract (experimental group) compared to articles without video abstract (control group), while holding the other variables (number of authors, etc.) constant in the model, were expected to have a rate 1.241 times greater for citation counts without self-citations (vs. a rate 1.216 times greater for citation counts with self-citations).
Managing the Growth of Peer Review at the Royal Society Journals, 1865-1965 Our findings reveal interesting parallels with current concerns about the scale and distribution of peer review work and suggest the strategic importance of the management of the editorial process to achieve a creative mix of community commitment and professional responsibility that is essential in contemporary journals. Our findings show the pros and cons of community-based editorial processes in the age of handwritten and typed letters, weekly meetings, and print-on-paper publication. Embedding journals in responsible and accountable communities is in our opinion essential but not sufficient.
Assessing Trustworthiness in Research: A Pilot Study on CV Verification Despite these limitations, we contend that our findings indicate a real problem. There are a number of things that individuals and institutions in the academic community can and should do to minimize both the incidence and the effect of CV falsification (see Table 5).
Brazilian Articles in Top-Tier Dental Journals and Influence of International Collaboration on Citation Rates In conclusion, Brazil is a frequent co-author and the second most publishing country of articles in top-tier international dental journals.
Explaining and predicting the impact of authors within a community: an assessment of the bibliometric literature and application of machine learning The results are quite sobering, especially in attempting to estimate top cited authors as a collection of current theories of creative breakthrough only account for ~9% of variance when lagged performance data are not included.
Epistemic Influences on Knowledge Translation in Healthcare: The Mediating Role of Social Networks We identify two important contributions from our research to our understanding of the impact of epistemic differences on knowledge translation activities in healthcare.
Study Comparing Traditional Versus Alternative Metrics to Measure the Impact of the Critical Care Medicine Literature To summarize, in this analysis of major pulmonary and critical care journals, we found that the correlation between traditional publishing metrics and AASs was fair, with a strong positive correlation between citations and AASs for all journals, negative correlations between Eigenfactor and AASs for most journals, and no clear association between IF and AAS.
Evolving landscape of scholarly journals in open access environment OAJs with their varied and changing characteristics are becoming major key players in the scholarly world. Journals that offer free access to their current content should be encouraged to provide access to their archival content. OAJs need to adhere more to the various economic models that will ensure their sustenance and also help in archiving the back content on the open digital canvas.
The Impact of Open Access on Teaching—How Far Have We Come? The results of this study indicate for the first time that the state of open access is such that it might provide a viable alternative to copying articles under the CLA Licence to support courses of study.
Analytic Overview of Citation Metrics in the Civil Engineering Domain with Focus on Construction Engineering and Management Specialty Area and Its Subdisciplines Ultimately, it was found that several factors such as research community size, trendiness of research field, amount of research output, connection with other interdisciplinary fields, characteristics and attributes of coauthors, timing of checking an h-index, publication access type, and the criteria adopted by the various archiving databases collectively affect the citation metrics for papers and authors. As such, citation metrics like h-index should not be used solely to assess the quality and impact of an author but rather be utilized as a single piece of information within a more holistic and broader context. This study furnishes various parameters and considerations that should be normalized before attempting to compare citations of papers and/or authors across the CE domain.
A Post-Positivist Answering Back. The raw data, or at least the correlation or covariance matrix of the measurement items, should always be made available and in the public domain so that others can verify and possibly improve on the reported analysis.
Research Excellence in the Era of Online Attention: Altmetrics of South Africa’s Highly Cited Papers in Selected Research Fields South Africa's highly cited papers (HCPs) have demonstrated the rationale behind their use in assessing research excellence.
Determinants of Revisions to Article Processing Charges for BMC Journals This study examined the APCs for 160 journals independently launched by BMC for 2 years to identify the factors influencing changes in APCs.
Women in STEM in Higher Education: A Citation Analysis of the Current Literature Only three of the top ten journals covering topics involving women in STEM were published within traditional science, technology, engineering, and math journals as defined by Ulrichs Global Serials Directory Subject Classifications. Based on the findings of this study, it is recommended that librarians broaden the traditional scope of science, technology, engineering, and math journals to include the top publications listed within this study as well as other publications that focus on STEM careers and higher education. Subject liaison librarians serving the STEM disciplines may want to collaborate with Social Sciences or Education liaison librarians to ensure there are no gaps in the coverage between these areas.
Discovering Open Access Engineering Journals A key finding in this study was the discovery of a correlation between journal indexing by the major databases and DOAJ status. This opens up the proposition that OA journals that are listed in the DOAJ are more likely to be indexed by leading databases, at least in the science and engineering disciplines. In the interim, engineering researchers looking for OA outlets for their research are encouraged to focus on journals listed by the DOAJ.
Exploring Goodreads reviews for book impact assessment Goodreads reviews are a rich data source that reflect the recognition by and attitudes of social media users towards books. The study concludes that if online reviews are to be used as indicators of book impact assessment, key considerations should include the subject discipline, the reviewer's role, and the sentiment polarity. This means that Goodreads reviews play a better role in content-based recommendation and evaluation.
Predatory publishing and the Ghana experience: A call to action for information professionals The findings of this research are significant because they indicate that research scientists may have more awareness of predatory journals than is expected, but that they may lack the training or tools necessary for deciding whether or not a journal is legitimate.
Quantification of knowledge content of a high impact innovation: recombinant DNA The analyses thus far suggest that Properties (Entities) and Conditions (Actions) play two roles in the discovery process, they serve as hints or clues of the existence of an Entity or Action, leading to their conceptualization, while initial Properties and Conditions guide identi-fication, isolation and purification of the underlying physical Entities and Actions.
Large publishing consortia produce higher citation impact research but coauthor contributions are hard to evaluate It is impossible for research evaluators to identify the contributions of individual authors in the huge alphabetical consortia of physics and astronomy and problematic for the middle and end authors of health-related consortia.
To Quantify the Inter-field Citation Impact on Author Indexing In this proposed work, the inter-field citation impact has been evaluated to quantify the authors indexing.
Making the unconventional conventional: How blockchain contributes to reshaping scholarly communications Building on the vision of Eugene Garfield, ARTIFACTS seeks to make the vast reservoir of pre-published research artifacts accessible in ways that advance careers of researchers, support efforts to validate and reproduce findings, enhance the value of published works, among other objectives, in conformance with the principles of the scientific method.
Visibility and growth of <i>LIS</i> research publications: a Scopus based analysis of select open access journals during 2001 to 2015 As the study intended to show the visibility and growth of LIS open access publications, the selected journals have shown a better visibility of publications across the world. The outcomes of the study will definitely motivate the researchers towards publication of their research in open access journals. Also the study will help the decision makers, library information managers to enrich their collection with open access scholarly publications.
Scholarly Journals’ Publication Frequency and Number of Articles in 2018–2019: A Study of SCI, SSCI, CSCD, and CSSCI Journals One conclusion could be that “mega journals” are probably less common in China than in the world.
Scientific co-operation and centre-periphery relations: attitudes and interests of European and Latin American scientists Through our empirical analysis we have been able to observe that, whereas scientific relations are becoming more complex and Latin American research groups' participation in international consortia is on the rise, the basic structure of these relations is still organized around “subordinate integration” modalities: the activities most frequently undertaken by Latin American researchers in the research consortia's division of labor are data production, organization and systematization.
Quantitative assessment of academic value and demand of journals and determination of core journals for a discipline We determined the journals needed by the inorganic chemistry discipline through collecting journals cited in their publications, and assessed the academic value and demand of the journals by introducing the RCR and UR concepts and ranking the cited journals in a decreasing order of RCR and UR, respectively. The divisions for RCR and UR rankings are very useful for plan and construction of journals resource of library. We can make purchase plan of journals needed by a discipline based on their academic value and demand mentioned above.
Invisibilizing politics: Accepting and legitimating ignorance in environmental sciences My ethnographic research revealed a habitus of ignorance among scientists in the ABC.
Reimaging Academic Publishing from Perspectives of Academia in Australia Academics publish their scholarly work not only to communicate their research findings but also to retain and strengthen their position in the field.
The Effects of Discipline Membership and Experience in the Field on Scholars’ Book and Journal Format Preferences Overall, surveyed faculty had favorable views of electronic journal formats, both in terms of publishing preferences and library holdings.
Reflections about Garfield’s algorithm This work focused on looking into the influence of the algorithm currently used on scholarly search engines with the aim of proposing improvements so that a more reliable algorithm can help on breaking the hegemony of science. The main problem, as this work has demonstrated, is caused by the algorithm of science. This is a comforting conclusion, as the algorithm can be easily adjusted. Change the algorithm and automatically the voices of sciences will expand.
CHARACTERISTICS OF HIGH-IMPACT ARTICLES IN THE CANADIAN JOURNAL OF CARDIOLOGY Overall, top articles in the CJC attained high visibility from 2014 to 2018. These findings demonstrate that article dissemination through news outlets and social media sites represents an effective and evolving tool for increasing reach and knowledge translation.
Mendeley reader counts for US computer science conference papers and journal articles The results therefore suggest that Mendeley reader counts have a substantial advantage over citation counts for recently published conference papers due to their greater speed, but are unsuitable for older conference papers.
Co-citations in context: Disciplinary heterogeneity is relevant Overall, our study, although limited to three disciplinary networks, suggests that co-citation analysis that inadequately considers disciplinary differences may not be very useful at detecting universal features of impactful publications. Our work has shown that the use of local networks enables simulations that are more consistent with research citation patterns. Further work might explore additional constraints on random assignment of citations to publications to better align benchmarks with citation practice.
Does the <i>h</i><sub>α</sub>-index reinforce the Matthew effect in science? The introduction of agent-based simulations into scientometrics The results of our study confirm what we expected from the single case: the ha index reinforces the Matthew effect. This effect can be intensified if strategic behavior of the publishing scientists and accumulative advantage effects are additionally considered in the simulation.
Making sense of flipping data The calculations confirmed the assumption that across the MNU, there is enough money in the subscription costs for the selected package to cover a flip to paying APC.
On the topicality and research impact of special issues However, disciplinary and overall comparison of relative citations for both special and regular issues shows that intraissue averages and variances in the former case are respectively higher and lower than in the regular issue context, which undermines not only the abovementioned hypothesis, but also the belief that editors often "fill up" special issues by accepting substandard papers.
Understanding the peer review endeavor Using the verified peer review records of researchers on Pub-lons, this study investigated how this scientific endeavor was divided and distributed over the world. To sum up, based on one of the largest sets of data about peer review so far, this study provided important complementary understandings to the Publons' Global State of Peer Review report (Publons, 2018).
How were science mapping tools applied? the application of science mapping tools in LIS and non‐LIS domains In this study, we investigated the application of fourteen SMTs by visualizing 490 articles that applied SMTs to analyze scientific domains.
Gender bias in invention Gender of the inventors could make a great influence on the patent.
Disciplinarity of software papers: A preliminary analysis As part of our project to evaluate how software papers are cited in disciplinary contexts, the present study finds that disciplinarity is an important attribute of software papers and is manifested in the different patterns of domain distribution of software papers and their citations. Specifically, software is primarily developed in MCS and later applied in other domains. Future research should implement more fine-grained methods to quantify the disciplinarity of software papers and augment the citation-based classification with additional analyses (1) of social dimensions of disciplinarity and (2) at the semantic level of software papers.
A comparative study of domestic and cross‐country impact of Chinese and U.S. publications in chemistry In summary, China is main beneficiary of its own research, with its citation impact mainly within the scope of the country due to high publication volume, whereas US publications show a broader impact and are more influential in the world.
The impact of a prescribed journal list of disciplinary publishing While the basket of eight has had a positive impact on the JIF for Information Systems, an increase that has not appeared in the LIS journal set.
Exploring the function of citations in ancient Chinese literature In this study, after investigating 123 citations from ancient Chinese literature from eighth century BC to seventeenth century, we found that ancient Chinese authors would like to quote the classics from Chinese saints such as Confucius, Mencius, and King Wen of Zhou to support their assertions or opinions.
Research on the impact evaluation of academic journals based on altmetrics and citation indicators Taking international LIS journals as an example, combining eight traditional citation indicators and 10 altmetrics indicators, we use the method of multi-indicator fusion to construct a comprehensive evaluation model of journal impact based on traditional citation indicators and altmetrics indicators. It indicates that the evaluation of LIS journals' societal impact based on altmetrics indicators has a good supplement to the evaluation of LIS journals' academic impact based on citation. To sum up, altmetrics is a powerful tool to measure the societal impact of journals, but it cannot replace the traditional bibliometrics at present.
Do altmetrics correlate with citations? A study based on the 1,000 most-cited articles The results of this study can help researchers, editors and editorial boards of journals better understand the importance and benefits of using social media and tools to publish articles. The results showed that highly cited articles are shared through social media such as Twitter, Blogs, Facebook, News, Wikipedia, Mendeley, Citeulike, and Connotea. Therefore, it is recommended that journals, authors, and researchers use social media to increase the visibility of their articles and to receive more citations.
Word bibliographic coupling: Another way to map science field and identify core references The present study proposes a novel way, WBC, to measure the relationship between words based on the similarity of their related references. WBC maps intellectual structure based on words, a bibliographic entity different from documents and authors. With these improvements, WBC will be researchers' another tool to analyze research field and make analyzers have a better understanding of the research field.
Identifying the contribution–influence gap in the science and technology community This study confirmed the contribution-influence gap from the perspective of citations.
Performance of citations and altmetrics in the social sciences and humanities In summary, the major contributions of this study include an extension of (1) the analysis method in the SSH context; (2) the validation of the altmetric indicators; and (3) the ver-ification of claims that altmetrics works better as a comple-ment to bibliometrics.
Curve Estimation Models for Estimation and Prediction of Impact Factor and CiteScore Using the Journal Percentiles: A Case Study of Telecommunication Journals "The paper has successfully obtained predictive models for predicting impact factor and CiteScore using journal percentiles extending the observed correlation between the metrics to predictive models."
A new innovative method to measure the demographic representation of scientists via Google Scholar As shown above, women and individuals belonging to minority groups are still vastly underrepresented in scientific research and practices.
The impact of money on science: Evidence from unexpected NCAA football outcomes Unanticipated college football outcomes shift institutional research support but not expenditures on faculty or facilities.
Rational randomization by journal editors–a mathematical derivation: A response to Osterloh and Frey's discussion paper on ‘Borrowed Plumes’ In concluding, randomization by editors can be rational.
Scholarly research in Library and Information Science: an analysis based on ISI Web of Science This study concludes that while the overall number of publications and citations has increased across all regions, particularly in the past three years, North America and the UK continue to be the most productive countries. Likewise, a majority of the most productive research institutions in LIS are also from North America. The study also concludes that although the trend of research and publication in LIS is continuously on the rise in developed countries, the research output from developing countries is slow.
Assessment of research impact through citation analysis: a new approach It is hoped that the findings of this paper will help in rectifying the misplaced emphasis on h-index alone. The outcomes of this research may have major practical applications for research assessment of academics/researchers and rectify the imbalance in assessment by reducing over-hype on h-index. Research assessment based on proposed approaches is likely to lead to greater satisfaction among those evaluated and higher confidence in the evaluation criteria.
H-Index and Its Variants Thus, most of the h-index variants are merely mathematically and arithmetically modified and does not add any new information as these are highly correlated and are based on the h-core. The results indicate that a- index have a relatively low correlation with the h index, and it can be assumed that it can make a non-redundant contribution to the h index. Thus, it could be argued that a sophisticated version or genuine alteration of the h index algorithm could provide a promising complement of the h index.
Whether article types of a scholarly journal are different in cited metrics using cluster analysis of MeSH terms to display Publishing article type with study methodology and design might lead to a higher IF. Both classifying article types and quantifying co-author contributions can be accommodated to other scientific disciplines. As such, which type of articles and who contributes most to a specific journal can be evaluated in the future.
TrendMD: Using AI to enhance discovery and achieve publisher goals TrendMD is a prime example of the effective use of AI technology in scholarly publishing, helping researchers to discover new articles based on their interests, and helping publishers and authors promote their content. The TrendMD technology, combined with its growing network, have made TrendMD a highly cost-effective way for publishers to reach their most valued audiences.
Academic Excellence, Website Quality, SEO Performance: Is there a Correlation? Conclusively, the results of the research indicate that universities place particular emphasis on issues concerning website quality, while the utilization of SEO does not appear to be of equal importance, indicating possible room for improvement in this area. Additionally, there seems to be significant room for improvement in regard to better use of SEO, always in accordance with academic criteria. Even though further research is required to solidify the results of the present study, there is a clear indication that the web presence of academic institutions, as part of their wider communication policy, bears great significance not only for the institutions themselves, as it gives prominence to the institutions' global role, but also for the international community as it facilitates access for each and every individual to content related to higher education.
Gender diversity of editorial boards and gender differences in the peer review process at six journals of ecology and evolution Our analyses indicate that there has been progress in the representation of women as reviewers and editors in ecology and evolutionary biology, but women are still underrepresented among the gatekeepers of scholarly publishing relative to their representation among researchers. Educating editors on these widespread gender differences in reviewer recruitment, and encouraging editors to use a diversity of approaches (rather than relying primarily on personal experience) to identify prospective reviewers, and especially encouraging editors to identify junior scientists that can be recruited as reviewers, will promote greater equality of participation in the scholarly peer review process.
JIFs, giraffes, and a diffusion of culpability: A response to Osterloh and Frey's discussion paper on ‘Borrowed plumes’ "For the time being at least, we might learn to live with JIFs by engaging with a wide range of stakeholders, and without the need for such a radical shake-up of the journal system. It is not just giraffes who have managed to live with the laryngeal nerve humans have too."
Mapping the Publishing Challenges for an Open Access University Press The Press is confident that the recent and future changes to the publishing processes and platforms used will be fit for purpose and yield positive results including a streamlined workflow, increased discoverability, an improved level of service for authors and editors, an improved reader experience, and ultimately, a steady and measurable increase in downloads and citations. The Press is already seeing the benefits of optimising publishing processes with significant increases in OA readership, particularly in 2018 and 2019. That said, there is a lot of work to be done around the analytics and how they are interpreted and acted upon.
Scopus Analysis of the Academic Research Performed by Public Universities in Galicia and North of Portugal The main conclusion to be drawn from this study is that scientific production in the Euroregion Galicia-North of Portugal is not concentrated on a few study fields, but covers a wide range of subjects, from medicine and chemistry, to computer science or engineering. To conclude, findings showed that University of Santiago de Compostela, the oldest of the three universities from Galicia, stands out for its research outputs, student recruitment, wider range of study fields and international recognition in Galicia. From the overall analysis of the Euroregion Galicia-North of Portugal universities, U.Porto was ranked as one of the best in all attributes, except in the number of students, surpassed by the University of Santiago de Compostela.
Evaluating medical conferences: the emerging need for a quality metric Despite these stated limitations in evaluating the quality of a scientific conference, the number of abstracts presented and impact of subsequent peer reviewed publications is a valid metric. The CIF similar to a JIF might, although limited in scope, help both attendees and funders prioritize their time and resources by distinguishing quality from predatory conferences. However, more discussion and comparative data are needed to fully develop the CIF.
Nature’s reach: narrow work has broad impact The increase we observe in interdisciplinary thinking is seen across disciplines (see SI) and shows no signs of slowing.
Kscien's list; a new strategy to discourage predatory journals and publishers The aim of this paper is to review the current situation of predatory publishing and introduce Kscien's list of predatory journals and publishers.
Examining similarities and differences of citation patterns between monographs and papers: a case in biology and computer science "The results indicate that there are differences in citation patterns of academic monographs and academic papers."
Open science from the standpoint of the new wave of researchers: Views from the scholarly frontline1 The data we have presented here may appear conflicted and confusing in parts and this is because we need to bear in mind that ECRs have two minds (split personalities, possibly?) when it comes to open science and its component parts.
The views of scholars on the effects of subscription costs to e-journals in an academic health &amp; life sciences library: a case study This case study has revealed insight into how restrictive e-journal access has affected scholars in an academic health and life sciences library from accessing literature relevant to their work.
Self-tracking and metric codification in digital infrastructures for scholarly communication Our analysis makes contributions on two levels. Empirically, in the context of self-tracking, our analy-ses sheds light on specific digital platforms for what might be labeled productivity tracking, weaving metric performance and evaluation into the daily job of getting research published, circulated, and engaged with by scholarly peers. Theoretically, the analysis suggests a possible refram-ing of traditional models of scholarly communication derived from the informational or transmissional paradigm of communication (see e.g., Hurd 2000).
Clustering of Top 50 Latin American Universities in SIR, QS, ARWU, and Webometrics Rankings The eighty-five Latin American universities ranked as the top fifty according to the world rankings ARWU, SIR Scimago, QS, and Webometric (July Edition) for the year 2019, show different performances.
A machine learning analysis of citation impact among selected Pacific Basin journals Our analysis identifies the overall trends and factors that influence citations for selected Pacific Basin journals. The factors identified in our machine analysis may be useful for predicting future citation impact as well as suggesting strategies for authors and journal editors to improve citation impact. Our citation analysis indicates that Pacific Basin journals are more tolerant to field of research and choice of research methodology; and more willing to embrace emerging areas of research (such as environmental accounting).
Bibliographic measures of top-tier finance and information systems journals To the extent that citation-based research measures and journal-specific factors vary across disciplines as demonstrated by our investigation, discipline-specific traits should be considered adjusted for, when making inferences about the long-term value of recently published research.
Impact of Special Collections in JGR Space Physics It is concluded that special collections are worth the extra community effort in organization, writing, and reviewing these papers.
A Game Theoretic Approach to Peer Review of Grant Proposals In this paper, we have studied the outcome of the peer review process employed by the regional development agencies in Turkey. For our benchmark model, we have found that the likelihood that the first two reviewers manipulate their scores is around 33%, while this rate is lower, 25%, for the third reviewer. However, the size of manipulation is considerably large especially for the first two reviewers, whose announced scores differ from their actual scores by 90% of the maximal private signal value.
Análisis de la producción científica argentina en MEDLINE en el área hipertensión arterial Argentine scientific production in MEDLINE in the field of blood pressure and hypertension showed constant growth. The vast majority is original research, directed by researchers with affiliation to public institutions. Foreign journals are accessed in the main, with acceptable quality indexes.
Development of a program for determining the Hirsch index using Web of Science and Scopus pages (by Research Id and Author Id) A program decision as a set of scripts in Python for the implementation of the automatic Hirsch index determination using Web of Science and Scopus sites was developed in the course of this work.
An Education Session Developed in Response to Low Health Professional Awareness of Predatory Journals "Both formal and informal measures indicate that health professionals' awareness of predatory journals is extremely low." "Education sessions, such as the one conducted by MHIKNET librarians, appear to be an effective mechanism of providing this education." "Efforts to raise awareness of predatory journals must therefore be expanded from those who have the potential to publish in predatory journals, to also include those who use journal contents to inform their decisions."
Women from some under-represented minorities are given too few talks at world’s largest Earth-science conference Our results underscore the pressing need to support minority groups at conferences – and elsewhere in STEM – to advance equity and improve research.
Bibliometrics-based decision tree (BBDT) for deciding whether two universities in the Leiden ranking differ substantially in their performance In this letter to the editor, a BBDT is presented that can be used for the interpretation of results from the Leiden ranking.
Access and openness in biotechnology research collaborations between universities and industry "Our results indicate that publicly funded research does end in knowledge monopolies in a non-trivial number of cases."
What I have learned from my Google Scholar and H index This paper is based on an N=1. Further, it is introspective. While this is true, the eight lessons may provoke others to study their own (or other's) personal citations to see if my observations hold true. I am no different and this paper offers modest, and perhaps even testable, set of lessons/hypotheses to test my “lessons learned” or indeed to those who (cynically) want to increase their scores.
Using Relative Tie Strength to Identify Core Teams of Scientific Research In this study, we have identified and evaluated core scientific research teams of a university during a certain period by using a new method based on the relative strength of cooperative relationship.
Which Are the Most Influential Cited References in Information? In summary, one can conclude that the studies published in Information rely on a broad scientific basis with a thematic focus on set theory and machine learning. The observed bias of cited references fits well with the journal's scope of publishing papers related to information theory and methodology, philosophy/ethics of information, information systems, information processes, information applications, and information/communication technology.
Article processing charges: Mirroring the citation impact or legacy of the subscription-based model? The evidence suggests that APCs are mirroring the citation impact in open-access journals, especially at native open-access publishers, but are a legacy of the subscription-based model in hybrid journals, often at Elsevier, Springer Nature, and co.
The Multidimensional Research Agendas Inventory—Revised (MDRAI-R): Factors shaping researchers’ research agendas in all fields of knowledge This study refines, extends, and optimizes the original MDRAI, which was validated only for the social sciences.
Predatory journals: no definition, no defence Ultimately, we concluded that the term ‘preda-tory’ has become recognized in the scholarly community.
Research practices and statistical reporting quality in 250 economic psychology master's theses: a meta-research investigation We discuss our findings in the light of promoting open science standards in teaching and student supervision. Most importantly, there were no signs of QRPs in terms of severe p-hacking or further testing. Nevertheless, we believe our results constitute an interesting perspective on a selected group's research practices and hope that the findings will stimulate further discussions about student supervision in the light of open and reproducible science.
The pricing of open access journals: Diverse niches and sources of value in academic publishing The open access academic publishing market is multifaceted, with numerous different economic, institutional, academic, and social niches.
Scientific productivity and patenting at the laboratory level: an analysis of Brazilian public research laboratories In this article, we investigated how different styles of research organisation of laboratories were related to scientific performance and patenting in a specific developing country, Brazil.
Library Supported Open Access Funds: Criteria, Impact, and Viability Libraries have successfully funded many publications using criteria that could constitute best practices in this area.
Quality control of the peer-review process by <i>Forensic Sciences Research</i> In summary, the above-described investigation indicated that the peer reviews conducted for FSR since the journal's establishment were not affected by any fake review/reviewers scams.
Discovering Rehabilitation trends in Spain: A bibliometric analysis In the present study, a bibliometric analysis, employing performance analysis and SMA, was carried out to present an overview of the Spanish rehabilitation production from 1970 to 2018.
Authorship trend and content analysis This study systematically identifies highly cited papers in LIS from four top-ranked (impact factor) journals on the basis of h5-index and primarily focused on the authorship trend, collaboration pattern, productive institutions, countries, the hot topics and the specific research areas of top 25 highly cited works. The results will help practitioners to know the highest quality work in specific areas of LIS and to utilize the techniques, tools reported in those studies.
Quartile weighted impact factor The results of the experiment showed that the consideration of solely the IF indicator of the citing source is not feasible.
Contribution of Indian authors in<i>Scientometrics</i>– An international journal during 1990-2017 Over the last 28 years, Indian authors' contribution in the source journal indicates that though the metric science is the most popular and focused area in Indian LIS discipline, the contribution in the leading international journal is still meager. This trend clearly demands more attention from the Indian LIS authors' community to increase their credibility and productivity in the journal of repute. Meanwhile, Indian authors should give more emphasis on increasing collaborations with international institutions and experts.
Calculation errors in bibliometrics : The case of CAGR In this short communication, growth rate calculation errors in bibliometric studies are discussed and demonstrate how to avoid such errors and cross verify the calculated CAGR value with the data.
Using Data Mining to Explore Calmodulin Bibliography In summary, in this chapter, we have shown how to use tools initially developed in the field of social network analysis to tackle questions as diverse as: 1. What are the different subtopics in a given scientific field? 2. Who are the key opinion leaders in a given topic? 3. What are the main publications in a given subtopic? 4. How has a scientific field evolved upon time? We have illustrated the use of such method in the frame of the evolution of the calmodulin field, but this approach may be used in any field and may help answering other questions such the ranking of different scientific institutes in a given scientific domain.
Fluctuation and evolution of research topics This study reveals that, in the high ranks of the narrow categorization, science (SCI) also dominates over social sciences (SSCI) and humanities (A&HCI). This implies the 70/30 rule, i.e., 70% of annual publications are in the hot 30% research areas.
Clustering-Based Approach for Clustering Journals in Computer Science This study has focused on developing a data mining model for identifying high-quality journals of the Computer Science subject domain. All those results were higher than the previous clustering model, and it was concluded that by using the new model, researchers and authors could get more accurate and effective results, unlike the previous model. According to the above mentioned key results, we can conclude that the researchers and authors of the Computer Science subject field can use the data mining models proposed in this study to find the best and most suitable journals to publish their valuable and innovative research findings.
Annals of Library and Information Studies: A Bibliometric Analysis of the Journal and a Comparison with the Top Library and Information Studies Journals in Asia and Worldwide (2011–2017) The results of the present research can represent a useful means of performing future diagnostics of ALIS' research capacity.
Practical method to reclassify Web of Science articles into unique subject categories and broad disciplines Our reclassification is at a level of articles, so it preserves disciplinary differences that may exist among individual articles published in the same journal. The major purpose for this classification is devising a flexible and simple way of classifying all of the WoS literature for the purposes of "descriptive bibliometrics" or "science of science” studies. Overall, we find the error rate of the resulting classification to be relatively low (<5%) making it a reasonably reliable basis for a wide range of studies.
Gender and collaboration patterns in a temporal scientific authorship network Overall, our results indicate that the INFORMS society remains far from gender parity in many important local statistics. However, since ~1980 these differences have been steadily decreasing, and recent (≥2005) global statistics are more in agreement with our null model, indicating progress. More generally, we hope that building a quantitative understanding of gender publication and collaboration patterns in academia will ultimately help accelerate the path towards gender equality by bringing awareness to the issue and informing future studies and policies.
Research performance of Khalifa University of Science and Technology, Abu Dhabi The study is successful in meeting its main objective of analyzing the research output patterns of Khalifa University and compare them with peer research institutions in the region. The study has presented some insights for discussions with regard to publication and citation patterns of Khalifa University which has implications on citation impact. It is expected that the insights and recommendations brought out by this study would help Khalifa University to frame its research planning for the future.
Deep impact: re-conceptualising university research impact using human cultural accumulation theory In this case study, person-person interactions that led to the development of internally accumulated culture (memories), as well as person and group interactions with externally accumulated culture, were integral to the research project’s sustainable development.
The state and development of research in the field of gifted education over 60 years: A bibliometric study of four gifted education journals (1957-2017) All in all, this study reveals that the four key journals play an important but different role in the dissemination of knowledge in the field of gifted education.
The perceived causes of research misconduct among faculty members in the natural, social, and applied sciences The results demonstrated that professional strains and stressors – like the pressure to secure competitive grant funding – were most commonly perceived to cause misconduct, followed by the low chance of detecting misconduct.
The Prestige Elite in Sociology: Toward a Collective Biography of the Most Cited Scholars (1970-2010) Based on a text corpus encompassing about 49,000 pages, this article identified prestige elites by relying on citation scores.
One model fits all? How centres of excellence affect research organisation and practices in the humanities A key purpose of CoEs is collaboration between researchers on overall research questions and across fields and disciplines (Hellström et al. 2018). In our studies we observed to some extent increased research collaboration and more permeable disciplinary boundaries within the humanities as a result of having a CoEs. Returning to our main questions, how CoEs affect the organisation of research and research practices in the humanities and in their adjacent environments, our results show that the humanities experience particular impacts compared to other fields and policymakers may take this into account when designing such schemes. On the other hand, such adjustments may imply less probability of CoE schemes to influence the research practices in the humanities.
An overview of sport entrepreneurship field: a bibliometric analysis of the articles published in the Web of Science This study allows a more effective understanding of the current state of sport entrepreneurship and sport innovation research and its evolution since its inception.
Mapping the landscape of academic integrity education programs: what approaches are effective? "This research has examined the current structure and administration of academic integrity education programs in selected Australian and New Zealand institutions, and it has explored the ways in which program outcomes are monitored. A number of relevant factors are identified, suggesting that future academic integrity programs may be enhanced by drawing on the collaborative input from a variety of stakeholders, adopting a multifaceted and timely educational approach, and encouraging students to embrace academic integrity principles in a number of ways. Given their centrality to matters of academic integrity it was surprising to find the role of values underplayed or even absent in some programs examined in this study."
The changing and challenging research landscape in South Africa The overall results of the study are encouraging and indicate that progression and transformational change in terms of the gender and racial profile of NRF-rated researchers is occurring in South Africa, albeit slowly.
Flipping the grant application review process A flipped research award process is not a panacea and may have some potential drawbacks. Optimal research proposal assessment, award distribution, and tracking ROI are extremely important for cali-brating our expectations relative to resource allocation. Flipping the grant application review process may help combat the law of diminishing returns, ensure standing in the Global competition (for both resources and influence), entice creativity and innovation, and promote optimal resource utilization.
Does open access citation advantage depend on paper topics? This implies that the OA citation surplus is not an artefact of the OA and NOA papers' differences in their topics and, therefore, in their citation potential.
Coauthorship and the gender gap in top economics journal publications The main contribution of this paper is to analyze to what extent, if any, coauthorship can explain the persisting gender gap in top-ranked economics journals. The matching of poor-quality coauthors can explain women's approximately 0.60 fewer publications in the top 20 journal publications. Thus, this study provides a potential explanation for why women are significantly underrepresented in top academic positions in economics even though they have made a significant improvement in educational attainment over the last three decades.
Expert Decisions Our results suggest that expert decisions are, at least in the context of the assessment we examine, driven by mechanisms of judgment that may be largely inferred from the experts' observable characteristics.
Evaluating the potential effect of the increased importance of the impact component in the Research Excellence Framework of the UK We find that larger institutes and institutes that generated higher external research income per FTE tend to have more impactful research. Beyond the increased importance of the impact agenda in the allocation of QR funding, the impact element of research has become an important criterion in the allocation of funding by other funding agencies. Overall, our findings suggest that the inequality across HEIs within UoAs is likely to increase with the increased importance of the wider impact agenda.
Top 100 cited systematic reviews and meta-analyses in dentistry Systematic reviews published in high impact factor Dental journals focused on implan- tology and periodontology had the highest citation rates.
The means-end cognitions of perceived information quality in academic social networking sites The results not only enrich the information quality research but also can be used to guide ASNS' platform design and management.
Loops in publication citation networks By employing computer science and physics disciplines’ publications from the WoS database as examples, this article investigates loops in publication citation networks.
Highest-Ranking Articles by Altmetric Attention Scores in Three Rehabilitation Journals To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to characterize rehabilitation journal articles ranked highest by alternative metrics. How researchers evaluate the impact of scientific literature may change with these new metrics. Further research is needed to determine how best to use alternative metrics to gauge interest in topics in rehabilitation medicine, measure the impact of rehabilitation research, evaluate possible confounding factors that affected this study and, more importantly, support the translation of science into clinical practice.
Measuring the social impact of research in Paediatric Dentistry: An Altmetric study The social impact of research in paediatric dentistry can be increased.
Publishing Productivity of Sociologists at American Colleges and Universities: Institution Type, Gender, and Other Correlates of Book and Article Counts Nonetheless, our data support Berlinerblau's (2017) assertion that the gap has declined over time.
Revisiting "the 1990s debutante": Scholar-led publishing and the prehistory of the open access movement I have endeavored throughout this article to show the significance that early experiments in scholar-led publishing hold for the broader OA movement.
Benchmarking the research track record and level of appointment of Australian dietetic academics Benchmarking provides universities with guidance regarding the performance to expect from academics at each academic level as well as feedback regarding recruitment and promotion practices.
Reasons for article retraction in anesthesiology: a comprehensive analysis Most retracted articles in anesthesiology literature were retracted because of research misconduct.
Excellent researcher or good public servant? The interplay between research and academic citizenship Our study addresses the relationship between allegedly competing academic commitments, investigating the interplay between research and academic citizenship.
Methods for assessing higher education research team collaboration: comparing research outputs and participant perceptions across four collaborative research teams This article argues that the methodological challenges of studying research teams are such that researchers need to be opportunistic in gathering data when multiple research teams are collaborating under similar conditions.
Exponential random graph modeling of a faculty hiring network: The IEOR case We have proposed new methodology for the analysis of faculty hiring networks, and demonstrated it with application to the IEOR network.
If PLOS ONE were really 101 different specialized journals: A proposed approach to the evaluation of multidisciplinary megajournals This study indicates the need to assess the impact of papers published in megajournals by topic-based category in order to accurately quantify the impact they have on their specific fields.
Institutional hierarchies and research impact: new academic currencies, capital and position-taking in UK higher education Our study has examined the interplay between research impact in social sciences and strat-ification of the higher education system through the evidence contained in the 53 impact case studies of higher education research submitted to REF2014. Our findings contribute to the sociological analysis of hierarchical differentiation in higher education and research evaluation systems by revealing that pre-existing hierarchical struc-tures activate the autonomy and capital which researchers mobilise when producing research impacts in a specific discipline and, in turn, that disciplinary-level processes tend to operate as a mechanism for the reproduction of sector stratification. Our findings point towards the reproductive effect of research policies, which tend to prompt and propel positional hierarchies.
Immunology and social networks: an approach towards impact assessment We propose the use of Twitter as a mechanism for dissemination of information by immunology journals, as well as other social networks for their potential to increase their audience, as well as the dissemination and impact of their publications.
Assessing and Raising Concerns About Duplicate Publication, Authorship Transgressions and Data Errors in a Body of Preclinical Research Journal responses to concerns about duplicate publication, authorship transgressions, and data/reporting discrepancies were slow, opaque and inconsistent. The investigation of research integrity might be improved by the establishment of an independent body whose specific responsibility is ensuring the integrity of the published scientific literature.
bioRxiv: Trends and analysis of five years of preprints "Taken together, it appears that bioRxiv is not accomplishing its stated goals and that authors may be using the platform more to establish priority, as a marketing enhancement of papers, and as functional Green OA, rather than as a community-driven source of prepublication review."
Application of entity linking to identify research fronts and trends This paper uses four indicators—Mann-Kendall's test, Sen's slope, z-score analysis and Kleinberg's burst detection algorithm—to examine topic trends and popularity in the IS literature over the past 5 years.
A flexible approach for measuring author-level publishing performance The main contribution of this paper is the proposal of a new approach for the measurement of author-level publishing performance. We developed a toolkit including the publishing performance index and the publishing performance box and discussed publishing performance profiles. A first characteristic of our approach is that it is conducted in relative terms. Beyond these elements, the approach proposed in this Section has some important advantages. First, in terms of calculation, it is extremely simple to obtain the final score (PPI) of each author. Second, the PPI is a high granularity measure, making it possible to generate a full ranking of the authors under scrutiny. Third, for 0 < a < 1, the full list of papers and citations of each author is taken into account.
Not all areas are equal: analysis of citations in information security research In this paper, we analyzed citations for six sub-domains of information security. Summing up, we determined the following major findings: (1) journal paper citations outperformed those of conference papers in all sub-disciplines; (2) papers tend to receive more citations when their abstract is longer and the only exception is for the case of works dealing with cryptography; (3) in all the observed sub-disciplines, papers with many references tend to receive more citations; (4) a similar behavior characterizes the impact of the number of pages, i.e., longer papers tend to receive more citations; (5) the impact in terms of number of authors is not consistent across all the considered sub-disciplines; (6) the impact of keywords is evident for papers with a number of entries below or above twice the median, whereas paper falling in the middle appear to be penalized. Future works aim at enlarging our investigation by considering other databases and pub- lishers.
The shift towards entrepreneurial universities and the relevance of third-party funding of business and economics units in Austria: a research note This paper aims at exploring the role of third-party funding at Austrian universities between 2007 and 2017.
Understanding the intellectual structure and evolution of Competitive Intelligence: a bibliometric analysis from 1984 to 2017 This research presents the bibliometric analysis of Competitive Intelligence, identifying the main themes and related research areas within 5,275 publications from 1984 to 2017.
Bibliometric analysis of support vector machines research trend: a case study in China Research also indicated that the cooperation in the field of SVM is more and more extensive. The USA was the country that cooperated most with Chinese scholars.
Contemporary scientometric analyses using a novel web application: the science performance evaluation (SciPE) approach This protocol allows precise conduction of contemporaneous scientometric analyses based on bioinformatic and meta-analytical techniques, allowing to evaluate and contextualize scientific efforts.
The accuracy and accessibility of cited evidence: a study examining mental health policy documents With only slightly over half of all statements assessed providing fully accessible references and accurately representing the referenced source, these components of referencing quality deserve further attention if evidence-informed policy goals are to be achieved.
Altmetric analysis of the contemporary scientific literature in Endodontology Overall, the altmetric scores of topics within Endodontology were low, possibly due to the specific and specialized nature of the specialty, as well as the difficulty members of the public probably have in understanding endodontic research.
Does Mobility across Universities Raise Scientific Productivity? This paper contributes to the understanding of the effect of mobility of researchers on their individual quantity and quality of scientific output by adopting a new highly encompassing dataset on the universe of Swedish researchers and their publication activities. In our preferred specifications, the estimated gain following a move is 32% in the publishing rate and 62% in the citation rate. Finally, the results point to a stronger effect of mobility for researchers active in medicine and the natural sciences and - only in terms of citations counts – in engineering and technology, while no effect is found among researchers in the social sciences and the humanities. This suggests that future research efforts should be devoted to investigating the underlying reasons (importance of teamwork, access to better equipment and labs, etc.) behind these differences.
Winners and losers in US-China scientific research collaborations Using zero-sum and positive-sum frameworks, this study shows the benefits of US collaboration with China for both the US nation-state and global science.
CITATIONS AND INCENTIVES IN ACADEMIC CONTESTS The h-index, in general, had a weak incentive effect especially when the cost of writing papers is high.
A bibliometric approach to finding fields that co-evolved with information technology This research extracted pairs of co-evolving academic fields by using a large amount of bibliographic data related to information technology.
Spanish doctoral theses in physical activity and sports sciences and authors' scientific publications (LUSTRUM 2013-2017) The production of articles derived from doctoral programs is satisfactory. However, many new doctors do not publish in Web of Science after completing their doctoral thesis. More studies must be conducted in the future in order to monitor and assess them.
Collaboration with countries with rapidly growing research: supporting proactive development of international research collaboration In terms of policy, the study and the proposed methodology support better-informed strategy decisions as regards the prioritisation of countries for research collaboration. It argues that there is a need for strategies and policy support at different levels, if a more balanced mix of research collaboration is to be obtained.
The national system of researchers in Mexico: implications of publication incentives for researchers in social sciences We showed that the progression of academic careers (inside the SNI) and the obtaining of bonuses for scientific output depend on how closely the SNI members follow the assessment criteria reinforcing pressure to publish as a personal goal.
Early career performance and its correlation with gender and publication output during doctoral education Our main conclusions for hypothesis 1 are (a) that performance, defined as publication volume and relative excellence, during the doctoral education has a positive effect on the probability of attaining excellence in the early career, and (b) that there is an interaction between publication volume and relative excellence during doctoral education indicting that the effect of publication volume depends on whether a doctoral student have attained excellence or not. Our main conclusions for hypothesis 2 are (a) that there are gender based performance differences in the early career and that males have a higher probability of attaining relative excellence than females, and (b) that this difference is partly explained by performance differences during the doctoral education. A future venue of research could be to examine determinants of performance differences between males and females during doctoral education and how these differ-ences change over time.
Research records for Chaired finance positions The median number of top publications of Chaired Full Professors in finance at R1 univer-sities is 11, but the median of top publications is only 3 at R2 universities.
Altmetrics: Measuring Engagement with Contemporary Leisure Scholarship Altmetrics are widespread and have the potential to shape how and what we study in the academy.
Measuring originality in science First, it presents a signifi- cant correlation with scientists' self-assessment of originality.
Female Citation Impact Superiority 1996-2018 in Six Out of Seven English-Speaking Nations The results show no evidence of a historical citation disadvantage against female first-authored research in large English-speaking nations, even in the late 1990s, where the proportion of women in academia was substantially lower than today. Thus, previously hypothesized historical citation disadvantages or bias cannot explain continuing gender imbalances in academia half a century after employment sex discrimination was outlawed, and other explanations must be addressed instead. In contrast, the higher average citation impact of female first-authored research in most of the large English-speaking countries examined points to the possibility that each female first-authored output is more valuable.
A framework towards bias-free contextual productivity assessment Thus, from the real-world case study of the research field ‘Wireless Power Transmission', the framework for bias-free contextual productivity assessment devised in this work was much effective in choosing harmonic scheme as credit allocation scheme.
A social network analysis of ICTD conferences (2006-2017) Research collaboration at country, institute, and individual levels plays an important role in the production of knowledge in this particular research community.
Academic Collaboration Rates and Citation Associations Vary Substantially Between Countries and Fields There are substantial international variations in the extent to which countries coauthor Scopus-indexed articles. These need further exploration to discover the underlying reasons for the differences. Given the international differences in collaboration found, research funders and managers should be careful to avoid assuming that collaboration strategies that are effective in one nation would easily transfer to another. Moreover, given that collaboration does not always associate with higher research impact, national research managers and funders should be sensitive to the possibility that it should not be promoted in some fields.
How has the dental literature evolved over time? Analyzing 20 years of journal self-citation rates and impact factors Overall, favourable changes in citation metrics have been observed for dental journals during the 20-year observation period. SCR significantly decreased per observation year whereas IFs significantly increased, indicating a healthy publishing environment in the dental literature. Journal self-citation was influenced both by time and corrected IF.
Highly Cited in the South: International Collaboration and Research Recognition Among Brazil's Highly Cited Researchers Our study shows that connections with core countries in the global North are critical for most of Brazil's highly cited researchers.
Cross-National Research Partnerships in International Relations: A Study of Research Groups' Practices of MERCOSUR-Re-Envisioning Scholarly Activities Beyond the Global North-Global South Divide We demonstrate that despite asymmetries, there is space for reciprocity and agency.
Exploring the conceptual structure of the auditing discipline through co-word analysis: An international perspective This article contributes to the auditing literature in a number of ways, by providing a synthesis of 3,636 unique keywords cited in 2,119 articles and by addressing five research questions: The main research topics that structure the auditing discipline; the dominant, fading, and emerging themes in the field of auditing; the research trends in the years between 2000 and 2016; the differences in research patterns and trends in the auditing discipline across regions; and future directions for auditing research.
Scientific productivity in neurosciences in Latin America: a scientometrics perspective Scientific productivity in neurosciences in Latin America would benefit from the consolidation of more regional, interdisciplinary and international research networks. In this work, we discuss key elements for the consolidation of neurosciences research in Latin America.
Italy's national research assessment: some unpleasant effects Our results indicate that the gap in research performing is remarkable between the North and the South, while is less pronounced between the Centre and the South. Indeed, a performance-based research funding system can exacerbate the regional differences by decreasing the resources at the disposition of the weaker universities, often concentrated in the less developed geographic areas, and, consequently, reducing their research capacity. When reforming the university funding system and introducing performance elements, policy makers should consider that existing regional differences are likely to become accentuated by a policy of research concentration.
Investigating antecedents of plagiarism using extended theory of planned behavior The study concluded that the most appropriate way to combat plagiarism is through pedagogy. Offering more courses to university students on the subjects of ethics, morality and literacy is therefore highly recommended. The findings point to the necessity of implementing courses that address ethics morality, and literacy, which clearly have the potential to minimize dishonest behaviors such as plagiarism.
Research on sharing economy: why are some articles more cited than others? In this study, we carried out exploratory research to describe the academic field of the sharing economy and collaborative consumption, conducting a systematic review of the field and a citation analysis to determine the characteristics that lead to a higher publication impact. Our findings demonstrate that empirical studies have higher impact than theoretical ones. Our findings carry some implications for practitioners, guiding authors when deciding the research design that might lead to obtain a higher impact in their works, and the fields in which these topics are most valued.
Who shares health and medical scholarly articles on Facebook? The non-academic dominance suggests that public Facebook posts linking to health-related articles are mostly used to facilitate scientific knowledge flow between non-academic professionals and the public. Therefore, Facebook mention counts may be a combined academic and non-academic attention indicator in the health and medical domains. As over half of the links to journal articles are from non-academic Facebook users, Facebook mention counts cannot be interpreted as academic impact indicators.
DIFFERENCES IN CITATION PATTERNS ACROSS JOURNAL TIERS: THE CASE OF ECONOMICS We show that citation patterns vary greatly across journal tiers, and that this variation is related to fields of economics research.
Detecting bursty terms in computer science research The proposed methodology can be applied to any time-ordered collection of text to yield past and present bursty terms and predict their probable fate.
The performance of Latin American research on economics & business Furthermore, the results show the efficacy of scale-adjusted indicators when comparing research fields of vastly different sizes.
Predicting early career productivity of PhD economists: Does advisor-match matter? The key finding of our study is that students attending a less prestigious economics PhD program can perform as well as students from highly ranked programs, provided they work with the most research-active dissertation advisors. In Top-25 programs, the research pro-ductivity of the advisor does not predict publication rates unless the advisor co-authors with the student. An important lesson from our study is that for the purpose of predicting publication suc-cess, it is insufficient to consider the rank of the PhD granting institution only.
What is the best article publishing strategy for early career scientists? Our findings illustrate the role that early career publishing behavior plays in relation to future career success and indicate that in order to maximize career outcomes, an advantageous publishing strategy for early career scholars is to publish some of their papers in the same journal.
Linking the dimensions of policy-related research on obesity: a hybrid mapping with multicluster topics and interdisciplinarity maps In the present study we addressed the changing conceptualization of the complex and multilevel issue of obesity in policy-related research, uncovering its topical organization from different perspectives, and at the interfaces of the various research areas participating in the discourse.
Factors affecting global flow of scientific knowledge in environmental sciences We urge the world's researchers, journals and grant holders in collaboration to carefully consider how best to ensure continuous high-quality scientific publications in the future in a way so that limited funding results in important data and information being unpublished. Without such measures, predatory journals will continue to pollute the global scientific literature with fraud and erroneous results adversely affecting science as well as for example patient safety.
Negotiating International Research Collaborations in Tajikistan This study has shared the voices of a small group of researchers in Tajikistan as they negotiate their participation in IRCs.
Rheumatological publications from Malaysia: a bibliometric study The number of rheumatological publications in Malaysia have increased over time, especially in the last decade.
Accommodating an Uninvited Guest: Perspectives of Researchers in Switzerland on 'Honorary' Authorship The results described and discussed in this paper indicate that researchers use a variety of explanations and arguments to justify inclusion of what guidelines would describe as honorary or guest authorship.
F1000Prime recommended articles and their citations: an exploratory study of four journals To conclude with caution, the percentage of research and review articles recommended by F1000 Faculty varies by journals (JAMA 23.4%, The Lancet 29.4%, NEJM 53%, and Cell 65.3%). Further studies should include additional journals, especially biological journals and different publication years, to compare and extend the findings reported here. Studies are needed to understand how F1000 Faculty assign ratings and what criteria they use. In addition, it is also worth investigating how F1000Prime users perceive the meanings of the ratings.
Agricultural Economics at 50: Scholarship of the global agricultural economics community We conclude by briefly defining some goals and providing perspectives for the future of the journal in the face of the evolving publishing landscape. During the last three decades, Agricultural Economics has provided an outlet for rigorous economic analyses relating to agriculture and other related disciplines. Given these developments, the journal has developed to become one of the most attractive research outlets for agricultural economists worldwide, and this trend will continue in the future, as the journal continuously aspires to maintain or improve its competitive edge by providing quick turnaround of manuscripts, and making accepted manuscripts available for early view and dissemination.
Metrics of Inequality: The Concentration of Resources in the US Biomedical Elite We have argued that the rise of the neoliberal science regime documented by STS scholars (e.g. Mirowski, 2011) has been accompanied by rising inequality in biomedical research funding where since the 1980s an ever-smaller minority of elite institutes and investigators have received the lion's share of the resources.
Emerging Decolonialized Research Collaboration: The Max Planck Society and the Leibniz Association in Latin America Our findings indicate that the decolonial perspective needs further development to identify multipolar relationships of dominance and collaboration have developed out of a dichotomy world of North-South relations.
A measure of authorship by publications In this paper, we note that the popular measures of academic authorship like h-index and g-index may yield counter-intuitive and unfair comparisons among researchers. We propose an alternative method of measuring authorship from a given dataset of publications by investigating all possible ways of accomplishing this task that satisfy two basic properties of II and Pl. We find that the unique method that satisfies these properties is the intuitive E-index.
Author gender differences in psychology citation impact 1996-2018 The results point to a small female first author citation advantage in all six specialist areas of psychology, as well as one general psychology category but not the miscellaneous category.
The role of the Association of Psychologists-COP in the international ranking of Spanish Psychology (1979-2018) We could conclude that the state policies and the ranking campaigns of universities, associations and colleges play a key role in internationalization and ranking, since, in the case of Spain, the Association of Psychologists is the main editor and promotor of a true policy focused on these objectives. The data show the indisputable role that, in any of the adopted formats (publishing and own or shared management), the COP has played as the driving force behind scientific journals. All in all, there has been a remarkable growth of Spanish journals in big, international referenced databases, but yet few Spanish journals satisfy the one and only criterion managed by the three Spanish Agencies for assessment: just seventeen of them.
Blocking the Hype-Hypocrisy-Falsification-Fakery Pathway is Needed to Safeguard Science Collective, concerted action involving academics and their academies, research institutions, funders and publishers is required.
Co-contributorship Network and Division of Labor in Individual Scientific Collaborations The results suggested that scientific collaboration within the team could be diverse.
Honorary authorships in leading gynecological literature This is the first study to investigate the proportion of HA in multiple journals in the field of Gynecology and Obstetrics. The discrepancy between the 11.2% of self-perceived HA and the more than three times as big prevalence of ICMJE-defined HA, may suggest that our own perception of HA may be an underestimation of the actual HA as compared to when we evaluate authorship by breaking down contributions made by potential co-authors. Further work is needed to identify why despite a high awareness of the ICMJE-guidelines, these guidelines failed to be applied in some cases.
Interdisciplinary Cluster Hiring Initiatives in US Research Universities: More Straw than Bricks? Our study finds that this ideal has been rarely met in practice.
Citation advantage for open access articles in European Radiology In conclusion, open access publishing is independently associated with an increased citation, download, and share rate in the field of radiology. Open access publishing seems to offer an independent advantage in terms of citation, download, and share rate.
Higher education publication and institutional and national diversity An awareness of the institutional and national affiliations of scholars who publish in the respected journals in the field of higher education can help scholars and prospective scholars understand the hierarchy of the field's institutions and journals. These findings can also help scholars make publication choices based on the audience they wish to reach. Scholars and editors in the field of higher education should consider why US higher education journals tend to be US centric, while journals edited elsewhere tend to be international in scope.
How do new members affect the relationship between principal investigator's network position and academic output of granted funds? This paper is conducted in the context of team members changing.
NIH Funding Ranked "Per Capita": An Alternative Method for Assessing Research Productivity School size is an important but neglected factor in current funding rankings; therefore, we encourage schools to use multiple approaches to track their research productivity. The alternative method to assess research productivity pre- sented in this report could be useful to school leadership in long-term strate- gic planning to identify gaps in scholarship or determine how high of an NIH ranking a school could realistically achieve based on their current number and types of faculty.
Impact of pressure, self-efficacy, and self-competency on students' plagiarism in higher education This research finds evidence that various personal factors can drive students to engage in the unethical practice of plagiarism. This study provides a significant contribution to the literature on higher education by providing empirical evidence that, while lack of student training in relevant research tools and methodologies might be the largest contributor to plagiarism in the academia (Fatima, Ming, and Abbas 2018, Hosny and Fatima 2014, Wang 2008), pressure from peers and self-efficacy also play equally important roles in this regard. Therefore future studies should be directed at the inclusive comparison between students of both private and public sector universities or explore the comparative studies between different provincial based universities in Pakistan or abroad.
The Geography of Research Funding: Semantics and Beyond The central result of our study is that funders and agencies involved in North–South collaborations describe these interactions at least to the same extent with semantics taken from a development policy discourse as they make use of the liberal meta-narratives of science.
Analyzing the relationship between Altmetric score and literature citations in the Implantology literature Compared to other fields, Implantology articles received lower Altmetric scores, noting an area of improvement. Altmetrics at this time are insufficient to replace traditional bibliometrics, but may provide helpful real-time information concerning article dissemination.
Using routine, independent, scientific-data audits as an early-warning for potentially fraudulent toxic-site cleanup: PCE, TCE, and other VOCs at the former Naval-Ordnance Test Station, Pasadena, California After summarizing the benefits of routine, independent, scientific-data audits (RISDA), the paper (5) argues that, if these results are generalizable, RISDA might help prevent questionable toxic-site assessments, especially those of expensive-to-remediate toxins like PCE/TCE. The flawed Pasadena site-remediation assessments suggest that, despite the long history of lessons that should have been learned from PCE and TCE contamination and resulting cancers and deaths at other US toxic sites, communities have not yet understood these risks. RISDA could be one way to help avoid repeating earlier mistakes.
Co-citation analysis of literature in e-science and e-infrastructures Our analysis is an important source of reference for academics, researchers, and students starting research in this field.
Determining the critical thresholds for co-word network based on the theory of percolation transition A case study in Buddhist studies "The filtering procedures were shown to greatly enhance the modularity values and limited the number of modularity classes; thus, domain expert interpretation is feasible."
Using social network analysis to complete literature reviews: a new systematic approach for independent researchers to detect and interpret prominent research programs within large collections of relevant literature Social Network Analysis is based on the simple but powerful premise that relationships matter (Wasserman & Faust, 2009).
Research Leadership Flow Determinants and the Role of Proximity in Research Collaborations The outcome of this research sheds light on the leadership evolution and flow among Chinese institutions, and thus can provide evidence and support for grant allocation policies to facilitate scientific research and collaborations.
The Citation Advantage of Promoted Articles in a Cross-Publisher Distribution Platform: A 12-Month Randomized Controlled Trial "To our knowledge, this is the first randomized controlled trial to demonstrate how an intervention can be used to increase citations of peer-reviewed articles after they have been published."
Research Creativity and Productivity in Political Science: A Research Agenda for Understanding Alternative Career Paths and Attitudes Toward Professional Work in the Profession The research agenda outlined in this article addresses these questions.
The limitations of retraction notices and the heroic acts of authors who correct the scholarly record: An analysis of retractions of papers published from 1975 to 2019 The results carry three implications for scientific transparency: retraction notices need to be more informative; limitation sections ought to be a required and even an open section of all published articles; and finally, promoting 'heroic acts' in science can positively change the current publishing culture.
Does the scholarly communication system satisfy the beliefs and aspirations of new researchers? Summarizing the Harbingers research Listening and learning from the current experiences of ECRs, it would seem that some scholarly mechanisms and facilities generally work well for them: discovery and access, authorship practices, peer review, sharing collaboration, and publishers are in this category. However, the closely connected aspects of reputation, publishing strategies, metrics, and impact do not work so well. There is little sign, however, of them relinquishing their beliefs and ambitions with regard to sharing, openness, and transparency, and just maybe, their call to measure reputation and have a more comprehensive and sensible impact will be heard in an increasing metric-driven world.
How to avoid borrowed plumes in academia The present practice of performance management in academia based on journal quality lists and impact factors needs reform.
Ideas with impact: How connectivity shapes idea diffusion Our study contributes to a better understanding of the idea diffusion process by highlighting the importance of an idea's connectivity in a content network.
What have we learned? 10 years of current issues in methods and practice In conclusion, this study reveals that in the last 10 years of the publication of the journal and the section on method and practices, the topics of studies have shifted towards the individual while concurrently certain papers detailing the use of inter-disciplinary methods borrowed from natural sciences have gained popularity amongst tourism scholars.
How do altmetric sources evaluate scientific collaboration? An empirical investigation for Chinese collaboration publications In general, international scientific collaboration at different levels improves academic impact and social attention of articles to a certain extent. International collaboration and altmetrics indicators supplement each other.
Standing on the Shoulders of Giants: Dental Students Seek Academically Productive Mentors Our results indicate that dental students seek more academically productive mentors, while there is no association between resident involvement in scholarly activity and the outcome variable. More studies should be conducted to elucidate the attributes of the ideal mentor in academic OMS and to determine whether differences in mentorship exist between domestic and foreign OMS programs. Future studies in OMS should investigate whether there is any association between academic productivity during training and a promising academic career, as well as differences in the mentor-trainee dynamic within the educational realm of other countries.
Bringing home the bacon: the relationship between firm characteristics and participation in EU Horizon 2020 projects In this article, we have investigated what characterizes firms that 'bring home the bacon' in terms of EU research and innovation funds. Based on this analysis, research authorities that want to increase the return from EU FPs should focus on involving their large and well-established firms in grants applications. In future studies, we would therefore suggest that the not-so successful group of SMEs may be more expediently analysed to determine how their participation in EU projects can be increased and what their participation can bring of economic benefits to their member states.
Academic social networks and collaboration patterns This study proposes a new perspective to identify ASNs and generalize three research collaboration patterns, i.e., project-based collaboration, learning-based collaboration and institution-based collaboration.
Publishing habits and perceptions of open access publishing and public access amongst clinical and research fellows While the fellows in this study acknowledged the potential of OA to aid in research dissemination, they also expressed hesitation to publish OA related to confusion surrounding legitimate OA and predatory publications and frustration with APCs. Fellows supported the NIH public access policy and accepted it as part of their research process. Health sciences information professionals could potentially leverage this acceptance of public access to advocate for OA publishing.
Should we introduce a dislike button for academic articles? All in all, the highly scored authors are repeatedly criti-cized and we observe that even the greatest minds cannot slip away from disapproval.
The quantitative analysis of difference between Chinese and German libraries subject services The subject service of German libraries started earlier and has mature experience compared with that of China. Therefore, it can be used for reference for the development of subject service in China. The results show that there are differences in user research, information search and service quality evaluation between Chinese and German libraries.
Analysis of the original influencing factors and secondary influencing factors of academic papers Through research, it denies the phenomenon that academic circles have published academic papers in the world in recent years to overemphasize certain factors to improve the influence of the paper. In practice, the conclusions of this paper also negate the phenomenon that academic circles have published academic papers in the world in recent years to overemphasize certain factors to improve the influence of the papers. Of course, due to the limitations of research data and methods, this paper also has some shortcomings that need to be further explored in future research.
Bibliometric study of social network analysis literature The topic of SNA has received a growing attention in the academic literature.
The role of Web of Science publications in China's tenure system Publishing papers indexed in the WoS is the mandatory requirement in most tenure assessment documents for tenure-track candidates in the Natural Sciences, even for candidates who are in the teaching stream. Publishing WoS papers can even, in some cases, exempt candidates from other tenure requirements, or provide a direct promotion to full professor. As a result, one may argue that over the past 20 years, tenure policies have helped develop research excellence of China's higher education, but at the expense of the quality of teaching and service.
The Importance of Telling About Our Qualitative Inquiry: But How Do We Work Out Who to Tell What To, and Why Do We Want To Be Seen and Heard? A key take-home message is for us as qualitative inquirers to be honest with ourselves about why we tell our qualitative inquiry in public spheres in the way(s) that we do. Or put another way, to be honest about what we want the telling to do and why.
Excellence in research in Australia: the souffle keeps on rising It is now the case that 78% of AOUs are performing at or above world standard in psychology according to the ARC's definition of world stan- dard, an outstanding result and double the level seen in 2010.
Envisioning the scientific paper of the future By necessity, conservation science has been shaped into a multiple disciplinary field that addresses coupled human-ecological systems.
Measuring similarity in co-occurrence data using ego-networks The similarity relationship predicted by the new index is better than the traditional index applicable in aggregated networks. The performance is even comparable with the embedding method.
Global university rankings and strategic planning: a case study of Australian institutional performance "Results of this study confirm that universities have, at least in part, aligned strategies with criteria used in ranking calculations, as foreseen by Marginson and van der Wende (2007)."
The online attention to research in periodontology: An Altmetric study on the most discussed articles on the web Online attention to periodontal research is high. Systemic interaction studies had a significantly higher visibility. The Classic citations count in combination with the AAS, can offer a more comprehensive insight into research by highlighting what is valuable for the researcher and for the lay persons.
Publishing while editor: Transparency and behaviour in public administration journals The lack of universal self-publishing combined with a lack of formal policies suggests that the professionals in the field of public administration self-regulate this behaviour either informally or normatively.
Source misuse in applied linguistics articles: Exploring proficient and novice English writers' perceptions of plagiarism The findings suggest that the novices might plagiarize inadvertently due to inadequate training in source use standards.
Development of Evaluation System for Iranian Health Research Networks: Challenges and Lessons Learned Research evaluation of Iranian HRNs more over creating of constructive positive competition provide an overview of the shortcomings and research challenges could be used for better planning and promotion of the health research system.
Open and Shut: Open Access in Hybrid Educational Technology Journals 2010-2017 This study has sought to shine a light on the publishing patterns of scholars regarding open access in prestigious hybrid access journals in the area of educational technology research. Our research has found low levels of open access publishing. In providing this evidence, and suggesting possible reasons, we hope to stimulate critical debate amongst the scholarly community in this area around how they publish and disseminate their academic work. Ultimately, we hope that this debate will result in more research on the interplay between technology and education being made available to more readers who can thus benefit from it.
Intermediacy of publications Intermediacy, introduced in this paper, offers an alternative to main path analysis. It provides a principled approach for identifying publications that appear to play a major role in the historical development from an older to a more recent publication. This case study has shown that intermediacy yields results that make sense from our viewpoint as domain experts.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Citation Classics in the Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine This list provides insight into the most influential articles that were published in the JUM.
The role of learned societies in national scholarly publishing Our results show that learned societies have a strong role in national scholarly publishing in Finland. They play an especially important role in journal publishing, as commercial publishers produce only 2.6% of Finnish journals and book series, and only 1.4% of the journal articles from scholars working in Finnish universities. It is important to study the role of learned societies in scholarly publishing in other countries. It would be interesting to compare our findings from Finland to those from other countries.
Building new societies: Insights and predictions from the 5th Wiley Society Member Survey At the beginning, we asked the question: are learned societies still fit for purpose? Our survey shows that collaboration, not just at conferences but in the research process itself (via data sharing and transparency), between societies is more important than ever. Crucially, not all of the actions are applicable to all members, but a more nuanced approach from societies is undoubtedly how we need to respond to the dispa-rate needs and interests of society members in the future.
Citation analysis of the most influential articles on traumatic spinal cord injury In this study, the top 100 most highly cited original clinical research articles in traumatic spinal cord injury, published between 1945 and 2016, were identified. The resulting collection of 100 articles points to progress in the field over the past 70 years and highlights those researchers whose work has been particularly influential. The list may serve as an archive and reference for further studies in this field.
Factors affecting journal submission numbers: Impact factor and peer review reputation "We found that IF, ISI ranking, and retractions do have an impact on submissions, but this information needs to be treated with care."
The differential impact of network connectedness and size on researchers' productivity and influence Our research shows that different types of computer-supported networks facilitated productivity and influence.
Use of bibliometric analysis of Greek hospital personnel publications This work implements a bibliometric study making use of freely available resources to develop the services of the hospital library in Greece.
The Impact of International Research Collaboration Network Evolution on Chinese Business School Research Quality The study found that the degree centrality and betweenness centrality of an institution have a significant positive impact on the total number of papers. The degree of attention of an institution’s thesis topic and the number of countries cooperating with the institution have a significant positive impact on the citations per paper. The degree of novelty of the institution’s topic selection has a significant negative impact on the citations per paper.
Evolution of Enterprise Competitiveness in Multiplex Networks of Standards: A Case Study of the Communication Industry in China The managerial aphorism that leading first-tier enterprises set industrial standards deserves academic explorations. The aphorism “first-class enterprises set the standards” has indeed been verified to some extent. In addition to their suitability for the communications industry, models and indicators established herein may be extended to other industrial standards or to other network systems with citation and drafting relationships, so as to provide an instructive angle for observation.
Multilingual Publishing in the Social Sciences and Humanities: A Seven-Country European Study Our findings show that multilingual publishing is an ongoing practice in many SSH research fields regardless of geographical location, political situation, and/or historical heritage.
Mapping research in assisted reproduction worldwide We identify here the current hot topics on Human Assisted Reproduction worldwide and their temporal trends for 2005-2016. We provide an innovative picture of the current research that could help to explore the areas where further research is needed.
A randomized trial of a lab-embedded discourse intervention to improve research ethics The present evidence suggests that such an intervention can lead researchers to be more engaged in discussions surrounding the ethical implications of their research, which can foster a culture of more ethically sound science.
The Methodological Divide of Sociology: Evidence from Two Decades of Journal Publications Our findings not only identify a methodological divide, but also a marginally increasing preference for quantitative methodology in generalist publication outlets.
The repository, the researcher, and the REF: "It's just compliance, compliance, compliance" Thanks to the REF, IRs in the UK are finally becoming populated to a level closer to that required to make them genuinely useful – as stores for a significant percentage of a university's research output, as part of green OA, and as a mechanism for surfacing the work of individual researchers. The strains of the tri-partite relationship are evident and highlight the balancing act between the central institutional interest and the distributed interests of individual researchers. Opportunities to align the participants, to create alternative metrics from newly available data, and to develop new solutions, are being missed.
Issues with criteria to create blacklists: An epidemiological approach Using the epidemiological approach to determine the reliability of criteria to detect predatory journals new insights have been explored showing serious weakness with the creation of blacklists.
Taiwanese Researchers' Perceptions of Questionable Authorship Practices: An Exploratory Study QAPs are a complicated phenomenon that demands careful investigation of their causes. First, this study provides valuable results regarding why QAPs are a significant issue that should be carefully addressed in Taiwanese academia. Most importantly, some concerted endeavors should be made to collectively end questionable authorship by all those involved in academic research.
Research trends on monsoon research from 1900 to 2018 according to scientometrics analysis The identification of the institution-based distribution is very important for finding cooperating teams for monsoon researchers.
Research Performance Evaluation in China: A Big Data Analysis This study concludes that research practice is not merely determined by capital possessed.
Research Collaboration in Pediatric Critical Care Randomized Controlled Trials: A Social Network Analysis of Coauthorship* Pediatric critical care has made considerable prog-ress in the number of trialists and randomized controlled trials, but the research enterprise remains highly clustered and fragmented, particularly geographically. Efforts to further increase the quan-tity and quality of research in the field should include steps to increase the level and range of collaboration.
Authors' status and the perceived quality of their work: Measuring citation sentiment change in nobel articles "We found a moderate increase in citation sentiment toward Nobel articles after their authors won a Prize."
Perceived quality and self-identity in scholarly publishing This study contributes to the literature by proving that facets of perceived journal quality and self-identity interacts differently with OA versus non-OA publishing intentions.
A Simple Paradigm for Augmenting the Euclidean Index to Reflect Journal Impact and Visibility This article proposes a simple axiom-based way to build a practical scholar-ranking metric that incorporates, as simply as possible, the impact/visibility of the journal in which an article appears.
Predicting research trends with semantic and neural networks with an application in quantum physics We show how to create a semantic network in the field of quantum physics, demonstrate its usage to predict future trends in the field, and show how it can be used to suggest pairs of concepts, which are not yet investigated jointly but have distinct network properties. The approach presented here is independent of the discipline of science. Computer-inspired scientific ideas will play a significant role in accelerating scientific progress, and we hope that our work directly contributes to that important goal.
Looking at ourselves: Lessons about the operations management field learned from our top journals Our analysis of publication patterns of authors and universities provides insight into an apparent narrowing of the divide between modelers and empiricists described by Theoharakis et al. (2007).
A global questionnaire survey of the scholarly communication attitudes and behaviours of early career researchers Many, but not all, of the findings of this study confirm that ECRs are adopting new-age methods and tools as a matter of course, although that is not to say that their more senior and secure col- leagues are not: for example, the past six cycles of the Ithaka S+R US Faculty Surveys have shown a general increase in preference for and use of electronic materials and tools within scholarly communication (Blankstein & Wolff-Eisenberg, 2019).
The norms of authorship credit: Challenging the definition of authorship in The European Code of Conduct for Research Integrity Without deluding ourselves into thinking that the aforementioned guidelines are inviolable, our concern is that the current definitions of authorship and acknowledgment in the ECCRI are likely to generate confusion among users when considered in the light of more established guidelines by the ICMJE and the WAME.
Academic publishing and open access: Costs, benefits and options for publishing research The key thing is that the future of academic publishing is in the hands of the academic communities it serves and if we in PIR are saddled with high subscription prices and/or constrained access, then in the end we only have ourselves to blame, as we have not done enough to change a system which remains in our control even if those who profit from it have done their best to obscure this fact.
'No comment'? A study of commenting on PLOS articles Our results suggest that publishers are yet to encourage significant numbers of readers to leave comments, with implications for the effectiveness of commenting as a means of collecting and communicating community perceptions of an article’s importance. Our findings confirm both prior studies and conventional wisdom on the subject; rates of commenting on academic articles are low, with the vast majority of articles published by PLOS receiving no comments. We argue that these results present a challenge to mega-journal publishers such as PLOS, who have viewed article comments as a potential forum for the identification and discussion of important or interesting papers (factors that are not considered during the peer-review process).
The citation advantage for open access science journals with and without article processing charges Our results suggest that authors should consider field- and discipline-related differences in the OA citation advantage, especially when they are considering non-APC OA journals categorised in two or more subjects.
Research diversification and its relationship with publication counts and impact: A case study based on Australian professors This research investigated whether multi/inter-disciplinary research activities of scholars in chemistry, biology and physics are related to their research publication counts and (citation-based) impact. The results showed disciplinary differences in the output and impact indicators. The analysis of the relationship between diversification indicators and output/impact indicators revealed that ED was negatively correlated with both output and impact.
Traditional indicators inflate some countries' scientific impact over 10 times In this article I advance arguments in favor of using fractional instead of total counting when comparing countries by scientific productivity. For scientific policy researchers and policymakers, it is extremely misleading to compare countries in terms of the traditional total document and citation counts. I thus strongly suggest that scientometric community has to pay more attention to the limitations of the total counting, and to the fractional counting as its proper alternative for studying scientific productivity of countries.
On the influence of uncited publications on a researcher's h-index The results of this study have shown that a researcher with a higher h-index, but with a lot of uncited papers may have a lower apparent h-index than a researcher with a lower h-index but very few uncited papers.
Exploring linguistic characteristics of highly browsed and downloaded academic articles This paper applied computational linguistics to understand the relationship between linguistic characteristics and article views and downloads.
Industrial marketing management: Bibliometric overview since its foundation This study presents a bibliometric overview of the publications in IMM between 1971 and 2017. Undoubtedly, one of the subjects of interest will continue to be the future role of new technologies in industrial marketing research. Relationship Marketing will continue to be relevant in the future of industrial marketing, as companies have understood that organizations behave, in this sense, in a similar way to the final consumer.
Identifying breakthrough scientific papers We have demonstrated a simple, yet novel classification-based method of measuring innovation, which may be used to complement citation analysis in identifying potential breakthrough publications in bodies of research spanning multiple years. The most important contribution and the main advantage of our method is its ability to fully automate the analysis of the corpus. None of its steps – topic model training and selection, classifier training and score calculation – require expert knowledge or manual intervention.
An analysis of citations of publications in anaesthesia journals Our analysis may inform authors, editors and publishers where to submit work, what editorial policy to pursue and what journal strategy to follow, respectively.
A Three Decade Mixed-Method Bibliometric Investigation of the IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management In this paper, we have analyzed the evolution of IEEE TEM from 1985 to 2007. These changes are mostly related to the topics covered by the journal and the affiliations of the authors. In terms of future challenges for IEEE TEM, the new editor expressed a willingness to focus the journal on three main areas of interest; namely engineering management, emerging technologies, and technology management.
The Role of Conferences on the Pathway to Academic Impact Evidence from a Natural Experiment By exploiting a natural experiment, we have provided estimates for the effects of conferences on articles' visibility and academic impact.
Digital transformation of academic medicine: Breaking barriers, borders, and boredom In conclusion, academic medicine as we know it cannot persist.
The Top Most-Cited and Influential Published Articles in Atrial Fibrillation from 1900 to 2019 In conclusion, authors seeking to publish a highly referenced article on AF will be determined by source journal, the language of publication, geographic origin, methodology, or research outcome. This is the first bibliometric study that provides both qualitative and quantitative insight into AF literature. It also gives us an overview of how AF research has evolved and developed in the last few decades.
Mapping the Evolution of Social Research and Data Science on 30 Years of Social Indicators Research This paper aimed at presenting a systematic review of the documents published on SIR in the last 30 years through a bibliometric approach, tracing the evolution of the journal as well as of the research lines and trends in the quality of life domain. While considering these limitations, the data presented in this study provided significant insights into the editorial activity of the journal and the evolution of the topics discussed throughout the years.
Time from submission to publication in plastic surgery journals: The story of accepted manuscripts "We found that the median time from submission to publication in print in the top six plastic surgery journals reached 10 months with variations among journals."
Evaluating the Research Performance of Islamabad-Based Higher Education Institutes It is concluded that with only 1% of country's population and around 11% of HEC-recognized universities geographically located at ICT, Islamabad-based universities and DAIs con- tributed 34% of total publications of Pakistan published dur- ing the study time period. Although Islamabad-based universities and DAIs have their fair share of research publications at the national level, these institutions need to align their research priorities with HEC and other international institutions to compete with peer universities and institutions in neighboring countries such as China, India, and Iran. To improve the visibility of research output, the indexing of local journals in Scopus and Web of Science is strongly recommended.
Fifty years of British Journal of Educational Technology: A topic modeling based bibliometric perspective This study was the first-in-depth research that tracked and mapped the research status and development trends of the BJET using a topic modeling based bibliometric method.
Classification for research universities in India In this article, we have evolved a classification framework for research HEIs for India, based on the Carnegie framework.
Leonardo da Vinci: The Archetype of Sleeping Beauty in Science Leonardo da Vinci, an interdisciplinary researcher, became a "sleeping beauty" in science for more than 300 years, an unprecedented case in science history. Our results show that academic interest in his contribution to physics leads the list of citations (based on the Scopus database) whereas popular interest (based on Google Scholar) lies in the sphere of art. The holistic approach that da Vinci adhered to in studying the world makes any attempt to define him in specific terms doomed to failure.
Scholarly databases under scrutiny Yet, the finding that 74 PFJs are indexed in indices indicates that the scientific community should question the validity and reliability of articles published in such PFJs.
Correction and retraction practices in library and information science journals This study showed that errata in LIS journals were gen-erally for minor corrections with the average number of errors per correction lower than those reported in studies carried out on medical journals. Irrespective of the reasons for retraction, retracted arti-cles in LIS journals continued to be cited even years after retraction and many of these were positive citations. Evidently, there is a negative stigma associated with retracted articles, hence a check on the validity of the literature cited by authors can be included in the review process.
Good Scientific Practice: Developing a Curriculum for Medical Students in Germany The reflection of the results of the pilot course and accompanying pre-post evaluation leads to the conclusion that due to the specifics of German medical training, which allows students to start or even complete a doctoral thesis while still in medical school, courses on GSP must be an integral and compulsory part of any medical student's academic education as early as possible.
Following the money? Performance-based funding and the changing publication patterns of Finnish academics We conclude discussing the possible long-term implications of the current funding formula for both Finnish academia and society.
A diachronic comparative study of research article titles in linguistics and literature journals This paper investigated five title features of research articles in seven linguistics journals and seven literature journals.
A look at interdisciplinarity using bipartite scholar/journal networks In this study, we devised and discussed a novel methodology to quantify the degree of interdisciplinarity of academic journals, based on the spectral properties of the bipartite publication network between scholars and journals.
Scientific impact of an author and role of self-citations The results of prediction of self-citations also confirm our analyzed findings.
Citation concept analysis (CCA): a new form of citation analysis revealing the usefulness of concepts for other researchers illustrated by exemplary case studies including classic books by Thomas S. Kuhn and Karl R. Popper The paradigm concept accounts for around 40% of the citations to Kuhn's work.
Intertwining globality and locality: bibliometric analysis based on the top geography annual conferences in America and China Under the influence of the conference history, academic authority, and institutional culture, AAG and CCG respectively highlight “globality” and “locality" characteristics, and there are partial common concerns and multiple interweavings on global and local research topics.
The dynamics of collaboration networks and the history of general relativity, 1925-1970 We interpret this shift as the central social dynamic of the renaissance process and then identify its central actors.
Productivity, visibility, authorship, and collaboration in library and information science journals: Central and Eastern European authors The contribution of LIS authors from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) countries measured by number of published papers in the period from 1996 to 2017, clearly shows a difference before and after the year 2005 (Fig. 1).
A new database of the references on international clinical practice guidelines: a facility for the evaluation of clinical research For the two sets of papers the number of citations in CPGs can appear quite low, but it is in the nature of CPG citations that they are few compared to citations in academic journals. In order to fully capture the impact on CPGs a longer citation window is most likely required. The clinical impact® database is therefore a major advance in the bibliometrics of research evaluation.
An academic Arabic corpus for plagiarism detection: design, construction and experimentation The JUPlag corpus is intended to function as an indispensable source for testing and evaluating plagiarism detection techniques. It has been demonstrated here that it is indispensable for an extrinsic plagiarism detection system to have an authentic, big, versatile, properly classified and richly annotated reference corpus. It has also been confirmed that verbatim plagiarism detection is only reliable when the similarity-matching unit is longer than 4-g. In the next phase of this project, the reference corpus will be expanded to encompass all the dissertations in the Thesis Repository of the Union of Arab Universities. The PD system will also utilize a variety of pla- giarism detection techniques.
Worldwide research output trends on drinking and driving from 1956 to 2015 Research activity on drinking and driving is an emerging research topic for 60 years, has been developed predominantly by scientists from United States of America, Canada, Europe, and Australia, and its findings support the combined use of alcohol with other psychoactive substances.
Characterizing the Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Literature: A Bibliometric Analysis This study represents the first bibliometric analysis of the leading BPH articles impacting the academic literature.
Connecting the dots: implementing and evaluating a network intervention to foster scientific collaboration and productivity This paper presented a network intervention to foster scientific collaboration and productivity at a research university, and an experimental approach to evaluate the intervention's impact.
Finance journal rankings: Active scholar assessment revisited In addition to citation-based ranking, ASA study results can provide useful information and guidance to authors and editors on active scholar perceptions of journal quality and importance, tenure & promotion committees in assessing research, and university libraries in managing their resources.
Wine research and its relationship with wine production: a scientometric analysis of global trends Scientific collaboration in the field does not closely follow the grouping of countries into Old and New World wine producers.
The International Open Access Movement and Its Status in Pakistan The study concludes that the OA movement has developed rapidly at a global level.
Attitudes of North American Academics toward Open Access Scholarly Journals The current study confirms what previous research has found about the polarity of the issue of OA across different fields. The findings reveal authors' concerns about and perceptions of OA in a way that previous research has not addressed, particularly concerning whether and how it will limit their publishing practices and the overall reach of their work in an all-OA scenario. Moving forward, future research should examine the impact of library educational initiatives on knowledge and attitudes toward the OA model.
Measuring up? Metrics and research assessment in UK teacher education The above analysis of publication outputs in the field of teacher education raises a number of issues regarding the value and utility of bibliometrics in research assessment and faculty appraisal. The analysis indicates the continued dominance of a small number of research-intensive universities as producers of research about teacher education, although not necessarily engaged in teacher education on a large-scale. This preliminary analysis of factors influencing publication in teacher education research might usefully be expanded to focus on connections among the community of scholars that constitute the field.
SAGES masters program: determining the seminal articles for each pathway We have identified seminal articles for each anchoring procedure of the SAGES Masters program pathways using a systematic methodology. These articles provide surgeon participants of this program with a great resource to improve their procedure-specific knowledge and may further benefit the larger surgical community by focusing its attention to must-read impactful work that may inform best practices.
Citation classics: the 100 most cited articles in Urogynecology Highly cited FPMRS articles come from a variety of journals, and nearly 50% of the 100 most cited FPMRS articles are from the urology literature.
Survey of equal contributions in biomedical research publications Our study is the first to examine researchers' experiences with and attitudes toward the ethics of EC designations in scientific publications.
How the Geographic Diversity of Editorial Boards Affects What Is Published in JCR-Ranked Communication Journals In conclusion, the central theoretical implications emanating from the observations made in this article include (a) the key role of EBs in shaping journals' research output and (b) the need for promoting diversity and stimulating openness and plurality in EBs to trigger a correspondingly pluralistic orientation toward science.
Bibliometric analysis of Journal of Nursing Management from 1993 to 2018 Nursing management, nursing leadership/leaders, nursing human resource management, nursing quality and safety management, nursing communication, and conflict management have always been popular topics in Journal of Nursing Management.
Factors Associated with Publication of Research Projects from a Canadian Master of Science Degree Programme in Physical Therapy MSCPT research continues to be published at a moderate rate, and the annual publication rate increased between 2003 and 2015.
Are surgeons behind the scientific eight ball: Delayed acquisition of the NIH K08 mentored career development award Surgeons take longer to achieve a K08 award than clinicians trained in internal medicine, but not pediatrics. This may be due to an inherent disadvantage in training structure. Regardless, there needs to be a concerted effort to help surgeons obtain grants early, enter the academic environment competitively, and thereby maintain the surgeon scientist.
Is external research assessment associated with convergence or divergence of research quality across universities and disciplines? Evidence from the PBRF process in New Zealand Strong convergence properties of AQSs both across universities and academic disciplines were found. Firstly, the substantial growth in average quality over 2003 to 2012 suggests the New Zealand PBRF scheme has been effective in raising research quality. Secondly, evidence of strong ẞ-convergence suggests that concerns that institutions initially rated as low research quality might be left behind, due to being identified as unattractive units for future research invest-ment, appear to be unfounded.
Sleeping beauties in the otolaryngology-head & neck surgery literature No clear patterns or themes could be identified, and the notion that all SBs may represent premature discoveries "ahead of their time" could not be substantiated.
The Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at 100: A Century of Authorship The APM&R has seen major transformations in the nature of its contributors over a century of publication; many of these parallel the changes seen in other areas of health care and medical science, but some characteristics and shifts (especially in gender and level of training of its authors) appear unique.
Title does matter: a cross-sectional study of 30 journals in the Medical Laboratory Technology category Based on results of our study, titles do matter.
Prosumption: bibliometric analysis using HistCite and VOSviewer This article contributes to our understanding of the prosumption literature in marketing through its systematic grouping of articles into clusters and exploration of new research streams.
More than a quarter century of Creativity and Innovation Management: The journal's characteristics, evolution, and a look ahead CIM has evolved over the last 28 years to become a unique outlet for creativity and innovation management. While still being a niche journal, CIM today actively and sustainably contributes to the debate on creativity, design, entre- preneurship and innovation on a much broader scientific and practical scale. The following corresponding potential future foci emerge based on the present study.
The evolution of the field of legal medicine: A holistic investigation of global outputs with bibliometric analysis This study will provide important information to a forensic scientist (a doctor, academic, and practitioner). Undeveloped countries should also be encouraged to do research in the field of Legal Medicine. We believe that imaging, forensic genetics and anthro- pological studies in the field of Legal Medicine will become more important in the future.
Three decades of tourism scholarship: Gender, collaboration and research methods Practical suggestions derived from the findings for the gender equality agenda in tourism are discussed to promote more gender-diverse collaborations and female-led research.
Mapping of climate change research in the Arab world: a bibliometric analysis Clearly, research productivity of the Arab world in climate change is growing at an increasing rate during the last period. This indicates a sustained growth trajectory that is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Increasing the fund, capacity building, and development of regional experience with climate change-related disasters are key factors to promote the scientific research in this field.
Network analysis to measure academic performance in economics With this study on the Spanish economics research ecosystem, we exemplify how the use of network analysis tools provides new metrics and points of view that complement the more traditional indicators of academic performance.
The relationship between citations, downloads and alternative metrics in rheumatology publications: a bibliometric study Disease area did not correlate with any of the metrics compared. Correlations were apparent with clear links between downloads and citations. Altmetric identified different articles as high impact compared with citation or download metrics.
A bibliometric analysis of articles identified by editors as representing excellence in nursing publication: Replication and extension Articles in nursing journals are being read and cited. The concepts of persistence, reach and dissemination are supported and their use in bibliometric analysis is warranted. Although the companion articles had reach, persistence and dissemination, there were fewer citations of these articles compared with the editor-selected articles, lending support to the quality of the papers that were chosen by the editors as representative of their journal.
Measuring the scientific publications of double first-class universities from mainland China In general, the double first-class universities developed rapidly in recent years and play an important role in the development of science and technology in China. First, from the perspective of international natural science journal publications, the research achievement of double first-class universities continued to increase significantly. In general, scientific research achievement was unevenly distributed in the double first-class universities and varied between domestic and international publications and natural and social sciences.
Nontraditional Approaches to Assessing Journal Importance: Case Study of Russian Journals on Earth Sciences The paper discusses how new nontraditional metrics including altmetrics and analyses of geographic diversity and impact of editorial board members of academic journals can be applied for their evaluation for different further purposes, i.e., correcting editorial policy, submitting to scientometric databases, increasing authority, or enhancing readership of journals.
The Stability of Twitter Metrics: A Study on Unavailable Twitter Mentions of Scientific Publications This study examined the stability of Twitter metrics of scientific publications by rechecking the statuses of their Twitter mentions. Twitter metrics of publications with a relatively low DO and relatively high DC are at greater risk of becoming highly unstable. Thus, our study underlines the importance of distinguishing dissemination structures in the context of Twitter-based indicators.
Tracking Knowledge Evolution in Cloud Health Care Research: Knowledge Map and Common Word Analysis Cloud health care research has been rapidly developing worldwide, and technologies used in cloud health research are simultaneously diverging and becoming smarter.
The evolution of data science and big data research: A bibliometric analysis Overall, DS literature serves as a theory-base for BD publications.
Prolificacy and visibility versus reputation in the hard sciences This comparison reveals strongly field-dependent features, suggesting that citation-based parameters can be useful, complementary sciento-metric evaluators, but should not be confused with quality.
University vs. Research Institute? The Dual Pillars of German Science Production, 1950-2010 As successful as the institutes have been, universities have, nevertheless, formed the bedrock upon which Germany reestablished so much of its scientific prominence among the highly competitive European and global science systems since the nadir of 1945.
Self-plagiarism in academic journal articles: from the perspectives of international editors-in-chief in editorial and COPE case The results of this study can be used as a framework for further empirical studies on self-plagiarism and serve as a reference for academic journal editors or publishers for handling self-plagiarism cases.
Researchers publishing monographs are more productive and more local-oriented The key findings of our study are threefold.
Using archetypoid analysis to classify institutions and faculties of economics In this paper we introduced archetypoid analysis to the evaluation of institutions and faculties of economics.
Publishing as an Indicator of Scientific Research Quality and Ethics: The Case of Law Journals from Moldova Our analysis reveals that almost any article can be published in Moldovan law jour-nals if it meets the technical submittal requirements and, occasionally, if the publica-tion fee is paid. The study supports the assumption that the process of publishing in scientific journals is an indicator of the scientific research quality. In this case, the main solution is to enhance the quality of scientific research in the Repub-lic of Moldova and to build a “critical mass” of competent and honest researchers.
Reproducibility issues with correlating Beall-listed publications and research awards at a small Canadian business school The problems and issues associated with Pyne's paper appear using his results that were obtained with his data or by using our data.
Diversity of temporal influence in popularity prediction of scientific publications From the experimental result, we could find that the temporal decay rate of the influence of citations is decay with the paper's age, and the decay rate is a power-law distribution.
Sic transit gloria mundi: What remains of famous economists after their deaths? Our paper analyzes whether the loss of prominence after death is a general phenomenon. The results of our empirical analysis suggest that one must differentiate between two courses of life. One is premature or unexpected death, the other is death at old age. We find that famous economists, identified as Nobel Prize winners, who die prematurely are more likely to experience a marked reduction of attention among their peers, measured by citations. Their glory indeed vanishes.
gm-index: a new mentorship index for researchers We have proposed the gm-index, a new index to characterize mentorship in research.
Gender and research publishing analyzed through the lenses of discipline, institution types, impact and international collaboration: a case study from India The paper thus presents interesting results and bring to light unexplored facts about participation of women in research in India, which can be used for a variety of purposes ranging from status enquiry to evidence-based policy formulation. It is quite clear that female participation in research in India is much lesser than males. More efforts and systematic strategies are perhaps required to achieve higher participation of women in research.
A tale of two databases: the use of Web of Science and Scopus in academic papers This study shows that more and more papers have used (at least mentioned) WoS/Scopus for academic research. Scopus as the new-comer, is challenging the dominating role of WoS.
Percentile and stochastic-based approach to the comparison of the number of citations of articles indexed in different bibliographic databases With this method, it is possible to convert the citation counts of articles between Scopus and WoS and to predict, within an error, the citation impact of a missing paper on one of those databases, based on the citation impact on the other database.
The practice of self-citations: a longitudinal study Our analysis showed an overall increment in author self-citations in several of the academic disciplines considered, but we observed a stronger causal relation between such increment and the rules introduced by the 2012 Italian Scientific Habilitation in 10 disciplines (RQ1). In order to control such distortion, we think that it could be more valuable to understand if these self-citations are either organic, perfunctory (Swales 1986) or even coercive citations (Yu et al. 2014). We plan to explore this latter aspect further in future studies by using additional data coming from other open datasets (e.g. OpenCitations and Wikidata).
From modelmania to datanomics? The rise of mathematical and quantitative methods in three top economics journals Our results indicate that there were substantial changes in the toolkit used by economists publishing in these outlets.
Nobel laureates are not hot As many as 45 recent Nobel laureates were in top 6000 scientists in terms of c, a composite score introduced by Ioannides et al. (2016). No other indicator puts so many recent Nobel laureates in top 6000 as c. The standings of recent Nobel laureates are even lower in field-normalized indicators.
Scientometric laws connecting publication counts to national research funding For a wide variety of data sets, paper counting methods, and years of analysis, it was found that the logarithm of number of scientific papers published by a nation was directly propor-tional to the logarithm of the country's R&D investment. This version of the scientometric law can provide a useful model for forecasting, policy levers to improve scientific output, and estimation of funding from paper counts. The fit of the Second Law to the data provides additional evidence that there is a cause and effect connection between funding inputs and paper outputs.
Measuring national self-referencing patterns of major science producers This article brings strong empirical support to Pasteur's sociological imagination, as we found that references in the scientific papers of six major producers of science were nationally biased in all broad disciplinary fields: natural science and engineering, biomedical sciences, social sciences and arts and humanities.
Exploring the limitations of the h-index and h-type indexes in measuring the research performance of authors With the introduction of an increasing number of scholarly evaluation indicators, researchers are trying to determine their limitations to improve the quality of evaluation.
How do journals of different rank instruct peer reviewers? Reviewer guidelines in the field of management The results unveil a large variety in the kind of instructions and evaluation criteria as well as strong variations between journals of different rank. Most low rank journals provide reviewers a list of criteria to assess, i.e. evaluation forms, which are arguably useful for less experienced reviewers, whereas the RG of high rank journals are texts. On the other hand, this may represent another example of cumulative advantage in science (Merton 1968).
Identifying collaboration dynamics of bipartite author-topic networks with the influences of interest changes Our findings also discussed on how the co-author pressure accelerates the changes of interests and behaviors of the researchers.
EU-EAEU dilemma of Armenia: Does science support politics? This article analyzed the results of collaborations between Armenian affiliate researchers and foreign researchers, in terms of publication output indexed by the WOS CC and RSCI bibliometric databases.
Funding information in Web of Science: an updated overview This updated study concludes with a discussion of new findings and practical guidance for the future retrieval and analysis of funded research. We also find that a substantial number of funded records in WoS have funding information available in FO and FG only, which suggests that the previously recommended data retrieval approach is not suitable for online searches for FA data. In future research, analyses that characterize funded research by institution, country, discipline as well as funding source type (such as international co-funding or industrial funding) would be interesting to explore over a longer time period.
Identifying 'associated-sleeping-beauties' in 'swan-groups' based on small qualified datasets of physics and economics According to our results, there are actually higher proportion of 'sleeping beauties' in the key papers of Nobel laureates, which account for 9.09% and 18.52% in fields of physics and economics respectively. And the 'associated-sleeping-beauties' we found from the model of ‘swan-groups' took percentages of 23.53%, 27.27% in swan groups, and 12.12%, 11.11% in total key papers of physics and economics separately in 1995–2010. However, the model of 'associated-sleeping-beauties' based on the model of ‘swan-groups' we pro-pose in this paper can be a new approach to explore and identify ‘sleeping beauties’.
What does MIS survey research reveal about diversity and representativeness in the MIS field? A content analysis approach The results have implications for both research and practice in the MIS field.
Using altmetrics for assessing impact of highly-cited books in Chinese Book Citation Index The results indicate that altmetrics and citations indicators show the impact of academic books from different dimensions, when we evaluate academic books in the future, it's significant to comprehensively use the altmetrics evaluation and citation evaluation. When we evaluate the books based on altmetrics, it's necessary to consider the differences of distributions of coverage, discipline and publication year, so that we can design more fair and effective evaluation mechanism. Above all, introducing altmetrics indicators into the new academic evaluation system is very necessary.
Write better, publish better I find a positive and significant effect of having better-written abstracts on the probabil-ity of being published in a Top 5 journal.
Charting the Open Access scholarly journals landscape in the UAE This study set out to chart the scholarly journal landscape in the UAE with the objective of laying foundations for future in-depth research on scholarly publishing and OA.
Adoption and usage of Academic Social Networks: a Japan case study "The results of this study show that for this sample of researchers, Academia.edu is not well-known or actively used, while ResearchGate has a solid uptake of 30%."
Who is who in library and information science research? The integrative application of scholarly influence indicators Based on the results of the research, integrative use of scientometric indicators for measuring authors' level of scholarly influence may grant a more precise perspective for decision makers in the field of library and information science.
Demarcating spectrums of predatory publishing: Economic and institutional sources of academic legitimacy Determinations of the overall legitimacy of an academic journal or publisher are based on overlapping appraisals of scholarly and economic legitimacy.
Dynamic evaluation of the influence of drafting units in China's air quality standards network In this study, a dynamic two-layer network model, composed of a citation layer of standards and a cooperation layer of drafting units, is developed to evaluate the influence of drafting units of standards.
On the Willingness to Report and the Consequences of Reporting Research Misconduct: The Role of Power Relations These insights contribute to the literature on research misconduct in two ways.
Visual Analysis on Information Theory and Science of Complexity Approaches in Healthcare Research In general, we explored knowledge bases, innovation paths, and key issues in the field of health research based on information theory and complexity science, with the aim of providing important frontier support for researchers to conduct follow-up research. Based on the results of the literature analysis, we have combed the following development trends in the field of health research based on information theory and complexity science: Research on the domain of health knowledge. Health research tends to be informative. Complexity science and network research in the field of health management.
Mining social influence in science and vice-versa: A topic correlation approach Results can open new opportunities for forecasting social behavior, assess community interest in a scientific subject or directing research to the population welfare. As the evidence suggests, it was possible to correlate topics between two different communities. This knowledge could help the assessment and forecast of trends and innovations from both organizations and customers from a business viewpoint.
Co-word analysis method based on meta-path of subject knowledge network The method overcomes limitations with the traditional co-word analysis method, insofar as the latter exclusively considers the co-occurrence of two words in the same doc-ument. The proposed method combines various semantic relations between words, such that it can reflect the relationship between words more realistically. In future research, we will improve the subject knowledge network model, the relevance calculation method, and the relevance matrix fusion method.
Academic influence and invisible colleges through editorial board interlocking in communication sciences: a social network analysis of leading journals Our results offer relevant descriptive insights to understand why and how these influent agents are structured, linked, and associated in what can be conceptualized as an “elite” academic network.
Chronic anthropogenic disturbances in ecology: a bibliometric approach Understand the bibliometric patterns in a research area is fundamental to identify gaps, and to indicate how this area may structure up in the future. We have demonstrated that there are some gaps in the content of the literature about chronic anthropogenic disturbances, and we have proposed some different directions that this research line may be expanded. Moreover, the authors who are building this research line undertake plenty self-citations, but this is a natural process in any topic of research.
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly: Dimensions of Success and Failure in Research Collaboration I find that scientists' experiences diverge from how failure and success are treated in the literature.
Market power of publishers in setting article processing charges for open access journals These findings suggest that large subscription journal publishers may influence the open access journal market through mergers and acquisitions of prominent open access journal publishers in the future, although they do not yet have market power. Therefore, we should monitor the activities of large subscription journal publishers and APC levels. Therefore, the conclusions of this study should be treated as preliminary, and further investigation using more samples is necessary.
From cut-points to key players in co-authorship networks: a case study in ventilator-associated pneumonia research Our results show that cut-points, in addition to being characterized by their essential role in the scientific co-authorship network analyzed, fostering overall connectivity and cohesion and contributing social capital to the network, also present important differential features in relation to other researchers. Given the above, and to the extent that they integrate the two main mechanisms of generating social capital described in the literature, cut-points can be considered key players whose role is an essential impetus in research and the cognitive institutionalization of a discipline. Thus, future studies should confirm the implications of our results and conclusions.
Scholarly event characteristics in four fields of science: a metrics-based analysis Based on these findings, a set of recommendations has been concluded to different stakeholders, involving event organizers, potential authors, proceedings publishers, and sponsors.
On fractional approach to analysis of linked networks In the paper we presented an attempt to provide a foundation of fractional approach to bibliometric networks based on the outer product decomposition of product networks. We also discussed the fractional approach to bibliographic coupling and co-citation networks. The results of application of the proposed methods to real bibliographic data will be presented in separate papers.
A Cartography of Philosophy's Engagement with Society The philosophy cases submitted to the UK REF impact evaluation exercise in 2014 suggested five broad approaches to philosophy that engage broader society. We labeled these: Dissemination, Engagement, Provocation, Living Philosophy and Philosophy of X. We conclude that there are multiple ways of being a field philosopher, which vary in their emphasis. This pluralism bodes well for the expansion of philosophy's influence, since there are many routes available to suit different preferences.
The Patterning of Collaborative Behavior and Knowledge Culminations in Interdisciplinary Research Centers In this study, we examined how different features of interdisciplinary research centers' collaborative arrangements shaped scholars' experiences of interdisciplinary collaboration.
Co-existing Notions of Research Quality: A Framework to Study Context-specific Understandings of Good Research In this paper we revisit the notions and understanding of research quality and elaborate a novel framework for its study.
What Is the Predictive Ability and Academic Impact of the Altmetrics Score and Social Media Attention? AAS had a significant positive association with citation rates of articles in 5 high-impact orthopaedic journals. Articles in AJSM, studies concerning measure validation and reliability, and publications from North America were positively associated with greater AAS. A greater number of citations was consistently associated with publication attention received on social media platforms.
Freeloading in biomedical research This study underscores that questionable authorship practices are endemic to the biomedical research, which calls for alternative methods to evaluate a scientist's qualities.
Institution information specification and correlation based on institutional PIDs and IND tool In this paper, we have given a brief summary of IND methods and introduced the institutional PIDs, a long-lasting reference to institutions, to work as an important indicator in the spec-ification and correlation of institution information.
Deep and narrow impact: introducing location filtered citation counting We found that removing introductory and background sections alone does not make much of a difference in author rankings, but it makes a large difference when combined with frequency-weighted counting. This combination appears to make essential citations stand out, as shown by its generally ranking biomedicine-focused authors higher and bibliometrics-focused ones lower.
Blogs and news sources coverage in altmetrics data providers: a comparative analysis by country, language, and subject The results of the source coverage of altmetrics providers lead us to conclude that the three services have a considerable presence of blogs and news media from the United States (>45%). These geographical and language biases could underestimate the altmetrics impact of publications in other languages or from non-English-speaking countries. Therefore, for any altmetrics study, different sources should be selected and complemented and one or other service chosen in each particular case.
Stars in a small world: social networks in auditing research In this article, we investigated the structure of the collaboration networks of auditing research.
Do articles in open access journals have more frequent altmetric activity than articles in subscription-based journals? An investigation of the research output of Finnish universities The results showed significant platform specific differences in the OA advantage, as well as disciplinary differences, as could be expected. The results from the present research may also echo the findings of Piwowar et al. (2018) and Dorta-González and Santana-Jiménez (2018) that discovered a negative influence of OA on citations. The study is not without limitations and the results may have been influenced by some factors, which require further investigation.
Mapping Theme Trends and Knowledge Structure of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Studies of Schizophrenia: A Bibliometric Analysis From 2004 to 2018 MRI studies on schizophrenia were relatively diverse, but the theme clusters derived from each period may reflect the publication trends to some extent.
Normative drift and self-correction in scholarly book publishing: The case of Makerere University This article set out to answer two questions: ‘What are the deci- sions being taken by academics when it comes to their choice of scholarly book publisher?’ and ‘Are there any changes in the choices being made by academics?’ The findings tell a story of two halves. In the first half of the period under review (2011–2014), aca- demics at Makerere University chose surprisingly frequently to publish books with suspect scholarly book publishers. It would be encouraging if this decline is attributable to a self-correction by academics who have come to realize the potential damage to their reputations, and to science, if they con- tinue to select publication venues discredited by their peers.
Collaboration clusters, interdisciplinarity, scope and subject classification of library and information science research from Africa: An analysis of Web of Science publications from 1996 to 2015 This study shows that though computer science had the most profound influence on Africa’s LIS, 2004 was a watershed moment as focus on computer-related classifications started to increase. This study also shows that North African countries exhibited features that are different from the rest of Africa; the North African countries contributed most of core computer classifications while others focused more on the social science-elated aspects of LIS. The collaboration mapping and clustering depicted some influence of language of colonial masters as a basis for forging strong collaboration between African and non-African countries.
Chinese researchers' perceptions and use of open access journals: Results of an online questionnaire survey Our research demonstrates a relatively high awareness of OAJs and their use for publication.
When Paywall Goes AWOL: The Demand for Open-Access Education Research Using the always-OA AERA Open as a comparison group, we find arguably causal evidence that removing the paywall increased monthly downloads by about 55% to 95%.
Examining the Correlation Between Altmetric Score and Citations in the General Surgery Literature Altmetric scores, while significantly associated with citation count in the surgical literature, should not necessarily be used as a surrogate marker for evaluating research performance, impact, or exposure.
Early Impact of the Western Journal of Emergency Medicine CDEM/CORD Special Issue in Educational Research & Practice The Special Issue is a proven outlet to share best practices, innovations, and research related to education. Additionally, the infrastructure of this process promotes the development of individual faculty and a community of teaching scholars. The WestJEM Special Issue in Educational Research and Practice, published annually over the past four years, has had significant impact both within and beyond the community of EM educators.
Federal Funding in Emergency Medicine: Demographics and Perspectives of Awardees The last five years have showed a trend toward increasing grants awarded to EM investigators; however, we identified several barriers to funding. Initiatives geared toward support and mentorship of junior faculty, particularly to females, minorities, and those in less heavily funded areas of the country are warranted. Future work, such as longitudinal studies to evaluate individual characteristics associated with success and interventions geared toward increasing mentorship and support, are needed.
Global village or virtual balkans? evolution and performance of scientific collaboration in the information age Our findings showed that social stratification in scientific collaboration, measured with the index of balkanization, significantly decreased from 1980 to 2009 in both the natural and social sciences. Our findings showed that cross-tier collaboration would benefit researchers from general-tier institutions in terms of productivity and impact at the expense of researchers from top-tier institutions. Therefore, our findings have important implications for scholars, institution administrators, and national policy makers.
Survival analysis of author keywords: An application to the library and information sciences area In our work we have presented a new aspect of the bibliometric analysis of a scientific field that concerns the dynamics of author keywords in research articles. We have shown that in a standard year, ~60% of new keywords appear in the LIS knowledge area. The average survival time of these keywords is ~3 years, being slightly higher in the case of keywords that were published in journals classified in the second quartile of the LIS area.
Reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS) of computer science papers from Eastern Europe Our results show that the works that seem to have had the most impact on computer science research in Eastern European countries after the break-up of the former communist bloc are Markowitz's “Portfolio selection” from 1952, Zadeh's “Fuzzy sets" from 1965 and "The concept of a linguistic variable and its application to approximate reasoning – I" from 1975a.
Top-cited articles versus top Altmetric articles in nuclear medicine: a comparative bibliometric analysis Citation counts and Altmetric scores represent unique perspectives for evaluating the impact of NM research. In conclusion, the present study presents the char- acteristics of the most-cited and highest-scoring Altmetric articles related to NM, thereby providing two distinct perspectives for evaluating their impact on related research.
Academic research integrity: Exploring researchers' perceptions of responsibilities and enablers In this study, we have established two main findings in relation to the two research questions.
Factors Associated With Low and High Article Citations in the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Literature Relatively few studies in the OMS literature failed to produce citations in the 10 years after publication, indicating that most studies accepted for publication provide meaningful contributions. Significant differences were found between the highest and lowest cited publications, suggesting that study design and article structure might influence the articles' audience and effect. These re- sults are important for investigators when considering their future research endeavors because the study design or article structure could influence its audience and, subsequently, its impact on the field.
Characteristics and career outcomes of Neurosurgery Research and Education Foundation research fellowship recipients The majority of AANS/NREF research award recipients enter academics as fellowship-trained neurosurgeons, with approximately one-third obtaining NIH funding.
Global research landscape of high-level studies in geosciences based on highly cited papers Based on 4177 HCPs in the research field of 'geos- ciences' retrieved from the ESI database from 2008 to 2017, this study provides an overview of the status of HCPs in the field of geosciences considering various as- pects that include country/region productivity distribu- tion, organizations, authors, research areas and hot topics and journals. This study has revealed some basic characteristics of high-level researches in geosciences based on HCPs. However, it would have been more informative if we had comparable data regarding research funding of other countries besides USA and China. Future research should be conducted with more comprehensive data.
Visualization analysis of health informatics research from 2001 to 2018 The increasing annual number of health informatics-related publications indicate that the field has become a research hotspot in recent years. The most influential country was USA, which not only contri-buted to the most number of articles, but also cooperated closely with many other countries. In the future, 'big data' for health informatics and clinical informatics could be a research frontier. Nevertheless, further studies and collaborations are needed.
First-order transition in a model of prestige bias To summarize, this paper has presented a simple, single-parameter model of prestige bias under a process of iterated evaluation.
Predictors of Citation Rate in the Spine Literature Practitioners and research personnel can use these findings to help elucidate which factors might affect the potential impact and overall reach of their work in the spine literature. The results of this study demonstrate that while the number of authors characteristic is only associated with levels of evidence, other categories such as region of origin, sample size, study topic, and publication journal are both associated with levels of evidence and are independent predictors of 5-year citation frequency in the subspecialty spine literature.
Does online access promote research in developing countries? Empirical evidence from article-level data Overall, our results provide empirical support for the hypothesis that free online access to journals promotes research in developing countries.
Universities' commitment to interdisciplinary research: To what end? These results suggest that efforts to develop and reorganize academic units are not futile; rather, when value commitments are made tangible via foundational research units like departments and centers, they can have their intended consequences.
A guide to shortening the time from submission to publication in Frontiers of Environmental Science & Engineering Thus, if the manuscripts fail the technical evaluation, additional processing time is needed, especially if the manuscript is submitted and unsubmitted several times.
Collecting and characterizing existing and freely accessible research integrity educational resources This study gives us an overview of what is freely available online, in terms of RI educational resources.
Science A&I Database Holdings at ARL and Oberlin Group Libraries, 2011-2016: A Longitudinal Study This research, despite the stated limitations, provides a previously unavailable picture of current holdings status of a number of science databases that have long been a part of sci-ence librarianship. The results across both ARL and Oberlin Group libraries begin to show some support for Wagner's 200923 predictions regarding an anticipated decline for non-added value A&I services, with notable dropoffs seen in the holdings for INSPEC, BIOSIS, Compendex, the three former Wilson A&I indexes, and the smaller Proquest databases at ARL libraries. Practical benefits of this research include that science and collections librarians will now have a source to quickly and easily benchmark local science database holdings with peer libraries from both ARL and Oberlin Group libraries.
What Do Editors Maximize? Evidence from Four Economics Journals Editors' decisions over which papers to publish have a major impact on the direction of research in a field and on the careers of researchers.
The journals in physics that publish Nobel Prize research The conclusion is that the most ground-breaking scientific work in physics is not necessarily published in the journals with the highest Impact Factor.
The impact of a paper's new combinations and new components on its citation "Finally, we discuss the theoretical contributions, methodological contributions, and practical implications of these findings."
Research on impact evaluation of open access journals This research evaluates the impact of OA journals from citation indicators and open metric indicators, which plays an important role in the development of OA journals. Finally, impact evaluation of OA journals could provide valuable information of OA development. These indicators are useful for development of OA journals, particularly when contributions of publications are available to be assessed.
Nine million book items and eleven million citations: a study of book-based scholarly communication using OpenCitations Overall, books have limited (but irreplaceable) roles to play in scholarly communication.
Spam emails in academia: issues and costs By making academics aware of these costs we hope measures can be taken by affected institutes to reduce the negative externality of spam emails and offer some potential solutions.
Predicting literature's early impact with sentiment analysis in Twitter Overall, an encouraging positive correlation between tweet sentiments and citation counts showed that Twitter-based opinion may be exploited as a complementary predictor of literature's early impact. This study proposed measuring the early impact of tweet sentiments associated with research articles disseminated on Twitter. We found that the papers cited in either positive or neutral tweets had a higher impact than those not cited, or those cited in a negative tweet.
Drivers of innovation productivity of academic researchers through career advancement First, awarding of research leadership positions seems to overcome some of the challenges (resource limitations, time flexibility, etc.) that young researchers might face.
Sharing research with academia and beyond: Insights from early career researchers in Australia and Japan This study provides novel insights into the kinds of research texts produced by ECRs in Australia and Japan for both academic and non-academic audiences and routes of dissemination currently being used.
Is Self-Citation Biased? An Investigation via the Lens of Citation Polarity, Density, and Location This study empirically examined self-citations from perspectives of polarity uncertainty, and the location, density, and level of citations. The findings suggest that self-citations are not significantly biased in terms of polarity uncertainty and citation density, but they are subject to bias in terms of positivity and negativity. Therefore, the findings of this research provide an integrated view of potential biases induced by self-citing behavior by probing into the motives and/or context of self-citations from multiple perspectives.
Is It a Home Run? Measuring Relative Citation Rates in Accounting Research The use of these metrics should enable more informed performance evaluations of junior accounting researchers.
An Analysis of Publications on Cervical Plexus Blocks In conclusion bibliometric studies show the scientific interest by evaluating the quantity of published papers.
Combining the weighted and unweighted Euclidean indices: a graphical approach This paper proposes a simple composite method to jointly deploy the weighted and unweighted Euclidean indices.
"Another roof, another proof": the impact of mobility on individual productivity in science In this context, the cumulative effect of the three forces suggested that researchers experience a productivity boost when they move and this boost is positively moderated by the resources of the destination university. We tested these hypotheses on a sample of bioscience academics in the UK between 1995 and 2009 for our empirical analysis using an instrumental variable approach and a dynamic panel data specification. The empirical results suggested strong support for our hypotheses.
Exploring the Effects of North-South and South-South Research Collaboration in Emerging Economies, the Colombian Case(sic)(sic)(sic) The findings reported here support the claim that IRC is positively associated with both research team productive capacity and team ability to contribute to local knowledge in Colombia.
Global bibliometric analysis of Building Information Modeling through the Web of Science Core Collection (2003-2017) In this article an in-depth bibliometric analysis of all the BIM-related records present in WoS Core Collection database in the 2003-2017 time series has been carried out. The information obtained in this research is very useful from the institutional point of view, since it will help countries and research centers to develop strategies to strengthen their scientific policies and to increase the visibility of their research, establishing a ranking among countries and research centers with higher scientific production. As a main conclusion, it has been found that only the journal Automation in Construction presents publications of all that countries.
Comparative Analysis of Web of Science and Scopus on the Energy Efficiency and Climate Impact of Buildings The publications concerning energy efficiency and carbon mitigation from buildings within the international scientific knowledge since year 2013 were assessed with a bibliometric analysis using Web of Science and Scopus databases as the sources. In all, we identified differences in the content of the databases, which suggests that future research should be informed from both Scopus and WoS. We recommend that future research focuses on filling the above identified gaps, assessing the contents of several scientific databases, and extending energy analyses to their effects in terms of mitigation potentials.
Thousands of Australian academics on the editorial boards of journals run by predatory publishers Like it or not, many thousands of academics use the predatory open access publishing industry and would suffer if this service was no longer available to them. In short, we need to publish here in Australia journals that provide an ethical alternative to the ones that are harming us morally, intellectually, and financially. Institutions mindful not only of their own reputations but that of scholarship generally, while also mindful of the prospect that – sooner or later – someone, or some research team, or some department or institution may become the laughing-stock of their collegiate community, can and must get the swindlers and racketeers out of their academies.
Feasibility of activity-based expert profiling using text mining of scientific publications and patents In conclusion, our findings demonstrate the initial feasibility of systematic profiling and recommendation of biomedical engineering experts based on their expert- and domain-spe-cific activity in publishing and patenting along the translational innovation chain.
Evaluating semantometrics from computer science publications First, semantometrics has high potential in estimating quality of publications, especially new ones which did not yet receive any citations. Second, usage of all information available in a citation network is significantly more potent than application of semantometrics for the two observed tasks. Third, assessment of the quality of a publication for the diverse discipline of computer science can apparently be performed by solely observing referenced and citing papers which are also located in the same area.
Putting multidisciplinarity (back) on the map By comparing both dominant definitions of ID and MD, and dominant characterizations of ID and MD, it was shown that (i) the theory represents MD as lesser than ID and (ii) that this representation is ungrounded because it is an effect of the theory being incomplete.
RESEARCH PERFORMANCE PREDICTORS IN ROMANIAN UNIVERSITIES: THE CASE OF THE BUCHAREST UNIVERSITY OF ECONOMIC STUDIES In this study, the empirical analysis of the performance of institutional scientific research explicitly included correlations between important research indicators within a Romanian higher education institution by placing a university professor / researcher at the centrum for a statistical analysis initially designed. An important finding of our statistical analysis is that the number of co-authors has the highest influence onto the scientific production of university professors, when it comes to both output indicators, journal articles and conference papers. Academic performance of advanced research and the development of a management system are essential for leadership efficiency and efficiency in today's universities.
Suggestions to Improve the Comprehensibility of Current Definitions of Scientific Authorship for International Authors Given the rapid growth of international co-authorships, this article provides sugges-tions to improve the comprehensibility of current definitions of authorship for inter-national co-authors. Without empirical research to determine the effectiveness of using metaphors, no one can claim with certainty that by using metaphors misunderstanding of norms will be completely prevented. Conducting empirical research among co-authors of different nationality/disci-pline to determine the success rates of using different metaphors in improving the compre-hensibility of authorship definitions could be among useful topics for future research.
The Participation and Motivations of Grant Peer Reviewers: A Comprehensive Survey In conclusion, the results of this independent survey suggest participation in grant peer review is uneven, with some groups much closer to their maximum capacity than others.
Bridging the Gap with Clinicians: The Issue of Underrecognition of Pathologists and Radiologists as Scientific Authors in Contemporary Medical Literature In conclusion, pathologists and radiologists are underrecognized as coauthors in surgical oncology case reports in spite of obvious proof of their contribution to manuscript preparation.
Research methodology used in the 50 most cited articles in the field of pediatrics: types of studies that become citation classics Few randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews were among citation classics in the field of pediatrics.
A bibliometric analysis of Economic Research-Ekonomska Istrazivanja (2007-2019) This paper presents a bibliometric analysis of Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja from 2007 to 2019 based on WoS. Overall, the paper provides an aim view of Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja by bibliometric analysis, which is an essential and valuable tool for scholars to understand the trend and grasp some hot topics of a journal or a research direction. We discuss some future challenges of the journal according to the above analysis.
The effects of funding policy change on the scientific performance of government research institutes Increasing individual-level funding has a positive effect on the journal impact factors of the published articles, a result that varies from that in previous studies.
Meta-ranking to position world universities The classifications resulting from the cluster analysis reveal the presence of 7 homogenous groups into which the universities studied can be divided.
The evolution of Omega-The International Journal of Management Science over the past 40 years: A bibliometric overview This study presents a bibliometric overview of Omega over the past 40 years, from 1979 to 2018.
Green and gold open access citation and interdisciplinary advantage: A bibliometric study of two science journals This study provides important evidence of nuance in OA Citation Advantage.
Continuous Professional Development (CPD) of librarians: A bibliometric analysis of research productivity viewed through WoS Low research productivity in CPD of librarians may inhibit informed decision making due to lack of availability of scientific research output. As a result, libraries may continue to have an unskilled and irrelevant workforce that does not meet the changing demands of the 21st century users. It is hoped that this work will trigger more research interest in LIS discipline.
Mapping the tuberculosis scientific landscape among BRICS countries: a bibliometric and network analysis An overview of BRICS scientific publications and interactions highlighted the necessity to develop a BRICS TB research plan to increase efforts and funding to ensure that basic science research successfully translates into products and policies to help end the TB epidemic.
Decline to Review a Manuscript: Insight and Implications for AJR Reviewers, Authors, and Editorial Staff The analyzed data provide a valuable insight for AJR editorial staff and reviewers to further improve the peer review process.
Scientific impact of multiple sclerosis and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder research from Southeast Asia: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, the scientific impact of MS/ NMOSD in the SEA was considered low in quantity and quality. This study must encourage researchers in the SEA to produce greater volumes of high-quality publications in this particular field and this should motivate individual government to increase % GDP for R&D for the benefit of local patients with these rare and disabling conditions. The current status of research productivity in the SEA, as reflected in the pooled bibliometric analyses in this review, should encourage researchers, healthcare providers and policymakers to produce greater volumes of high-quality publications in the field of MS and NMOSD for the benefit of local patients with these rare conditions.
Retraction: The "Other Face" of Research Collaboration? Our study suggests that jointly published research with contributions of primary authors from top universities is less likely to be retracted; but once retracted the elapsed time between publication and retraction is rather short.
Scientometric analysis of social science and science disciplines in a developing nation: a case study of Pakistan in the last decade Scientometric analysis of research articles produces helpful results that prove to be useful in policy making and author profiling task. The results of our inquiries suggest that Science disciplines are progressing more in Pakistan. Overall, the publication rates of both domains are rising over time.
Towards a systematic description of the field using keywords analysis: main topics in social networks This paper provides an insight into the topics developed in SNA and reveals important information for its systematic description.
Analysis of journal evaluation indicators: an experimental study based on unsupervised Laplacian score The aim of this study is to identify the more important features for categorizing journals through unsupervised Laplacian score.
Altmetrics of the Open Access Institutional Repositories: a webometrics approach A candidate explanation for the low number of altmetric mentions is the lack of strategy in promotion of IRs contents and certain bad practices mostly regarding URL naming.
How do academic topics shift across altmetric sources? A case study of the research area of Big Data In conclusion, our case study has proven that there are indeed (dis)similarities between the topics highlighted by authors in their papers and how they are discussed by online audiences. Overall, it can be concluded that the online users tend to mention topics that are more social and general. This study lays the foundations for further investigations about the role of online audiences in the transformation of academic topics across alt-metric sources, and the degree of concern and reception of scholarly contents by online communities.
The effect of collaboration with large publishers on the internationality and influence of open access journals for research institutions It is found that the publication of open access journals in collaboration with large publishers contributes toward enhancing the internationality of journals and increasing citation scores, and that the effect is larger for journals of research institutions in non-English-speaking countries than those in English-speaking countries.
Complexity-based quality indicators for human and social capital in science and research: the case of Serbian Homeland versus Diaspora The first 7 out of 8 presented conclusions confirm with complete and statistically sig- nificant findings that this complexity-based quality indicators model was an effective tool to measure human and social capital in scientific and research communities, which was the first hypothesis of our study.
A meta-analysis study of the relationship between research and economic development in selected countries in sub-Saharan Africa The paper concludes that both the quantity (volume of research) and quality (or impact) of research are essential for economic development while research output and citation impact depend on economic development in not only individual countries but also in sub-Saharan Africa, as a whole. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated, notwithstanding the citation-quality debate, bidirectional causal relationship between research output and impact, and economic development in sub-Saharan Africa. We recommend further research in several areas into which the current study did not delve.
The impact of research output on economic growth by fields of science: a dynamic panel data analysis, 1980-2016 Based on the panel data from 65 countries over 36 years (1980 to 2016) and using system GMM estimations that control for endogeneity, omitted-variable bias, and unobserved country-specific effects, this study highlights the critical role research output plays in economic growth, and clearly shows that the impact of research output occurs mostly through structural changes favoring the industrial sector.
An Origin of Citations: Darwin's Collaborators and Their Contributions to the Origin of Species This paper draws ideas from bibliography, bibliometrics, scientometrics, and science studies with the intent of providing a new perspective for the study of the Origin of Species through the cataloging of Darwin's citations to his collaborators.
The scientific production of medical students in Lima, Peru Among medical students in Lima, one out of seven had published at least one paper, one out of 12 had published at least one original paper, and one out of 40 had published at least one original paper in PubMed-Indexed journals.
Influential variables in the Journal Impact Factor of Dentistry journals Systematic reviews have significant effect on the Journal Impact Factor position of a journal as well as adherence to ICMJE recommendations, while papers publishing clinical trials bear no influence on this factor. Greater yearly average of published papers in a journal means a higher impact factor.
Bibliometric and authorship trends over a 30 year publication history in two representative US sports medicine journals In conclusion, AJSM® and Arthroscopy® showed an increase in most variables analyzed.
Comparison of Attention for Cancer Research on Social Media Versus Academia: An Altmetric Score Analysis This study provides a detailed list of 50 most cited cancer articles and social media interest using the Altmetric.com database.
A Scientometric Study on Depression among University Students in East Asia: Research and System Insufficiencies? Findings reveal that: The research outputs in Korea and Japan are relatively low, and they also lack international collaborations, funding provisions, and diversity in research targets. To some extent, the international collaboration and funding provision in Japan and Korea remain ineffective in raising scientific impact and scientific quality, while the situation is worse in China (the negative associations of the total citations with international collaboration and funding provision). Thus, we recommend policymakers in Japan and Korea to promote scientific research regarding mental health among university students through international collaborations, funding provisions, and resource reallocation.
Impact factor rankings for sleep research journals between 2005 and 2018 We provide a ranking list specifically for sleep journals that might be useful for researchers to cite when providing context in their applications for employment, promotion and funding. These rankings will be really useful for providing a published source for how sleep journals rank the next time we apply for something.
Fractionalization of h-index for multiple authorship - an impact-based interpretation conserving counts We see that it is more meaningful, in the context of fractionalization, to read the h-index off the impact sequence, rather than the citation sequence as the former is based on an intensive property that does not change with fractionalization.
Bibliometric analysis of qualitative research on patients' experiences of intestinal stoma published between 2002-2018 The present bibliometric study helps us map the qualitative research on the experiences of individuals with an intestinal stoma, as well as to understand patterns in the designs, methods, disciplines, and journals involved in this area of research. This will allow nurses to have a leading contribution to stoma care at their disposal.
Grey literature citations in top nursing journals: a bibliometric study The substantial citation of grey literature in nursing journals shows that nursing scholars seek and use this category of information. These findings have implications for teaching and learning among nursing researchers and the information professionals who serve the nursing research community. Grey literature makes a substantial contribution to nursing research, and information professionals can apply this knowledge to their instruction, research, and practice.
SPI-Hub™: a gateway to scholarly publishing information The journal decision support tool, SPI-Hub, provides an opportunity to assess publication practices by compiling data from a variety of sources in a single location.
National Cancer Institute scientific production scientometric analysis Multidimensional analysis with the proposed neural network enables obtaining a more reliable and comprehensive absolute and relative institutional scientiometric profile than that derived from measuring isolated variables.
Is filtering censorship? Our research hoped to shed new light on the reasons why authors selected so-called predatory journals for their research and to learn of their experiences with such journals.
Coauthorship in academic journals: Implications for international collaboration and alliances Our study is the first to show that coauthorship collaboration can both improve and diminish the impact of published articles. Articles with authors listed alphabetically have greater impact than those with nonalphabetical author listing, mirroring results found in other business disciplines such as economics, finance, and marketing. This paper thus has implications for research policies within academia.
Publishing and perishing? Publishing patterns of information science academics in Kenya From the findings, the author concludes that the publication production rate of information science academics in Kenya is low. Overall, it can be concluded that information science academics in Kenya are publishing, but still perishing. There is need for strategies to enhance the quantity, quality and visibility of publications by information science academics in Kenya as a means of main- streaming their contribution to existing knowledge in the discipline.
GENDER AND ACADEMIC PROMOTION TO FULL PROFESSOR IN ONTARIO This study finds a large, and likely widening, gender gap in promotions of academics to full professor.
Eco-system mapping of techno-science linkages at the level of scholarly journals and fields Based on patent references in scientific literature, we have studied the eco-system of techno-science linkages at both journal and cluster levels. Our results confirm the prominent position of Chemistry and Nano Science in techno-science linkages. Further investigation is needed regarding the declining trend of techno-science linkages in the leading fields.
Assessing U.S. Landscape Architecture Faculty Research Contribution This might point to an attempt by programs to maintain a balance between scholarly contributions and the education of professional landscape architects. As research becomes an increasing important part of the profession, the productive programs and individuals identified in this study might provide models for others to emulate. This study has documented the level of contribution of individuals and universities.
Mapping the evaluation results between quantitative metrics and meta-synthesis from experts' judgements: evidence from the Supply Chain Management and Logistics journals ranking Thus, some interesting findings are concluded. First, H-index, Impact Per Publication (IPP), and SNIP play dominant roles in the SCML journal's quality evaluation.
Research Misconduct in Business and Management Studies: Causes, Consequences, and Possible Remedies Academics should be encouraged to be committed to research of the highest integrity (Adler & Hansen, 2012). We should strengthen our collective commitment to research integrity and help to prevent research from becoming a corrupt game that damages the scholarly community and, ultimately, our wider society. Flowing from the analysis above, we make 11 recommendations that are directed to authors, journal editors and publishing houses, and the broader academic community.
Main path analysis on cyclic citation networks The effectiveness and usefulness of the proposed methods were demonstrated through experiments on two data sets.
Collaboration and citation impact: Trends in health sciences research at the University of Cape Town Our findings confirm reports in the literature of higher citation of internationally co-authored publications.
Research productivity in science and its relationship to race in South Africa The analysis presented in this paper brings forth issues that relate to productivity and race in South Africa.
Unbundling practice: the unbundling of big deal journal packages as an information practice This article developed a research agenda for studying the evaluation and decision-making practice of librarians' attempting to unbundle big deal journal packages.
Sugeno Integrals, Hα, and H<SUP>β</SUP> Indices: How to Compare Scientists From Different Academic Areas Based on the Sugeno integral approach, we have introduced scientometric indices Ha, Hẞ and H allowing to compare the performance of scientists from different research fields.
Analysis of Countries Scientific Capability in Dual Scientific Roles First, our paper provides an important, innovative view for studying countries' scientific capability.
A Two-Layer Network Model Reveals the Adhesion Scientist Career Stage and Research Topic in China The career stage switch is closely related with his/her collaborators in China, which the novice collaborating with the reputation scholar would help them find popular topics and projects, while the experienced scholars working with the novices would help to explore new knowledge frontiers. In this study, we put forward a two-layer network model, one is the author collaborate network and the other is the paper similarity network, denoted by a-layer and B-layer, respectively. Although we provide a new perspective to understand the research topics evolution in this study, while the limitations have not been left out.
Measure the Impact of Institution and Paper Via Institution-Citation Network This paper investigated a data-driven method to quantify the impact of institution and paper from heterogeneous institution-citation network. Experimental results showed that the IPRank model was more representative of the outstanding impact of institution and paper.
Using the Quadruple Helix Model for evaluation of health science researches Case study of D8 countries Lack of balance between four Quadruple Helix spaces in D8 countries (e.g. Park and Park, 2018) implies that the relationship between knowledge and different sectors of society has not been similar in all countries.
Ranking of Sustainability Journals Using the Author Affiliation Index and Comparison to Other Journal Metrics The results obtained demonstrate that there is a lower AAI score on average in the sustainability field compared with other disciplines such as finance, accounting, transportation, etc.
The mathematics of ageing: Linking demography and operations research to study the greying of academia "Population ageing has become one of the major challenges in the 21st century, affecting all sectors in society. The purpose of the paper is to show how mathematical methods of demography can be used to investigate population ageing problems on the example of the greying of academia."
ADD: Academic Disciplines Detector Based on Wikipedia The overall conclusion from the evaluation is that the results are satisfactory to a large extent and, at the same time, very useful in the identification of the aspects which can be further improved to reach even higher discipline detection accuracy.
Mapping the interdisciplinarity in information behavior research: a quantitative study using diversity measure and co-occurrence analysis This study contributes to the evolution and measurement of interdisciplinarity of information behavior research, which has implications for researchers and practitioners in this field. The establishment of interdisciplinary research entities such as institutes or platforms could provide open sharing laboratories, seminar rooms and funds for collaborative research of information behavior. As challenges become more complex and uncertain, an interdisciplinary curriculum system including knowledge of theories or methods from applied science, social science, psychology or medicine could enhance our competitiveness.
Where is Thermal Energy Storage (TES) research going? - A bibliometric analysis TES scientific research field is a very important one accounting for more than 14,000 publications on relevant journals during the last decades. Furthermore, 14 research communities in TES field were detected by this bibliometric analysis, and the top 10 authors in this field leading most of these research communities. Especially in TCS, this accounts for the lowest amount of published papers. Besides, the growth of number of publications, in this sub-field has appeared during the last years of this decade.
A scientometric visualization analysis for global toxicology and pharmacology research of natural products from 1962 to 2018 The results show an increasing trend of the publication records.
A Field in Formation - A Citation Analysis of Japanese Popular Culture Studies Thus, the present study is a contribution to the picture of how scholarly communication in the humanities occurs in general and how it takes place in a specific developing area in the humanities in particular. Answers to these questions and a better understanding of the field's intellectual structure—and so, the information needs of faculty and students working in it—can be used to make collection development decisions, as well as to aid librarians in providing reference assistance and performing more in-depth research.
On publication number in meteor science Considering the refereed publications in meteor science in 2000–2018, devoted mostly to meteors and meteoroids, but not to meteorites or interplanetary dust, I found that the annual number of publications is approximately stable at the level about 160. The mean number of publications per researcher per year is 0.43, decreasing slightly in the last 8–10 years, but generally being stable. My estimate for the next 19 years coincides exactly with Abt's estimate. So I can only repeat Abt's
unarXive: a large scholarly data set with publications' full-text, annotated in-text citations, and links to metadata Evaluating and applying approaches to research paper-based and citation-based tasks typically requires large, high-quality, citation-annotated, interlinked data sets. In this paper, we proposed a new data set with over one million papers' full texts, 29.2 million annotated citations, and 29.2 million extracted citation contexts (of three sentences each), ready to be used by researchers and practitioners. For the future, we plan to use the data set for a variety of tasks. Among others, we will develop a citation recommendation system based on all arXiv papers. Furthermore, we plan to perform additional analyses on citations and citation contexts across scientific disciplines, and to use the differences in citing behavior for enhanced citation recommendation.
A data-driven analysis of the knowledge structure of library science with full-text journal articles The outcome showed that, over the last 20 years (1997–2016), the knowledge structure of LS has mainly consisted of topics related to the librarianship and interdisciplinary fields. This study not only provides an up-to-date view of the knowledge structure of the LS field but also describes the origin of constituent sub-fields. Therefore, this study should encourage fur-ther research into both the identification of the current state of scholarly fields and into how we can extrapolate future topic trends from current trends.
The impact of Chinese library and information science on outside disciplines: A citation analysis This study explores the external impact of Chinese LIS using citation analysis. It highlights the scholarly achievements of Chinese LIS and offers support in developing strategies for knowledge dissemination. More strategies for optimizing knowledge production, enhancing knowledge dissemination, and bridge-building between theory and practice are also suggested to promote and spread the value of LIS research.
Social Media Coverage of Scientific Articles Immediately After Publication Predicts Subsequent Citations - #SoME_Impact Score: Observational Analysis Social media attention predicts citations and could be used as an early surrogate measure of scientific impact. This could lead to academics being recognized and receiving early credit for their work instead of having to wait for citation counts to mature. Further work is required to validate these findings in the wider biomedical literature and nonbiomedical fields.
Medical research versus disease burden in Africa In this article, we evaluate the alignment between the medical research effort and the burden of disease across four African regions.
Interrelated funding streams in a multi-funder university system: Evidence from the German Exzellenzinitiative Overall, this suggests that the impact of the highly selective Exzellenzinitiative may have been dampened by the reaction of funding obtained from other sources.
The Matthew effect of a journal's ranking A major unintended consequence is that researchers may cite papers because of the journals in which they are published rather their own merits.
Bibliometric overview of the Technological Forecasting and Social Change journal: Analysis from 1970 to 2018 The present study provides a general overview of the articles published in TF&SC journal from 1970 to 2018.
Forty-five years of Journal of Business Research: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, the past 45 years of JBR have positioned it as a well-respected journal in marketing and business research frequently pursued for its academic excellence involving topics that are recognized as "classics" in the respective disciplines. The increase in publications and citations indicates JBR's growing stature as a key academic outlet advancing knowledge in multiple research domains. Our study offers useful insights into JBR's importance as a business journal. Because our study relied on bibliometric data confined to Scopus, including data from other sources could alter the results, thus meriting additional study.
Scientific careers and the mobility of European researchers: an analysis of international mobility by career stage Our results suggest findings that are relevant both to scholarship on research careers and researcher mobility and to policies associated with geo-political initiatives such as the EHEA and the ERA. Established mid-career researchers who make a timely return home have improved chances of this move involving career advancement.
Deepening the Consequences of Multidisciplinarity on Research: The Moderating Role of Social Capital The paper contributes to social capital literature investigating the possible moderating effect of researchers' social capital in that relationship. According to the proposed theoretical model, we conclude that social capital moderates this relationship. The conclusions of our study invite future research that could extend and contrast the findings obtained here.
Discovering seminal works with marker papers Overall, the results of the RPYS-CO analyses presented here and the RPYS of Haunschild et al. (2016a) are very similar although the methodology and the employed database are quite different. It is a viable approach to define a research field by the publications co-cited with a suitable marker paper.
Measuring open access publications: a novel normalized open access indicator Normalized Open Access Indicator (NOAI) corrects for disciplinary composition and allows a better comparability of institutions or countries.
Telescopic and panoramic views of library and information science research 2011-2018: a comparison of four weighting schemes for author co-citation analysis Measuring deep impact may be interesting and important for research evaluation but fails to retain the broader con- text that makes the visualizations of research fields so informative.
Cross-disciplinary collaboration versus coexistence in LIS serials: analysis of authorship affiliations in four European countries LIS departments or institutions barely account for a third of the research output published in serial titles under the LIS subject category. Cross-disciplinary collaboration among all areas is low, but is particularly low in LIS compared to other areas that contributed to the set of papers analysed. The low level of cross-disciplinary collaboration in LIS contradicts, from the point of view of authorship, the interdisciplinary nature of LIS purported in the literature.
A comparative analysis of retracted papers in Health Sciences from China and India The major findings of the study are that both India and China contributed significantly to retracted papers on Health Science.
Bibliometrics units as dynamic engines for universities' scientific production BRU has managed to serve as an engine that exerts a positive influence on USIL’s research activities, it has allowed to disseminate the importance of bibliometrics in Peru and has positioned itself as a specialist agency in this area; as such, it has provided consulting to other Peruvian educational and scientific institutions and organizations. Hence, BRU has positioned itself as an agent of change in the Peruvian ecosystem of research and scientific publication. This has been achieved in part by BRU’s support to researchers and to the USIL, provided courtesy access to their products for a single computer and such support has been included in the acknowledgments of the publications.
Defining predatory journals and responding to the threat they pose: a modified Delphi consensus process "In bringing together an international group of diverse stakeholders, we were able to use a modified Delphi process to inform the development of a definition of predatory journals and publishers."
How do public investments in gender equality initiatives and publication patterns interrelate? The case of Germany The analysis has shown that the role of women academics in the German publication landscape has changed significantly over the past 15 years. The higher participation of women in publications goes along with a general increase in the number of female staff in the research performing institutions in Germany and underlines the benefits associated with their better representation. Our investigation has not yet been able to establish a direct link between the launch of the programmes and the improved representation of women in the different bibliometric indicators. However, we have good reasons to assume that the programmes have at least contributed not only to the higher shares of women within the research performing organisations, but - as a long-term impact - also to improved female publication patterns, especially in terms of citations and excellence rates.
How do public investments in gender equality initiatives and publication patterns interrelate? The case of Germany The analysis has shown that the role of women academics in the German publication landscape has changed significantly over the past 15 years. There has been a clear increase in the number of (co-)publications by female authors. This means there are clear benefits for Germany in terms of scientific outputs from an increased proportion of women in its scientific workforce.
Rural-urban studies: A macro analyses of the scholarship terrain "The objective of this study was to provide a macroscopic analysis of rural-urban studies in order to understand the academic landscape of the subfield."
When will I get my paper back? A replication study of publication timelines for health professions education research Findings confirm the replicability of the original study, and the limited data suggest that, in comparison to biomedical scientists broadly, medical educators may experience longer wait times for article acceptance and publication.
A bibliometric analysis of publications on trauma in critical care medicine during 1980-2018: A holistic view This study will be a useful guide to all scientists and clinicians conducting research on trauma in critical care.
A novel synthetic index of two counts and mathematical model for researcher evaluation The novel synthetic index of two counts and mathematical model for researcher evaluation provide a better way to conduct researcher assessment.
How many preprints have actually been printed and why: a case study of computer science preprints on arXiv These results show that posting manuscripts to preprint servers contributes to the acceptance of papers in peer-reviewed venues.
Twenty-five years of The European Journal of Finance (EJF): a retrospective analysis The results of this investigation indicate the journal's major success in terms of productivity, impact and reach. Since its inception, the European Journal of Finance has provided an outlet for high quality work examining a range of cutting edge issues in international financial markets. Throughout the quarter of a century of its existence, the journal has grown consistently in terms of size, quality and international reach.
Accessing the academic influence of vascular surgeons within the National Institutes of Health iCite database Vascular surgeons exhibit a moderate academic influence in the field of aneurysmal disease but lag behind medical subspecialists in high-impact scientific contributions to the fields of PAD and DVT. Innovative strategies and collaborations are likely needed to increase the influence of vascular surgeons on the academic discourse of several vascular disease research fields. An active commitment to the development and mentorship of vascular surgeon-scientists is likely war- ranted to preserve the research influence of vascular sur- geons in cardiovascular disease.
Approaches to Measuring Trends in Interdisciplinary Research Publications at One Academic Medical Center This study found that interdisciplinary research increased at Johns Hopkins University over the past decade and highlights the difference between corresponding authors' views of their own research and other methods for determining interdisciplinarity.
Analyzing the topic distribution and evolution of foreign relations from parliamentary debates: A framework and case study Overall, the framework proposed in this paper is proven to be both effective and feasible, and its application through this case study can foster a deeper un-derstanding of the status and development of UK-China relations.
Which health and biomedical topics generate the most Facebook interest and the strongest citation relationships? In answer to the first research question, this article found only four (Science-Metrix) field differences and no (MeSH) cross-field topic differences in the rate of attracting Facebook mentions, although this is affected by the relatively strict statistical model used that filtered out minor relationships (Model 1), and the exclusion from the dataset of papers not mentioned on Facebook.
Diffusion and adoption: an explanatory model of "question mark" and "rising star" articles Practical implications and significance: We have introduced an explanatory model of rising star and question mark articles in science.
Field dependence of citation data validation of premier peer-review decisions in India "Thus, type I and type II errors cannot be avoided in any peer-review or cita- tion evaluation taken in isolation, and vary from as much as 100% to 63%, depending on the field."
Where should I publish to get promoted? A finance journal ranking based on business school promotions The journal ranking presented in this paper can be used by finance researchers as a guide to inform where they should target their research papers.
How researchers view altmetrics: an investigation of ISSI participants The paper also provides suggestions for the application of altmetrics in research evaluation. The results suggest that despite the current skepticism about altmetrics, the fact must be acknowledged that an increasing number of researchers are using social media for academic activities, and, consequently, the vast amount of data generated by these behaviors deserves our attention. For the long-term development of altmetrics, we need to make more efforts to control the quality of altmetrics data.
RETRACTED: Measurement and analysis of Chinese journal discriminative capacity (Retracted Article) By empirical analysis of journals in LIA and five other disciplines, the proposed method can be used to measure the difference of journals, which proves the theoretical or practical usefulness of the method.
The citation disadvantage of clinical research Our analysis has pointed out the disadvantage of clinical orientated research in accruing citations; clinical papers tend to have fewer citations than basic papers and are less likely to become hit works. Given the current citation under-appreciation of clinical research, funding bodies may seek to have comprehensive evaluation of output beyond scholarly publications and short-term based citations. Proposing citation indicators that can mitigate such bias remains to be an important future work.
The role of geographical proximity in knowledge diffusion, measured by citations to scientific literature This paper analyses the influence of geographic distance on the knowledge flows between producers (of cited articles) and users (by means of the citing articles). The use of a gravitational model estimated by OLS, controlling for the mass M¡ and M¡ of the territories citing and cited, shows a decrease in domestic knowledge flows between territories as their distance increases. A further analysis, which distinguished the continental flows (referred to citations from European countries) from the intercontinental flows (referred to citations from non-European countries), shows that the weight of the geographic factor on the knowledge flow dynamics decreases progressively, ultimately disappearing with the non-European countries.
Identification of highly-cited papers using topic-model-based and bibliometric features: the consideration of keyword popularity The present study pioneers the investigation of keyword popularity to gain an understanding of its influence on predicting papers that are highly or less highly cited. Our evaluation results show that, with KP features, the prediction models are more effective than those with journal and/or author features, especially in the MIS discipline. Therefore, keyword popularity features can improve the effectiveness of the prediction models, which implies that consideration of article keywords can be of help to correctly detect citation counts of papers if a research is more interdisciplinary.
Temporal bibliographic networks Introducing a time dimension can give additional insights into bibliographic networks.
A comparison among citation-based journal indicators and their relative changes with time The proportion of SCI journals with JIF2 values larger than their JIF5 values increased over time.
The overlooked citations: Investigating the impact of ignoring citations to published patent applications The greatest contribution of this study lies in that it serves as a reminder to researchers about the vast amount of PPA citations.
A novel methodology to assess the scientific standing of nations at field level The ability to produce significant knowledge advances (HCAs) is a hallmark of scientific excellence.
Jointly valuing journal visibility and author citation count: An axiomatic approach The paper proposes fusing two historically polarized perspectives on research assessment.
Unbiased evaluation of ranking metrics reveals consistent performance in science and technology citation data Well-designed robust evaluation protocols are crucial for understanding which ranking metrics, which we have abundance of (Liao et al., 2017; Waltman, 2016), perform well in which contexts. Our work deepens the understanding of impact metrics, especially in relation to the interplay between their biases and the biases of the considered test set. The proposed evaluation framework which penalizes biased metrics has general applicability beyond the ranking of articles in citation data; by highlighting the various roles of bias, it provides practical lessons for the ranking practice in other datasets with bias, such as technological networks, social networks, and other systems.
Within-journal self-citations and the Pinski-Narin influence weights IW is a dimensionless indicator that emerges from the graph-theoretic properties of the citation network.
Self-Citations and scientific evaluation: Leadership, influence, and performance While our main contribution is methodological, these empirical results are important additions to the body of literature that evaluates gender differences in scientific activity. The inability to identify different contributions according to the role of the authors in the paper is an important drawback. In this study we propose a solution to this problem, involving the concept of scientific influence.
The case of significant variations in gold-green and black open access: evidence from Indian research output Firstly it is found that only about 24% articles from India published during last 5 years are available as legal open access. On the contrary, Sci-Hub provides free access to more than 90% of research papers from India, as observed for 2016 data. It appears that Sci-Hub is in a sense complementing the gold and green open access models, with preferential coverage of disciplines that are not well-covered through legal gold and green open access models.
New wine in old bottles? Examining institutional hierarchy in laureate mobility networks, 1900-2017 Our findings supported a positive answer, from the evidence of core-periph-ery structures, scale-free properties, hub institutions over time, and the strong level of Gini coefficients in laureate mobility networks.
The big challenge of Scientometrics 2.0: exploring the broader impact of scientific research in public health The example of category public, environmental and occupational health has provided interesting and assumingly typical insight in the properties of altmetrics. Above all, these properties determine the opportunities and limitation for their possible application in an evaluative context. Nonetheless, some of these new metrics may already provide useful information based on the feedback of broader, often heterogeneous groups of users that could be useful as supplement to traditional bibliometric indicators indeed.
Stress testing journals: a quasi-experimental study of rejection rates of a previously published paper However, our findings suggest that all three types of journals may not have adequate safeguards in place to recognize and act on plagiarism or duplicate submissions.
Analysis of Citation Patterns and Impact of Predatory Sources in the Nursing Literature The results of this study provide an understanding of the use and patterns of citations to predatory articles in legitimate nursing journals.
Trends and Features of the Applications of Natural Language Processing Techniques for Clinical Trials Text Analysis Results obtained from the bibliometric analysis, science mapping, and STM analysis demonstrated several significant implications and insights into relevant scholars before pursuing further explorations in the NLP-enhanced clinical trial research field.
Success and luck in creative careers In this work, we provided a framework to understand and quantify the role of randomness in the success of creative fields across different domains.
Internationalists and locals: international research collaboration in a resource-poor system The present findings reveal that some scientists are clearly more internationalized than others, and this distinction permeates the Polish academic science community.
Scientific elite revisited: patterns of productivity, collaboration, authorship and impact In summary, building on Zuckerman’s canonical work on scientific elites [1], here we present a systematic empirical investigation of the careers of Nobel laureates by studying patterns of productivity, collaboration, authorship and impact.
The evolution of scientific disciplines in applied sciences: dynamics and empirical properties of experimental physics Overall, then, this study explains, whenever possible, the relationships that support scien-tific change of disciplines to develop comprehensive properties of the evolution of science directed to economic, technological and social progress.
Mean values of skewed distributions in the bibliometric assessment of research units To rank research units, it is recommended to replace the calculation of standard mean values by adjusted mean values, which exclude outliers with very high citations as well as those with very low or no citations.
The domestic localization of knowledge flows as evidenced by publication citation: the case of Italy This work has applied a new approach to measure knowledge flows, based on linkages between cited publications “made in" a given region and citing publications "made in" other regions of the same country. In doing so, we have been able to construct a regional balance of knowledge flows, at both overall and field level.
Predicting the future success of scientific publications through social network and semantic analysis Our research, we examined several characteristics of scientific papers which help predict their scholarly impact 6 years after publication.
Participation of 'international national organisations' in Africa's research: a bibliometric study of agriculture and health in Zimbabwe It is concluded that relatively small tailor-made bibliometric datasets, developed for African countries with small science systems, have the potential to produce new insights and frameworks to direct future studies on research in Africa.
The Bologna reform's impacts on the scientific publication performance of Ph.D. graduates-the case of Slovenia Therefore, we conclude that the Bologna reform has a significant impact on the scientific publication performance of Ph.D. graduates, as there are notable differences in the pre-Bologna and the post-Bologna Ph.D. graduates' performance. The main conclusion is that the Bologna reform has some positive impact on Ph.D. graduates' scientific publication performance. More concerning results of our analyses are the side findings that all indicators record declining trends in the 2007–2016 period.
Author-related factors predicting citation counts of conference papers: focusing on computer and information science This study contributes to a better understanding of how well various properties of authors predict the future citation of conference papers in computer science and information science.
Engagement in research among pediatric subspecialists at the time of enrollment in maintenance of certification, 2009-2016 Less than 10% of pediatric medical subspecialists devote at least 50% of their professional time to research.
Science, research, and innovation infospheres in Google results of the Ibero-American countries The pages that appear more frequently in the first positions in IA countries are not national but institutions from other countries, as in the university Top 20 ranking.
Quantitative analysis of automatic performance evaluation systems based on the h-index Finally, we conclude that as long as the variation between the most commonly used systems to automatically evaluate scientific performance and the real values is as high as measured for this article the systems are neither fair nor neutral and should not be used to assess academic job candidates.
An exploration of gender gap using advanced data science tools: actuarial research community In this study, we explore the role of gender gap in the actuarial community by employing some advanced data science tools. We hope that our study will improve understanding of the gender gap within the actuarial research community and initiate a discussion that will lead to developing strategies for a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable community. Several solutions are proposed to narrow the gender gap in publishing and promote diversity in the actuarial science research field.
Collecting large-scale publication data at the level of individual researchers: a practical proposal for author name disambiguation By knowing the complete first name of the subject and their exact affiliation city, we obtained a census with an overall F-measure equal to 96.1% (96.1% for precision; 96.0% for recall), 2% higher than that recorded by applying the DGA baseline approach.
Does the geographic proximity effect on knowledge spillovers vary across research fields? On a national scale, the results show that as the distance between territories increases, controlling for their mass, there is a decrease in the number of citations exchanged in all SCs investigated, a finding in line with previous literature. Therefore, what we previously observed at the aggregate level is confirmed at SC level, concerning the presence of a “threshold" effect beyond which the geographic distance effect disappears and the intensity of the citation flows becomes insensitive to the spatial factor. This work also evidences that geographic bias tends to be differentiated between SCs, by virtue of their intrinsic characteristics.
Studying the accumulation velocity of altmetric data tracked by Altmetric.com First, we conclude that not all altmetrics are fast and that they do not accumulate at the same speed, existing a fundamental differentiation between fast sources (e.g. Reddit, Twitter, News, Facebook, Google+, and Blogs) and slow sources (e.g. Policy documents, Q&A, Peer review, Wikipedia, Video, and F1000Prime).
How much is too much? The difference between research influence and self-citation excess This paper introduces a graphical method for testing for indicative excessive author self-citation and hence distinguishing this, via informed data review, from the true performance of the most influential researchers.
An analysis of the productivity and impact of clinical PhD theses from the University of Copenhagen Overall, the present findings suggest that the scientific outcome of clinical PhD theses conducted at the University of Copenhagen was high, as 92% of all manuscripts were published in peer-reviewed journals with a fieldweighted journal ranking and citation impact above the world average.
Internationality at university level "Indicators of internationality used, e. g., for national comparisons or for journals can easily be adapted to the analysis of universities."
Mapping research collaborations in different countries and regions: 1980-2019 Generally, research collaboration in science continues to grow at a remarkable rate, especially measured by the number of authors per paper or the proportion of international collaborative papers. We revealed the different collaboration tendencies among 41 major countries or regions. This study has established large and upper views and baselines of collaboration in order for such baselines to guide scien-tific collaborations in each region and each organization.
Authorship and citation gender trends in immunology and microbiology The results show close to gender parity in the main (first) author of publishing in four of the five areas recognised by Scopus. Whilst both research questions have positive answers in at least one field (i.e., there are gender differences in citation rates, irrespective of whether team size is taken into account), there does not seem to be a large enough gender effect on citation rates (<5%) for first authors to explain the lack of senior females. There is a small last author citation advantage favouring males in most fields.
Needlestick injuries: a density-equalizing mapping and socioeconomic analysis of the global research Albeit NSI research activity is generally increasing, the growth is asymmetrical from a global viewpoint. Inter-national strategies should be followed that put a focus on NSI in non-industrialized areas of the world. This study points to the need to foster NSI research activities in non-industrial-ized countries in which health-care personnel are crucial for public health.
Short-term effects of non-competitive funding to single academic researchers The analysis showed that the DF did not produced any significant increase in any of the four dimensions of interest.
Self-Citation, Cumulative Advantage, and Gender Inequality in Science Considering the results in their totality, we feel confident in stating that, in our sample at least, men and women scientists do not meaningfully differ in their propensity to self-reference once the stock of citable publications is taken into account. Importantly, our analyses can further show that this conclusion holds even when focusing on self-citations of intellectually unrelated articles—the type of self-citation most likely to reflect self-aggrandizement instead of cumulativeness. Finally, we find no evidence of a differential ability to convert self-citations into favorable outcomes across men and women.
"Interdisciplinarity" and "Synergy" in the Œuvre of Judit Bar-Ilan We compared 130 full papers (co-)authored by Judit Bar-Ilan in terms of measures for “interdisciplinarity” and “synergy.” The three review papers in this set occupy a special position and enable us to study differences in the “interdisciplinarity" and “synergy” among the papers in the sample. Whereas Bar-Ilan (2008a) contributed to the redefinition and shaping of the discipline, Bar-Ilan (2004) added the broader perspective of the theoretical and practical relevance of the discipline, leading to both interdisciplinarity and synergy in this sample.
Comparative analysis of Russian and industrialized countries performance on Energy and Fuels, WoS, 2008-2017 Our data could be useful as a source for effective decision-making.
Nature, Science, and PNAS: disciplinary profiles and impact The study has investigated disciplinary composition of articles published in top three gen-eral science journals (Nature, Science and PNAS) and has calculated several measures to ascertain the impact of those papers, including the popular IF.
A two-dimensional bibliometric index reflecting both quality and quantity We have proposed the two-dimensional index (rec_I, rec_P) and shown that it is able to cap-ture two aspects of a reseacher's profile.
Commemorating Judit Bar-Ilan from bibliometric and altmetric perspectives Our bibliometric analysis showed that Judit Bar-Ilan was a well-connected researcher with a large and diverse network of co-authors. Similarly, the altmetric perspective reveals that her publications were distributed widely on Twitter: 25 of her articles were tweeted. The bibliometric and altmetric analyses confirm that Judit was an outstanding information scientist, a supportive mentor and a great colleague.
Historical roots of Judit Bar-Ilan's research: a cited-references analysis using CRExplorer JB was one of the most influential researchers in information science and scientometrics.
The Most-Cited Authors Who Published Papers in JMIR mHealth and uHealth Using the Authorship-Weighted Scheme: Bibliometric Analysis The most cited authors were selected using the authorship-weighted scheme (AWS), and the keywords of mHealth and telemedicine were more highly cited than other counterparts.
The journal quality perception gap Our study demonstrates the existence of a substantial quality perception gap and identifies the main influences on its extent within the business and management community. A key finding is that those who have a stronger positive sentiment towards the AJG and are more engaged with the AJG have a narrower quality perception gap. To conclude, our analysis indicates a clear journal quality perception gap in the focal community, to which all major stakeholders in research assessment contribute.
Public funding and the ascent of Chinese science: Evidence from the National Natural Science Foundation of China Our research contributes to the literature on evaluating the impact of public funding of scientific research.
Introducing the 'alt-index' for measuring the social visibility of scientific research We conclude that the alt-index can be adopted to measure the social activity of publications in situations where there is agreement amongst various social media channels.
Tracing the historical roots of positive psychology by reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS): A scientometrics perspective The analysis of RPYS results showed that 2594 positive psychology documents made references to 85,650 documents.
The 100 most cited articles in prosthodontic journals: A bibliometric analysis of articles published between 1951 and 2019 Although the citation index is not a direct measure of the quality or importance of an article, it does enable quantitative evaluation of scientific impact. The 100 most cited articles are considered important as they can provide information on advances, areas of most intense research, and future objectives in the field of prosthodontics.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Pectoral Nerve Blocks With this study, we hope to increase awareness in this area. We believe that pecs block appli-cations will become more widespread with the increasing use of ultrasound in anesthesia and the increase in education in this field. Bibliometric studies are an important indicator of scientific research productivity of countries according to the topic of researcher's interest.
What Is Driving Paradigm Shifts in Plastic Surgery and Is Cosmetic Surgery Keeping Up? Cosmetic innovation is not keeping up with reconstructive innovation; it is unknown why cosmetic surgery is lacking.
A path for ranking success: what does the expanded indicator-set of international university rankings suggest? This research re-ranked universities taking into account the individual contributions of score criteria within the expanded indicator-set. The research revealed a common path for ranking success through the contribution of each significant indicator in the expanded set. Considering the data reliability and longitudinal feasibility, several recommendations were also developed for further research on university ranking systems.
A decade of big data literature: analysis of trends in light of bibliometrics The study systematically analyzed the citations of publications in Big Data to answer a variety of research questions. The analysis reveals the pioneering role played by the USA in advancing the research in big data, which has lately been taken over by China, and the large-scale usage of big data analytics in various domains of science. It will be interesting to perform content-based citation analysis of the field and identify important works based on the context as well.
Pediatric Surgical Research Output in Germany in the Last 30 Years - An Assessment and International Comparison of Three Dedicated Paediatric Surgical Journals German pediatric surgical research output decreased in the last thirty years based on the sample of dedicated pediatric surgical journals, while Dutch productivity increased.
Interdisciplinarity Metric Based on the Co-Citation Network In this study we have proposed the co-citation network to redefine the unit's field without resorting to a pre-defined classification system. The proposed new measure for the degree of interdisciplinarity is scalable from a unit individually (paper) to a set of them (journal), without more than adding the numerators and denominators in the proportions. This important property of aggregability means that this new interdisciplinarity measure can also be applied at the meso (research groups, research centres) and macro levels (regions and countries).
Have ignorance and abuse of authorship criteria decreased over the past 15 years? For the second time in France, within a 15-year interval, we have shown that the ICMJE criteria were ignored and that honorary authorship was frequent.
Inside Job or Deep Impact? Extramural Citations and the Influence of Economic Scholarship It's significant, therefore, that many sophisticated noneconomists find economics scholarship worth referencing. The growing links between economic research and a wide range of other disciplines reinforce our view that economics scholarship has never been more exciting or useful than it is today. Consistent with the “credibility revolution" hypothesis advanced by Angrist and Pischke (2010), empirical work has come to draw an increasing share of attention from most of the disciplines where economics is important.
Factors Predicting the Scientific Wealth of Nations Overall, our findings indicate that it is small and well-governed countries with a long-standing democratic past that seem to be more efficient in translating economic wealth into high-quality science.
Combining metadata and co-citations for recommending related papers Therefore, it can be concluded that the proposed approach could be a better alternative in cases where content is unavailable.
Decision tree classification: Ranking journals using IGIDI This article proposes a new method for unbiased classification of journals and conferences using decision tree classification.
How to identify the roots of broad research topics and fields? The introduction of RPYS sampling using the example of climate change research The study therefore demonstrates the fruitfulness of the sampling approach for applying RPYS.
Australian contribution to global otolaryngology research: 2008-2018 Australia has established itself as a research leader in the global field of ORL-HNS, publishing more articles per surgeon than any other country between 2008 and 2018. The Australian ORL-HNS Academic Surgeons also rank highly on an individual basis when compared to global peers. Analysis of the quality of ORL-HNS research in Australia has demonstrated a clear improvement in the evidence level of papers produced.
Bibliometric analysis of breast cancer research in the period 2009-2018 Breast cancer research in the field of nursing has increased in the last decade, and the United States ranked first in terms of publications in this nursing field.
Ecuador publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: institutions, subjects, citation and collaboration patterns Science in Ecuador is growing but needs to greatly increase collaboration among Ecuadorean institutions to reduce its dependence on foreing projects.
Forty years of Employee Relations - The International Journal: a bibliometric overview This paper presents a retrospective overview of Employee Relations-The International Journal since its inception in 1979. The results indicate that ER has reached new heights in the 40 years of its journey while marking a 300% increase in the publication count for current times as compared to its first years. The findings of the article are useful for researchers and HR practitioners.
TRANSATLANTIC AFFILIATIONS OF SCIENTIFIC COLLABORATION IN STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT: A QUARTER-CENTURY OF BIBLIOMETRIC EVIDENCE The dominant role of the US regarding knowledge development and its transfer in strategic management internationally is obvious.
Authorship Not Taught and Not Caught in Undergraduate Research Experiences at a Research University Implications for graduate education and undergraduate research are discussed, and strategies for helping all students to develop a deeper understanding of authorship are identified. Authorship is an intrinsic aspect of research. Consequently, faculty at research universities are urged to explicitly discuss authorship and model good ethical decision-making in the negotiation of authorship with their graduate and undergraduate researchers.
Bringing the doctoral thesis by published papers to the Social Sciences and the Humanities: A quantitative easing? A small study of doctoral thesis submission rules and practice in two disciplines in the UK Our study provides evidence from a systematic investigation of changes in the practices regarding thesis submission in both Sociology and History departments in the UK Higher Education sector. In both disciplines, more departments still permit thesis submission in the monograph format exclusively: amongst Sociology departments, 13 departments require the monograph as compared with eight departments where both formats are allowed; while in History, 18 departments require the monograph exclusively, compared with 15 departments that allow both formats. We respectfully submit that the topic expects more research and that taxonomic and typological approaches may be helpful in developing understanding.
Longitudinal patterns in Spanish doctoral theses on scientific medical information: a tertiary study An overall conclusion that could be inferred is that the prestige gained by the Spanish scientific medical information is the result, to a consid- erable extent, of the remarkable efforts performed by its researchers. In general, this study has shown that the growth patterns of Spanish theses in scientific medical information are not adjusted to exponential and logistical models as proposed by de Price (1986) but rather to polynomial trends in a clear resonance with Giambatista Vico's older model (1725).
Pattern and trend of scientific knowledge production in North Korea by a semantic network analysis of papers in journal titled technological innovation Based on the overall findings, it can be presumed that scientific and technological knowledge has been produced in parallel with the major emphasis of S&T policy.
Is there a golden age in publication activity?-an analysis of age-related scholarly performance across all scientific disciplines Most academic careers require decades to reach their peak and the length of the period of maxi-mum performance varies across disciplines.
The dynamics of the studies of China's science, technology and innovation (STI): a bibliometric analysis of an emerging field The studies of China's STI have been rapidly emerging since 1995, during which some hot topics have emerged.
Does the institutional diversity of editorial boards increase journal quality? The case economics field Our results indicate the diversity of editorial board members in terms of institution is negatively related to ABS ranking, but unrelated to the 5YIF and the Eigenfactors.
A comparison of three multidisciplinarity indices based on the diversity of Scopus subject areas of authors' documents, their bibliography and their citing papers Using the SAs of the bibliography of the publications of a researcher seems the best way forward: the distinction between the two groups of researchers is higher than the one obtained using the SAs of the researchers' articles. Moreover, the larger number of biblio-graphical references would make the method suitable for researchers with a low number of publications and few citations. The use of the CHH index could help in defining a proper comparison set, not based (only) on SSDs when evaluating researchers, embracing also researchers from institutions for which the official disciplinary classification is not available.
Do "interdisciplinary" disciplines have an interdisciplinary impact?: Examining citations between educational technology and library and information science journals The findings of this study indicate that a relationship exists among the disciplines of library and information science and educational technology, evident in the exchange of citations among top journals in these disciplines. The linkage of these two disciplines is significant in supporting the notion that they are both highly interdisciplinary. This interdisciplinarity of citations, however, is not equally strong among all journals in the disciplines.
Not-so-SMART: Why new platform and surveillance technologies are bad news for science and understanding In conclusion, the introduction of connected technologies, such as fingerprinting and PURE, at many universities is nothing short of disastrous and should be actively resisted.
Comprehensive National Institutes of Health funding analysis of academic cardiac surgeons NIH-funded cardiac surgical research has had a significant impact over the last 3 decades.
Participation of the hospitals in the Republic of Ireland in international research over more than a decade: a bibliometric analysis Our study disclosed several important findings including factors affecting research productivity in Ireland and showed which areas are of most interest.
Building Decision-making Indicators Through Network Analysis of Big Data Our combined BD and NA approach, in addition to being innovative, proved to be very effective, as it can quickly build meaningful indicators, measuring in real-time readers' reactions.
Tweet Coupling: a social media methodology for clustering scientific publications Overall, the clustering results show that Bibliographic Coupling and Tweet Coupling based clustering complement each other in terms of grouping similar papers in a respective cluster. However, the Tweet Coupling based clustering highlights an interesting phenomenon i.e. the tweet user on social media networks are interested in similar subfields within Library and Information Sciences, in contrast to bibliographic based clustering, which groups cross-disciplinary journals within a cluster. We believe that Tweet Coupling can further be exploited in future studies for the scientific document search applications such as classification of scientific documents, recommendation systems, and information retrieval systems for digital libraries.
Incorporating citation impact into analysis of research trends We proposed the g-DMR topic model that is a universal method for multi-dimensional featured topic models by incorporating multiple arbitrary features into topic model.
Token-curated registry in a scholarly journal: Can blockchain support journal communities? We have to emphasize that a TCR-based journal is not a cure for all the woes of peer review and scholcom. It is rather an attempt to run the whole process on different principles, namely, transfer of key decision-making powers from the editors to the community and transparency of decision-making.
Civil disobedience in scientific authorship: Resistance and insubordination in science Whether in the form of pseudonyms, guest authors or creative authorship attribution processes, civil disobedience in authorship serves the explicit purpose of demonstrating how many of the written and unwritten rules governing the distribution of credit and other resources in academia reinforce a long series of inequalities. Civil disobedience calls for critical examination of these infrastructures and invites them to reflect upon themselves. Researching the rebellious makes fraud, fun and civil disobedience into strange bedfellows and urges us to take great care in attributing said labels.
Skin in the Game: Personal Accountability and Journal Peer Review Results provide tentative evidence that motivational factors influence the peer review process, and suggestions are made for improving peer review practices.
Effective publication strategies in clinical research We identified indications for two styles of publication strategies in use by researchers in the Department of Clinical Research at the University of Southern Denmark. Researchers with Low a focus on original research supported by a local network of collaborators and disseminate knowledge through the media and field-specific journals. Both styles of publication strategy can lead to a successful academic career, and high h-index overall, even though the methods of the High a researchers were more effective at moving the h-index in the previous 5 years.
Scientific Research in West Africa and the Impact of International Collaboration: An Analysis in Scopus Database, 1997-2017 Over the years, West African contribution to global knowledge has increased quite dramatically. West African research appears to be more dependent on inter-regional collaboration than intra-regional collaboration. West African countries must invest more in research and improve their research production abilities to further strengthen socio-economic development in the sub-region.
Tropical marine sciences: Knowledge production in a web of path dependencies The above scientometric analysis provides the quantitative empirical basis for observing how knowledge production trends are not evenly distributed across space, time or topic, supporting similar work on marine and coastal research globally [9,50].
Science through Wikipedia: A novel representation of open knowledge through co-citation networks This study illustrates the use of scientific information from the Wikipedia perspective, which is the most important and largest encyclopedia available nowadays. Finally, we must point out that these types of map are an interesting complement to quanti- tative information offered by platforms such as Altmetric.com or PlumX. In the future we will extrapolate co-citation studies to other documentary typol- ogies and platforms included in Altmetric.com such as news or policy reports in order to clearly establish the different representations of knowledge generated by different users and consumers of scientific information.
The invisible college of cluster research: a bibliometric core-periphery analysis of the literature Our work contributes to regional and local development studies by providing evidence that the cluster theory obeys to some evolutionary dynamics that might resemble those of scientific paradigms.
A Social Network Analysis of Changes in China's Education Policy Information Transmission System (1978-2013) China's education policy system exhibited features of a rapid expansion, showing clear characteristics during each stage of development.
An evaluation of percentile measures of citation impact, and a proposal for making them better We offer a series of guidelines and procedures that, we argue, address these problems and others and provide a superior means to make the use of percentile methods more accurate and informative.
Scientific knowledge production in China: a comparative analysis These findings partially contradict the traditional flying geese model and point out addi-tional interpretations of the convergence and divergence of developmental paths among advanced countries and less developed nations. The study contributes to the theory of tech-nological dominance in East Asia and to the understanding of China's dominant role in knowledge production worldwide. Taken together, these phenomena challenge the assumptions and suggest a possible transformation from the traditional flying geese paradigm, in which Japan is the “leading goose” in the regional hierarchical industrializing model in Asia.
Flagging incorrect nucleotide sequence reagents in biomedical papers: To what extent does the leading publication format impede automatic error detection? The ERC benchmark proposed in this paper contributes to enhance the quality of such systems.
Examining influential factors for acknowledgements classification using supervised learning In this study, we classified acknowledgements sections automatically with machine learning algorithms including deep learning. Throughout the comprehensive examination of factors, we observed that the representation of the training dataset positively influences classification performance, especially of deep learn-ing algorithms. We also observed that the CNN+Doc2Vec algorithm worked best with the acknowledgements training dataset.
Important citation identification by exploiting content and section-wise in-text citation count We claim that the proposed methodology is quite feasible than the compared contemporary approaches, therefore, this study is a significant contribution in citation classification community. The results revealed that the Neural Network performed better than Multiple Regression. Therefore, Neural Network is better technique to assign the weights. The proposed approach enhanced the value of precision from 0.72 to 0.85.
Comparing the post-WWII publication histories of oceanography and marine geoscience This analysis has revealed contrasting publication histories for global Oceanography and Marine Geoscience.
Open peer review: promoting transparency in open science The adoption of the OPR innovation is growing. The highest level of OPR transparency includes open identities along with open reports, but only a minority of the OPR journals identified have adopted complete transparency. The next phase of this research is examining open report contents using text mining approaches to determine if there are quantitative and qualitative differences in the open reviews based on the OPR approaches used.
Information literacy trends in higher education (2006-2019): visualizing the emerging field of mobile information literacy In conclusion, there is evidence of a growing interdisciplinarity in the scientific publications on Mobile Information Literacy, which interrelates the studies of information and digital literacy with e-learning and mobile technologies. Ultimately, MoIL involves competency in each of these six trends, which together may contribute to making-up a coherent conceptual framework. Regarding possible future lines of research, the aforementioned intersections between IL and e-learning, with the mobile element as the necessary link, open up new perspectives.
Nature or Science: what Google Trends says We found that the two journals have lost attention during the last fifteen years due to several competing research journals and their selective and controversial editorial policies.
How is a revolutionary scientific paper cited?: the case of Hess' "History of Ocean Basins" This case study suggests that scientists in the midst of a revolution in their own field may be in a reasonably good position to predict which articles are most influential.
The implicit preference of bibliometrics for basic research The analysis of subject categories in the WoS and of different types of research organizations and institutes reveals that organizations' basic publications have higher citation rates than applied ones within subject categories and that institutes and organizations with a distinct basic research orientation achieve higher citation rates than those with a distinctly applied one.
On the Potential of Preprints in Geochemistry: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly A “one size fits all” model for preprints would never work across the entire scientific community. The geochemistry community needs to develop and sustain their own model. The geochemistry community needs to make sure it is engaging widely with these, as well as connected issues like research integrity and reproducibility, if it is to maintain its relevance in the modern research age.
Research as a Base for Sustainable Development of Universities: Using the Delphi Method to Explore Factors Affecting International Publishing among Vietnamese Academic Staff The findings provide implications for policymakers and university leaders for enhancing the research capacities of Vietnamese universities, forming a basis for the sustainable development of the higher education sector in Vietnam.
The Platform for Responsible Editorial Policies: An initiative to foster editorial transparency in scholarly publishing With these features, PREP aims to contribute to more responsi-ble journal management and to open science.
Using the Kano model to display the most cited authors and affiliated countries in schizophrenia research By the above results and discussion, some valuable results are obtained, including the article types of a scholarly journal associated with the number of the cited metrics.
Crossing borders in the 19th century and now - two examples of weaving a scientific network This very short and selected history of scientific cooperation between academic institutions in Austria and Ukraine shows, in our opinion, several characteristics: (1) Historical roots of cooperation can survive over long periods. (2) Common language (Latin in Europe and German in Habsburg Empire in the past and English now) in publications, conferences facilitates to easily overcome the cultural differences21. (3) Transnational activities by general European programs or created on a smaller scale are essential to intensify and enlarge such cooperations.However, at the beginning of such a process one always has a personal decision to leave common paths and try new adventures in solving physical problems.
Two cultures: "them and us" in the academic world This paper is aimed at igniting discussions amongst people interested in improving the academic world and it is intended in a spirit of collaboration and constructiveness.
A Scientometric Analysis of Global Health Research This study provides an overview and valuable guidance for researchers and related personnel to find the research direction and practice of global health.
Twenty-Year Span of Global Coronavirus Research Trends: A Bibliometric Analysis A twenty-year-span of coronavirus research outputs was investigated and analyzed through bibliometric methods based on Web of Science. There were two sharp increases in research yield after the SARS and MERS outbreaks. However, terms such as vaccine and prescription were identified with a low frequency, which indicates that more prevention and treatment research is needed. These findings provide a relatively objective reference for peer scientists, national regimes, and the global health system.
The Landscape of Risk Communication Research: A Scientometric Analysis Risk communication research has grown exponentially, especially with a very significant increase since the early 2000s. Many clusters are quite disjoint. This indicates that knowledge exchange between application domains is not very significant, which may therefore be a fruitful direction for future scholarship. The analyses provide unprecedented insights into the structure, patterns, and developments of the risk communication domain, leading to several avenues of future research.
The role of mainstreamness and interdisciplinarity for the relevance of scientific papers We conclude that to avoid a unilateral trend towards mainstreamness a new incentive scheme is necessary.
Using social media to promote academic research: Identifying the benefits of twitter for sharing academic work Twitter offers scholars the opportunities to “push” their research, rather than depending on other people to "pull” it from academic publications.
Value creation in listed companies: A bibliometric approach The overall conclusion of the study is that this is a young subject in terms of research interest. In terms of specific conclusions, the current focus of interest is on authors and institutions from the PRC. However, interest from institutions in countries such as the United States, the UK, and Romania is growing.
Collaboration via co-authorship trends in Government of Canada forestry research Based on our findings, we recommend the following considerations when using Scopus data: 1) Data extractions from Scopus that rely on affiliation should be scrutinized for completeness of the record, particularly prior to 2000. Our analysis indicates that, given the sparsity of the Scopus record over much of the CFS publishing record, conclusions drawn about trends over time from this citation database should be interpreted with caution. Increasing authorship fractionalization is clearly evident in the CFS’ own data. We showed a three-fold increase in the number of authors per publication over the past fifty years.
From Open Access to Open Science: The Path From Scientific Reality to Open Scientific Communication For the most part, the fully open PhD thesis was in the mid-dle of the conflicting demands of opening scientific commu-nication, technological developments, and their social consequences, as well as the increasing digitalization of sci-entific work.
Professional standards in bibliometric research evaluation? A meta-evaluation of European assessment practice 2005-2019 These findings suggest that the current ownership structure of the most widely used citation databases has had a restraining effect on the development and diffusion of professional bibliometric methods during the observation period. First, in the current situation, the development of new diagnostic techniques within the academic sector has remained largely disconnected from their application and diffusion in the professional field. Further research and policy discussions should focus on whether and how open access to citation data could be provided in Europe.
Exploring why global health needs are unmet by research efforts: the potential influences of geography, industry and publication incentives From a global perspective, the imbalance between research needs and research efforts persists as most of the research effort concentrates on diseases affecting high-income countries. Both pharmaceutical companies and the public sector also tend to focus on diseases with more burden in high-income countries. Our findings indicate that researchers in middle-income countries receive more citations when researching diseases more prevalent in high-income countries, and this may divert the attention of researchers in these countries from diseases more prevalent in their contexts.
INDICATORS OF THE SCIENTIFIC IMPACT OF NATIONS REVISITED In sum, we believe that we have been successful in proposing an improved measure of the scientific impact of nations.
A Proof of Concept for Applying the Radicchi Index (hf) to Compare Academic Productivity and Scientific Impact Among Medical Specialties We demonstrate here preliminary data that hf, Radicchi’s modification of h, compensates for the publication and citation opportunity bias of the h-index.
Introducing and testing an advanced quantitative methodological approach for the evaluation of research centers: a case study on sustainability science The results of this study, however, provide evidence that this skepti- cism is unfounded.
The role of Egyptian State Awards in changing researchers' performance in the science and technology sector The study aimed at identifying the characteristics of Egyptian State Award laureates in S&T and their international literature. Furthermore, the impact of receiving a national award was explored by comparing laureates' bibliometric indicators (publications, cita-tions, CPP, and h-index) before and after the bestowal of the award. Although there have been numerous studies of international scientif-ic awards, research on national awards, particularly in developing countries, is limited.
Playing the fields: Theorizing research impact and its assessment By attending to the attribution and creation of value according to logics of different fields of power, this article provides a new theor-etical framework for understanding research impact and its assess-ment.
The field-specific citation and usage patterns of book literature in the Book Citation Index This study investigated the citation and usage characteristics of book literature in the new WoS contents, the BKCI, and compared the different patterns of two metrics across fields.
Duplicate and salami publication: a prevalence study of journal policies Gaps exist in journal policies on duplicate and salami publication, characterized by an overall lack of explicit policies, inconsistency and confusion in definitions of bad practices, and lack of clearly defined consequences for non-compliance. Scientific publication and the academic reward systems must evolve to credit good research practice.
Publish or perish: The proportion of articles versus additional sections in tourism and hospitality journals Results conclude that the number of journal issues and articles has increased significantly while the number of book reviews and conference notes has had a sharp decline. The study finally notes the implications for the literature and avenues for future research. The study also conveys practical recommendations for tourism scholars, regardless of their junior, senior or mature characteristics.
The Profile of Non-Communicable Disease (NCD) research in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region: Analyzing the NCD burden, research outputs and international research collaboration The increase in research activity in NCDs across the MENA region countries during the time period of analysis may signal both an increasing focus on NCDs which reflects general global trends, and greater investment in research in some countries.
The unfortunately long life of some retracted biomedical research publications Thus, despite the claims in two publications relative to the 9 manuscript retractions that were an outcome of the ETP fraud and scientific misconduct case, the present data provide no evidence whatsoever for “a cleansing of the medical literature” in either absolute or even relative terms.
A bibliometric analysis and cutting-edge overview on fuzzy techniques in Big Data This paper is a unique collection of the bibliometric study and recent development in the field of "fuzzy techniques in big data".
Bibliometric Analysis of 100 Top-Cited Articles in Gastric Disease In conclusion, our bibliometric analysis of the top-cited papers allows the recognition of major advances and progress in the area of gastric disease, which can help identify the significant researches of gastric disease, accelerate the progress of study, and reveal the trends of investigation.
Editorial boards in communication sciences journals: Plurality or standardization? First, results show the United States as the dominant geography when envisioning the scientific strategic lines of most journals.
Trends in high-impact papers in nursing research published from 2008 to 2018: A web of science-based bibliometric analysis In recent years, the number of high-impact papers published each year in nursing research has grown over time. Nursing has been shown to be a highly specialized subject, and the majority of its high-impact papers have been published by research institutions. Finally, women, students, cancer, and symptomatic care are the current focus areas in nursing research.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Neurosurgical Practice Guidelines A comprehensive framework is useful for guideline impact analysis. Bibliometric data provides a novel and adequate means of evaluating the successful dissemination of neurosurgical guidelines. There remains a paucity of data regarding implementation and clinical outcomes of individual guidelines.
What makes an effective grants peer reviewer? An exploratory study of the necessary skills This exploratory mixed-methods study fills a gap in the peer review literature concerning the skills needed by peer reviewers of research funding proposals. This exploration suggests that more exam-ination and evaluation of the training and instruction offered by funding agencies needs to be conducted, and supports the literature that calls for more professional skills training for gradu-ate students. Overall, an increased focus on peer review panelists' skills and their development is not only warranted but serves to ensure that peer review of research submitted for funding is not only fundamental to science, but sustainable as well.
A network analysis of research productivity by country, discipline, and wealth "This new form of analyses of research productivity, and its relation to economic status, reveals novel insights to the dynamics of the economic and research structure of countries."
Comparison of researchers' impact indices In conclusion, overall K-index performs better than h-index and completing-h.
National comparisons of early career researchers' scholarly communication attitudes and behaviours We have demonstrated a degree of diversity in terms of scholarly communication attitudes and practices of ECRs from the various countries represented in the study, which cannot be solely explained by the different make-up of the samples. Finally, as to the future, the diversity in cultural and economic-driven local circumstances is likely to remain with respect to scholarly communications. However, governmental and/or funder initiatives, which have already proven their ability to bring about changes, may help to level the field for researchers, especially as the new wave joining the scholarly workforce is ever more receptive to unifying notions, such as open science.
Bibliometric Analysis of Pediatric Liver Transplantation Research in PubMed from 2014 to 2018 For pediatric liver transplantation, we summarized 5 clusters and 7 hot topics.
Assessing and predicting the quality of research master's theses: an application of scientometrics This study is concerned with the quality assessment of research master's theses.
Self-correction of science: a comparative study of negative citations and post-publication peer review Consequently, post-publication peer review venues, and more specifically the comments found on it, although not contributing to the scientific literature, are a mechanism for correcting science.
Factors Associated With the Highest and Lowest Cited Research Articles in General Surgery Journals "There are a relatively small number of articles with 0-5 citations after 10 y for these major general surgery journals."
Top 100 Cited Articles on Sleep Medicine: A Bibliometric Analysis The present study provides a detailed list of the most-cited articles on sleep medicine. This currently relevant approach provides an opportunity to recognize the classic articles on sleep, to provide useful insights into international leaders, and to describe research trends in the field of sleep medicine.
AN INTEGRATED SCIENTOMETRIC AND SNA APPROACH TO EXPLORE THE CLASSICS IN CEM RESEARCH This study explores the classics that significantly contribute to the CEM research.
Are uncited papers necessarily all nonimpact papers? A quantitative analysis Uncited papers exert universal influence on the dimension of social media platforms.
Does Cluster Hiring Enhance Faculty Research Output, Collaborations, and Impact? Results from a National Study of US Research Universities We found that cluster hiring is associated with significant gains, on average, in faculty research output, collaborator numbers, and research impact from pre-hire to post-hire.
Publishing and Promotion in Economics: The Tyranny of the Top Five Without doubt, publication in the top five is a powerful determinant of tenure in academic economics that influences the choices of topics on which young economists work, and squeezes papers into bite-sized journal-friendly fragments.
NIH funding and the pursuit of edge science Our analysis of published biomedical research articles finds qualified support for the idea that the NIH supports innovative work.
Editors, referees, and committees: Distributing editorial work at the Royal Society journals in the late 19th and 20th centuries Examining the Royal Society's processes reminds us that editing a journal could be done without an "editor," but also that editorial work and responsibility at scientific journals is shared between many other people.
A CASE STUDY ON THE RELEVANCE OF THE JOURNAL IMPACT FACTOR Therefore, ensuring an appropriate readership to generate short-term citations was more important than the JIF.
Sorry, we're open: Golden open-access and inequality in non-human biological sciences To conclude, the current transition to GOA publishing by prestigious, high-impact journals, namely in non-human biological sciences, shows trends in inequality in global research output. Inequality amongst institutions, publishers, journals, and researchers is likely to prevent adequate exposure of potentially important research, while promoting the false ideology that prestige and costliness of journal publications are the equivalent of reliable science (Brembs 2018; Brembs et al. 2013; ElSabry 2017; Siler et al. 2018). We must address these issues to create a more inclusive environment for important research to be recognized and researchers to prosper on a global scale, regardless of country, income, or institutional affiliation.
TheAnnus Mirabilispaper: years of peak productivity in scientific careers The three mini-studies demonstrate that periods of average productivity are often crowned by few years of exceptional peak productivity.
Open Sesame? Open access priorities, incentives, and policies among higher education institutions in the United Arab Emirates The results of this survey suggest that there seems to be a generally positive perception of OA among UAE HEIs, coupled with moderate adoption of OA policies and practices. However, the results also indicate that a lot still needs to be done to create a culture that is conducive for a move to a higher priority for OA adoption. Our research shows a humble research incentivizing approach among UAE HEIs.
The Contribution of Spanish Science to Patents: Medicine as Case of Study Therefore, although the result of basic research is difficult to quantify, when it is observed that there is a return in fields such as medicine or global health, it can be said that it is well employed.
Scholarly output and the impact of self-citation among surgical fellowship program directors "Overall, self-citation is infrequent among program directors of surgical fellowships."
A bibliometric analysis of the top 50 NIH-Funded colleges of pharmacy using two databases Bibliometric indices are higher at colleges of pharmacy with greater NIH funding or an R1 Carnegie classification.
COVID-19 research in India: A quantitative analysis The results of this study suggest that Indian researchers are fairly doing well in COVID-19 research.
GRADING JOURNALS IN ECONOMICS: THE ABCS OF THEABDC There is no question that these rankings provide some indication of research quality and have been devised as an inexpensive method for the evaluation of research that can be conducted by individuals who have limited expertise in the research areas and to provide a tool for the evaluation of young scholars who have a limited track record. However, one aspect of journal rankings is that they are open to gaming the result. In addition, we can identify journals that are classed by the ABDC as A* journals that bibliometric ranks would order as A’s and B’s. These include Quantitative Economics, and the Journal of Law and Economics.
Science behind AI: the evolution of trend, mobility, and collaboration Overall, our findings unveil the evolutionary patterns of AI, which benefit for more scientific AI policies. The conclusion that a relatively small group of scientific elites with highly ties push the boundaries of science Ma and Uzzi (2018) also holds true in the field of AI.
Appreciation of literature by the anaesthetist: A comparison of citations, downloads and Altmetric Attention Score Highly cited articles are downloaded more frequently. The most downloaded articles, however, did not receive more citations. In contrast to the most cited articles, more frequently downloaded papers had a higher Altmetric Attention Score. Thus, a 'trending' anaesthesia paper is not a prerequisite for scientific appreciation, reflecting a gap between clinical and scientific appreciation of literature.
China 'goes out' in a centre-periphery world: Incentivizing international publications in the humanities and social sciences In the context of centre-periphery power relations, the form of internationalization embodied in China, as some conforming practices in the incentivization shows, is associated with continuing global inequalities.
The diverse niches of megajournals: Specialism within generalism Our analyses show that there is considerable variation in the disciplinary niches between and within megajournals, generalist conventional journals, and quasi-megajournals.
How scientific research reacts to international public health emergencies: a global analysis of response patterns Our findings on how academia responds to emergencies could be beneficial to decision-makers in research and health policy in creating and adjusting anti-epidemic/-pandemic strategies.
Communities of shared interests and cognitive bridges: the case of the anti-vaccination movement on Twitter This paper has been shown that it is possible to create a tweeter coupling network using mentions on Twitter to open access scientific articles dealing with the contested topic of anti-vaccination.
Development of science and education in the Western Balkan countries: competitiveness with the EU The results clearly indicate that education at all levels and science in WB countries are at a relatively low level, with a tendency to decline compared to developed EU countries. Raising the level of education and science in WB countries to the level of developed EU countries is a necessary and sufficient condition for partnership negotiations on the entry of WB countries into the EU, stopping brain drain from WB countries, as well as their economic development at EU level, which creates conditions for adequate quality of life for people in these countries. These results represent a sure-fire path to achieving the WB countries' goals of improving economic growth, retaining creative people in their countries, developing democratic relations at all levels and ensuring a high quality of life for their populations.
Italian sociologists: a community of disconnected groups Our study provided an empirical overview of collaboration between sociologists in Italy and their international collaborators.
Do journals flipping to gold open access show an OA citation or publication advantage? This outcome provides robust evidence, independent of the OA data source used, that flipping journals tend to have an OA Citation Advantage compared to non Gold-OA journals, and that this advantage is already visible a few years after the switch. The paired T-test found no statistically significant evidence that journals switching to OA increase their publication output faster than non Gold-OA journals do.
Drawing impossible boundaries: field delineation of Social Network Science I conclude that the boundary constructed for SNS is a fair delineation of the field for the purpose of studying its historical evolution.
Gender gaps in scientific performance: a longitudinal matching study of health sciences researchers Overall, our study shows that the average performance of the female researchers and their matched male counterparts differs slightly at the time of enrollment in the Ph.D. program as the women have published less and are also slightly less cited at the time, they enroll in the Ph.D. program.
Trending topics in orthodontics research during the last three decades: A longitudinal bibliometric study on the top-cited articles The publications in the three studied decades were significantly different in terms of numbers and characteristics.
Research Integrity Among PhD Students at the Faculty of Medicine: A Comparison of Three Scandinavian Universities The results of this study show that one tenth of Scandinavian PhD students know about serious breaches to research integrity in their local research environment within the last year. Moreover, our results imply that existing educational and research systems partly fail to foster research integrity to such an extent that integrity permeates the entire research culture at the studied universities. The study points at the need for more knowledge about the influence of science ethics education and research integrity training, and the influence of supervisors, senior researchers, and role models as well as the change in knowledge, attitudes, and practices of young researchers by targeting research integrity training of senior researchers.
Assessing RSCI Economics Journals in the Context of Creating a National Citation Index The research results, which make it possible to assess the RSCI potential for the creation of a national scientometric database of scientific periodicals, raise the question of the need to consolidate the efforts of the scientific and expert communities to establish transparent journal selection procedures.
Towards a Knowledge Specialisation Index for Sub-Saharan Africa: an Informetrics Study It was observed that knowledge production in sub-Saharan Africa addresses areas or sectors that have been considered as key to economic development in the region, namely health and agriculture.
Effect of Research Impact on Emerging Camel Husbandry, Welfare and Social-Related Awareness Despite animal welfare scientific interests having grown considerably due to consumers' concern worldwide, it remains overlooked in some minor species, such as farmed camels.
Health policy and systems research publications in Latin America warrant the launching of a new specialised regional journal Researchers publishing on HPSR in LA widely support the launching of a new specialised journal for the region with a vigorous editorial policy focusing on regional and country priorities.
Division of labor in collaborative knowledge production: The role of team size and interdisciplinarity Our study contributes to the growing literature on (team) science by providing a deeper understanding of how the internal organization of teams relates to two pervasive trends – increasing team size and in-terdisciplinarity.
Mixing Patterns in Interdisciplinary Co-Authorship Networks at Multiple Scales Our results suggest that disciplinary diversity is better demonstrated at the individual level than the dyadic or group level in an interdisciplinary research area.
Teamwork and Individual Productivity We propose a new method to quantify individual productivity in the presence of teamwork, CoScore.
An Intellectual Capital Approach to Explaining the Determinants of Scientific Productivity in the Field of Management Based on the intellectual capital framework, we develop a set of hypotheses that offer a better understanding of the characteristics that allow researchers to increase their productivity levels in the context of a scientific team. The present study offers leaders of scientific teams a guide with which to improve their members' scientific productivity by encouraging the implementation of policies that foster improved trust and strong ties among their members, as well as the construction of channels or the necessary means (organizational capital) to support these relationships. Finally, it is also important to consider that there might be some limitations in this study.
Academic Productivity of Neurosurgeons Practicing in Joint Residency Advisory and Accreditation Committee Accredited Programs Higher academic rank and advanced research degree were associated with greater academic productivity. Further studies exploring regional differences in academic productivity of European neurosurgeons are encouraged.
Crediting multi-authored papers to single authors We have inspected the time dependence of the h-index for a large number of individuals. Based on our findings, it appears more appropriate to identify the a-author of a paper based on the historical h-values at the time of the paper's publication rather than on the current ones, and we have shown that this is relatively easy. Such h-type indices could, for instance, be used to study the correlation between early career success (e.g. a high gh₁ or many first author papers in the initial career stage) and later career achievements (such as a high h or gh₁).
N-mode network approach for socio-semantic analysis of scientific publications In conclusion, we applied this n-mode approach to scientific publications in this paper.
Integrating researchers' scientific production information through Ogmios Our experiments show that our scientific production retrieval process when compared to other approaches in literature, is an innovative, scalable, and easy to apply framework.
Assessing Clinical Embryology Research: A Global Bibliometric Analysis Results indicate an explosion of interest published in the literature regarding the field of clinical embryology. Further analysis on collaborations and the trends involved should be of added value as productivity between countries varies significantly. This may guide researchers, in vitro fertilization professionals, and prospective authors during literature search, while proving useful regarding manuscript design and concurring on keywords and abstract content.
Plagiarism Detection in Computer Programming Using Feature Extraction From Ultra-Fine-Grained Repositories Results obtained show a significant improvement in both accuracy and recall of plagiarism detection. Therefore, we can conclude that there is a detectable difference in IDE usage patterns between students who plagiarise their home-work and those who work on their own, and thus the authors' hypothesis is confirmed. In the future, the authors hope to use ultra-fine-grained repositories to discover and help students with difficulties in learning programming.
Publication rate of 309 MMed dissertations submitted between 1996 and 2017: Can registrars fulfil HPCSA Form 57 MED amendments? Conversion of the South African MMed dissertation into a journal-accredited scientific article was achieved in 60.3% of publication-ready-format submissions, suggesting that the HPCSA amendment facilitating specialist registration is attainable.
Sources Cited in theJournal of Research in Music Education: 1953 to 2015 Through our tabulations, we revealed those authors, disciplines, sources, journals, and studies influential to music education research overall as well those germane during discrete and contiguous eras of the journal. Other observations show that music education research has matured as a field with well-established journals, seasoned influential scholars, and archetypical articles. It is our view that the more informed we are about our discipline’s research, the better we understand it. Hopefully, these data provide useful insights.
Mapping research fields using co-nomination: the case of hyper-authorship heavy flavour physics Using co-nomination to map research fields appears analytically and intellectually useful. It seemingly can substitute or complement bibliometric-based techniques like ACA, in specific ways and instances, as we have demonstrated here for the particular hyper-authorship, massively collaborative case of the HFP research field. For the future, co-nomination might also be used to map other research fields with hyper-authorship, such as space science, molecular biology and genetics or biomedicine (Adams et al. 2019; Cronin 2001).
Is research in peril in Nepal? Publication trend and research quality from projects funded by the University Grants Commission-Nepal Our results show that more than 83% of UGC-N funded studies are unpublished, and the majority of published papers ended up in the non-ranked journals (72%), which comprised of potentially predatory ones (10%). We call on UGC-Nepal and Nepali universities to respond to this particular research integrity problem. The Government of Nepal needs to facilitate growth of research centers through policy, legal, and financial support.
Bibliometric analysis and evaluation of the journal Medicina Oral Patologia Oral y Cirugia Bucal (2008-2018) The bibliometric results indicate a steadily improving position of this journal, along with a tendency to reduce self-citation. The time between reception of an article and its acceptance was very stable, the number of authors per article showed an increase, and there was a nearly equal representation of males and females as the first author. The present study will help journal readers to better understand the current state and the evolution of Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal.
Thirty years of the International Journal of Logistics Management - a retrospective analysis Thus, in general, we found that sheer dedication towards its founding vision has elevated the global stature of the IJLM which invariably occupies a place of prominence in academia in recent times.
Exploring the intellectual structure and evolution of 24 top business journals: a scientometric analysis By using co-citation analysis and co-occurrence analysis, this paper presents a general picture of the academic community structure, intellectual base and research hotspots in the business domain based on the literature in UTD24 from 1991-2018.
Identifying the Key Reference of a Scientific Publication We find that our method can accurately identify the key references of an article.
A citation analysis of fuzzy research by universities and countries This work presents a bibliometric analysis focused on universities and countries of 22 highly oriented fuzzy research scientific journals. A distribution of the results of both universities and countries clearly highlights Asia, specifically the People's Republic of China as the most citing region of fuzzy research with 115,759 as a country, followed by the USA with 37,601 and Taiwan with a total of 25,539 papers. Future research is needed as there are limitations for this study; first to broaden the scope on both the databases for the research of these study topics, e.g., in Scopus or Google Scholar, and the 22 selected journals, and second to find connecting trends with other topics such as authors, research areas, other journals and a selection of diverse timespans to generate a wider picture of the citing scope on the rapidly growing field of fuzzy research [30-32].
Fifty years of fuzzy research: A bibliometric analysis and a long-term comparative overview This study has been presented a bibliometric analysis of fuzzy research, giving a general overview of the leading trends that have occurred in the fuzzy research between 1970 and 2017.
Bibliometrics in computer science: An institution ranking This study concludes that Computer Science traverses many institutions. In conclusion, the findings and suggestions of this study can help scientific researchers understand the performance and trends of Computer Science research. With the help of these findings, researchers can make informed decisions regarding their research directions in terms of identifying top disciplinary institutions and choosing research exchange plat-forms.
The most influential journals and authors in digital business research The latter reflects the multidisciplinary nature of this field of research, including not only studies with a focus on management information systems, but also on strategy, marketing, operations and more. To that end, more systematic and qualitative analyses of the knowledge base of these contributions would be required. This is the course that future work should undertake.
A bibliometric overview of how critical success factors influence on enterprise resource planning implementations This study gives a general overview of the works published about ERP implementation and its CSFs on the WoS. The results show how the number of publications has increased over time from 1 in 1999 to more than 30 since 2015, and this has happened due to the continuous digitalization of the business world and the need for quality data in order to make faster decisions. This article is intended to be the starting point for future research in the field of successful ERP implementations by delineating information sources.
A bibliometric analysis of the Base/Bottom of the Pyramid research This study provided a bibliometric analysis of the current state of research in the study of BoP.
Tourism research: A bibliometric and country analysis The bibliometric analysis carried out has enabled to assess tourism, leisure and hospitality research, as has been done in other works on different disciplines ([5, 55]).
Entrepreneurship on family business: Bibliometric overview (2005-2018) This bibliometric research of entrepreneurship and family business evaluate, in addition to the literature produced, the collaboration networks within WoS. This research has helped us identify the leading academics in entrepreneurship, as well as their collaboration net-works and whom they represent when publishing a paper. The issue of Entrepreneurship on family businesses has been little published in journals related to the topic of family businesses, so it is considered an area to be addressed in future research Principal areas of research for the 1,381 documents analyzed were: Business Economics with 160 documents (71.43%) and Psychology with 22 (9.82%).
Mobility and Research Performance of Academics in City-Based Higher Education Systems This study contributes to the literature by analysing the association of transnational and job mobilities with knowledge output (number and quality of publications) and knowledge outcomes (visibility of publications as measured by citations).
Information flows and topic modeling in corporate governance The results illustrate that corporate governance is far more interdisciplinary than previously thought.
Open access publishers: The new players Our analysis of journals registered with the DOAJ Seal reveals a remarkable concentration of ownership.
The strange case of the Matthew effect and beauty contests: Research evaluation and specialisation in Italian universities National evaluations of university research are an important tool for assessing the quality of the research produced in a country and for monitoring its evolution over time.
Research on impact evaluation of academic journals from multidimensional perspective Taking international multi-disciplinary journals as an example Multidimensional and multi-indicator perspective evaluation can provide references for the selection of impact evaluation indicators and model optimization of academic journals, and also provide new ideas for improving the status of the impact evaluation of academic journals. This paper provides some theoretical and practical implications for future research. To some extent, the comprehensive evaluation of the journal's impact from the perspective of multidimensional and multi-indicators is relatively accurate and objective.
Historicizing the crisis of scientific misconduct in Indian science This article has sought to historicize what is currently recognized as a crisis of scientific misconduct in Indian science. Notwithstanding the long-term presence of scientific misconduct in Indian science, historical accounts also indicate that India has long been at the leading edge of reform, going back at least to the establishment of the IACS in 1876. It remains to be seen whether such reforms herald a transformation in India and abroad toward a system that manages scientific output for the combined sake of truth-seeking and public welfare, or if control of the system through the individualization of responsibility and blame remains the standard.
English Research Article Titles: Cultural and Disciplinary Perspectives This article compared English titles by Chinese scholars and their international counterparts in terms of cultural and disci- plinary factors.
Bibliometric evaluation of the status of Picea research and research hotspots: comparison of China to other countries This study represents the first such analysis of Picea and provides a reference for bibliometrics in forest tree species research.
Research productivity of health care policy faculty: a cohort study of Harvard Medical School Altmetric attention score and citation counts measure different aspects of scholarship where one concerns with the dissemination of research outputs through online social media; others refer to how scientists use these research outputs as documented in their outputs.
A critical examination of international research conducted by North Korean authors: Increasing trends of collaborative research between China and North Korea Overall, this study supports previous findings on North Korea but offers additional insights by providing useful details on research patterns in collaborative works and shedding light on the recent trend in publishing academic papers.
Assessing the perceived prevalence of research fraud among faculty at research-intensive universities in the USA Overall, the results were largely consistent with extant research showing that data fabrication is less frequent than other fraudulent behaviors.
Research Progress of Coronavirus Based on Bibliometric Analysis Conclusions: international cooperation is an important way to accelerate research progress and achieve success.
Informetric Analysis of Highly Cited Papers in Environmental Sciences Based on Essential Science Indicators This study adopted informetric methods to analyze HCPs during 2009–2019 in the environmental sciences category based on the ESI database. Insights were made into various aspects, including research output, the most productive journals, countries/territories, institutions, top cited papers, and research hotspots, with systematic informetric analysis and visualization tools. The results of this study can provide insight for scholars in the field of environmental sciences, including comprehensive understanding of leading journals, countries/territories, and institutions in the research field, which can further guide paper submission, collaboration, and academic exchange.
One list to fit them all: What do we learn from journal ranking? We conclude that with the exception of the three elite finance journals (i.e., Journal of Finance, Journal of Financial Economics and Review of Financial Studies) and the Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, journal lists' rankings do not converge for the rest of the sample journals. However, journal lists tend to cluster into groups, indicating that at least some of them exhibit some uniformity in ranking finance journals. Given that employment in academia is heavily based on the quality of publications as measured by journal lists, our findings have important implications for the mobility of finance scholars across academic institutions in different countries.
Dear Reviewer 2: Go F' Yourself Reviewer
Statistical Indicators of the Scientific Publications Importance: A Stochastic Model and Critical Look Based on the foregoing, we conclude that it is practically senseless to use the number of citations of a scientist's work to assess his contribution to science. So, if an author has a fairly large number of citations, then the ratio of the number of citations to the square of the Hirsch index can be arbitrarily large. So, the use of the Hirsch’s index has some basis in the field of Physics, but it is not related to what is happening in Mathematics.
Minimal Impact One-Dimensional Arrays In this article, we studied the following
A qualitative study of Equal Co-First Authorship Our findings suggest that recent increases in the use of ECFA designations are likely to continue, as researchers often see them as a practical and fair solution to problems that arise in assigning authorship in collaborative contexts. These increases accentuate the need to standardize how such designations are represented in publications and indexes and for greater clarity and guidance regarding their use for evaluation purposes.
Professionalism in Science: Competence, Autonomy, and Service By drawing on the sociology of the professions, this paper has explored a novel way of investigating research integrity compared to the dominant approach within the applied ethics literature.
Merging the citations received by arXiv-deposited e-prints and their corresponding published journal articles: Problems and perspectives Such empirical testing proves the feasibility of the schemes proposed in this article.
Open Access Physical Therapy Journals: Do Predatory Journals Publish Lower-Quality Randomized Controlled Trials? Within the physical therapy field, PJs publish RCTs of lower quality and have shorter peer review process times than journals not included on Beall's list.
The Effects of Collaboration on Research Performance of Universities: an Analysis by Federal District and Scientific Fields in Russia The findings of all models evidence the importance of collaborations for the academic performance.
International scientific collaborative activities and barriers to them in eight societies Overall, scientists in this study saw value in international collaboration, although levels of participation varied greatly.
Where is your field going? A machine learning approach to study the relative motion of the domains of physics Describing and predicting the scientific progress is a challenging task. Finally, we observe that APS Milestones and Nobel winner papers have an effect in bringing together previously unrelated topics. We believe that this research opens up a number of further developments, for example, this framework can be applied to study more extensive database, including not only Physics but also other scientific sectors and to investigate their mutual influence.
On the use of journal classification in social sciences and humanities: evidence from an Italian database "While peer review is still to be considered as the main method for evaluation in Humanities and Social sciences, our analysis supports the view that journal classification can be a useful tool to support peer review even in SSH."
Do national funding organizations properly address the diseases with the highest burden?: Observations from China and the UK In this work, we explored the focus of disease-related research projects supported by two national funding organizations and juxtaposed their relative levels of funding with the burden of disease. Our results indicated that the burden of diseases played a significant role in both funding schemes. However, we feel the decline in attention on HIV/AIDs by the NSFC, along with an increasing incidence in STDs in the population, should sound alarm bells for both China's government and wider society.
Analysis of the division of labor in China's high-quality life sciences research In the past decade, the contributions of all Chinese authors to high-quality life sciences research have improved in terms of both the numerical dimension and the international rank dimension, and experiment operation has played an increasingly more important role in the division of labor.
Investigating the quantity-quality relationship in scientific creativity: an empirical examination of expected residual variance and the tilted funnel hypothesis Across all of the data sets, the results empirically supported the tilted funnel hypothesis, and therefore the results provided further evidence of the utility of the equal odds baseline. The current study provides extended theorizing and empirical tests for the quantity–quality relationship of scientific productions. Given our findings, we contend that careful attention to the full conditional distribution of scientific quality can and should be a focus in scientometrics research.
Does presence of social media plugins in a journal website result in higher social media attention of its research publications? Results show a clearly identifiable differentiation between social media coverage and mention per paper for articles published in a journal with and without social media plugins. The results, therefore, provide a positive answer to the research question proposed through conclusive evidence from three social platforms. Results indicate that publishing houses should actively provide social media plugin integration in their journal webpages to increase the social media visibility (altmetric impact) of their articles.
Preliminary analysis of COVID-19 academic information patterns: a call for open science in the times of closed borders In conclusion, we believe the scientific community could have used the data more efficiently in order to create proper foundations for finding new solutions for the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, we believe we can learn from this on the go and adopt open science principles and a more mindful approach to COVID-19-related data to accelerate the discovery of more efficient solutions.
Keyword-citation-keyword network: a new perspective of discipline knowledge structure analysis Findings from this study contribute to a new perspective and understanding for elucidating discipline knowledge structures, and provide guidance for applying this method in various disciplines.
Self-defined information indices: application to the case of university rankings We have presented a new mathematical structure for extrapolating values of indexes associated to the scientific and educational activity.
Getting a head start: turn-of-the-month submission effect for accepted papers in management journals A strong ToM effect is observed in management journals but not multidisciplinary journals, which gets more pronounced in submissions to top-tier journals and when the first day of a month fell into weekends.
Research Collaboration Patterns in Sustainable Mining-A Co-Authorship Analysis of Publications In general, this study showed that although sustainable mining has the potential reflected in numerous institutions and countries engaged in research, their involvement in co-authorships is in the minority, and the network is sparse. Therefore, if sustainable mining does not want to be 'sustainable' only in the name, cooperative efforts should be intensified. Finally, we all must understand that working together could effectively solve long-term issues and support the sustainable development of the mining sector.
Alternative Metrics for Assessing the Social Impact of Tourism Research The article concludes by determining that alternative metrics can be used to complement academic impact but cannot be a substitute for it. Further progress is needed in the development of a framework that unifies both impacts. It is necessary to develop a methodology that unifies scientific and social impact under a single framework.
Measuring researchers' potential scholarly impact with structural variations: Four types of researchers in information science (1979-2018) This study contributes to the understanding of how researchers' scholarly impact might evolve in a broad context of the corresponding research community.
A bibliometric analysis on deep learning during 2007-2019 In conclusion, although the findings in this paper do not cover all the information, this paper is of important and enlightening values to the researchers who are interested in DL. In the future, attention will be continued to pay to the development of DL, especially the development, variant and application of different DL models, such as SAE, DBN, CNN, RNN, GAN.
Identification High Influential Articles by Considering the Topic Characteristics of Articles The important value of topic characteristics in articles' citation activities shows that the content of the article is an important factor in attracting more citations. The experimental results show that the characteristics of early citations, topics and authors' reputation are the key features that affect articles' citations. As the topic of the article reflects its content, it shows that in addition to some external bibliometrics characteristics of the article, the content of the article will also have a great impact on its citation behavior, and to a certain extent determines whether the article can grow into an influential one in the future.
TermBall: Tracking and Predicting Evolution Types of Research Topics by Using Knowledge Structures in Scholarly Big Data We have proposed TermBall, a holistic framework that models knowledge structure of research topics and tracks/predicts the evolution of research topics.
How does nursing research differ internationally? A bibliometric analysis of six countries From a methodological perspective, it is clear that keyword and phrase differences are useful to reveal international differences in nursing research topics and are recommended for future studies.
Bibliometric Analysis of Soil Science as a Scientific Area We have addressed only some aspects of a bibliometric analysis of soil science. Nonetheless, the results suggest several conclusions on the state and development of this scientific area.
The world-systemic network of global elite sociology: the western male monoculture at faculties of the top one-hundred sociology departments of the world If we wanted a one-sentence answer to the question of what constitutes knowledge in global leading sociology, we would say that it is American and Western European knowledge, which could be collected at leading American and Western European universities.
An extensive analysis of the presence of altmetric data for Web of Science publications across subject fields and research topics Except for Mendeley readers and Twitter mentions, the presence of most altmetric data is still very low, even though it is increasing over time.
Social networks formed by follower-followee relationships on academic social networking sites: an examination of corporation users In the academic social network formed by top research corporations, users tend to follow institutional users from areas with high research level.
Communities of attention networks: introducing qualitative and conversational perspectives for altmetrics These contextual and behavioral aspects must be perceived as fundamental elements for the better characterization of users and interactions in the social media landscape.
How accurate are policy document mentions? A first look at the role of altmetrics database Considering the high complexity of extracting mentions of publications from various sources and formats of policy documents as well as its short history, Altmetric database has achieved excellent performance. Results of the study have made it clear that altmetrics data, especially policy document altmetrics data, are far from being perfect. Future studies based on the data need to be aware of this limitation. The error code 2.2 (false positive policy document mention) is perhaps the only error type that could be directly improved by the Altmetric database. The error type would have negative influence on altmetrics research.
The author-reviewer game At the peer review stage, the manuscript's author is responsible for exerting effort to increase the quality of the submission. The reviewer's effort to ensure submission quality is unobservable by the journal and, therefore, our analysis suggests that the reviewer should be rewarded based on the manuscript quality achieved, in order to reach the best level for the journal. A limitation of our approach is that some concepts in the system cannot be empirically measured.
On bibliometrics in academic promotions: a case study in computer science and engineering in Italy Our investigation shows that the bibliometric indicators of some sub-areas tend to be significantly higher, even within the same academic discipline.
The Past, Present and Future of Literature Pertaining to Betel (Areca) Nut: A Citation Analysis "The current study provided a citation analysis of top cited 100 articles on betel nut."
Global academic response toCOVID-19: Cross-sectional study The early academic response was characterized by investigators aiming to define the disease.
Relationship among factors affecting research misconduct in medical sciences in Iran Specifically, attribution of these factors to different activities of the research system exacerbates this situation and shows a very high level of their importance and influence.
An Exploratory Study of the Research on Caregiver Depression: Using Bibliometrics and LDA Topic Modeling The understanding of current research trends outlines the knowledge map in research field and helps to find the gaps that should be further studied.
Putting personality in context: determinants of research productivity and impact in political science Across analyses, we predict scholarly productivity and impact from the same constellation of factors that has appeared regularly in the literature.
Where have all the working papers gone? Evidence from four major economics working paper series This article analyzed whether, when and where a working paper has been published either in a journal or as a book chapter.
Communication value of English-language S&T academic journals in non-native English language countries First, English as a global lingua franca has affected the language choosing of publishing industry. If a publisher want to fund an S&T academic journal with international impact, their first choice is English-language. As we can see from the study results excellent Chinese-language journals can also perform well communication value.
Drivers of article processing charges in open access By and large, we could corroborate our hypotheses: journal reputation, market power of publishers, hybrid model, and the concentration of disciplines increase APC, although publisher age only appears to play a role, if publishers managed to become one of the big publishers. Our results disclosing a 50% surcharge on hybrid-OA publishing strongly support the hypothesis that academia runs the risk not to take advantage of the cost-reducing opportunities inherent to digitization. Via a hybrid-OA strategy, big publishers may nonetheless be able to sustain their comfortable profit situation leveraging their existing market power from the subscription-based to the open-access publishing era.
Co-worker network: How closely are researchers who published in the top five economics journals related? Therefore, one would expect that researchers throughout the world who have big ideas are able to publish in the top economics journals. However, we show that most articles that have been published in the top five journals in the last 10 years have at least one author who has worked or attained a PhD degree in one of the top ten US institutions.
Toward a stochastically robust normalized impact factor against fraud and scams We have developed and validated through a Monte Carlo simulation a normalized impact factor model based on weighted citations. The uniformity of the proposed normalized impact factor solves the problem of the field dependency of the impact factor behavior since the effect of the number of references on the classical impact factor is no longer visi-ble. In addition, this new model has a good stability against fraud and scams.
Scientific collaboration in Russian universities before and after the excellence initiative Project 5-100 The results of this research indicate that the Russian government excellence initiative Project 5-100 has led to changes in the collaboration patterns of the Project universities.
China's scholarship shows atypical referencing patterns The findings suggest that China has advanced in its goals of establishing itself as a full participant in global science and technology.
Coronavirus mapping in scientific publications: When science advances rapidly and collectively, is access to this knowledge open to society? We have explored the capacity of researchers to generate scientific knowledge to face a health crisis emergency, and their global capacity to collaborate between them in a global problem. We have also observed how different well-established clusters of countries and organizations are maintained over the two studied periods.
Defining and Handling Research Misconduct: A Comparison Between Chinese and European Institutional Policies This study concurs with other studies that definitions of research misconduct in university policies extend from FFP and include different types of QRPs, although in some cases, the interpretations of misbehaviors differ. The procedures for handling research misconduct differ due to the different administrative and juridical systems. Policies also differ in governance structures. The “top-down” or hierarchical approach seen in the Chinese group means the action is taken by governmental bodies, which are exterior forces, whereas the "bottom-up" or flat approach seen in the Eur-opean group means that the initiative is taken by research communities, which are from within.
A Political Sociology of the Beall's List Affair Thinking (politically) about the political sociology of our groupings, we can ask some questions and propose tentative answers—our tentative mapping of the contemporary circumstances of LIS. The practical import for them was their position within the existing scholarly communications ecosystem and the continuance of their ability to comment, guide, and consult for a field that they believe is of paramount importance.
Analysis of the altmetric top 100 articles with the highest altmetric attention scores in medical imaging journals Our study presents a detailed list and analysis of the top 100 articles with the highest AAS in imaging literature, which provides unique characteristics representing the public's attention in this field.
A bibliometric overview of Transportation Research Part B: Methodological in the past forty years (1979-2019) Motivated by the 40th anniversary of the top-tier journal Transportation Research Part B: Methodological, this study conducted a bibliometric analysis of the journal over the forty-year study period from 1979 to 2019. This study presented the temporal trends of the publications in the lifetime of TR-Part B from 1979 to 2019 (Fig. 1), indicating a rapid increase in publications in the 2010s. In the future, following the general bibliometric study of Transportation Research journals (Parts A-F) conducted by Modak et al. (2019) and this specialized study on TR-Part B, analogous bibliometric studies on other TR journals, and other top-tier journals such as Transportation Science, could investigate the contributing features of these distinctive journals to the field of transportation research.
THE KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN OF THE BALTIC JOURNAL OF ROAD AND BRIDGE ENGINEERING BETWEEN 2006 AND 2019 The paper has presented a bibliometric overview and visualized research structure of the Baltic Journal of Road and Bridge Engineering from 2006 to 2019. By providing an overview for the Baltic Journal of Road and Bridge Engineering, the current station and the trends of the journal are comprehensively analysed. This research helps researchers learn about the development of the Baltic Journal of Road and Bridge Engineering deeply.
Open Access uptake by universities worldwide While the study is descriptive in nature, it opens the opportunity for institutions, funding agencies and national science policy officers to better understand the expansion of OA in their country and better design and model effectives mandates of OA.
Does faculty disciplinary background play a role in the publication pattern of an interdisciplinary research area? The case of science education in Brazil Our conclusion is that faculty disciplinary background may influence publication patterns and stakeholders involved in research evaluation should consider using alternative sources of data when assessing the scholarly output of interdisciplinary research, besides the main international bibliographic databases.
Access to scientific literature by the conservation community Overall, it is apparent that access to the literature is a challenge facing roughly half of the conservation community worldwide.
Global trends in coronavirus research at the time of Covid-19: A general bibliometric approach and content analysis using SciMAT The current analysis represents the first bibliometric study on coronavirus types and strains since the first publication in 1970 to the present day, with an emphasis on Covid-19 disease and using SciMAT.
Evaluation of untrustworthy journals: Transition from formal criteria to a complex view "However, our investigation revealed that no criteria can reliably identify predatory journals. Therefore, a complex evaluation is needed combining objectively verifiable criteria with analysis of a journal's content and knowledge of the journal's background."
Convergence or polarisation? The impact of research assessment exercises in the Italian case We find that, contrary to what expected by critics of the national evaluation exercise, the dispersion in research quality across universities has significantly fallen in the second exercise, even after correcting for differences in grading scales and in the number of products. We also find that convergence is largely due to changes in the relative productivity of researchers who participated to both exercises and to the hiring/promoting decisions of universities. These results suggest that convergence may be the outcome of changes in the strategy of researchers and institutions, which may have reacted to the monetary and reputation incentives created by the national research assessments.
Discovering types of research performance of scientists with significant contributions Although no clear relationship was identified between research performance and scientific contribution, research productivity had a weaker association with scientific contribution than did research influence.
Three dimensions of scientific impact By indicating that the citation record space is 3D, we have proved that any single citation measure, including the h index and the author's ranking it generates, necessarily yields an over-simplified projection of a more complex space (3).
Mentorship and protege success in STEM fields Our analysis of large-scale genealogical and scientometric data- bases indicate that mentorship is positively linked to mentee scientific impact.
Development of Caring as a Human Science: 50 Years of History of the Korean Society of Nursing Science In this article, the history of KSNS and JKAN were reviewed within the socio-cultural context of Korea, and the published articles were analyzed using text mining techniques.
Bibliometric analysis of publications on house dust mites during 1980-2018 According to the findings, developed countries were the most productive in publishing on house dust mites. By planning multinational research rather than regional studies, it may be suggested that researchers in underdeveloped or developing countries could also conduct more research on this subject.
A case study exploring associations between popular media attention of scientific research and scientific citations These results may inform scientists who increasingly use popular media to inform the general public and scientists concerning their scientific work.
Factors Associated with Low and High Article Citations in Four Prominent Orthopaedic Surgery Journals This study illustrates that certain statistically significant factors influence the citation rates of papers in orthopaedic surgery literature. If utilized appropriately, these factors could lead to increased consumption and circulation of future orthopaedic surgery literature. This will hopefully continue to advance and modernize the field of orthopaedic surgery to stay abreast of modern relevant research.
Who Creates a Google Scholar Profile? We conclude by discussing implications of our findings, the increasing usage of Google Scholar and profiles, and the increasing importance of an online presence in the academy. We believe that our results from this study can contribute useful factual information to an ongoing debate about how to evaluate—from a more normative perspective—the increased importance of self-promotion and an online presence in the academy.
Exploring the effects of habit strength on scholarly publishing The results provide empirical insights to management, policy makers and research on scholarly publishing.
Retrospective Analysis of Psychiatry Specialization Theses Made Between 1981-2018 in Turkey In this study, the type of the research, title of the advisor, enrolling an academic career were associated with the publication of the theses. We hope our results would help better publication of the theses in the future.
Grade Language Heterogeneity in Simulation Models of Peer Review By comparing the model dynamics with and without grade language heterogeneity, we have shown that grade language heterogeneity impacts the dynamics of the SG model in different ways for different parameter configurations. This result suggests that grade language heterogeneity should be considered as a core ingredient of future ABMs of peer review, as neglecting it would lead to unrealistic results that are ultimately inapplicable.
Status of Editing and Publishing of Scholarly Journals by Academic Societies of Science and Technology in Korea Most of the Korean science and technology journals keep global standard of editing and publishing.
Chinese Cancer Research in 2009-18 and the Disease Burden The national and provincial cancer research in China in the past 10 years correlated relatively well with its disease burden and economic level, but over-emphasised basic research compared with prevention, screening and end-of-life care.
Investigating academic library responses to predatory publishing in the United States, Canada and Spanish-speaking Latin America Predatory publishing and conferences are unlikely to disappear any time soon. While university libraries cannot be solely responsible for combatting these practices, they are nonetheless well positioned to help researchers develop scholarly publishing literacy skills. To offer some potential support to those libraries that currently appear to be doing less to inform researchers about predatory publishing and conferences (at least via their websites), we have compiled seven recommendations to help guide libraries' future efforts to educate researchers about predatory practices.
Quantifying the higher-order influence of scientific publications Our results show that the contribution of first-order (length 1) citations accounts for 58% of the whole higher-order citation flow, while higher-order citations (levels 2 and above) account for 42%: a significant share.
Evaluating gender equality effects in research and innovation systems The cases presented above show that, not least due to the two large national GE interventions, the role of women academics in the German publication landscape has changed significantly over the past 15 years and there has been a clear increase in the number of (co-)publications by female authors.
An in-depth analysis of government funding and international collaboration in scientific research Funding support plays a critical role in scientific research. Among the six countries, China and Brazil are the most prominent in terms of government funding for scientific research. When citation impact is concerned, the developed countries (i.e., the Netherlands, US, and Germany) perform better than developing countries (i.e., South Africa, China, and Brazil), and the Netherlands performs the best.
An exploration on the flow of leading research talents in China: from the perspective of distinguished young scholars We hope the conclusions can help the government and the public understand the current situation and trend of talent flow, so that intervene can be taken out when necessary.
Productivity trends and citation impact of different institutional collaboration patterns at the research units' level Moreover, we find that the number of M institutions has a significant greatest impact on citations, while M institution as first author's affiliation only has a slightly influence; China as first author's country has a negative impact, while USA as first author's country has a moderately positive impact, and slightly lower than that of the number of countries, moderately higher than that of the number of institutions.
Can social media usage of scientific literature predict journal indices of AJG, SNIP and JCR? An altmetric study of economics The results show that altmetrics is an authentic and reliable medium to classify quality tiers (AJG, JCR, and SNIP). The publications published in higher-ranking economic journals have a greater tendency to be used in policies than publications from lower-ranking journals. The next step is to further explore whether some article characteristics could be related to greater social media visibility.
Open access effect on uncitedness: a large-scale study controlling by discipline, source type and visibility This is important because it provides new evidence in the debate about open access citation advantage.
On interdisciplinary collaborations in scientific coauthorship networks: the case of the Brazilian community In general, our results point out that this network has grown consistently, becoming more interdisciplinary.
Innovation, research and development on the passion fruit peel flour: bibliometric approach Main aspects related to scientific and technological production (S&T) on the passion fruit peel flour were forwarded by bibliometric indexes.
Problematizing assumptions about interdisciplinary research: implications for health professions education research The authors hope to inspire members of the HPER community to critically examine the ubiquitous discourse promoting interdisciplinarity, and engage in reflection about the future of the field informed by evidence rather than by unsubstantiated assumptions.
NIH funding trends to US medical schools from 2009 to 2018 In conclusion, we found that NIH funding increased significantly to both private and public allopathic medical schools, as well as to top 10, 20, and 50 funded medical schools between 2009 and 2018 in absolute terms, but not adjusted for inflation.
Where Should I Submit My Work for Publication? An Asymmetrical Classification Model to Optimize Choice Our model is just an attempt of giving a practical tool for the authors. The main general conclusion is that the author should always submit his/her work to a journal that is in the first part of the list—with the limit defined by k—but "close" to k. Finally, let us remark that our general approach could be improved by using advanced techniques to mix the probability functions that represent the different aspects concerning the model.
"People are reading your work," scholarly identity and social networking sites Results highlight benefits and risks of scholarly identity work and the potential for adopting practices that consider ethical dilemmas inherent in maintaining an online social media presence.
Using neural-network based paragraph embeddings for the calculation of within and between document similarities The results obtained in this study support the statement that a more fine-grained approach using paragraphs is applicable in science mapping and that it will provide additional insights in the topic structure underlying scientific papers.
Dynamics of topic formation and quantitative analysis of hot trends in physical science In this paper we propose to to adopt the metric based on normalised mutual information for calculation of similarity between scientific concepts.
The impact of preprints in Library and Information Science: an analysis of citations, usage and social attention indicators The impact of preprints in LIS is studied by comparing citations, usage data and social attention between arXiv papers and non-arXiv papers. We have found significant citation advantage of arXiv papers across WoS, Scopus and Google Scholar in each year. Mendeley readership as well as the usage counts in WoS have strong correlations with WoS citations, which are much stronger than those of Tweets.
iMetrics: the development of the discipline with many names We make the conclusions about the field's development and its current state. We also present the main authors, journals and keywords from the field, which form its common basis.
Evaluation of Brazilian research output in education: confronting international and national contexts Results showed that Brazilian researchers were not too concerned with journal index-ing in major international databases. Only a fraction of their total research output was in fact indexed in Scopus (13.28%).
Gender disparities in the field of economics This paper makes a powerful quantitative analysis of the gap between male and female authors from such aspects as the number of male and female authors, output and influence of different journals and institutions, career, dynamic evolution of output and influence, collaboration mode of gender difference, career length, contribution degree and collaboration degree of men and women.
Multimodal ensemble approach to identify and rank top-kinfluential nodes of scholarly literature using Twitter network This article introduces a new multimodel ensemble learning approach that integrates both the network- and nodes-specific features as SLMs.
A study on first citations of patents through a combination of Bradford's distribution, Cox regression and life tables method As a conclusion, survival analysis methods provide the possibility for deciding technology lifetime and for predicting the determinants for the flow of knowledge through citation analysis. The research confirms the findings by Ernst et al. [15] that a very small group of key inventors are responsible for the major part of the company's technological performance. Prediction is one aspect of the empirical study of Bradford's law [24].
Mapping the efficiency of international scientific collaboration between cities worldwide Results show that US-Europe co-publication links are more efficient in terms of pro-ducing highly cited papers than those international links that Asian cities have built in scientific collaboration. Previous studies and our research both suggest that the efficiency of a collaboration link is significantly influenced by several factors (e.g. the total publication output of cities, and the linguistic, historical, cultural and economic ties between the countries in which cities are located) [13], but one of the most important ones seems to be the disciplinary profile of cities. Thus, the examination of the connection between the efficiency of cities' international scientific collaboration and their disciplinary profile outlines further research directions.
Biomedical article authorship: A proposal to enhance the meaningful assignment of authorship Most importantly, the approach proposed would have a dramatic impact on the meaningfulness of authorship.
An Assessment of Predatory Publication Use in Reviews Predatory journal articles, which may not have been subjected to an adequate peer review, are being cited in review articles published in legitimate nursing journals, weakening the strength of these reviews as evidence for practice. The incorporation of potentially low-quality content in reviews threatens the strength of the evidence used to guide nursing practice.
Making researchers responsible: attributions of responsibility and ambiguous notions of culture in research codes of conduct "While many attributions of individual and institutional responsibility are clear, the exact boundary between the two is often problematic."
What we can learn from elite academic staff publication portfolios: a social network analysis This research presents insight into consistent publication trends across gender, sector and geographic location in the portfolios of academics publishing in the area of General Nursing.
Scientometric Analysis of Research in Energy Efficiency and Citizen Science through Projects and Publications This study has revealed that, although there is a large volume of projects and publications on energy efficiency and citizen science, there are few publications that analyse both topics simultaneously. Among the future lines of analysis, we propose developing a similar methodology to study the implementation of citizen science methodologies in other areas of research.
Bibliometric analysis of trends and issues in traditional medicine for stroke research: 2004-2018 This study provides a deeper insight into research on TCAM for stroke.
Research, Innovation and Development on Corylus avellana through the Bibliometric Approach Through the analysis was possible to trace some future lines of scientific research for this relatively unexplored topic. Some interesting future research lines can be identified through the study of the scientific areas addressed and explored in the last 40 years. The scientific approach applied to the study of hazelnut production has evolved toward a multidisciplinary and multisectoral approach as evidenced by the analysis of publications.
Evaluating human versus machine learning performance in classifying research abstracts ML classifiers are better at replicating the ground truth classification than human classifiers overall. Our results suggest ML models are a cost effective and highly accurate method for address-ing problems in comparative bibliometric analysis, such as harmonising the discipline clas-sifications of research from different funding agencies or countries. Applying our methods using training datasets with multiple field classifications would be an interesting extension of our research.
Automatic prediction of citability of scientific articles by stylometry of their titles and abstracts In conclusion, we believe that this work has contributed to different fronts to alleviate the problem of the loss of visibility of the articles due to rather superficial stylistic factors. Similarly, the results have the potential to sensitize readers, reviewers, and potential citers to avoid arbitrary stylistic biases and promote citations motivated by content, relevance, and merit.
Institutional Collaboration and Competition in Artificial Intelligence The research of this paper may support further research studies on institutional collaboration and competition as well as policy proposals for promoting scientific innovation, research management, and funding.
The most cited articles on cancer immunotherapy: An update study Cancer immunotherapy is a rapidly developing and changing subspecialty in the realm of oncology.
General internal medicine and family medicine journals Comparative study of published articles using bibliometric data Despite some differences between the two groups of articles, studies published in family medicine journals do not appear to be any less ambitious in terms of study design and sample size than those published in general internal medicine, a medical discipline recognized for the quality of its research. However, further research is needed to confirm our results and explore the reasons of these differences. In particular, the finding that only a few researchers in Asia have published in family medicine journals should be addressed.
"This work is antithetical to the spirit of research": An anatomy of harsh peer reviews Peer review is a contentious yet, thus far, apparently indispensable aspect of publishing: contributing to the creation and archiving of accredited knowledge and the construction of scholarly careers. Using corpus techniques, we have identified the content foci, stance features and keywords of these reviews to show how the texts differ from our expectations of collegial behaviour and to highlight both what authors find wounding and, by implication, what reviewers might seek to avoid. The intervention of EAP teachers can be decisive in assisting novice scholars with their initial steps into the publishing arena and exploration of how we might best accomplish this offers exciting opportunities for the future of our field.
A bibliometric analysis using VOSviewer of publications on COVID-19 The current growth trends predict a large increase in the number of global publications on COVID-19. China made the most outstanding contribution within this important field. Disease treatment, spike protein and vaccine may be hotspots in the future.
Exploring Accessibility in DOAJ: A Case Study This study revealed slow progress toward optimizing the accessibility of HTML article content on the DOAJ.
Bibliometric analysis of bioeconomy research in South Africa In comparison to Brazil, Russia, India and China, South Africa needs to increase its research publications by a factor of 1.7, 4.8, 6.1 and 20 to produce equivalent volume of knowledge production similar to Russia, Brazil, India and China respectively. The analysis indicates that the bioeconomy research system can be doubled in size without having to expand the total research system to match that of Russia bioeconomy related publications. However to produce equivalent volume of bioeconomy knowledge production similar to Brazil, India and China, South Africa will require growth of the total bioeconomy research system.
Gender, seniority, and self-citation practices in political science However, using a sample of 8717 political science articles, our analyses show that the self-citation gender gap is minimal.
Can the impact of grey literature be assessed? An investigation of UK government publications cited by articles and books In answer to the research questions, a semi-automatic method can be used to identify grey literature publications for both Scopus and Google Books. Scopus appears to be a better measure of impact for grey literature compared to Google Books, at least in terms of generating more matches in addition to a higher level of precision (generated from a random sample of 50 cited documents). Researchers assessing document-based knowledge flows in these areas should include grey literature within their analysis in order to get a more complete picture, who can be assisted by publishers of grey literature by including persistent document identifiers such as DOI.
Effecting variables of journal's ranking in forestry field Compared with journals in other fields, forestry research has a humble publishing culture with a lower JIF, smaller journal size, fewer article pages, and a rather substantial time between accepting original articles and publishing them in their final form. Some objectively measurable and controlled factors exist to help forestry journals obtain higher quartile rankings. This research provides an objective view for rethinking the overdependence on JIF and journal ranking in research assessment.
An efficient author information retrieval tool for bibliographic record analysis "We have presented efficient techniques to retrieve and analyze author-publication information from the DBLP dataset that will help to find author and co-authors and interaction."
David among Goliaths: Open access publishing in scientific (semi-)periphery Our findings show that 74.4% of papers with at least one Croa-tian affiliation are OA, which ranks Croatia shoulder to shoulder with the leading OA nations – Brazil, Netherlands, Switzerland, and United Kingdom – with more than 65% of OA in their overall WoS-indexed publication output (Science-Metrix, 2018).
Analysing the research performance of province-level administrative regions in China In general, scientific research in China has developed rapidly in recent years, and different regions vary greatly not only in research achievement but also in research preference.
The HF-rating as a universal complement to the h-index This universal HF-rating complements the well-known h-index with a relative indication of its influence in its field that also allows inter-field comparison.
Viewing computer science through citation analysis: Salton and Bergmark Redux In the 40 years since Salton and Bergmark’s landmark paper, the field of computer science has not only expanded in volume, it has expanded in its interactions with other fields, and has also resulted in new disciplinary and interdisciplinary subfields.
A semantic similarity adjusted document co-citation analysis: a case of tourism supply chain On an academic note, the study further adds to the argument of improved results of document co-citation analysis in cases of hybrid methods, which modify the conventional co-citation index.
Tracing open data in emergencies: The case of the COVID-19 pandemic Even though a large number of manuscripts was produced since the pandemic, availability of open data remains restricted. Collectively, the calls for open data in COVID-19 produced a large number of manuscripts in a very short time [71], although the majority (77.1%) failed to include actual patient data but consisted mainly of opinion papers or reviews. Therefore, the most appropriate question to consider is whether the call for open data in PHEIC actually serves its purpose or if it compromises research integrity and quality [72].
Ranking Multi-Metric Scientific Achievements Using a Concept of Pareto Optimality In this paper, a modified Pareto-front based ranking was suggested as a new ranking method for measuring the scientific achievements, or in general multi and many- metric rankings. It provides simultaneously multiple comparisons, considering the time period of academic research, and the use of other ranking methods.
A bibliometric overview of the Journal of Network and Computer Applications between 1997 and 2019 This is the first paper to develop a bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Network and Computer Applications (JNCA) from 1997 to 2019.
Impact of Field of Study Trend on Scientific Articles This study has analyzed the effects of following a trend, how significant is to follow a research trend in the field of Computer Science area and the impact of FoS trend on research paper citations.
A Systematic Approach to Map the Research Articles' Sections to IMRAD This paper has presented a novel method to map logical sections of PDF formatted research papers to the IMRAD structure.
In the race for knowledge, is human capital the most essential element? As there is no scientific evidence to support that talent is related to gender, level of development of country of affiliation or languages spoken, one can conclude that the opening statement of Clarivate Analytics is misleading. Instead, the analyzed data demonstrates that gender, language, funding (which is related to sponsorship) and facilities (which largely depends on the level of development of country of primary affiliation) are the essential factors in the race for knowledge, which corroborates previous findings. This, in turn, will increase the validity of science.
The Impact of the COVID-19 Crisis on Scholarly Publishing in China These activities have the potential to affect scholarly publishing in China and around the world in multiple ways: 1) by establishing a more reasonable academic evaluation system in China; 2) by bringing about a more balanced relationship between Chinese scholarly publishers’ profit motive and their commitment to social welfare; and 3) by altering the communication channels that Chinese researchers use and the publishing choices they make.
The hurdles of academic publishing from the perspective of journal editors: a case study While there are many tales of frustration told by authors of manuscripts who, after submitting their articles, had to deal with long review (or desk rejection) times and subpar reviews, the data we presented in this paper offer a retelling of some of these stories from the perspective of journal editors.
Should I stay or should I go? Using bibliometrics to identify the international mobility of highly educated Greek manpower The overall results indicate that the greatest share of researchers are static in the country of origin, Greece (74.6%).
Characteristics of scientific articles on COVID-19 published during the initial 3 months of the pandemic In conclusions, compared to the H1N1 pandemic, the majority of early publications on COVID-19 does not provide new information, possibly diluting the original data published on this disease and consequently slowing down the development of a valid knowledge base on this disease.
Evolution of interdependent co-authorship and citation networks We conclude that, in order to answer questions on the nature and dynamics of scientific collaboration, it is necessary to study both co-authorship and citation network simultaneously. The main contribution of this study lies in a rigorous and comprehensive analysis that probes the relations between the distances in the co-authorship network and the citation patterns in the citation network. Results from this study can be used in the development of more sophisticated models to investigate the spread of scientific knowledge.
How Do Academic Elites March Through Departments? A Comparison of the Most Eminent Economists and Sociologists' Career Trajectories Most of the insights gained from a comparative analysis of eminent economists and sociologists are in line with Whitley's predictions.
Ethical Publishing in Biodiversity Conservation Science Our results show that conservation science journals largely do not meet the FOA standards.
Common Laws Driving the Success in Show Business The experiment results show that there are some common features between the success of an actor and the success of an actress.
Twitter Activity Is Associated With a Higher Research Citation Index for Academic Thoracic Surgeons Surgeons who engage in Twitter activity are more likely to have their research cited by others.
A citation study of earth science projects in citizen science Assessing a variety of measures for productivity and impact for the earth science citizen sci-ence peer-reviewed research papers, we can tentatively conclude that the majority of the citizen science research tends to fall below the typical impact factors for natural science research, with the majority of the earth science research falling below the level of 'successful' research as indi-cated by the M-index.
Social connections and editorship in economics "This paper investigated the selection mechanisms used for the appointment of editors for 17 leading economics journals using publication data for 31,909 economists active between 1997 and 2009."
Consolidation in a crisis: Patterns of international collaboration in early COVID-19 research A review of early publication and cooperation patterns of scientific publications at the global level highlights that scientists rapidly reorganized to address the crisis posed by COVID-19 along the lines of greater efficiency and narrower focus. As expected, the dynamics of collaboration and teaming appear to shift to rely on fewer team members, which reduces the transaction costs of communicating among the group, and can, in theory, speed the research and writing processes. Policymakers who are tracking and guiding research into coronavirus topics and vaccines may wish to be aware of the changing dynamics of international teams.
The Bibliometric Keywords Network Analysis of Human Resource Management Research Trends: The Case of Human Resource Management Journals in South Korea Findings from this study provide a quantified profile and semantic structure of HRM research trends in Korea.
National Institutes of Health Research Plan on Rehabilitation: Analysis and Progress Conclusion(s): NIH advanced the goals stated in the Research Plan on Rehabilitation, but gap areas remain.
A bibliometric study of the Fenton oxidation for soil and water remediation "This bibliometric study has brought together the knowledge on publications related to the application of Fenton oxidation for soil and water remediation that are available from the Web of Science database."
From productive interactions to impact pathways: Understanding the key dimensions in developing SSH research societal impact This has allowed the typology to capture the diversity of impact pathways in SSH, but at the same time to de- velop the typology on the basis of their similarities.
Conceptualizing the societal impact of research in terms of elements of logic models: a survey of researchers in sub-Saharan Africa This means that a long-term, ultimate 'result' (benefit) is still relevant for conceptualizations of societal impact, thereby suggesting an understanding of impact similar to what is captured by logic models in programme evaluation. The expectation that research should have impact at an almost general level of aggregation could be unique to the SSA context. There is thus a need for studies that investigate their roots. What personal assumptions, ideas and experiences can explain the differences among researchers in SSA?
Normal versus extraordinary societal impact: how to understand, evaluate, and improve research activities in their relations to society? Focus on normal impact rather than extraordinary impact: Societal impact of research is normal and part of society.
Capacities, capabilities, and the societal impact of the humanities Building on the theoretical framework of the capabilities approach, in particular as it has been developed by Robeyns (2017) with focus on the societal aspects of the approach, it may be possible to develop a capability theory of societal impact that is more relevant for the humanities than many current approaches and methods.
Performing under 'the baton of administrative power'? Chinese academics' responses to incentives for international publications The study thereby proposes a reconsideration and reconstruction of current incentive schemes, to move beyond managerialism and towards the integration of intrinsic academic values. To conclude, this study finds that external incentives may not always serve as an enabler for academics to publish internationally.
It is not all about performance: Importance of the funding formula in the allocation of performance-based research funding in England However, this article demonstrates that it is not only the assessed performance that matters, but also the funding formula used to calculate and allocate research funds.
Nano-luminescent material: research hotspots, core patents, and major patentee mining based on social network analysis In the first place, the application and layout of multi-national patents for nano-luminescent materials are increasing year by year, but the gap from the non-international layout is growing.
The evolution of knowledge within and across fields in modern physics Our study case application has shown that major developments in physics can influence a field for many decades and can even trigger knowledge production in other fields.
Quantitative analysis of international collaboration on COVID-19: Indian perspective This study revealed that international collaboration results in higher impact and citation in comparison to non-international collaboration publications.
How Do Travel Costs Shape Collaboration? The paper explores how geographic frictions, and in particular travel costs, shape the rate and direction of scientific research.
Emotions and Sport Management: A Bibliometric Overview Thus, this research presents the key aspects in the topic of emotions in sport management that could be helpful for researchers and policy makers in the field of sport management to make future decisions. The overall results indicate that the literature on this research topic has grown significantly in recent years in all scientific disciplines.
Research on the Development of Theme Trends and Changes of Knowledge Structures of Drug Therapy Studies on Major Depressive Disorder Since the 21<SUP>st</SUP>Century: A Bibliometric Analysis These undeveloped theme clusters and emerging hotspots can be helpful for researchers to clarify the current status of their respective fields and future trends, and to generate novel ideas that may launch new research directions.
Comparing the impact of subfields in scientific journals Altogether, our results suggest that subfields visibility in specialized journals might be not uniform and this information could be used to better understand the components affecting journals impact.
Does corresponding authorship influence scientific impact in collaboration: Brazilian institutions as a case of study This result suggests that Brazilian institutions have sought to associate themselves with international institutions of recognized academic and scientific primacy.
Are Italian research assessment exercises size-biased? In this article, we have investigated the impact of the no-duplicates rule employed for Italy's most recent research evaluation exercises, which forced each institution to submit a specific number of research products per author, in such a way that each product was assigned to at most one of its coauthors.
What is meaningful research and how should we measure it? Applying purely metric-based indicators for evaluating research has the potential to lead to a dystopian research environment in the style of a “Black Mirror” episode.
A structural topic model approach to scientific reorientation of economics and chemistry after German reunification In this paper we have shown how scientists' research problem choices can be detected with a machine learning approach.
Discourse or gimmick? Digital marginalia in online scholarship At the moment, digital marginalia has shown itself to be something more of a gimmick than discourse. Experiments with its use in academic publications have been relatively unsuccessful or unrepeated trials (or both). Yet some of these show excellent promise (WOR, SQ, F1000Prime, The Disrupted Journal of Media Practice), and the continued developments in annotation tools, publisher practices, and digital archiving indicate that digital marginalia, as the contemporary iteration of various 'scholarly primitives' (Unsworth, 2000), is very likely to play a significant role in academic publishing's future.
Complex Network of Scientific Talent Migration in Discrete Dynamics from 2001 to 2013 In this paper, we investigated international scientific talent migration from 2001 to 2013 in the quantification. Based on the analysis, we maintain that the overall situation of international talent migration is relatively stable, but there exist some small fluctuations from 2001 to 2013. The future work should focus on analysing the key determining factors affecting talent migration data, such GDP per capita, innovation, and R&D expenditure.
Mapping career patterns in research: A sequence analysis of career histories of ERC applicants Our findings on career patterns in research inform further studies and policy making on career development, research funding, and gender equality.
Work honored by Nobel prizes clusters heavily in a few scientific fields In conclusion, work resulting in Nobel prizes is concentrated in a small minority of scientific disciplines.
Tales of Serendipity in Highly Cited Research: an Explorative Study Overall, what emerges from this study is the need for a more complex understanding of serendipity that is temporally nuanced. While previous studies have given us useful typologies that distinguish types of serendipity by zeroing in on the various gaps between the research target and result, our research shows that to fully understand this phenomenon we have also to look beyond just the beginning and ending points. A first principle, coming from our explora-tions, might be that science policy should not lock researchers into either process-es or goals.
International authorship and collaboration across bioRxiv preprints Our study represents the first comprehensive, country-level analysis of bioRxiv preprint publication and outcomes.
Flaws (and quality) in research today: can artificial intelligence intervene? In the field of research, a construction of such an AI model, based on a supervised learning ANN could assist stakeholders, clinicians, and patients to guide conducting the best quality of research.
A bibliometric analysis of research on rice and irrigation from the 'Agronomy' category based on the Web of Science We analysed 1319 research articles published on rice and irrigation from the 'Agronomy' category based on WoS for the period 1965–2018.
Proof of surgical publication prowess: prospective observational study of factors associated with surrogate markers of academic reach If CCT credentials are to include publication profiles, HST programmes should incorporate research training in workforce planning.
Dementia Research Productivity and Associations with Socioeconomic Factors and Burden of Disease in Southeast Asia Research productivity in the SEA region has sub-stantially increased in the recent years. Augmenting GDP per capita and apportionment of resources to R & D may have a significant role in the advancement of dementia research in this region.
Citation Indicators and Scientific Relevance: Genealogy of a Representation The analysis carried out shows that the scientific production evaluation models adopted by certain Latin American countries, based on the impact factor and the citation quartile stimulate a science based on unisystemic terms, aligned with agendas centered topics that are much worked on and not very innovative thereby assuring citation, but with an ephemeral validity which does not exceed the two or three years analyzed by the citation indicators, leaving out much of the relevant theoretical and empirical production in the region.
Misconduct and Misbehavior Related to Authorship Disagreements in Collaborative Science These findings suggest that authorship disputes may contribute to an unhealthy competitive dynamic that can undermine researchers' wellbeing, team cohesion, and scientific integrity.
Researchers' Perceptions of Ethical Authorship Distribution in Collaborative Research Teams Our qualitative study confirms and builds upon previous research on authorship and adds to our understanding regarding the complexity of authorship distribution. This research provides new insight into contextual specificities related to fair authorship distribution that can be instrumental in developing applicable training tools to identify, prevent, and mitigate authorship disagreement.
Sizing up Sport History Journals: Metrics, Sport Humanities, and History These achievements, along with the longevity of these journals that have been regularly published for over 35 years, attest to the vibrancy, status and success of the field. For individual sport historians, these findings will help provide some context for their research outputs in applications for promotion, grant funding, tenure, and positions.
Making sense in the flood. How to cope with the massive flow of digital information in medical ethics Are we able to really know and understand all the literature on a certain topic, keeping pace with new publications? Unless the topic is really narrow, the answer is a clear "no". Smart Iterative Search Strategies, Full Text Frequency Analysis and Text mining, if properly employed, can be a good working strategy to cope with this massive flow of information.
Citation Analysis of Fuzzy Set Theory Journals: Bibliometric Insights About Authors and Research Areas This study presents a citation analysis of 22 narrowly targeted fuzzy set theory journals using bibliometric tools for the quantification and presentation of the retrieved data. The connections, networks and research paths are additional results of this study that allow the visualization of possible synergies and opportunities for research in emerging fields. This study intends to shed light on the scope of fuzzy set theory and its evolution, its influence on diverse minds and fields, and its prospects for future developments.
Trends in the level of evidence and impact of clinical studies published in leading oral implantology journals: 2008-2018 The proportion of high LOE studies has increased substantially during 2008-2018, although the number of systematic reviews that only include randomized controlled trials has remained limited; Compared with low LOE studies, studies with high LOE tend to have significantly greater scientific and social impact.
Research trends in chemico-biological interactions: The golden jubilee (1969-2019) The present bibliometric analysis on the 50th anniversary of (1969-2019) CBI, confirms the enormous growth of the journal.
Research trends of cultural identity of mongol nationality based on mapping knowledge domain and visualization Future research emphasis and difficulty lies in identifying if people with surname Yu in southwestern China are descendants of Genghis Khan in Mongolia, combining historical truths by processing and analyzing the enormous family trees with the surname Yu.
The Influence of Changing Marginals on Measures of Inequality in Scholarly Citations: Evidence of Bias and a Resampling Correction In this study, we identify the existence of marginals bias that affects inequality measures used to study scholarly citations. We then propose a resampling correction method that removes the bias.
The publication of health sciences theses in Turkey: A study of Ege University This suggests that interventions targeting these two factors may result in increased publication of theses.
The k-index is introduced to replace the h-index to evaluate better the scientific excellence of individuals It was shown that the h-index is mostly determined by the total number of citations.
Adopting open access in the social sciences and humanities: evidence from a developing nation The results and its implications suggest that Vietnamese policymakers and uni-versity director boards should facilitate as well as control the quality of the scientific publishing and the OA movement.
Worldwide trends in the scientific production on rural depopulation, a bibliometric analysis using bibliometrix R-tool The main conclusion is that rural depopulation is not yet a solid field of research and the most important themes identified are related to specific geographical areas.
The impact of collaboration on research about rural buildings and landscape: A case study in Italy As concluding remarks, we present our considerations on how we answer to the RQs presented in Section 1.
Scholar's career switch adhesive with research topics: An evidence from China To sum up, the growth of scholars' career is not only conducive to improve output of papers, but also conducive to the exploration of research topics.
How and Why the Metric Management Model Is Unsustainable: The Case of Spanish Universities from 2005 to 2020 This paper analyzes the drawbacks of the MMM method and its widespread extension in the Spanish public education sector, starting with the university system.
Assessing the publication impact using citation data from both Scopus and WoS databases: an approach validated in 15 research fields This paper explores a percentile-based approach proposed, previously, to address the problem of having to use citation counts for publications belonging to different databases (e.g., WoS, Scopus, Google Scholar).
Is open access publication useful for all research fields? Presence of funding, collaboration and impact The findings obtained in the present study highlight the usefulness of OA publishing in accelerating access to quality research that serves to produce new knowledge. They also demonstrate that OA is related to greater funding, collaboration and impact of research. Funding bodies should be aware of these particularities when articulating their measures to stimulate the OA to new knowledge and encourage the creation of resources for the dis-semination of information without compromising the quality of research.
Determinants of research efficiency in Canadian business schools: evidence from scholar-level data The results highlighted the importance of some determinants in explaining the technical efficiency of Canadian business scholars, and then might help university administrators and policy-makers to better foster academic research efficiency, and scholars to better channel their efforts in studying the phenomenon.
Mapping of diseases from clinical medicine research-a visualization study In conclusion, there are more and more data-driven studies in the field of medicine and health, while, huge development spaces in the full spectrum of the diseases do exist. Mining the published researches through bibliometrics and visualized methods could come up with valuable results to inform further study.
Knowledge structure transition in library and information science: topic modeling and visualization We explored the transition of knowledge structure of LIS in the years 2000–2002 and 2015–2017, using LDA.
The dynamics of research subfields for library and information science: an investigation based on word bibliographic coupling This study aims to provide a more comprehensive recognition of the intellectual structure of LIS and the evolution of research subfields.
How to investigate the historical roots and evolution of research fields in China? A case study on iMetrics using RootCite This study explored how to investigate the origin and evolution of research fields in China, using iMetrics in China as a case study.
Factors impacting international-indexed publishing among Vietnamese educational researchers First, given the high importance of Collaboration with domestic peers; Collaboration with international peers; and Support from research assistants (Master and Ph.D. students) and Supervision from Supervisors from both junior and senior educational researchers, policymakers and university leaders are recommended to promote academic networking both horizontally (i.e. among Vietnamese academic community and between Vietnamese academic community and international academic community) and vertically (i.e. between junior and senior researchers or between Master/Ph.D. students and faculty staff).
The rivalry between Bernini and Borromini from a scientometric perspective Beyond doubt historical celebrities like Bernini and Borromini are a good choice for a bib-liometric study in order to reveal appropriate data sources for broad impact assessment in the scholarly community and beyond the “scholarly realm”. Our results also clearly show that sources normally not considered for comparable bib-liometric analyses, like JSTOR, PQDT, Google Scholar, etc. in fact provide more relevant or abundant information than the usual suspects, like the Web of Science Core Collection and Scopus. Much room for improvement has been identified in order to use data sources more efficiently and with higher accuracy.
The citation impact of social sciences and humanities upon patentable technology The frequency of patent citation to the scientific literature based on PATSTAT/Scopus is in the same order of magnitude as that based on Web of Science/USPTO, but slightly lower.
Sample size in bibliometric analysis We draw attention to the significance of this for assessment processes and the further evidence that university rankings are innately unsta- ble and generally unreliable.
Collaboration and its influence on retraction based on retracted publications during 1978-2017 Based on the analysis of retracted publications, evidence was found to support the conjunc-tion that collaboration will bring certain impacts on different scientific misbehaviors in dif-ferent levels of countries/territories and collaborative researchers.
Applied physics in Mexico: mining the past to predict the future We can conclude from our results that Applied Physics research in Mexico is aligned with the international priorities of nanotechnology particularly regarding renewable and sustainable energy resources, although Mexico's contribution continues to be small in the global scenario.
Complex networks for benchmarking in global universities rankings The methodology used in this work proposes, for a selected institution, to find a set of universities that compete with it, in the various bibliometric and reputational aspects. The DEA methodology for constructing an efficiency frontier shows the slacks for selected inputs and outputs, that can show to the policy makers the ability of a university to climb ranking positions at the lowest possible cost.
Mapping the situation of research on coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19): a preliminary bibliometric analysis during the early stage of the outbreak This bibliometric study may reflect rapidly emerging topics on COVID-19 research, where substantial research activity has already begun extensively during the early stage of the outbreak.
Vocabulary sharing among subjects belonging to the hierarchy of sciences "It was suggested that, in addition to comparing subjects in terms of a linear HoS, similarities between subjects should be examined independently of their position on the HoS."
Using ontologies to map between research data and policymakers' presumptions: the experience of the KNOWMAK project In this work, we aim to address some of the limitations in applying traditional classifica-tions to a science policy domain for the purposes of mapping scientific research around KETs and SGCs. We strongly assert that, in contrast to the growing trend for data-driven classification techniques, the ontology structure itself should be designed primarily in a top-down expert-based manner in order to meet the principal requirements of flexibility, commensurability and temporal stability. This work provides some pathways for STI technologies, which open up avenues for a number of future directions of research.
Toward a classification of Spanish scholarly journals in social sciences and humanities considering their impact and visibility The classification model proposed here can contribute to improving the quality of Span- ish scholarly journals by helping them to move towards leadership positions in their subject category.
A bibliometric measure of translational science We propose a novel measure, the TS score, to assess the translationalness of a non-clinical publication and provide evidence that this measure meets these desired criteria.
Using normative ethics for building a good evaluation of research practices: towards the assessment of researcher's virtues We attempt to deal with clarifying and discussing what it means to make a “good” research evaluation.
A practical guideline how to tackle interdisciplinarity-A synthesis from a post-graduate group project The present study reports findings about an interdisciplinary group project in which doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers with natural, social, and legal professional back-grounds faced challenges of interdisciplinarity.
Do successful PhD outcomes reflect the research environment rather than academic ability? Our key finding was that the research environment is likely more important for supporting PhD students to produce larger numbers of highly cited publications in higher impact jour-nals.
Overview of Hofstede-Inspired Research Over the Past 40 Years: The Network Diversity Perspective This paper examined whether the co-authorship networks of Hofstede-inspired research over the last 40 years are suffi-ciently diverse from the perspectives of cultural diversity and diversity of specialization to inspire creative future research.
Brazilian Publication Profiles: Where and How Brazilian authors publish Several warning lights are beginning to appear in the Brazilian publication scenario such as stagnation of production, reductions in international and industry collaborations, move towards closed access publishing, unfavourable changes in currency exchange rates, among others.
Ambiguity in identification of peer-reviewed publications in the Finnish and Flemish performance-based research funding systems In summary, the distinction between peer-reviewed and non-peer-reviewed publications in the context of a PRFS is not entirely clear cut. Our results show that the PRFSs criteria for peer-reviewed outputs and publication channels are not al-ways fully consonant with the researchers' understanding of the scholarly status of their publications. Our findings also help to improve responsible use of metrics derived from PRFSs data, if grey zones are recognised and taken into consideration when the data is used for research evaluation purposes, especially at individ-ual level.
The continued citation of retracted publications in dentistry Retracted publications continue to have an impact in the dental literature even after their retraction notices have been posted.
Does the pressure to fill journal quotas bias evaluation?: Evidence from publication delays and rejection rates Our findings suggest that time pressures inherent in the peer review system may be a source of potential evaluator bias, calling for a need to reconsider the current quota system.
Integrating Integrity: The Organizational Translation of Policies on Research Integrity The implications of this dis-location and externalizing of integrity are discussed.
The growing number of patent citations to scientific papers: Changes in the world, nations, and fields The number of scientific publications has steadily increased over time, and countries compete with each other for increasing their number of papers and citations, e.g., emerging scientific powers; however, in this era in which the pressure on academicians to have marketable outcome is continuously increasing, only a few numbers of countries are active both in patenting and technology-oriented research as well as scientific publishing. The correlation between the number of citations received from science and patents is weak, so to give credit to those researchers who are working on more applied research, the world's research assessment framework needs some changes.
A comprehensive author ranking evaluation of network and bibliographic indices The in-depth analysis of experiments and evaluation revealed that network indices hold the potential to rank the authors with respect to their position in the co-author network. Among all other network indices, betweenness centrality has significantly performed well in ranking the authors and specified relatively strong association with the awardees of scientific societies.
Detecting emerging topics by exploiting probability burst and association rule mining: A case study of Library and Information Science This paper present a new approach, ETDBL, for detecting emerging topics using the LDA model and association rule mining, which have several significant advantages. First, it requires only the four basic attributes of a document (i.e., category, title, time, and content). Thus, it can be applied to analyse most types of documents, including papers, patents, reports, and web pages, and can also be applied to analyse mixed types of documents. Indeed, it has wider adaptability. In the future, this approach can be improved in two ways.
Diffusion and impact of Marshall McLuhan's published work in the Web of Science This paper analyzed the impact of Marshall McLuhan's work on the scientific literature, more specifically, the citations his intellectual output received in articles published in the WoS Core Collection.
Macro-level collaboration network analysis and visualization with Essential Science Indicators: A case of social sciences Those conclusions are critical for policy makers to produce guidelines on how to encourage researchers to build collaboration networks with high-level scholars in different countries. Based on the findings, the following conclusions are made: (a) In order to be ranked top 1% in each indicator variable in the field of social sciences, one should improve collaboration with scientists especially from USA, England, Canada, Netherland and Australia, as well as the collaboration times (number of collaboration). Therefore, strengthening national academic research capability through international collaboration and attempting to form a group in which members could make progress and share achievements jointly is necessary.
Index for objective measurement of a research paper based on sentiment analysis The presented work highlights the need for an objective analysis for assessment of impact of a research paper.
Evaluating wider impacts of books via fine-grained mining on citation literatures The results suggest that citation literatures could be a particularly helpful reference for assessing books' wider impacts. In answer to the first research question, books' citation literatures do seem to be valuable for use in the book impact assessment for both academic impacts and use impacts. More importantly, citation literatures can provide supplementary information from different perspectives for existing evaluation metrics, thus enriching resources for book impact evaluation.
Evaluating the relationship between the academic and social impact of open access books based on citation behaviors and social media attention The findings demonstrated that the OA books and OA papers do not have similar impacts on the citation.
Intellectual structure evolution of open access research observed through correlation index of keyword centrality Although there are many studies that analyze intellectual structure, few studies have observed changes in intellectual structure. This study has theoretical value in that it infers how long the similarities between intellectual structures persist through correlations between intellectual structures captured by time. And this methodology has practical value in that it can be used in the analysis of intellectual structure in the future studies of various fields.
Conflict in nursing studies: A bibliometric analysis of the top 100 cited papers The issue of conflict is a growing field of scientific study for nursing researchers.
Towards a More Realistic Citation Model: The Key Role of Research Team Sizes Although more work is needed to arrive at the model that would be able to predict all empirical distributions and relations equally well, this work has set a solid foundation for that effort by demonstrating that it is essential to include both direct and indirect citation mechanisms, and that the former may be related to a property (or properties) of the paper that reflect its intrinsic citation potential, and therefore does not have a uniform probability.
SAP Algorithm for Citation Analysis: An improvement to Tree of Science Results show that SAP is more accurate in this field. It presents the most important current literature. This improvement facilitates construction of current literature for researchers.
Social media-based sleeping beauties: Defining, identifying and features This study extends the perspective of sleeping beauties in science from the diffusion trajectory based on the citation indicators to the social media diffusion trajectory based on the social media metrics. Overall, this study extends the perspective of sleeping beauties in science. In the future, we will focus on exploring these issues to further reveal the awakening mechanism of different types of sleeping beauty in science.
Predicting future influence of papers, researchers, and venues in a dynamic academic network Predicting the future influence of papers, authors and venues is an essential task for scientists, research organizations, research funding bodies, and government agencies alike. In this paper, we have proposed a ranking algorithm, WMR-Rank, which is able to predict the future influence of papers, authors and venues at the same time. Experiments have been conducted on a real world dataset ACL and results show that our approach is much more effective than state-of-the-art approaches.
Paper-patent citation linkages as early signs for predicting delayed recognized knowledge: Macro and micro evidence In this study, we have answered the following two questions, one is the extent of patent citations to papers as early signs of delayed recognition using a comparative study with a control group, i.e., instant recognition papers. The other is the pattern of science-technology interaction between the sleeping science and the technology inducing its recognition.
Predicting the number of coauthors for researchers: A learning model A learning model is proposed to predict the number of coauthors for researchers. Its practicability is tested on the dblp dataset, and its effectiveness is exhibited by the satisfactory fittings on the evolutionary trend of the number of coauthors for researchers, the distribution of this variable, and the occurrence probability of collaboration events.
Can we automate expert-based journal rankings? Analysis of the Finnish publication indicator The automation was studied from three different perspectives utilizing several techniques, always highlighting the features with the greatest effect on the ranking.
Patent citation inflation: The phenomenon, its measurement, and relative indicators to temper its effects Taken as a whole, the results of this study verify that patent citation inflation has occurred frequently over the past four decades – in some cases at very high levels.
Assigning credit to scientific datasets using article citation networks In sum, our study provides a prescriptive model to understand how citations interact in publication and dataset citation networks and gives a concrete method for producing ranks that are predictive of actual usage.
Assessing books' depth and breadth via multi-level mining on tables of contents This study introduced a framework for measuring books' depth and breadth according to books' tables of contents.
Topic-linked innovation paths in science and technology This study focused on linked science and technology topics by exploring the identification method of innovation paths based on the linkage of science and technology topics. Our method can be used as a tool to gain a better understanding of the linkage between scientific discoveries and technological developments in different innovation paths and to discover evolution trends in these links. It is possible to discover new unknown technology pathways that are supported by scientific discoveries.
Improving the reliability of short-term citation impact indicators by taking into account the correlation between short-and long-term citation impact The results showed that, although both the performance and ranking of these universities were strongly correlated, some universities' performance and ranking changed dramatically.
An investigation of the relationship between scientists' mobility to/from China and their research performance It is concluded that the careers of the sampled scientists received significant advancement after moving to China, according to their research performance in the Web of Science database. China is found to remain a place where young scientists such as those who just received PhDs from abroad can build their teams and start steady publishing. Future work would concentrate more on the underlying mechanisms that facilitate or even 'push' scientists to perform better after moving to China.
Comparison of research performance of Italian and Norwegian professors and universities The main aim of this study was to verify the feasibility of applying a research performance (output-to-input) indicator, namely the FSS (Abramo & D'Angelo, 2014), to assess the standing of higher education systems of countries other than Italy. The results of the current comparison offer a number of stimuli to further delve into the performance analyses.
Are nationally oriented journals indexed in Scopus becoming more international? The effect of publication language and access modality The results show that it does not make much sense to speak in terms of national or international journals. Therefore, the study did not find solid evidence that journal impact factors are good measures of journal internationality in terms of the geographical distribution of authors or readers. They suggest that this claim is not valid across all journals entering an international database, and that publication language and access modality are important preconditions for their internationalization, at least in terms of publishing and reading authors.
Application of machine learning techniques to assess the trends and alignment of the funded research output The proposed approach makes it possible to objectively and systematically monitor research projects, or any other set of documents related to research activities such as funding proposals, at large-scale.
Polar coordinates and generalized h-type indices This article highlights the importance of using polar coordinates when studying functions, in particular in relation to generalized h-type functions. As such it is essentially meant to provide tools for further studies we intend to finish soon. Finally, just like in Cartesian coordinates a circle is the graph of two functions, we can calculate generalized h-type indices for graphs that can be described through two or more functions in polar coordinates.
Gender and other potential biases in peer review: cross-sectional analysis of 38 250 external peer review reports Peer review of grant applications at SNSF might be prone to biases stemming from different applicant and reviewer characteristics. In conclusion, our results had important implications for the evaluation of project grant proposals at the SNSF. We encourage all funding bodies to contribute to research on potential biases in research funding, and ways of preventing them.
Journal editors' perspectives on the communication practices in biomedical journals: a qualitative study In conclusion, our study showed that there are a number of issues related to communication practices that might have a significant impact on the peer-review process and its outcomes.
New and atypical combinations: An assessment of novelty and interdisciplinarity We suggest that the policy evidence derived from these measures should be reassessed.
Technological impact of biomedical research: The role of basicness and novelty We found that both features have positive associations with technological impact and the effect sizes are large. Our findings speak to the ongoing discussions in the science policy literature on the role of basic science and novel science. Our work aligns with these lines of inquiry and provides empirical, supporting evidence for alleviating the bias against novelty, or even encouraging the pursuit of novel science, because it contributes to the development of technological innovations.
The most cited and co-cited COVID-19 articles: Knowledge base for rehabilitation team members The number of COVID-19 articles in PubMed is increasing at a very high rate. Citation and co-citation network analysis are advantageous techniques to identify knowledge base in a scientific discipline. These techniques may help rehabilitation specialists to identify core articles efficiently.
Alphabetic order of authors in scholarly publications: a bibliometric study for 27 scientific fields This paper provides a systematic bibliometric study of the tendencies and patterns related to the alphabetic approaches taken to position the author names in scholarly publications. In future work, we intend to perform a similar author alphabetic degree analysis that includes more journals and scientific subareas (e.g., electronic engineering). It would also be interesting to calculate the two ordering indicators (PFOA and DAO) on sublists of authors related with research institutions (to check alphabetic order usage of authors from the same institution or laboratory).
A methodology for developing scientific diversification strategy of countries The method mentioned in this research has been expressed using the stated complexity approach and strategies by emphasizing scientific productivity border, which can identify proximal domains to the country's scientific capabilities and lead countries toward greater scientific diversity, namely domains in which each country has the ability and capacity to produce science; in other words, the domains are close enough to the potential of countries and can enhance their scientific competitiveness in terms of complexity. Thus, countries gradually increase their scientific impact by moving from less complex to more complex sciences. However, it should be noted that achieving scientific development and solving the problems of countries requires examining all aspects and factors affecting the political, cultural, social and other areas.
Important citation identification by exploiting the syntactic and contextual information of citations Effective identification of important citations is an important topic in the field of scientometrics in recent years.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Symmetry (2009-2019) In summary, this paper is a relatively comprehensive view of Symmetry by bibliometric analysis, which helps scholars understand its current status, future trends of development, and research scope. In future, we will continue to collect its productions and pay more attention to its developments, aiming to make the conclusions richer.
Bibliometric Analysis on COVID-19: A Comparison of Research Between English and Chinese Studies The publications in English have enabled medical practitioners and scientists to share/exchange information, while on the other hand, the publications in the Chinese language have provided complementary educational approaches for the local medical practitioners to understand the essential and key information to manage COVID-19 in the relatively remote regions of China, for the general population with a general level of education.
Publication productivity (H-Index) among pediatric dermatologists in the United States H-index increased with increasing academic rank and was highest among those working in academics.
Research strengths identified by esteem and bibliometric indicators: a case study at the University of Vienna Both, esteem-indicators and bibliometric analysis proved to be useful in identifying research strengths, lead to similar results and are meant to be used together to complement each other.
An attempt to identify technologically relevant papers based on their references This study attempted to develop two reference-based indicators (NR-PCP and NR-FP) of technological relevance. A comparison of both indicators' behaviors showed NR-PCP's relative advantage in steadily obtaining better results in many cases. The present research is a first step for the elaboration of monitoring indicators of technological relevance for young papers, and many issues should be addressed for their practical use.
Has Covid-19 Gone Viral? An Overview of Research by Subject Area The emergence of COVID-19 has had a great impact, not only among clinical professionals, which is where, as expected, it has the most relevance (88.23%), but also in other areas, mainly in Social Sciences (6.07%), Technology, Physical Sciences, and Arts and Humanities. The interaction between different fields (e.g., medical science, social sci- ence, business and economics, engineering) is necessary to solve holistic problems, as evidenced by the number of inter- disciplinary works. It seems evident that the opportunities for research on COVID-19 are still very high, since at the same time that the indicated topics will continue to be analyzed, new streams of research appear, where, once the virus is better understood, new and effective measures against COVID-19 will be sought in addition to possible solutions to the economic crisis derived from the pandemic, the rethinking of certain social values, and the incursion and consequences of 2019-nCOV.
Regulating Academic Pressure: From Fast to Slow We do believe this to be a genuine possibility, and to support this belief, we will adapt the reigning 'newspeak' in terms of efficiency, precisely calcu- lating what is at stake. Instead of 'publish or perish', we now promote 'disseminate or perish'. In the long run, it may not be valuable for an artistic researcher to follow the cynical principle “publish or perish.”
Worldwide Scientific Research on Nanotechnology: A Bibliometric Analysis of Tendencies, Funding, and Challenges Nanotechnology is a rapidly growing area of research worldwide, with a high annual growth rate. The geopolitical landscape related to nanotechnology has changed dramatically and the focus of nanotechnology research (in terms of scientific publication output) has moved to Asia, with China, Iran and India leading the way. Nanotechnology research is anticipated to accelerate in future years and to lead to new applications to meet society's needs in a variety of fields, such as energy, agriculture, environment, biotechnology and health, among others.
Research trends and areas of focus on the Chinese Loess Plateau: A bibliometric analysis during 1991-2018 We presented a comprehensive overview of the CLP research field based on the bibliometric analysis. CLP research was marked by exponential growth with an increasing number of publications. Catena and Palaeogeography Palaeoclimatology Palaeoecology are the most popular journals for researchers to publish their research results, and these two journals have the greatest influences in the field with large numbers of citations.
Investigating the emerging COVID-19 research trends in the field of business and management: A bibliometric analysis approach The objective of this paper was to explore emerging research trends regarding the impacts of COVID-19 on business and management using bibliometric and science mapping approaches. This article contributes to research on COVID-19 by elucidating the theoretical evolution of COVID-19 research and its linkages with multiple economic, social, and technological factors. This study outlines several research propositions that can serve as a foundation for future research in the area of COVID-19. The findings and propositions of this study demonstrate that governments should reform existing economic policies to meet individuals' immediate health, food, and other basic needs; maintain political and economic stability; and protect social cohesion.
Bibliometrics-based heuristics: What is their definition and how can they be studied? - Research note To conclude, with this commentary, we neither advocate nor condemn bibliometrics for research evaluation.
The commoditization of the publication culture in Spain: a cost- and time-effective model to systematize Communication Sciences In sum, interviewees portray a scenario that requires urgent reform. First, because a system that is based on a cost- and time-effective model is incompatible with the meticulous and thorough evaluation required by rigorous scientific outputs: as any other system that encourages over-production, it will generate "mediocre, forgettable arguments and findings" (Bauerlein et al., 2010, p. 80).
Why are new journals created? An international analysis of Information and Documentation titles (2013-2018) The creation and transformation of titles in the ID area in the analyzed period provides more doubts than insights, in terms of both the way and depth with which publishers justify such editorial initiatives. In any case, the lack of justification texts or their low quality provi- des a first-rate indication to support the supposition that many journals are created more as a response to the needs of those who promote them than as an instrument to serve an audience. The low volume of article production, or metadata management towards Crossref, along with other elements of journal operation, may be associated with unprofessional editorial projects.
Research impact and productivity of Benin according to the Science Citation Index Expanded (1973 to 2018) In its scientific activity, Benin is similar to other tropical countries, and would benefit from increased cooperation among local researchers; from less dependence on small participations in international megaprojects, and from opening the door to research in areas of innovation rather than just solving immediate problems.
Analysis of Research Topics and Trends in the Journal of Korean Academy of Nursing to Improve Its International Influence JKAN still has a low IF and a low ranking among Social Citation Index (E) journals during the past 10 years, as compared to that of four international journals.
Street research market: dealing with scientific misconduct in Iran This study revealed some misconduct in scientific activities which has persuaded the authorities to enforce strict rules to deal with it. Iran encountered a type of scientific misconduct which might lead to quality loss of scientific productions, competence inequality, and destruction of the scientific identity. As the survey in this study was conducted before the legislation, future studies should focus on the effectiveness of these rules in preventing scientific misconduct.
Determining the Relationship Between Altmetric Score and Literature Citations in the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Literature Compared to other fields, OMS articles accrued lower Altmetric scores, representing a paucity of attention garnered on social media outlets.
Fostering Social Project Impact with Twitter: Current Usage and Perspectives The results reveal moderate usage of Twitter among the projects under the Science in Society FP7 programme, as well as high and moderate positive correlations with owning different social network accounts. The findings of the presented study suggest several courses of action for practice. In future research, other data could be integrated into the study.
Detection of Neurological and Ophthalmological Pathologies with Optical Coherence Tomography Using Retinal Thickness Measurements: A Bibliometric Study The growth of the scientific literature on RNFL thickness was linear, with a very high rate of transience, which indicates low productivity and the presence of numerous authors who sporadically publish on this topic.
Ten Years of Airbnb Phenomenon Research: A Bibliometric Approach (2010-2019) These first ten years of publications related to Airbnb in the WoS present this firm as a phenomenon that has not only experienced fast growth since its inception (482 articles and 5172 citations for the 2010-2019 period), but that has originated a trend for new research that will remain in the future.
Knowledge and social relatedness shape research portfolio diversification Based on data concerning a very large sample of physicists we find that, while knowledge relatedness plays a role, contemporary science is a profoundly social enterprise.
Analysis of submissions, editorial and peer-review process, and outcome of manuscripts submitted to the Indian Journal of Dermatology Venereology and Leprology over a 6-month period The IJDVL attracts submissions both from India and abroad. Articles submitted in the Letters category or related to tropical infections were most likely to be accepted. There is scope for improving the time taken for editorial processing of manuscripts.
A comparative study on the turnaround time of article processing in dermatology journals: A need for improvement of this aspect in Indian journals An effective editorial screening, fast-tracked editorial and peer review process and regulation on turnover time of submissions by Indian dermatology journals are imperative in improving the impact of research publication. The editorial board of Indian dermatology journals should work towards achieving an effective editorial screening, fast-tracking editorial and peer review processes and disseminating the peer-reviewed scientific material in a timely manner with minimal delay in publication. This is imperative in magnifying the productivity of the entire process of publication of a manuscript, making it a joyful and fruitful endeavor for the journal staff as well as the authors.
Bibliometric mapping of top papers in Library and Information Science based on the Essential Science Indicators Database This study concludes that one important characteristic of top papers is the journal reputation, therefore authors can choose their ideal journal with a high JIF and quartile to publish papers in the English language related to this research field.
Creating Neuroscientific Knowledge Organization System Based on Word Representation and Agglomerative Clustering Algorithm We first developed a systematic procedure to semi-automatically organize the KOS in a hierarchical categorization based on a corpus.
Moving more, but closer: Mapping the growing regionalization of global scientific mobility using ORCID As it turns out, understanding the global mobility of scientists also means taking account of the regional growth of European and Asian science. Since 1980 there have been increasing amounts of international migration among scientists, cohort by cohort, but over the same period of time there has also been increased migration among countries that are regional moves in the same international region. In fact, the average distance travelled by mobile scientists has shrunk.
A "Trojan Horse" in the peer-review process of fee-charging economic journals We conclude that the Traditional model has a more effective incentive-mechanism in selecting articles, based on quality standards.
Robust parameterisation of ages of references in published research The robust shape and scale parameters of the gamma distribution fitted to the distribution of ages of references in a publication characterise the knowledge on which that new knowledge is based.
Identifying prize-winning scientists by a competition-aware ranking In this paper, we mainly discuss how to measure the academic achievements for scholars more reasonably.
Scientific journals still matter in the era of academic search engines and preprint archives Our results suggest that journals remain an important sta- tus marker for scientific work despite the advent of pre- print archives and algorithmic search technologies.
Bibliometric profile of global scientific research on digoxin toxicity (1849-2015) The USA was the most important contributor to digoxin toxicity by volume, international collaboration, and by h-index, followed by Germany and the UK. There have been decreasing numbers of published papers since the 1970s, mirroring changes in clinical treatment of CHF. Additionally, this study demonstrates substantial knowledge gaps in the field of digoxin toxicity research especially for and in low- and middle-income countries, with input urgently desired to enhance research output globally, especially for low- and middle-income countries specifically in epidemiology, patterns, and preventive measures as well as national planning.
The 100 top cited articles in the field of digestive endoscopy: from 1950 to 2017 By identifying the most influential publications, the present study could serve as a guide toward further development in the area of digestive endoscopy. The 100 top-cited research articles in digestive endoscopy identify topics, authors and institutions that have significantly contributed toward advancements in this specialty. By identifying the most influential references, the present study undoubtedly serves as a guide to citable digestive endoscopy studies, while providing a perspective on important areas that need to be focused on in the future.
The Role of Social Media in Scholarly Collaboration: An Enabler of International Research Team's Activation? The present study set out to investigate the international collaboration of research and the impact of academics' presence in SM in creating international teams. Based on our analysis, we have demonstrated that SM plays an important role in academia during the phase of international team building, which is determined by the creation of virtual collaboration on various SM platforms. Our findings showcase that scholars' presence on SM platforms in academia is positively associated with the international collaboration of teams. Future studies on the relationship between the use of SM and international collaboration are now recommended.
Qualitative Analysis of Faculty Opinions on and Perceptions of Research Impact Metrics Overall, participants expressed the belief that they are able to appropriately use metrics to assess others and others' work, to make decisions about where to share their work, and to advocate for themselves; and that to appropriately use metrics requires an understanding of disciplinary differences that those outside a subject area (such as administrators) may not have.
Transitioning to Open Access: An Evaluation of the UK Springer Compact Agreement Pilot 2016-2018 Analysis of research presented in this article paints a broadly positive picture of Springer Compact as a pilot agreement, showing year-on-year improvements. The analysis undertaken during the three years of the Springer Compact pilot has been extremely valuable to the consortia. The recommendations made above highlight some of the areas where further action is required and that would ultimately result in greater cost reduction and efficiencies.
Revisiting subject classification in academic databases: A comparison of the classification accuracy of Web of Science, Scopus & Dimensions Firstly, out of the three databases, Web of Science still has the most accurate subject classification, followed by Dimensions and Scopus. Secondly, at the moment, article-level classification may not be necessarily better than journal-level classification, as is commonly believed. Thirdly, the new database Dimension is at least as accurate as as Web of Science in subject category assignment, which is an impressive performance for a newly created academic database. It would be interesting to see how does Dimensions database further improves its subject classification accuracy, taking into account the advantage it may have in terms of using an article-level subject classification scheme.
Measuring interdisciplinarity of research articles: An analysis of inter-relatedness of different parameters The results imply that the composite integrated diversity measure may not be a suitably constructed composite measure of interdisciplinarity.
Simulation of the New Proposed Method by CAPES for the Qualis 2017-2020 Classification of the Brazilian Archives of Biology and Technology It was verified that the criteria established by the CAPES' guiding document were not adequately followed. It could be concluded that the journal BABT should have been classified in the stratum A2, with a possible oscillation between A1 and A4, so that its classification as a B3 publication is out of the range foreseen in CAPES' established criteria. However, it is expected that the errors found during the course of this process will be corrected and not repeated in the future, especially due to the fact that the analysed classification consisted only of a preview and is, therefore, subject to revision.
Twenty-seven years of Sustainable Development Journal: A bibliometric analysis In a nutshell, this study provides a holistic overview of the significant contribution made by S.D. in sustainable development research. The analysis of the country ranking showed that most of the countries belong to the west, which indicates that sustainability research is being taken seriously in the west as compared to Asia. This is undoubtedly an indication of the importance of sustainability research as a tool of business strategy.
Predicting the citation counts of individual papers via a BP neural network Our empirical experiments showed that the BP neural network outperformed the other six baselines (XGBoost, RF, LR, SVR, KNN, and RNN) in terms of both the whole dataset of papers and the high-impact papers.
An alternative topic model based on Common Interest Authors for topic evolution analysis The CIA topic modeling is done in the premise that the group of creators – authors – have a multitude of relationships around the shared common interests – topics, and it can be generalized not only to the other research domains but also to the other document types sharing the similar author relationships.
Research funding: past performance is a stronger predictor of future scientific output than reviewer scores Evidence suggests that the past scientometric performance of the principal investigator is the best predictor of future output.
Evaluating the influence of country characteristics on the Higher Education System Rankings' progress This paper examines the underlying factors, economic and non-economic, that make countries to enhance the excellence of their university systems. Our highlights suggest that although the most important factor that explains the university system excellence is the economic potential in terms of GDP per capita, the R&D expenditure, the policy and regulatory Environment and the Connectivity of the university system are also key factors for ensuring the excellence of the Higher Education systems. We conclude that they cannot be considered isolated from each other. The interaction between them determines the results of universities policy and the way to become a solid group of best-ranked university system.
Predicting publication productivity for researchers: A piecewise Poisson model The model has the advantage of providing results in an unbiased way; thus would be useful for funding agencies that evaluate a vast number of applications provided by research groups with a quantitative index on publications. Our model offers convincing evidence that the productivity patterns of many researchers can be characterized by a piecewise Poisson process. Our model provides a platform to utilize multiple factors by substituting them in the right side of Eq. (3).
Knowledge recency to the birth of Nobel Prize-winning articles: Gender, career stage, and country Overall, NPs has been focused on recent knowledge. However, these greatest discoveries done after 1980 show an increasing favor to older literature, measured by both median- and mean AoR, and Price index, chronologically.
Early-stage reciprocity in sustainable scientific collaboration This work facilitates understanding sustainable collaborations and thus will benefit both individual scholar in optimizing collaboration strategies and the whole academic society in improving teamwork efficiency.
Understanding hierarchical structural evolution in a scientific discipline: A case study of artificial intelligence This study expands traditional flat single-layer topic evolution analysis into multi-level structural evolution analysis, which can better understand how a large-scale discipline develops over time.
Bibliometrics and systematic reviews: A comparison between the Proknow-C and the Methodi Ordinatio This research contributed to theory as it analyzed and compared the selection of relevant papers by two bibliometric methods, namely, the Proknow-C and the Methodi Ordinatio.
Use of author identifier services (ORCID, ResearcherID) and academic social networks (Academia.edu, ResearchGate) by the researchers of the University of Caen Normandy (France): A case study Our results show that, because of the numerous profiles lacking publication references (particularly on ORCID) and a low presence of researchers on the four sites stud-ied (except for ResearchGate), assessing the number of publications, h-indexes, or average number of citations per article of individuals or institutions remains challenging.
Academic libraries as the flagships of publishing trends in LIS: a complex analysis of rankings, citations and topics of research The results of the analyses provide an international overview and assessment of the leading research topics and the most prominent representatives of LIS, all of which are directly connected to the notion and the activities of academic libraries. Using this new methodology, this study identified the most popular topics and the most often cited authors of LIS over the past five years, which may be claimed to play a decisive role in determining the main avenues of research in the field. An in-depth analysis of the keywords, the titles and the abstracts of the articles suggested that the most prevailing tendencies of research relate dominantly to academic libraries, but social media and information literacy also have a significant role.
Scientometric trends for coronaviruses and other emerging viral infections Independent of the outcome of the current COVID-19 outbreak, we believe that measures should be taken to encourage sustained research in the field.
Should Google Scholar be used for benchmarking against the professoriate in education? As metrics continue to rise in their importance for academics' job security and promotional prospects, reliance on metrics of dubious quality and uneven participation must be questioned.
A mathematical approach to assess research diversity: operationalization and applicability in communication sciences, political science, and beyond The goal of this study was to propose and test a methodological protocol to calibrate the research diversity in a given scientific field.
Uncertainty and the ranking of economics journals We show that ranks of the highest, as well as the lowest, ranked journals are well estimated, while there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the rank of many mid-ranked journals. The distribution of the underlying measure is useful for identifying groups of journals that are more or less of the same quality (from the point of view of the invariant measure). Regarding future research, it would be interesting to study if ranking uncertainty is dependent on ranking method.
Scientific collaboration of researchers and organizations: a two-level blockmodeling approach The main finding is that the ties among clusters of organizations are often not reflected in ties among the clusters of researchers affiliated with them. That might indicate that SC on the level of organizations is often not reflected in common published scientific papers on the individual level (and vice versa). Another important finding is that the clusters of researchers obtained are very mixed in terms of disciplinary affiliations, indicating relatively high interdisciplinary SC.
Does monetary support increase citation impact of scholarly papers? Findings suggest that subsidies do not seem to be an effective incentive to improve the citation impact of scholarly TR-addressed papers. Such support programs should therefore be reconsidered. This suggests that subsidies based on bibliometric measures, as is the case in TÜBİTAK's support system, function poorly as incentives to increase the citation impact of scholarly papers.
Other than detecting impact in advance, alternative metrics could act as early warning signs of retractions: tentative findings of a study into the papers retracted by PLoS ONE It is shown that a few of them are somewhat related to the probability of a paper being retracted or not. On the whole, a combination of five alternative metrics makes it possible to predict correctly more than a fourth of the analyzed retractions. Hence, although the proposed analytical model has limited predictive power, it is useful as it suggests that some sort of relationship can be found between alternative metrics and retractions.
Classifications of science and their effects on bibliometric evaluations Our results reveal that the classification scheme has less impact on rankings at the institution level than at the individual level. Results suggests that it is essential to develop paper-level classification systems, so that multidisciplinary researchers (and papers) are not at a disadvantage. We believe it would be useful to conduct similar investigations on other datasets to assess whether those differences are due to the CSCD data, or whether they can be also found in other data sources.
How the high-impact papers formed? A study using data from social media and citation This study attempts to explicate the formation structure of HIPs by introducing CI and comparing the characteristics of HIPs and HCPs. The findings of this study give rise to several conclusions. Although citation remains the most widely accepted index of a paper, researchers should not ignore the impact of papers via social media.
A new territory and its pioneer: opening up a dominant research stream for a translational research area The verified relations and repeatable results the pioneer finds guide followers to create a new subject area. General characteristics of identified clusters in both maps are largely similar, but differences were also identified, indicating that the pioneer opened a dominant research stream for the whole area. The strong links build a broad and solid bridge between the clusters in the pioneer's term map, which created the possibility to successfully finish the translational process.
Analysis of potential predatory journals in radiology In conclusion, we demonstrated the main characteristics of potential predatory journals in the radiology field such as reliability of the reported address, APC, publication frequencies, indexing features, features of published articles and peer-review time, which were all similar with their counterparts in other biomedical fields. As in the other fields of medicine, there is a considerable amount of potential or probable predatory journals related to radiology and their number is increasing day by day. The authors should be aware of these journals in order not to waste their scientific articles prepared with long and valuable efforts.
An Analysis of Retracted Articles with Authors or Co-authors from the African Region: Possible Implications for Training and Awareness Raising Our findings point to a clear need for better training and practical support in relation to scholarly publication practices—with plagiarism, authorship issues and duplication of articles requiring prioritized attention.
Automatic Classification of Algorithm Citation Functions in Scientific Literature The success of this study will allow us to generate a large-scale algorithm citation network from a collection of scholarly documents representing multiple time spans, venues, and fields of study.
The quantitative and qualitative scientific production: A bibliometric study of the five main Asian economies in R&D Indeed, in spite of the different strategies among the five countries studied, their citations per paper ratios for both methodologies (grounded theory and structural equation modeling) have increased, which denotes a higher level of trust received from the scientific community among the timeframe studied (1994 – 2018). This keeps increasing through the linear regression conducted and would mean an even better trustworthiness in the future, enhancing the Asian intellectual production position among scientists. It is recommended that China reconfigures its R&D effort to focus on the quality of its findings, and not on the quantity of papers.
The Meeting of Minds: Forging Social and Intellectual Networks within Universities In sum, our approach of modeling the coevolution of collaboration and shared ideas in the form of social structures provides many novel insights in the academic discovery process.
Is the Distribution of Research Grants Sustainable? An Empirical Study of Grant Assessment The conclusion is that PRELUDIUM projects yield very outstanding results in comparison with the other two competitions for the vast majority of the assessed criteria within the scientific fields of HS, NZ and ST. The leading PRELUDIUM program almost everywhere, is slightly underfunded. In order to ensure sustainable development opportunities for young scientists implementing scientific projects under PRELUDIUM, it seems appropriate to consider increasing the level of their co-financing, especially because these projects achieve very favourable results compared to other programmes in terms of the vast majority of parameters we analyse.
Patterns of the Network of Cross-Border University Research Collaboration in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area Based on the above analysis of the patterns and evolution of the article co-authorship networks among universities in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Greater Bay Area from 2014 to 2018, the researchers came to a number of conclusions, as follows.
Forty years of computers & chemical engineering: A bibliometric analysis This study has revealed numerous interesting aspects about CCE publications and some of the main findings are as follows. The journal had the best publication rate during the 1996 to 2000 period. It is hoped that the contribution of the present study will help young researchers and academics to appreciate the history of the field, identify potential research gaps and more easily find the relevant topics most suitable for the future dissemination and publication in CCE.
Factor structure of the attitudes toward cheating scale: An exploratory structural equation modeling analysis Cheating attitudes are more complex than a simple perception regarding the favorability or unfavorability of cheating behaviors; the current study demonstrated this by discovering three distinct factors that were present in an academic cheating attitude scale. Based on the two samples analyzed in the current paper, one possible cause of academic cheating is the superficiality of the educational system and another is the immorality of students. Therefore, calculating a unitary score measuring favorable attitudes toward cheating is largely inappropriate due to the construct's multi-faceted nature.
Modeling and Simulation Analysis of Journal Impact Factor Dynamics Based on Submission and Citation Rules This paper developed a simulation model based on the mechanism of submission, review, and citation of papers, which can be used to reproduce the differentiation process of impact factors of different journals within a similar discipline.
The impact of air transport availability on research collaboration: A case study of four universities The paper makes two contributions. First, we show that air transport availability is an important factor for scientific collaboration, even when controlling for geographical distance and research capacities of collaborators. Second, both air transport connectivity (direct and indirect air con- nections between airports) and accessibility (distance to the nearest airport) are important correlates of scientific collaboration.
Validity of machine learning in biology and medicine increased through collaborations across fields of expertise The results suggested collaborations between computational and experimental scientists to generate more scientifically sound and impactful work integrating knowledge from both domains. Although scientifically more valid solutions and collaborations involving diverse expertise did not correlate with impact factors, such collaborations provide opportunities to both sides: computational scientists are given access to novel and challenging real-world biological data, increasing the scientific impact of their research, and experimentalists benefit from more in-depth computational analyses improving the technical correctness of work.
Identifying the intellectual structure of fields: introduction of the MAK approach This study aimed to introduce AISA to analyze the intellectual structure of fields by emphasizing the two main flaws of TISA, which have raised various ontological and epistemological concerns. Therefore, to strengthen and extend the ontological and epistemological foundations of studies which are aiming to explain the intellectual structure of fields, we suggest that researchers should deploy the three methods. Future researchers are encouraged to deploy such advanced topic modeling methods with a view to obtaining more comprehensive results through combining TISA.
Research on citation mention times and contributions using a neural network This paper used neural network technology to establish a method for recognising citations and built a database of citation mention times for 20 journals in 10 disciplines. We studied citation distributions and contributions by using the citation mention times extracted by the algorithm, and the feasibility of using the algorithm in citation-mention-related research was further verified. The discovery of the Pareto principle can help scholars locate and understand highly mentioned research, make important connections, and overcome the trouble caused by citation information overload, thus promoting the development of citation analysis.
Analysis of the international impact of the Brazilian base "Qualis"-Education We presented some aspects related to the impact of scientific journals classified in the Qualis database for the area of Education. We identified that, although the quantitative expansion of classified journals has occurred, the impact of these vehicles did not follow this evolution. The Qualis-Education stratification has no international alignment.
Open access initiatives in European universities: analysis of their implementation and the visibility of publications in the YERUN network The first conclusion is that YERUN's stated commitment to OA has a counterpart in the data we analysed.
Covid-19 pandemic and the unprecedented mobilisation of scholarly efforts prompted by a health crisis: Scientometric comparisons across SARS, MERS and 2019-nCoV literature Macro-syntheses of the scholarly literatures generated in response to the three most significant outbreaks of coronaviruses, i.e. SARS, MERS and Covid-19, revealed interesting structural similarities across all three literatures and suggested that they are commonly made up of three major segments. In each case, publications related to public health emergency management have been the earliest to merge, followed by studies on virus chemistry and clinical treatments. A question that naturally follows, however, would be to discover how the rush to combat this global crisis through scientific work has influenced the rigour and quality of the publications. This could warrant further research on this rapidly evolving literature in the form of quality assessment of publications.
The online attention to orthodontic research: an Altmetric analysis of the orthodontic journals indexed in the journal citation reports from 2014 to 2018 Few journals displayed a high level of web activity. Journals and editors should enhance online dissemination of the scientific outputs. Despite the lack of correlation, a combination of the citation count and the AAS can give a more comprehensive assessment of research impact. When reporting the conclusions of their research, the authors should report not only the practical or clinical implications but also the impact of the findings on the general public in an easy to understand way, pointing out the limitations of the results in order to avoid an op-portunistic use of the research outputs.
Lotteries make science fairer Lotteries, in contrast to peer review, distribute science funding more evenly across scientists and hence diminish this unfairness.
Global Competition of Universities in the Mirror of International Rankings According to the authors, the desire of countries to create their own WCUs is a positive trend in terms of the development of global science.
Bibliometric Evaluation of Development Trends in Domestic Research and Models of Scientific Cooperation in Basic Energy Science The bibliometric analysis of domestic basic research in the field of energy (Energy & Fuels) on an array of more than 405000 publications in the world flow for 2008-2017 allowed us to establish our lag in the growth rate from the growth of the world array (two times against 3.1).
Are we at a turning point in journal assessment? An introduction to altmetrics Nevertheless, it is fair to conclude that since research outputs have shown to have an impact well beyond academia, it may be time to reconsider how journals should be assessed in the near future. This timeliness, as well as its editorial content and the application of a peer-review process to select manuscripts, made the journal eligible to be indexed by databases such as Scopus (owned by Elsevier) and Web of Science (owned by Clarivate Analytics). Undoubtedly, the inclusion of any journal into these databases increases exponentially the citation rate of the authors (Krauskopf 2018).
Assessment of variables that influence agreement between reviewers for Foot & Ankle International During the study period, there was 45% initial agreement between reviewers for FAI when assessing the same manuscript.
Association between Graduate Degrees and Publication Productivity in Academic Neurosurgery The attainment of a graduate degree, regardless of timing in relation to residency training, has an important association with future publication productivity for academic neurosurgeons. These findings should benefit hiring committees for academic positions in neurosurgery in Canada and similar jurisdictions elsewhere.
University reform and the development of social sciences in Indonesia The future of the social sciences in Indonesia will be determined by interrelationships between the state, universities, and networks of academics who can address the former issue and ensure that academics publish in mainstream international journals emphasizing the prominence of the latter.
A novel approach to predicting exceptional growth in research Overall, this study has been extremely helpful toward the accomplishment of this goal.
HIV/AIDS research in Africa and the Middle East: participation and equity in North-South collaborations and relationships Our results reflect significant progress in African-produced HIV/AIDS research, at both a quantitative level (with notable increases in the number of publica-tions) and qualitative level (through participation in journals indexed in a bibliographic database that brings together the most high-impact and high-visibility inter-national publications). Despite these advances, however, scientific output is still concentrated in a small number of countries, chief among them South Africa, while other countries in Africa and the Middle East make only negli-gible contributions, despite the high burden of HIV infections. It is essential to foster more balance in research output, avoid the concentration of resources that reproduces the global North-South model on the African continent, and focus the research agenda on local priorities.
Disadvantages in preparing and publishing scientific papers caused by the dominance of the English language in science: The case of Colombian researchers in biological sciences Overall, this study exhibits the negative consequences of hegemony of English that preserves the global gap in science.
Identification and Visualization of the Conceptual Structure and Main Research Themes of Studies in Informatics and Control Journal from 2008 to 2019 The evolution of Studies in Informatics and Control journal is positive since its beginning to nowadays.
Bibliometric analysis and mapping of publications on brewing science from 1940 to 2018 Bibliometric data analysis in conjunction with literature mapping clustering tools enabled a graphical and numerical assessment of the research panorama for beer and brewing, together with a classification of the main topics, authors, affiliations, and countries in terms of quantity and relevance.
Retraction of publications: a study of biomedical journals retracting publications based on impact factor and journal category Retraction of publications is present in both high-and low-impact factor biomedical journals, but misconduct is more frequent among the papers retracted from lower impact journals.
Analysis of Research Productivity of Neurosurgical Residents in Turkey and Publication Rates of Theses The ratio of publication of theses in the field of neurosurgery is higher than the ratios previously indicated for various studies.
Topology of the Co-Authorship Graph in the Field of Physics in Russia Finally, we list the main results described in the present paper.
Women Publishing in American Psychological Association Journals: A Gender Analysis of Six Decades In summary, our data show that gender unbalance in APA authors has drastically decreased in the six decades studied.
Drivers of research impact: evidence from the top three finance journals Our results can provide empirical evidence for finance scholars, university administrators and finance journal management who aim to maximise research impact. Research impact is not only about career path for the scholars, the school rankings for the deans or the journal impact factors for the editors, but also, much more importantly, about the dissemination and advancement of knowledge.
Differences in stroke rehabilitation motor and cognitive randomized controlled trials by world region: Number, sample size, and methodological quality Efforts should be directed towards improving methodological quality and increasing sample sizes of stroke rehabilitation-related studies.
Trends and relevance in the bladder and bowel dysfunction literature: PlumX metrics contrasted with fragility indicators The body of BBD comparative studies is fragile in keeping with other pediatric urology literature populations. Despite fragile results, RCTs generate larger attention, as measured by select PlumX metrics. These results suggest the need for inclusion of fragility measures in our literature. Scientific journals could consider mandating the reporting of fragility measures when manuscripts are submitted.
Research trends in life cycle assessment research: A 20-year bibliometric analysis (1999-2018) This study provided useful information for researchers seeking a broader understanding of the LCA-related issues. This paper attempts to clarify the complexity of academic development in this field. In future research, we intend to study the most influential entities in this field more comprehensively from various aspects.
Global Research on Coronaviruses: An R Package This package aims at accelerating research on coronaviruses.
Quantifying and contextualizing the impact of bioRxiv preprints through automated social media audience segmentation These results present unique opportunities for improving and contextualizing the public discourse surrounding scientific research.
Awareness, usage and perceptions of authorship guidelines: an international survey of biomedical authors Despite a high level of awareness of authorship guidelines and criteria, these are not so widely used; more explicit encouragement of their use by institutions may result in more favourable use of guidelines by authors.
A Metric for Evaluating a Transformation of Subscription-Based Journals into Open-Access Journals The proposed evaluation metric can be used to evaluate the transformation processes of subscription-based journals into open-access-based journals.
Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis of Human Coronaviruses: Prospects and Implications for COVID-19 Research The research map on human coronavirus obtained by our analysis are expected to help researchers to efficiently and effectively explore COVID-19. We hope that our study will indicate potential directions for scientists to explore, promote cooperation with other human coronavirus researchers across disciplines, guide emerging researchers toward specialities that have yet to be fully developed, enable the development and use of new technologies in this field, and provide valuable ideas for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of COVID-19. In general, previous research on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV can provide important guidance for the study of SARS-CoV-2 and speed up the development in therapeutic drugs and vaccines.
Determining Crucial Factors for the Popularity of Scientific Articles In this study we have conducted an analysis of over 70.000 articles coming from PLOS One jour-nal, trying to link their lexical, sentiment and bibliographic properties with the popularity they acquired, measured as the number of views of a sin-gle paper. In contrast to previous works we have put the emphasis on the question of predicting the pop-ularity and testing the quality of such methods, which has led us to machine learning approaches. Basing on the selection of machine learn-ing models the popularity threshold was set between 70 and 90 views with the maximum value close to 80, being the median of the views distribution.
The 100 Top-Cited Systematic Reviews/Meta-Analyses on Diabetic Research The 100 top-cited systematic reviews/meta-analyses on diabetic research identify impactful authors, journals, institutes, and countries.
A survey of accepted authors in computer systems conferences This paper presented a new survey of conference authors, exposing the experience of authors across a large section of computer systems.
Scientific publications in cancer: in Latin America, strong scientific networks increase productivity (the TENJIN study) This study indicates that extensive authorship networking as well as a high investment in research strongly predict cancer related productivity. In conclusion, bibliometric analysis revealed a strong relationship between networking size, percentage of invested GDP and oncology related productivity. These results suggest that by incentivizing scientific networking as well as increasing public expenditure in research, scientific productivity in cancer related fields can be significantly expanded.
Top cited research over fifteen years inSports Biomechanics Indexed citations in three databases indicated that the top 20 cited articles published in Sports Biomechanics were likely influential in subsequently published peer-reviewed literature.
Trends in Worldwide Research in Hypertension Over the Period 1999-2018 A Bibliometric Study Bibliometrics is an efficient tool contributing to understanding trends in research in a specific field. Bibliometrics can be used by hypertension societies and policy managers to improve public health and research investments.
Toward a metadata model for research information management systems This paper examined the relationships between researcher characteristics and their use of metadata in their ResearchGate profiles.
The Elasticity of Science The preceding trio of analyses find the following: The scientists most responsive to RFAs are already operating relatively close to the topics that are targeted.
An analytical system for evaluating academia units based on metrics provided by academic social network The study addresses the need to use quantitative metrics from specialized social networks for the evaluation of researchers and research units.
Evaluating research performance of Coronavirus and Covid-19 pandemic using scientometric indicators The research results are useful to identify valuable research patterns from publications and of developments in the field of coronavirus and COVID-19.
Are UK and Ireland trauma and orthopaedic surgeons maintaining their research output? The research landscape has evolved, with leading journals placing greater emphasis on higher-quality evidence. UK and Irish research output remains stable, contributing 14% of the most highly cited publications in 2018, and challenging North America's dominance with a greater proportion of level I and II evidence in the leading journals. With high-quality research crucial in driving evidence-based improvements to patient care, our findings are promising for UK and Irish trauma and orthopaedics, a specialty with a growing repertoire of practice changing surgical RCTs. Increasing international collaboration will continue to play an important role despite political challenges such as Brexit, to break down barriers and build a culture of robust, high-quality research.
Bibliometrics of Vietnam Publications in the Science Citation Index: general trends and comparison with other tropical countries the tropical countries of Latin America, Africa, and Asia studied in our project have some similarities but also crucial differences.
Gender differences in performance of top cited scientists by field and country Overall, the results indicate that although more female top scholars come from countries with higher shares of women scientists, the ratios for the former lag behind the overall proportion of the latter.
An observation framework for retracted publications in multiple dimensions This study attempts to observe the impact of retraction from multiple dimensions and establishes an observation framework including four dimensions: scientific impact, technological impact, funding impact, and Altmetric impact.
Continued post-retraction citation of a fraudulent clinical trial report, 11 years after it was retracted for falsifying data Although limited to evaluation of a single case (N=1), this work demonstrates how retracted research can continue to spread and how the current information environment contributes to this problem.
Evaluating the impact of open access policies on research institutions Our results have significant implications for the details of policy interventions.
Scholarly publishing and journal targeting in the time of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic: a cross-sectional survey of rheumatologists and other specialists To conclude, the perceptions and practices of scholars, particularly from non-mainstream science countries, call for greater access to free publishing and archiving, attention to proper use of academic English and editing skills, and a larger role for engagement over social media to enhance research and publishing in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Characteristics of academic publications, preprints, and registered clinical trials on the COVID-19 pandemic The number of COVID-19-related publications has increased dramatically since the outbreak began in late 2019. The bulk of the scientific literature in the first five months of the epidemic comprised short reports of data, opinions or perspectives (e.g., letters to the editor or commentaries) or reported (secondary) data rather than primary data. Preprints have gained traction as a publishing response to the demand for prompt access to empirical, albeit not peer-reviewed, findings during the present pandemic.
International collaboration in Brazilian science: financing and impact This paper shows that collaboration of Brazillian researchers with foreign partners brings benefits for both sides, with Brazilian authors having access to financing from international agencies. Increase in measure of impact are also seen in these collaborations. Foreign partners also benefit from higher impact factors in the same topic cluster, when collaborating with Brazilian partners. This finding clearly points out a successful convergence of science policies of Brazilian funding agencies with efforts from institutions and researchers in fostering the connection of brazillian science with the international community to move science frontiers forward.
Evolution of research topics in LIS between 1996 and 2019: an analysis based on latent Dirichlet allocation topic model This diachronic analysis shows that library science is gradually losing its dominance within LIS. Bibliometrics has proven to be a stable area in LIS. This study presents front research topics in LIS for the period 1996–2019.
The relationship between highly-cited papers and the frequency of citations to other papers within-issue among three top information science journals This study indicates a potential relationship between highly-cited papers and the citation rate for other papers with which they share an issue. The observed effect is statistically significant, supporting the notion that one popular paper may help increase the citation rate for adjacent papers within a journal publication. This finding contributes to an expanding body of literature pertaining to the effect of various non-content related features to the relative number of citations received by articles and invites further study among journals in other disciplines to substantiate the extent of this effect.
An entropy-based measure for the evolution ofhindex research Research concerning the h index has undergone an Emerging Stage, Preliminary Growth Stage, Real Growth Stage, and Maturity Stage.
Analyzing the impact of reputational bias on global university rankings based on objective research performance data: the case of the Shanghai Ranking (ARWU) In this paper, we obtain empirical evidence that ARWU is contaminated by reputation bias. Hence, ARWU's results may inadvertently be contributing to the reinforcement of reputational bias. The method we describe here allows for the removal of bias. The question of reputation bias requires future research and, in particular, changes both in the system of evaluating manuscripts in journals and the methodology of global university rankings in order to reduce the pernicious halo and Matthew effects.
An altmetric attention advantage for open access books in the humanities and social sciences The reported OAAA for both books and chapters confirms both the importance of promoting OA for books and chapters, especially to reach non-academic audiences, and the utility of using altmetric data to measure this phenomenon.
Investigating the journal impact along the columns and rows of the publication-citation matrix This metric reflects the overall level of impact of papers published by a journal with different publication years in a long period, including the citations received in the publication year.
The landscape of academic articles in environmental footprint family research: A bibliometric analysis during 1996-2018 To sum up, the present study has investigated the distribution and contribution of journals, authors, institutions, and countries, and more importantly, provided hot issues, research fronts, and future research of the EFF field. The results presented in this paper are meaningful and helpful for future researchers, and further promote the research development of this field. in the future, we should focus on some knowledge themes and knowledge gaps in the field of EFF, such as the alternative evaluation methods, the integration of various footprint indicators, and the social and economic aspects.
A Bibliometric Diagnosis and Analysis about Smart Cities The analysis shows that Smart City research is a theme where many areas of research converge. The bibliometric analysis indicates that Smart Cities are emerging as a fast-growing topic of scientific inquiry, and much of the knowledge generated about them is singularly technological. New countries and institutions are starting to participate in this global discussion of the digitalization of urban centers.
Analysis of research trends in Korean dentistry journals by assigning MeSH to author keywords Cluster analysis using AKs and MeSH may be a good analytic method for researchers to determine expanding research areas and select optimal journals for paper submission.
Determinants of institutional excellence in Asian communication research Given the mixed findings on the effects of different forms of capital, the author concludes that not all forms of capital necessarily produce positive values, at least in statistical terms.
Uncovering the knowledge flows and intellectual structures of research in Technological Forecasting and Social Change: A journey through history This suggests the maturing of a body of knowledge, and a broadening of the knowledge base that the journal draws upon (Sarin et al., 2018a, Sarin et al., 2018b). Different regions of the world can be expected to place differential emphasis on various topics based on their socioeconomic-technological environments. The journal needs to be receptive to this diversity of perspectives from a growing community of scholars worldwide.
Money to move: The effect on researchers of an international mobility grant Our results speak to the literature on research public funding and add to the debate on the mechanisms through which supporting mobility is likely to affect individual outcomes, with implications for policymakers and organizations interested in supporting mobility. In our study, financially supporting international mobility proves to successfully increase initial mobility, which facilitates securing additional funding abroad, and eventually allows the realization of new collaborations and high-quality research projects. The evidence on research outcomes is compatible with the idea that mobility grants reduce the cost of exploring new collaborations and research projects of high scientific quality within one's field, eventually leading to scientific output of higher quality.
Higher education policy: Why hope for quality when rewarding quantity? The aim of this study is to show the effects of the 'picking the winner' policy initiative in Germany.
Comprehensive Survey of Plagiarism in Iran We found a noticeable prevalence of plagiarism in Iran. Many factors are involved in this misconduct; most important being the need for academic staff and students to publish e more papers regardless of their quality to meet some of the academic requirements. As expected, prevalence of plagiarism was quite common in Iran.
National Publication Productivity during the COVID-19 Pandemic-A Preliminary Exploratory Analysis of the 30 Countries Most Affected Countries with a stable scientific infrastructure appear to maintain non-COVID-19 publication productivity nearly at the pre-year level and at the same time use their resilience to produce COVID-19 publications at high rates.
Art for Space Assuming that all actors involved in this evaluation made their selection based only on the inherent quality of the artworks and regardless of their commercial success, we conclude that, for the dataset at hand, there exists a significant overlapping between prestige and success at the level of artworks. However, the choices made by curators were much less success-oriented than those made by artists, and this highlights the different roles of curators (art experts, in principle, independent from market) and artists (art makers, typically also related to market and commercial success). It would be interesting to investigate if these findings are confirmed or refuted in the traditional art market.
On the labor market for full-time non-tenure-track lecturers in economics Overall, our results might be of particular interest to those who find themselves more drawn to the teaching of economics than to con-ducting research, as they demonstrate that a viable, and perhaps sur-prisingly lucrative, path exists within the academic labor market for teaching-focused employment.
Citation Skew in Plastic Surgery Journals: Does the Journal Impact Factor Predict Individual Article Citation Rate? Citation skew exists within plastic surgery journals similar to other fields of biomedical science.
Inferring Authors' Relative Contributions to Publications from the Order of Their Names When Default Order Is Alphabetical In this paper, we attempted to quantify the significance of deviations from some “natural” or "default" order of authors. We assumed that the unknown relative contributions maximize entropy subject to constraints reflecting default order reversal.
CITATION OF THE SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTIVITY OF CHEMISTS IN CHILE A simple test for strategic self-citations without self-citation information was informed and analyzed for a group of chemists in Chile with H-index ≥ 20. Data showed that the test is successful in identifying high levels of self-citations and that test values of 0.35 or more are contenders for further analysis. It is really important considering also the lowest T value of 0.17.
Differences in Highly-Cited and Lowly-Cited Manuscripts in Plastic Surgery There are qualitative and quantitative differences between highly and lowly cited articles in the plastic surgery literature.
Determining the informativeness of comments: a natural language study of F1000Research open peer review reports The results confirm the informativeness of OPRs in two dimensions.
Thirty Years of Psicothema: A Bibliometric Analysis (1989-2018) The characteristics of Psicothema, which is a model of scientific communication of psychology in the international context, are discussed in this study.
Benchmarking the research track record and level of appointment of Australian medical laboratory science academics Data from this study provides academics with benchmarks for the research track record required at each level of appointment. When drawing conclusions on academic progression, promotion and tenure through research track record it would be mindful to assess each on a case by case basis. Institution (metropolitan versus regional) and research interest appears to influence publication number, h-index and citation scores.
Importance of scientific collaboration in contemporary drug discovery and development: a detailed network analysis We demonstrate that network analysis of large public databases can identify and quantify investigator and institutional relationships in drug discovery and development. If broadly applied, this type of network analysis may help to enhance public understanding of and support for biomedical research, and could identify factors that facilitate decision-making in first-in-class drug discovery among academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and healthcare systems.
Empirical analysis of the text structure of original research articles in medical journals In conclusion, authors should not only use the standard IMRAD structure to increase the likelihood for publication of their work. If a journal-specific structure is not at hand, authors should use 3, 10, 9 and 8 paragraphs for the introduction, methods, results and discussion sections, respectively. Supplementary material has become a standard and should be used when deemed appropriate.
Quotation errors in general science journals Errors were found to exist in considerable numbers.
Funding of Radiology Research: Frequency and Association With Citation Rate Almost half of the research articles published in major radiology journals declared funding, a proportion that has increased compared with findings from previous studies (17% of articles in a study from 1994 and 26.9% of articles in a study of literature published between 2001 and 2010). Most funded articles received support from federal sponsors or nonprofit foundations, whereas only a minority of funded articles were supported by private industry. Funding was not associated with a higher citation rate.
Considering author sequence in all-author co-citation analysis This paper considers author sequence in author co-citation analysis and proposes a sequence-based author co-citation analysis method.
The real costs of plagiarism: Russian governors, plagiarized PhD theses, and infrastructure in Russian regions Our paper thus again shows that evidence of plagiarism is a troubling sign, but from a different perspective than that of previous research. We suggest that (at least in some contexts) the more important question could be why ghostwriters are able to “sell” poor-quality product (with substantial plagiarism) to their “customers”. For the literature on the relevance of personal characteristics of politicians for policy outcomes, our paper may offer a novel and unconventional tool of identifying more subtle features of politicians (like managerial skills or inclination to moral behavior), which are difficult to capture using proxies typically applied in the literature (like education or professional experience).
The growth of acronyms in the scientific literature Our results show a clear increase over time in the use of acronyms titles and abstracts (Figure 1), with most acronyms being used less than 10 times. Reducing acronyms should boost understanding and reduce the gap between the information we produce and the knowledge that we use (Jeschke et al., 2019), without 'dumbing down' the science. However, there is scope for journals to reduce the use of acronyms by, for example, only permitting the use of certain established acronyms (although the list of allowed acronyms would have to vary from journal to journal).
A Bibliometric Approach for Detecting the Gender Gap in Computer Science In conclusion, we are presenting a bibliometric method to capture and classify female scientists that are currently active in research and in each a specific field of computer science.
Bibliometric analysis of manuscript characteristics that influence citations: A comparison of ten major dermatology journals Our study found the number of citations to be positively affected by the length of an article, its origin of country, and study design.
A bibliometric analysis of European financial Management's first 25 years Our study provides a retrospective of EFM using several techniques including performance analysis, co-authorship analysis, and regression analysis. In conclusion, our study makes several contributions. Sixth, we identify factors associated with EFM's total citations and quality citations, which can be instrumental in helping the journal improve its impact in the future.
Analysis of Alternative Metrics of Research Impact: A Correlation Comparison between Altmetric Attention Scores and Traditional Bibliometrics among Plastic Surgery Research Given the popularity of both the h-index and the Altmetric Attention Score, the lack of strong correlation in our study suggests that they play distinct yet complementary roles in evaluating scientific merit among plastic surgeons.
Citation Characteristics of H-Classics Articles in Implant Dentistry: A Citation Analysis Using H-Classics Method This study provides insightful views regarding citation characteristics of H-classics articles in implant dentistry (eg, interdisciplinary publications on bioengineering interventions) during the investigation periods, which may foster the translation of preclinical research into clinical applications in the future.
Anatomy of Complex System Research Overall, our findings are consistent with several characteristics of complex system research, i.e., its multidisciplinary, quantitative, and computational nature, and may have broad policy implications for supporting and nurturing multidisciplinary research.
Publications in Integrative and Complementary Medicine: A Ten-Year Bibliometric Survey in the Field of ICM China leads in number of publications; however, publication quality in ICM field requires improvement.
Determinants of citation in the literature on diesel exhaust exposure and lung cancer: a citation analysis There is evidence for selective citation within this field, but the evidence for citation bias was weak.
The Gene of Scientific Success In this article, we aim at discovering the causal factors that play crucial roles in predicting the scholars' academic success.
Ten years of Arabian Journal of Chemistry: A bibliometric analysis The data confirms that AJC showed a continuous growth in the number of publications, citations, impact factor and ranking. From the analysis of the most cited publication and authors, it was possible to see that AJC paper have a good permeation in important sub-areas of chemistry such as nanoparticles, instrumental analysis or characterizations, kinetics and thermodynamic, and biological screening.
OhioLINK librarians and Google Scholar over time: a longitudinal analysis of attitudes and uses This research will assist librarians contextualize how one of the most popular research resources has been used and promoted by those within the field and how those opinions have changed over time. This study will provide context into how Google Scholar became one of the most popular research tools and how attitudes of this unprecedented, and controversial, resource came to be accepted by librarians over the past 15 years.
Citation Count Prediction Based on Neural Hawkes Model We have presented an approach to the prediction of future citations based on the Neural Hawkes Process which is coupled with the continuous-time Long Short-Term Memory to leverage a variety of features as well as citation counts.
Publishing in English is associated with an increase of the impact factor of Brazilian biodiversity journals Publishing in English can be a first step to increased visibility, and this is particularly important for biodiversity journals, since Brazilian ecosystems are considered of interest to the international scientific community and nature conservation. Science must have a common language that permits rapid communication and comprehension of the research. English is nowadays unarguably the lingua franca of science (Bornmann et al. 2012, Vardakas et al. 2015), and a clear enhance in journal's IF was noted as journals published a higher fraction of papers in English.
Analysis of Hospitality, Leisure, and Tourism Studies in Chile This research analyzed the progress of hospitality, leisure, and tourism studies in Chile with data collected from the Web of Science (WoS), based on hospitality, leisure, and tourism journals that lead and are positioned on top of this subdiscipline worldwide. The findings offer clear theoretical and practical implications by approaching the studies' progress, such is the case of scientific production by Chilean-affiliated authors. Research on hospitality, leisure, and tourism in Chile is still growing. This growth is at a level that can identify local critical mass (capacity for the production of scientific knowledge in the subdiscipline, reflected in an exponential growth in the number of articles published), but geographically, thematically, and institutionally dispersed.
Network representations of diversity in scientific teams In this paper, we have added to the available toolbox by outlining a network-based method for characterizing the rich interactions between topics in the literature.
Publications pattern of dermatology research in Saudi Arabia Dermatology research in SA has increased over the past decade. However, the quality of research remains inadequate. Saudi Arabia's dermatology research output is affected by the availability of funding and national research projects, which could improve the studies' quality.
Sixty years of Accounting & Finance: a bibliometric analysis of major research themes and contributions The article concludes by highlighting new research directions - Accounting & Finance has opened towards more interdisciplinary research and greater diversity in methods. To minimise future risk, society will need to urgently address various grand challenges – climate change, overpopulation and global health care challenges, to name a few. Finance research is uniquely positioned to contribute to addressing these challenges – by discussing funding infrastruc-ture, market mechanisms as well as socioeconomic barriers.
Global Dental Publications in PubMed Databases between 2009 and 2019-A Bibliometric Analysis A total of 104,975 articles were published on dentistry and related fields between 2009 and 2019 and indexed by MEDLINE. Dentistry is an area many researchers across the globe are contributing to a total of 81 countries published articles on this topic. The leading countries in terms of production are the USA, England, Germany, Denmark and India.
Plagiarism, Fake Peer-Review, and Duplication: Predominant Reasons Underlying Retractions of Iran-Affiliated Scientific Papers Our study highlights the importance of urgent intervention to prevent the misconduct and questionable research practices that lead to retractions in Iran.
Credibility of preprints: an interdisciplinary survey of researchers We observed broad agreement among researchers from different disciplines and career stages that cues on preprints related to open content and independent verification of author claims would be very important for judging the credibility of preprints. Open content and independent verification cues are rarely displayed by preprint services, so there is a big opportunity for services to add cues valued by researchers and potentially increase the credibility of preprints.
Active Learning in an Environment of Innovative Training and Sustainability. Mapping of the Conceptual Structure of Research Fronts through a Bibliometric Analysis Given the panorama of research frontiers and hot or trending topics uncovered in relation to the research frontier of active learning, a significant presence of topics is appreciated relative to the technology applied to the field of education (quadrants 1 and 2 in the two obtained thematic maps).
Scholarly migration within Mexico: analyzing internal migration among researchers using Scopus longitudinal bibliometric data This project was undertaken to analyze the internal migration of researchers within a country, and to enhance and evaluate the potential suitability of bibliometric data for such an analysis. The methodological framework proposed in this study aims to facilitate organizing data and information about the migration of scholars that can be used to evaluate the likelihood of alternative hypotheses, and to build the foundations of a theory of scholarly migration. The combination of methods and data that we present opens up new opportunities for developing a theoretical framework for understanding scholarly migration within country boundaries.
If I tweet will you cite later? Follow-up on the effect of social media exposure on article downloads and citations Longer observation time did not increase the relative differences in the numbers of downloads and citations between papers in the social media intervention group and papers in the control group. Traditional impact metrics based on citations, such as impact factor, may not capture the added value of social media for scientific publications. The value of SM lies in the potential increase in the dissemination of scientific papers (Buckarma et al. 2017), including audiences outside the scientific community and in their acting as a platform for discussion and education (Fox et al. 2016a).
Adoption of the Open Access Business Model in Scientific Journal Publishing: A Cross-disciplinary Study Overall, this study confirms that the adoption of OA publishing is rather uneven across disciplines.
Seeking and Finding Research Collaborators: An Exploratory Study of Librarian Motivations, Strategies, and Success Rates The results of this study report the prevalence of collaboration among librarians, at possibly even higher rates than previously observed in the literature.
Cross-sectional analysis of bibliometrics and altmetrics: comparing the impact of qualitative and quantitative articles in the British Medical Journal Qualitative and quantitative articles published in the BMJ between 2007 and 2017 both have a high impact. No article type was consistently superior in terms of bibliometric or altmetric measures, suggesting that type of article is not the major driver of impact. Based on our findings, there is no evidence to support claims that qualitative studies published in the BMJ are of lower impact than quantitative articles.
International collaboration in pharmacy practice research: A bibliometric analysis Low rates of international collaboration were found in pharmacy practice research articles, although a slightly positive trend was identified.
Importance, Errors, and Patterns of Quotations to Psychiatric Original Articles This study revealed 3 main results: 1. Importance: It is rare that quotations-right or wrong-are unimportant. 2. Accuracy: The rate of quotation errors was substantial, with major errors in 1 out of 5 quotations. 3. One particular quotation pattern points to the pos-sibility that in certain cases quotations may have been used to boost evaluation metrics.
Management research topics: Positioning, evolution, alignment with teaching and with job market needs In this final section, we wish to interpret the results presented above and describe further questions and inquiries.
Could early tweet counts predict later citation counts? A gender study in Life Sciences and Biomedicine (2014-2016) Regarding the first objective, the findings showed that the percentage of papers with male authors in first or last authorship positions was higher than that for female authors. Having controlled for several factors, it was found that female first and last-authored papers had a small but significant citation advantage of 4.7% and 5.5% compared to male-authored papers. This might suggest that in Life sciences and Biomedicine, early tweets counts could slightly benefit female authored papers in terms of the later citation counts received.
Bibliometric method for mapping the state of the art of scientific production in Covid-19 Since the onset of the pandemic, considerable effort has been invested by researchers worldwide depending on the fields and re-sources available, an exponential increase in scientific production has been recorded in the various databases around the Covid-19. The scientific contribution of researchers from the USA and China shows a total involvement of institutions from these two countries, so for the African continent researchers from "South Africa and Egypt are the exception, while for the Arab region Saudi Arabia and Egypt are leading the efforts of the Arab countries for this pandemic. Finally, it is well known that the method presented remains ap-plicable for other scientific themes and not only for the Covid-19 theme, it should be noted that the results obtained with the ap-plication of the proposed method may vary depending on the ba-sis of scientific data chosen and the appropriate filters in order to present the evolution of published articles, co-authors, geographic area of the authors, co-citation, co-occurrence analysis and key-words.
Bibliometrics in operations research and management science: a university analysis This study has presented a general overview of the most productive and influential universities between 1991 and 2015 in OR–MS.
Medical thesis publication and academic productivity of pediatric residents at the Medical University of Marseille: Associated factors and evolution over 20 years The thesis publication rate of pediatric residents has improved significantly in 20 years; however, these results are from a single-center study.
Prestige and relevance of the scholarly journals: Impressions of SIOP members We suggest that I-O programs will continue to attract the top researchers in talent management and OHP, which should result in the use of a broader set of journals for judging I-O program impact.
A Bibliometric Analysis of COVID-19 across Science and Social Science Research Landscape The findings emphasize the great need for a comprehensive and in-depth approach that considers various scientific disciplines in COVID-19 research so as to benefit not only the scientific community but evidence-based policymaking as part of efforts to properly respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. Notwithstanding the above limitations, the findings of the paper highlight the importance of a comprehensive and in-depth approach that considers different scientific disciplines in COVID-19 research.
Visualizing the Intellectual Structure and Evolution of Intelligent Transportation Systems: A Systematic Analysis of Research Themes and Trends This research offers the most extensive analysis of the growth, evolution, and intellectual structure of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) available in the scientific literature. One of the objectives of it is to show the central trends in the ITS research field and to establish a starting point that allows professionals, scientists. and academics to discover strengths or new opportunities for their research areas. Finally, it is important to highlight that with the arrival of the intelligent and autonomous vehicle, a dynamic is generated that pushes the research in all themes related to ITS.
The impact of the Cambridge Structural Database and the small molecule crystal structures it contains: a bibliographic and literature study The research shows that the CSD is still a heavily used resource but that the application domains where the CSD is used most heavily has changed since the inception of the database with changes to the rank order of classes of journal where citation is common.
A qualitative content analysis of watchlists vs safelists: How do they address the issue of predatory publishing? Perhaps the most important conclusion that emerges from our comprehensive analysis of currently available watchlists and safelists is that any attempt to create a list of this nature will be incomplete and out-of-date from the moment it is published.
Genome engineering and synthetic biology for biofuels: A bibliometric analysis The bibliometric methods and visualization tools were used to figure out research performance, hotspots and frontiers of sustainable development of genomic engineering and synthetic biology based on the SCI-E database.
Task specialization across research careers We find that scientists exhibit different archetypes at different stages, following many paths during their career trajectory. Our findings have important policy implications as they indicate that scientists' career design may be at odds with the way science is produced, and suggest a complete reform wherein reproduction of Leaders is not the only model of success (Milojević et al., 2018). Our findings suggest systematic biases on the selection of individuals which may be hampering the efficiency of the scientific system to self-organize itself and assemble robust and diverse scientific teams.
Returning scientists and the emergence of China's science system Returnees not only tend to publish more, but they are instrumental in linking China into the global network.
The dilemmas and uncertainties in assessing the societal impact of research This study recommends that the evaluation scholars should consider the actual social purpose vis-à-vis consistent methodological approaches to assessment before applying 'all-round' solutions to scholarly fields.
The effect of collaboration with top-funded scholars on scientific production This article developed a theoretical model to show that collaboration with top-funded scientists has a positive effect on the number of articles published by a scientist. The empirical results from a two-stage panel regression model verify the results predicted by the theoretical model. The main policy advice considering the significant and positive effect of collaboration with top-funded scientists on scientific production consists of maintaining incentives (or giving a mandate) for top-funded scientists to continue their collaborations with lower-funded scientists, as the entire science system benefits from them. First, this article defines the 'star' scientists based on the amount of funding, that is, it identifies the top-funded scientists.
What we know about research policy mix In this article, we built a framework for analyzing RP mix by draw- ing on the work of researchers who have done so in the case of in- novation policy (Flanagan et al. 2011). It allows us to build the policy mix idea into the analysis of RFIs, thus conducting a much more complex and true to reality analysis that takes into account the com- plexities of governance and system dynamics and how they shape particular policy choices.
The Altmetric era in eating disorder research: Assessing the association between Altmetric scores and citation scores for articles in the International Journal of Eating Disorders Altmetric scores may offer a viable and relatively rapid metric of the likely uptake and impact of manuscripts. Ultimately, these findings represent preliminary evidence of the benefits of widespread dissemination of eating disorder research beyond traditional academic methods. Future research should focus on expanding our preliminary findings to establish the extent to which Altmetric scores predict higher citation scores, or vice versa, in the larger context of eating disorder research.
Scientometric Evaluation of Research Productivity on Diabetes from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia over the Last Two Decades (2000-2019) Overall, similar trends of top authors were observed in terms of productivity, impact, international collaborations, and organizational affiliations with few exceptions.
Predictors of High-Impact Articles in The Annals of Thoracic Surgery This longitudinal analysis demonstrates that social media attention related to top performing articles has rapidly increased in recent years. Social media is an effective tool to increase cardiothoracic article reach and knowledge translation, with Altmetric scores correlated with citations.
Scientific quality of COVID-19 and SARS CoV-2 publications in the highest impact medical journals during the early phase of the pandemic: A case control study We conclude that the quality of COVID-19 publications in the three highest ranked scientific medical journals is below the quality average of these journals. These findings need to be verified at a later stage of the pandemic. Unfortunately, our numbers do not contribute to a solution as to how to preserve scientific rigor under the pressure of a pandemic.
Decision-making approaches used by UK and international health funding organisations for allocating research funds: A survey of current practice Broadly similar decision-making processes were used by all funders in this survey.
Organisational factors and academic research agendas: an analysis of academics in the social sciences This study shows that organisational characteristics are associated with and can influence the research agendas of academics. Our findings show that from an organisational standpoint, giving more autonomy to academics and immersing them in a collegial environment encourages the develop-ment of research agendas that are bound to be more multidisciplinary, collaborative and disruptive. In terms of future research, although this study contributes to a more thorough under-standing of the interplay between academics and universities, further work is required as scholars have suggested this area is under-researched (Antonelli, Franzoni, and Geuna 2011).
How ethics combine with big data: a bibliometric analysis The results of this study reveal that the current studies about ethics and Big Data are dominated by Boyd, Crawford, Mittel-stadt, and Floridi, and that the thematic scope itself mainly relates to health and medical issues.
Networks of international co-authorship in journal articles about Antarctic research, 1998-2015 We found that during 1998-2015, the proportion of multi-countries articles increased from 23.0 to 33.2% in Antarctic research, making the network of Antarctic research larger and more complex.
A Contrast Pattern-Based Scientometric Study of the QS World University Ranking Scientometrics can potentially contribute to the advancement of sciences, for example, by analyzing the information extracted from relevant sources to inform decision and strategy formulation.
A Data-Driven Unified Framework for Predicting Citation Dynamics In the context of this work, it is not without caution that we attempt to provide estimations of future scientific development.
Scientific production of women in Brazil The studies that have as a theme the general aspects of women and, particularly in science, are relevant and can contribute to the generation of national scientific indicators and the management of information in the scientific and technological areas.
Bibliometric analysis of the scientific articles published in Veterinary Medicine and Zootechnics in Colombia 2010-2019 The journal that publish in English achieve a better international positioning and in them the largest number of foreign authors publishes. The most published articles were the original ones. The top 10 of the most cited articles yielded a total of 810 citations that contribute to the internationalization of Colombia and Colombian journals.
Altmetrics in Plastic Surgery Journals: Does It Correlate With Citation Count? Overall correlation between citations and AAS was weak, and therefor AAS may not be an accurate early predictor of future citations. The two metrics seem to measure different aspects of the impact of scholarly work and should be used in tandem for determining the reach of a scientific article. Future studies can validate the accuracy of AAS in measuring social media visibility in the field of plastic surgery and analyze other metrics which would serve as a better representation of online attention.
QUALIS: The journal ranking system undermining the impact of Brazilian science Overall, the findings documented here suggest that the QUALIS system has undermined the global impact of Brazilian science, and reinforce a recent recommendation from an official committee evaluating graduate programs to eliminate QUALIS.
Textbook ranking and an assessment method and system: a case study using surveying textbooks Therefore, the dissertation citation method can be accepted to evaluate textbooks effectively. This system will benefit both scholars and librarians. The proposed method and system can generate a ranking list for different fields easily and quickly.
Determinants of quality of research environment: An assessment of the environment submissions in the UK's Research Excellence Framework in 2014 The main finding of this article is that assessed environment submissions are significantly associated with a set of quantitative indicators such as external income, the size of the submitting unit, and PGR completions by the submitting unit. Our findings suggest that the list of panels above should be conscious about the existence of implicit bias in the REF2021 evaluations. The provision of such data may overcome or minimize the problem discussed by Pidd and Broadbent (2015) as this would enable panel members to interpret the environment data better in the REF2021 evaluations.
Fast growth of the number of proceedings papers in atypical fields in the Czech Republic is a likely consequence of the national performance-based research funding system In conclusion, we have shown that number of proceedings in the Czech Republic is growing faster than the number of other publication types and much faster than in other countries.
Millennial researchers in a metric-driven scholarly world: An international study The main conclusions are: 1, citation indicators play a central and multi-purpose role in scholarly communications; 2, altmetrics are not so popular or widely used, but ECRs are waking up to some of their merits, most notably, discovering the extent to which their papers obtain traction and monitoring impact; 3, there is a strong likelihood that ECRs are going to have to grapple with both citation-based metrics and altmetrics, mainly in order to demonstrate research impact; 4, the Chinese are the most metric using nation, largely because of governmental regulations.
How to select the best: Selection procedures of innovation agencies We expected to find differences in the way in which projects are selected by older, well-established research agencies and more recently founded ones, for example regarding the differentiation of selection methods. This turned out to not be the case: all innovation agencies displayed a fair amount of differentiation regarding project selection. What can innovation agencies learn from this? Perhaps most importantly, we would infer that there is no single best practice in project selection procedures for all innovation agencies. Therefore, a systematic attempt to select the best RDI projects should provide the possibility to learn from the experiences of other agencies, however, preferably not in a decontextualized form.
DARE to be different? A novel approach for analysing diversity in collaborative research projects By building on prior concepts and frameworks by Boschma (2005), Stirling (2007), Ràfols (2014), and Molas-Gallart et al. (2016), DARE provides an original method combining narratives, maps, and indicators, to support a multi-dimensional analysis of teams engaged in knowledge production and application. DARE emphasizes the importance of team diversity and the changing nature of links between individuals during collaboration. It is anticipated that this approach will be useful in addressing a wide range of questions for the study of team science and other forms of collaborative interactions more broadly in academic, industrial, and policy contexts.
Chairs of academic events: The investments and academic impact Our analyses propose a refined understanding of the chairmanship of academic events. The chairs of academic events engage in seven various clusters of tasks—spanning logistics, community building, and editing scholarly output. The chairmanship is a multifaceted investment, which is a source for specific forms of credibility; network, recognition, and buzz.
Artificial selection versus natural selection: Which causes the Matthew effect of science funding allocation in China? This study investigates the Matthew effect of China's science fund- ing allocation and reached the finding that the allocation disparity of science funding has been increasing in China. Notwithstanding, our empirical result contradicts this intuitive argu- ment, since we find the Matthew effect in the science funding alloca- tion is mainly caused by 'natural selection' rather than 'artificial selection' in China, suggesting that scientists with better research performance would gain more funding. Overall, the research performance of China has been increasing, which is mainly reflected by the booming publications in international journals and citations in re- cent years.
Identifying the princes base on Altmetrics: An awakening mechanism of sleeping beauties from the perspective of social media Overall, this study demonstrates the addition of the Altmetrics indexes as a useful complement, illustrating the inheritance and connection between the SBs based on the comprehensive trajectory and the SBs based on the citation diffusion trajectory.
Global Trends in Immunotherapy Research on Breast Cancer over the Past 10 Years In conclusion, this study analyzed the global scientific publication from the period ranging from 2010 to 2019 related to immunotherapy and applied to breast cancer research, quantitatively and qualitatively. Results showed an increase in the cumulative volume of papers worldwide and a tendency toward continued growth in terms of average publication numbers. Results also show that recent trends in breast cancer immunotherapy focus on the triple-negative breast cancer subtype and PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint pathway and inhibitors.
Retrospective and prospective of the hydrogen supply chain: A longitudinal techno-historical analysis In summary, while all components of hydrogen supply chain research are now growing, the topic areas of biohydrogen, photocatalysis, and water-splitting (all three related to the use of renewable energies) seem to be growing the fastest and more innovative technological solutions should be expected from these areas in near future.
An Investigation on the Use by Academic Researchers of Knowledge from Scientific Social Networking Sites Results help us to understand the impact of these platforms on the work practice of a strategic sector like scientific research.
Evolution and transformation of early modern cosmological knowledge: a network study The historical research on the content of the identified books, as an empirical test, finally corroborates the results of all our analyses.
The Value of Insiders as Mentors: Evidence from the Effects of NSF Rotators on Early-Career Scientists We study knowledge spillovers from academics with a temporary experience in government jobs and reveal evidence consistent with a causal link between an increase in the NSF funding record of newly hired assistant professors and their exposure to academics in their department who return after their tenure at the NSF as PDs (rotators).
Measuring Productivity and Impact of Veterinary Education-Related Research at the Institutional and Individual Levels Using the H-Index This study demonstrated the use of the h-index as a measure for documentation of educational research in select schools of veterinary medicine in North America.
Changes in medical scientific publication associated with the COVID-19 pandemic In the first 5 months of the COVID-19 pandemic, the five leading medical journals published a substantial number of articles that differed in many respects from their usual material. While these unique circumstances no doubt warranted such a change, rapid dissemination of information should not need to come at the expense of quality, ethical standards or oversight. As part of pandemic preparedness, planning to facilitate augmentation of resources available to medical publishers, allowing maintenance of standards of review, should occur.
Does retraction after misconduct have an impact on citations? A pre-post study The results indicate that retraction of articles has no association on citations in the long term, since the retracted articles continue to be cited, thus circumventing their retraction.
Mapping the Topics and Evolutions of Chinese Children's Bestsellers This paper reveals the topic distribution, correlation structure, evolution patterns, and development trends of Chinese children's bestsellers through co-word analysis. It is beneficial to understand the content structure and development patterns of Chinese children's books. This can reveal characteristics and connotations of Chinese children's reading that reflect the features of Chinese children's education and parents' cognition.
The use of H-index to assess research priorities in poultry diseases In conclusion, the H-index could be a valid, simple tool to prioritize funding or interest in poultry diseases, especially when used as a preliminary selection approach in combination with other metrics. The H-indexes are a delayed reflection of changes in regulations, as aforementioned, and in investment priorities over the past decades. However, because of its intrinsic limitations, the H-index should be used as a preliminary selection approach in combination with other metrics, such as severity of disease, economic impact, trade bans, food insecurity, and zoonotic potential.
Progress and future research trends on Santalum album: A bibliometric and science mapping approach A bibliometric analysis was carried out on the scientific publications between 1928-2020 (till June month) on the "Santalum album" - the famous Indian Sandalwood tree.
On the agreement between bibliometrics and peer review: Evidence from the Italian research assessment exercises Thus, the outcome of the experiments does not validate the use of the dual system of evaluation in the Italian research assessments.
Exploring the changing geographical pattern of international scientific collaborations through the prism of cities This finding suggests that a larger geographical reach of research collaboration should be aimed for to support high-impact science.
A detailed open access model of the PubMed literature This model is the first highly granular characterization of the PubMed literature that can be used for portfolio analysis at the level of research topics.
Are papers addressing certain diseases perceived where these diseases are prevalent? The proposal to use Twitter data as social-spatial sensors Our study demonstrates a promising approach for using Twitter data for research evaluation purposes beyond simple counting of tweets.
The 100 top-cited meta-analyses of diagnostic accuracy in radiology journals: a bibliometric analysis The 100 top-cited meta-analyses encompass a broad range of imaging modalities and body regions. This may comprise a useful resource for identifying influential evidence-based diagnostic accuracy information in radiology.
STEM colonization: Applying hard sciences' socio-organisational patterns and evaluation procedures to the soft sciences in Croatia It seems that a form of "academic capitalism" pressuring academics to publish more and faster, has made its way into all disciplines in Croatia, whereby the soft sciences are changing their publication patterns both in terms of types of publications and co-authorship alike (Nygaard, 2017; Sabharwal, 2013).
A matter of style: Research production and communication across humanities disciplines in Denmark in the early-twenty-first century Using structured data analysis suggested that the applied style of research was introduced by new humanities disciplines, including anthropology, educational studies, film and media studies and, to some extent, interdisciplinary fields of study.
An analysis of the collaboration network of the International Conference on Conceptual Modeling at the Age of 40 Overall, we hope our analyses and findings help to provide the ER community with more information about its members and its evolution, leaving as future work a comparative study of the ER network with other known conferences in Computer Science.
The emerging COVID-19 research: dynamic and regularly updated science maps and analyses We introduced a dynamic resource that will give a wide readership an overview of how the structure of the COVID-19 literature is developing.
The Association of Women Surgeons research grant: An analysis of the first 25 years Overall, previous AWS Research Grant recipients were more likely to become more impactful surgeon-scientists, as indicated by a higher post-award rate of NIH funding, total number of publications, and h-index than nonrecipients. Given the deteriorating federal funding awarded to surgeon-scientists, surgical societies play an instrumental role in inspiring, motivating, and cultivating future surgeon-scientists.
Mapping cognitive translation and interpreting studies: A bibliometric approach Applying a bibliometric approach, we identified three development phases of CTIS: a seminal phase (until approximately 1975), an initial phase (from 1976 to 1995) and a rooting phase (from about 1996 to date). All in all, our data show that CTIS has many features that would allow us to classify it as a self-standing sub-discipline within TIS. We hope that the present report will inspire future bibliometric studies on CTIS.
Mapping the co-evolution of artificial intelligence, robotics, and the internet of things over 20 years (1998-2017) The results support data-driven decision making when setting proper research and development (R&D) priorities; developing future S&T investment strategies; or performing effective research program assessment. Going forward, we plan to develop interactive visual interfaces to near real-time datasets to support experts managing and evalu-ating research portfolios and making strategic decisions related to the systematic growth of dif-ferent research areas.
Temporal trends, impact and partnership in floristic and phytosociology literature in the Brazilian Cerrado Our findings showed an overall increase in the number of researches across time. We found evidence that Brazilian government policies to expand the Universities impacted the scientific production in the field; however, this was not associated with an increase in publication-quality, measured by the impact factor of the journals. Our study points out the need to broaden the readership and partnership of floristic and phytosociological studies, to establish network researches, publish in journals with higher IF and in English, allowing access to this knowledge by Botanists and Ecologists from other countries.
Rate of publication in predatory journals by orthopedic surgeons members of the French orthopedic and traumatology society (SOFCOT): A follow-up note Despite a strong increase in the number of predatory journals over the last decade, very few French orthopedic surgeons resort to them to publish their work. Scientific teams need to check certain criteria before submitting to a journal: short time to publication and low APC should be taken as warning signs, and any demand for payment after acceptance certainly raises the question of the journal's predatory nature. In case of doubt after analysing these criteria, the best course of action is to contact the target journal's editorial board directly.
Do bibliometric findings differ between Medline, Google Scholar and Web of Science? Bibliometry of publications after oral presentation to the 2013 and 2014 French Society of Arthroscopy (SFA) Congresses The example presented in this study illustrates the differences in bibliometrics found between different databases. There was a 4% difference (7/199 articles) in publication rates following oral presen-tation to an SFA Congress, and even greater differences in citation rates per article, with 1.5-3.4-fold more citations according to Google Scholar. Bibliometric studies need to acknowledge the database(s) being used, which should be as many as possible to enhance exhaustiveness.
Bibliometric analysis of case report citations and their effect on the impact factor: How does publishing case reports impact journals? "Our study brings into question whether case reports should be published. Indeed, the publication of case reports lowers the IF of scientific journals."
The cost of publishing in an indexed ophthalmology journal in 2019 16.9% of indexed ophthalmology journals in 2019 required APCs, and additional 71.2% hybrid journals had APCs for the option of open access.
Tracking the Product Origins of Waste for Treatment Using the WIO Data Developed by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment Waste footprint is a concept that is still rarely used. The above results demonstrate its importance in identifying the factors driving waste flows.
Can scholarly pirate libraries bridge the knowledge access gap? An empirical study on the structural conditions of book piracy in global and European academia "We discuss these findings in the wider context of open access publishing, and point out that open access knowledge, if not met with proper knowledge absorption infrastructures, has limited usefulness in addressing knowledge access and production inequalities." "In summary, having access to a virtually unconstrained source of knowledge does not mean automatically receiving all potential benefits." "These findings can also serve as a warning to the global open-access movement that is gaining momentum. Open access, legal or piratical, is hardly a panacea."
A century of Hereditas: from local publication to international journal In the hundred years of Hereditas's existence, the publishing landscape has changed dramatically, including a far greater number of specialist journals, changes to the academic merit system, new commercial models for publishing, and digitalisation. Over the years, the journal's survival has therefore been dependent on the strong commitment of its owners and an ability to adapt to changing conditions.
The transformative power of values-enacted scholarship In short, we argue that to elevate the quality of the scholarship we produce, we must establish values-based frameworks that align with, recognize, and reward personal and institutional values enacted in supportive local contexts. Shifting from abstract standards of excellence to enacting values-inflected purposeful work has the capacity to transform the culture of higher education—making scholarship more meaningful for those who undertake it, more valuable for the communities engaged by it, and more transparent to those who need to evaluate it.
The 100 Top-Cited Studies on Neuropsychology: A Bibliometric Analysis This study provides insight into the impact of neuropsychology research and may help doctors, researchers, and stakeholders to achieve a more comprehensive understanding of trends and most influential contributions to the field, thus promoting ideas for future investigation.
An Investigative Analysis on Finding Patterns in Co-Author and Co-Institution Networks for LIDAR Research To conclude, we can say that the USA holds the most dominant and influential positions for co-authorship network. While for the co-institutional network, USA and China both possess important and central positions. Future work is to include PageRank as a measure for analysis.
A Bibliometric and Content Analysis of Articles in Remote Sensing From Vietnam Indexed in Scopus for the 2000-2019 Period This study investigated the bibliometrics of articles on remote sensing published by scholars with Vietnamese affiliations indexed in the Scopus database from 2000 to 2019.
Anomie in China's Academic Publishing and Measures Taken To curb academic misconduct, forceful actions work better than spouting in pure hermeneutic. China is determined to launch sweeping innovations to crack down on academic misconduct (Cyranoski, 2018). The two authorities' policy issued on May 20, 2018, announced detailed measures and steps such as designing a national database to log misconduct cases, establishing a blacklist of 'poor quality' scientific journals of both domestic and international titles to hold the violators to account, innovating the current system of assessment of academic performance with new rules to appeal for consideration of quality as well as quantity, and calling for deliberation of overall innovation and impact as well as publication record.
Agency and responsibility: A linguistic analysis of culpable acts in retraction notices This study has examined the use of various grammatical resources to identify agents of retraction-engendering acts and represent agency/responsibility in RNs from two broad disciplinary groupings and authored by different stakeholders.
GLOBAL TRENDS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PUBLICATIONS IN ECONOMIC COMPUTATION AND ECONOMIC CYBERNETICS STUDIES AND RESEARCH FROM 1969 TO 2020 BASED ON BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS Since the journal was indexed by WoS, there has been a small increase in the number of published articles. Since 2007, the average citation of articles shows an unstable growth trend, but at a slower rate. The proportion of highly cited articles is small.
The Reference Class Problem for Credit Valuation in Science Scientific credit—the “coin of recognition” (Merton 1968, 56)—is assessed, allocated, disputed, and enforced by many different com- munities and institutions within science that support and sustain a multiplicity of status hierarchies.
Publications search optimization: Comparison of a homegrown-API approach versus manual publication searches at an NCI designated cancer center The development and adoption of an automated publications search process can offer research centers great potential for less-error prone results with a savings in time and cost. Even in the early stages, SCiDS has shown that it can drastically reduce the time spent searching for member publications in an efficient manner. Also, because SCiDS uses API and homegrown coding, additional modules can be built that could improve publication verification and incorporated value-added information such as JIFs.
A bibliometric analysis of soil research in Brazil 1989-2018 According to the journals indexed in the WoS bibliographic database, Brazil has contributed, in the last 30 years, to 4.1% of the scientific research on soil science worldwide. However, the predominance of publications in low-impact national journals was evident.
Social network analysis of international collaboration in the economic research from 1900 through 2012 We infer from this work that the international collab-oration in co-authorships of English economics journals has been a growing trend, which actually started in the 1950s, was reinforced after the 1980s, and is increasingly being built around the most central countries.
Global mapping of cholera Vibrio and outbreaks in the Pre-Millennium Development Goals (MDG)/Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and MDGs/SDGs era of 1990-2019 In conclusion, vibrio outbreak has not lived up to various investment put into its control from various programme evolutions. The broad spectrum Vibrio vaccines that could cater for outbreak caused by common and emerging strains is inevitable and a significant thrust for future research.
Changes in evidence for studies assessing interventions for COVID-19 reported in preprints: meta-research study Results on the effect of interventions for COVID-19 are often reported in multiple evidence sources or source versions for a single study.
Branding Spin-Off Scholarly Journals: Transmuting Symbolic Capital into Economic Capital One of the strategies these publishers use to maximize profits from their journals is take the most prestigious journals in their collection and create a family of derived publications that bear the prestigious parent's name.
An Analysis of Spam from Predatory Publications in Library and Information Science "Predatory publishers pose a significant threat to researchers in library and information science."
Gender gaps in research productivity and recognition among elite scientists in the US, Canada, and South Africa In conclusion, this paper adds evidence on the gendered nature of bibliographic indicators of merit among elite scientists.
Exploring Changes in Coastal Environment Policy Using Text Mining: A Case Study in South Korea This study analyzed data produced during the operation of the EIA system and as a result of changes in policy decisions regarding development activities in coastal areas over time. The level of interest in natural ecological environments in coastal areas has continued to increase, with the main focus on how the impact of development projects on plants and animals might be mitigated. Therefore, a more scientific approach to discussions of impact factors or policy change trajectories is merited.
Co-authorship network analysis in cardiovascular research utilizing machine learning (2009-2019) A co-authorship network analysis revealed a structure of collaboration networks in the medical application of machine learning in the field of cardiovascular disease, which can be useful for planning future scientific collaboration.
Characteristics of high-impact agronomic journals The results of this study provide valuable insights regarding the current state of and future development trends in agronomic journals. For agronomic researchers, bibliometric metrics of journals deserve attention for deciding where to submit a manuscript for publication. Further understanding and development are needed regarding multi-disciplinary and big-data systems (e.g., remote sensing and precision agriculture) in future agronomic research.
A genealogical approach to academic success Our results suggest that the more supervisors are involved with a Ph.D. student who is susceptible to an academic career, the more academically successful this student will be later on. Practically, our findings have implications for the effective organization of Ph.D. training. In general, adding another supervisor to a team pays off. In other words, one can think of having diverse supervisors as a 'high-risk, high-gain' strategy for PhD students.
Analysis of Altmetrics in Social Recognition of Neurology and Neurological Disorders Altmetrics, on the other hand, appears to reflect public interest rather than the scientific merits of an article.
Characteristics of the Most Cited, Most Downloaded, and Most Mentioned Articles in General Medical Journals: A Comparative Bibliometric Analysis The most cited were more frequently older, the most downloaded were more frequently recent and educational, and the most mentioned were more frequently original and open-access articles. The results of our study may provide insights into various measures of article impact. By combining these metrics, a more holistic assessment of the scientific and social impact of research can be substantiated.
Research Output and International Cooperation Among Countries During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Scientometric Analysis The COVID-19 research landscape is rapidly developing and is driven by countries with a generally strong prepandemic research output but is also significantly affected by countries with a high prevalence of COVID-19 cases. Our findings indicate that the United States is leading international collaborative efforts. The most obvious finding is an underrepresentation of joint publications between China and Italy, despite both being strongly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and producing a high research output.
Research in Atrial Fibrillation A Scientometric Analysis Using the Novel Web Application SciPE "This study showed an increase in publication activity in AF research."
Information Science and Library Science (IS-LS) journal subject categorisation and comparison based on editorship information Our technique of journal subject categorisation is novel, making our research meaningful and helpful for editorial team governance of journals, including, in selecting editors with a variety of research focus backgrounds.
Introducing recalibrated academic performance indicators in the evaluation of individuals' research performance: A case study from Eastern Europe In conclusion, in the Section of Earth Sciences, neither the types nor the minimum values of the current performance indicators of the DSc title are correctly defined, and this issue may bias the outcome of the evaluation in individuals' research performance.
Is the Emerging Source Citation Index an aid to assess the citation impact in social science and humanities? Although at the scientific level, CSEC does not seem to improve the evaluation of impact measurement, this new citation index can provide relevant information for eval-uation at the micro and meso level.
Quantifying cross-disciplinary knowledge flow from the perspective of content: Introducing an approach based on knowledge memes This study provides insights into new approaches to quantifying knowledge relationships among disciplines and furthers the understanding of content diffusion mechanisms through measurable knowledge units.
How do authors select keywords? A preliminary study of author keyword selection behavior The results demonstrate that the mean of percentages of keywords appearing in content channel is negatively correlated with the citation counts of papers, which implies that the fewer are the keywords appearing in the title and abstract of the paper, the more citation counts the paper will obtain. On the other hand, the mean of percentages of keywords appearing in background channel exhibit a positive association with the citation counts of papers, which indicates that the more are the keywords appearing in high-frequency keywords, the more citations the paper will attract. The abovementioned findings can assist authors to intelligently select keywords to improve the visibility of their papers and attract more citations.
Preprints as accelerator of scholarly communication: An empirical analysis in Mathematics Preprint publishing speeds up dissemination of knowledge through the immediacy of sharing research findings with the respective scientific community.
Knowledge spillovers: Does the geographic proximity effect decay over time? A discipline-level analysis, accounting for cognitive proximity, with and without self-citations In Italy, as shown in other contexts, the factor of geographic proximity favors knowledge flows (Abramo et al., 2020a), including when accounted for the cognitive proximity of research in the territories concerned (Abramo, D'Angelo, & Di Costa, 2020). The phenomenon is shown to be substantial in the national context, and to a lesser extent for Europe, but is scarcely observed in the transcontinental flows of knowledge. In this work we have investigated the sensitivity of the geographic proximity effect to the time passed since publication of the cited article, with the analyses both including and excluding self-citations.
An analysis of the evolution of science-technology linkage in biomedicine Taken together, these results indicate a continuous linkage of public science to private sector inventions.
Scientists' genders and international academic collaboration: An empirical study of Chinese universities and research institutes This study explored and compared the RP of female and male scientists in international academic collaboration.
The power of social cues in the battle for attention: Evidence from an online platform for scholarly commentary Our analysis provides empirical support for the evolutionary paradigm, which suggests that success, skills, and prestige attract more attention and are thus strong cues in human decisions about whom to learn and to whom to pay attention (Henrich, 2016).
Predicting scientific research trends based on link prediction in keyword networks Predicting future structure and trends of scientific knowledge could be beneficial for scholar society in making decisions about conducting their future studies and their time and effort investments. Knowing the future of scientific research trends can help prospective students and researchers to be more confident in choosing their path in their career. As explained in the results section, the structural characteristics of both journal and conference keyword networks are nearly the same and they both could be used as effective sources to conduct semantic bibliometric analysis in computer science field.
An analysis of in-text citations based on fractional counting According to our findings, the number of in-text citations in full counting was approximately 1.448 times larger than that in fractional counting, and the majority of in-text citations were independent.
Proposal of composed altmetric indicators based on prevalence and impact dimensions The paper concludes that the theoretical assumptions of dimensions and prevalence are suitable criteria to design transparent and reproducible impact indicators.
Interpreting CNCIs on a country-scale: The effect of domestic and international collaboration type In our analysis of citation impact and collaborative authorship across 15,650,080 journal articles indexed in the Web of Science between 2009 and 2018, we have shown that individual country citation and CNCI profiles can vary significantly between collaboration types (e.g., domestic single and international quadrilateral-plus) and credit counting methods.
A Markov-switching approach to the study of citations in academic journals Our simplified model allows us to conclude that in order to understand the evolution of citations in a given journal, it is relevant to focus on its intrinsic dominant regime.
The golden eras of graphene science and technology: Bibliographic evidences from journal and patent publications In this paper, we attempted to answer the question whether scientific research into graphene is leading to technological innovation involving the material, by analyzing the collections of journal publications and patents related to graphene. We then found compelling evidences that these interest levels peaked in 2010 and 2012 respectively, despite the continued growth of journal and patent publications in this area. This suggests that publication numbers in a research topic could sometimes give rise to false positives concerning its importance.
ψ-index: A new overall productivity index for actors of science and technology In this work, a new overall productivity index, namely ψ-index is introduced.
Return to basics: Clustering of scientific literature using structural information In this study, we developed a novel approach toward mapping scientific literature that is inspired by the coupling relatedness measures of BC and CC.
Should citations be field-normalized in evaluative bibliometrics? An empirical analysis based on propensity score matching The results point out that field-normalization seems to be a prerequisite for citation analysis and cannot be replaced by the consideration of any set of FICs in citation analyses.
The pace of artificial intelligence innovations: Speed, talent, and trial-and-error This article explores the pace of Al from the perspective of Al papers, Al players, and trial and error, using three measures: Average Time Interval, Innovation Speed, and Update Speed. The findings reveal that more and more talents are entering into the field of Al, which may directly stimulate the drastic growth in the number of Al innovations (e.g., Al papers). This framework could be adopted and generalized to measure the pace of innovations in other fast-growing fields, such as cancer research and nano science.
Two dogmas of peer-reviewism If we aim to foster high-quality research, we should reduce unnecessary burdens and reform the current system, because it is too arbitrary and biased, time-consuming, expensive, and highly de-motivating (both for junior and senior scholars).
International Collaboration in the Field of Environmental Protection: Trend Analysis and COVID-19 Implications This paper presents an analysis of the dynamics of international cooperation in the field of environmental research, including a thematic area of research on different sources of publications, which shows its connection with different scientific directions.
Who really contributes to information science research? An analysis of disciplinarity and nationality of contributors to ten top journals While all Information Science journals are quite unique in terms of the disciplinarity and nationalities of their authors, a couple unifying themes emerge from looking at the aggregate data. First, that disciplinary contributions to these journals represent a minority-majority; that is, while LIS clearly contributes most to Information Science journals of any discipline, no discipline contributes over 50 percent. As Information Science research continues to expand and evolve globally, the findings of this study provide orientation to the current status of top research in the field. It invites further inquiry and efforts to improve equity in considering a variety of diverse disciplinary and national perspectives on the most pressing issues.
Similarity indexes for scientometric research: A comparative analysis This paper provides a comparative analysis of five most used similarity indexes (Jaccad, Dice-Sorenson, Salton, Pearson and Association Strength) for the three scientometric analysis types: co-word, co-citation and co-authorship.
How are the new wave of Chinese researchers shaping up in scholarly communication terms? First and foremost, ECRs' reading and publishing practices seemed more rely on the quality and reputation of a journal, although the quantifiable metrics were still important when deciding which journal to publish in.
Sustaining Independent Careers in Vision Research: Demographics and Success in Second R01 Attainment Among Clinician-Scientists from 1985 to 2019 We found an overall success rate of 62.8% for receiving a second R01, but 5 years after the first RO1 an attainment rate for a second R01 of only ~4%.
Should the impact factor of the year of publication or the last available one be used when evaluating scientists? We confirmed that the journal quality reflects only vaguely the quality of the papers, and reported for the first time evidences that using the journal rank from the particular year that papers were published represents an unnecessary effort and therefore evaluation should be done simply considering the last available rank.
Assessing the Scientific Impact of Individual Scholars With Multi-Scale H-Index In this paper, we propose a novel multi-scale h-index to measure the scientific impact of individual scholars.
Measuring the incidence of social factors on scientific research: A socio-scientometrics analysis of strategic countries It has been shown that on average there is a high correlation between social variables (population, researchers, investment in tertiary education, investment in research) and scientific production.
Recalibrating Cost-per-Use: Implications of COUNTER Release 5 and Unsub This column discusses two recent developments, the adoption of COUNTER Release 5 and the release of an online tool called Unsub, that will lead to improvements in usage counting and a significant readjust- ment of cost-per-use calculations for many libraries.
Evaluation of the Psychiatric Research Output From Turkey Via Web of Science Database: A Bibliometric Analysis Bibliometric studies are crucial in evaluating domain specific research and in planning for efficient use of limited resources.
Scientometric assessment of research publications from fisheries institutes under Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) during 2009-2018 The SciVal-based scientometric assessment of research outputs of ICAR fisheries research institutes shows a steady growth in scientific publications during 2009-18. The high FWCI value for publications and the increase in the proportion of publications in top journals and citation percentiles in recent years indicate improvement in the quality of research over the study period. However, this study suggests the need and scope for further improvement in research publications, productivity i.e., publications per scientist, especially in the case of larger institutes. The present study highlights the research areas with significant momentum and scope for future funding; provides insights on the research trends and necessary leads to prioritise research among the national fisheries research institutes under ICAR.
Documenting contributions to scholarly articles using CRediT and tenzing tenzing can make it easier for researchers on a project to plan and record their planned contributions and to document those contribu- tions in a journal article. The CRO scheme could be integrated into tenzing in the future. We hope that the usage of CRediT facilitated by tenzing during the feedback period will result in a greater under- standing of what about CRediT should be prioritized for refinement or change.
Systematic examination of preprint platforms for use in the medical and biomedical sciences setting A large number of preprint platforms exist for use in biomedical and medical sciences, all of which offer researchers an opportunity to rapidly disseminate their research findings onto an open-access public server, subject to scope and eligibility.
Mandating access: assessing the NIH's public access policy First, I find that, while the effects of the PAP on researcher access to the biomedical literature were likely small, some estimates allow for large citation increases after the PAP. Second, I find little evidence that the PAP induced widespread discrimination, by toll access journals, against NIH articles that was not offset by other factors such as editor decisions or author submission behavior. From the standpoint of policymakers, this result suggests that a significant potential downside of the PAP - discrimination against NIH articles – either did not materialize or was offset by mitigating factors.
International Collaboration and European Contributions to International Business Research Our findings provide a salient overview of the state and evolution of the field of IB as they build on the same data, methods, and concept definitions, thus allowing a strong foundation for comparability and identification of trends and patterns within and across nations and regions.
How is open access publishing going down with early career researchers? An international, multi-disciplinary study Perhaps the most important finding emerging from this study is that in the case of ECRs publishing practices seem to reflect closely the heightened interest and great faith in open access, which has been accorded to them in previous studies on OA publishing. Indeed, if the extant evidence pertaining to researchers in general has shown that OA practices tend to lag behind attitudes, ECRs seem to have made great strides in closing the gap, which is undoubtedly a very promising development for the future of OA publishing. The key findings certainly give ample indications that lend support to this hopeful view. Most importantly, the majority of ECRs have actually published in OA journals and saw more advantages to the practice than disadvantages. Indeed, the problems cited had to do more with cost (plainly considered the main downside) and availability than other, less easily solved ones, such as the reputation-building capabilities of OA publishing (or lack thereof).
Publications on COVID-19 in High Impact Factor Journals: A Bibliometric Analysis This bibliometric study allows for visualizing the status of global scientific publications on COVID-19 in five high impact journals, and it also allows for the identification of the most prominent authors.
Forging Forward Together: Transforming Scientific Practice to Accelerate Scientific Progress The war on science threatens both the respectability and the viability of BSS.
Digital Resources for Students: Navigating Scholarship in a Changing Terrain Digital resources offer an opportunity to teach students about challenges and trends in scholarly communication.
How Academics outside Global Research Centers Challenge Limitations in Access to Scholarly Literature In the context of scarce financial resources, scholars from peripheral countries who want to publish internationally and take part in a global debate face many obstacles unless they take one of the “digital backdoors” to global academic knowledge: open source, academic social networking sites (ResearchGate, Academia.edu), downloading papers through intermediaries, or pirate websites (Sci-Hub, LibGen).
Peer review versus the h-index for evaluation of individual researchers in the biological sciences NRF rating categorisations (estimates of standing in a research field based on peer review) are a reasonably good predictor of the h-index of individual researchers in the biological sciences.
Society-oriented journalism and scientific publications Promoting research that meets the societal needs requires a broader view of scientific discovery. The expectation should be that every article should meet some specific standards that are well described and established and being evaluated under the view that scientifically sound research should be given the chance to be published since the final judge of it is the readership and the society in general [6]. In that setting, institutions should reward these behaviors and support practices that enhance the social benefit of research.
University characteristics and probabilities for funding of proposals in the European Framework Programs Our study has demonstrated that using proposal success rather than project participations demonstrates different patterns of which uni-versity characteristics that are expedient in the EU FPs.
Task Shifting: A High-Level Analysis of Scholarship This bibliometric analysis of the indexed literature on task shifting, sharing, and delegation has identified several key areas of strength in the current scholarship literature. It has also identified the centrality of regulation to the delivery and redistribution of responsibilities within families of practice such as nursing and across other disciplines. Furthermore, it has identified that, up until this point, the work on task shifting has given only limited consideration to the use of technology as a means of generating more comprehensive solution sets.
Chaos Theory and the Neoliberal English-Based Dimension of the Polish Higher Education Reforms 2018/2019 The long-term results of entering the neoliberal “rat race”, which is strongly reliant on English language skills, are yet unknown.
The Unintended Consequences of Using Direct Incentives to Drive the Complex Task of Research Dissemination However, at least three concerns arose in our analysis of the data on the use of incentives: (1) they seemed to drive quantity with little consideration of quality; (2) universities were vulnerable to predatory publishers; and (3) there was resentment that those whose main work allocation was research and supervision were then paid additional incentives for doing this work. We have argued that there needs to be more nuance in such a system and that institutions need to be wary about the extent to which a focus on payments reduces publications to their exchange-value.
Framework of Computational Intelligence-Enhanced Knowledge Base Construction: Methodology and A Case of Gene-Related Cardiovascular Disease This paper proposes a methodology for developing a KBC framework by applying computational intelligent techniques through the integration of intelligent bibliometrics.
Automated Analysis of Actor-Topic Networks on Twitter: New Approaches to the Analysis of Socio-Semantic Networks We have proposed a new methodology for analyzing Twitter messages by focusing on the co-occurrences of Twitter-specific
Articles with impact: insights into 10 years of research with machine learning In summary, research impact can be predicted and better understood using a combination of article characteristics and machine learning.
Bibliometric analysis of Neurosciences research productivity in Saudi Arabia from 2013-2018 Neuroscience research is on the rise in KSA.
Patterns of National Institutes of Health Grant Funding to Surgical Research and Scholarly Productivity in the United States In the last decade, a greater proportion of NIH grants in DoS were awarded to more experienced investigators. Disparities exist among grantees, and female investigators are underrepresented, especially among practicing surgeons. This study has critical implications for the future of surgical research in the United States and calls on the leadership of DoS to increase support to practicing surgeons, especially young and female faculty, by providing protected time for research and the mentorship necessary to adequately prepare surgeon-scientists in obtaining NIH funding in this competitive research environment.
A scientometric analysis of literature published in Indian Journal of Ophthalmology from 2005 to 2017 In conclusion, an exhaustive scientometric analysis from the IJO showed a steady increase in the number of publications from year to year. Papers from the vitreoretinal domain were the commonest and were cited most often. Original articles and case reports contributed equally to the published content though the former were cited much more frequently than the latter.
Misallocation of scientific credit: the role of hierarchy and preferences. An extension of Lissoni et al. (2013) Extending Lissoni et al. (2013) to European data, we have provided several indications of unfavorable treatment in credit allocation for junior scholars and female scientists.
Were the Italian policy reforms to contrast favoritism and foster effectiveness in faculty recruitment successful? The results of the comparison show no general improvement in the overall effectiveness of recruitment.
Threat of policy alienation: Exploring the implementation of Open Science policy in research practice The findings address how the incentive problems lie not only in the research evaluation and academic credit systems but also in the policy-practice divide. These problems need to be solved in terms of participation in policymaking and in the knowledge production of 'openness' itself.
What drives citations of frontier application publications? Authors, institutions and funders of studies on frontier applications may consider these over collabora-tions, in seeking growth in citation counts.
Retracted articles in the obstetrics literature: lessons from the past to change the future In the obstetrics and maternal-fetal medicine literature, retraction of scientific articles is increasing and is most often related to scientific misconduct, including article duplication and plagiarism.
Invisible Geniuses: Could the Knowledge Frontier Advance Faster? We document a strong and consistent link between IMO scores and a number of achievements in mathematics, including getting a PhD, mathematics publications and citations, and being awarded a Fields Medal.
Increasing number of authors in Cochrane reviews The number of authors per Cochrane review gradually increased from 1996 to 2018.
Group authorships in Cochrane had low compliance with Cochrane recommendations A low prevalence of group authorships existed in Cochrane reviews.
Co-authorship network and the correlation with academic performance In this research, through the use of link analysis and the graph cluster analysis, a co-author network of 166 scholars was established and analyzed.
A register of public-sector research organizations as a tool for research policy studies and evaluation OrgReg represents a significant advance in the construction of a data infrastructure for European public-sector research and higher education."
The effect of competitive public funding on scientific output: A comparison between China and the EU Our findings highlight the key role that funding agencies play in influencing research behaviour.
How to evaluate ex ante impact of funding proposals? An analysis of reviewers' comments on impact statements We conclude that for ex ante impact assessment to be effective, funding agencies should indicate the types of impact expected from research proposals clearly instead of a general 'wish list' and that more focus should be put on process-oriented impact than outcome-oriented impact. We conclude that it is essential to clarify the purposes and criteria for evaluating potential impact, especially when funding allocations can have significant implications for knowledge production and solving important problems such as poverty and the climate crisis.
Heterogeneous impacts of research grant funding This paper contributes by examining the heterogeneity of citation impact of grant publica-tions, particularly whether impacts vary according to researchers' past performance, and whether any patterns can be discerned. Analysis of the heterogeneity in funding impacts can generate useful information that can potentially inform the selection of awardees (and to what extent past performance can be used in assessment decisions) and the design of funding instruments, and application and assessment procedures. Additional work could be very useful in further exploring possible systematic relationships between other applicant characteristics, such as years of experience as a researcher and overall publication activity, and subsequent impacts.
Metascience on Peer Review: Testing the Effects of a Study's Originality and Statistical Significance in a Field Experiment We hope that this study encourages psychologists, as individuals and on institutional levels (associations, journals, conferences), to conduct experimental research on peer review, and that the preregistered field experiment we have reported may serve as a blueprint of the type of research we argue is necessary to cumulatively build a rigorous knowledge base on the peer-review process. We believe it prudent to eventually develop and implement evidence-based interventions that address documented shortcomings in academic publishing. Experimental field research on peer review is necessary to understand its mechanisms, effectively contextualize it in psychological theories of various biases, and develop practical procedures to increase its utility.
Total Scholarly Impact: Law Professor Citations in Non-Law Journals The emergence of Web of Science as a reliable academic citation database has undermined that reasoning for excluding nonlegal citations. Over the long term, a more accurate and complete assessment of scholarly impact would include a hybrid calculation that combines citations in both legal and nonlegal scholarly publications, which could be called a 'Total Scholarly Impact Score,' rather than a Legal Impact Score and Interdisciplinary Impact Score. Our work on this topic also suggests the potential value of another concept: an “Index of Insularity,” which would identify the extent to which disciplines cite only work inside the discipline.
Article placement order in rheumatology journals: a content analysis Author gender and geographical region do not influence article placement order in serial rheumatology journals. However, bias for certain disease categories is reflected in article placement order. Editorial decisions about article placement order can influence the prominence of diseases.
Development of ARCADIA: a tool for assessing the quality of peer-review reports in biomedical research Assessment of Review reports with a Checklist Available to eDltors and Authors tool could be used regularly by editors to evaluate the reviewers' work, and also as an outcome when evaluating interventions to improve the peer-review process.
Geography of scientific knowledge: A proximity approach In all, the proximity framework provides an analytical framework in which different theoretical traditions can be combined and translated into a single research design, here, to explain the replication logic of knowledge claims. In the present contribution, I have drawn primarily on theories in economic geography and science and technology studies that stress the role of tacit knowledge sharing among scientists as supportive of the understanding and acceptance of new claims.
Success factors of academic journals in the digital age This study examines factors that are related to the citation-based performance of academic journals in the digital age.
Fiction lagging behind or non-fiction defending the indefensible? University–industry (et al.) interaction in science fiction We contribute to work on university-industry interaction and STI policy frameworks by showing that, in the case of our sample, the predominant popular view of university-society interactions is negative, despite the prevailing academic and policy support. This suggests that policymakers are not focusing on the relevance of public discourse to legitimize their actions (McCloskey 2002). Hence, we suggest that current STI policy frameworks should include elements of critical studies of university-industry interaction to avoid sustainability being hampered by university interaction with multiple stakeholders. Surprisingly, science fiction novels condone two reasons for non-disclosure of information: nationalism and state pacts.
The Most Frequently Cited Topics in Urban Planning Scholarship The analysis presents a snapshot of scholarship, drawing from nearly 50 years of publications, authored by current urban planning faculty in the USA and Canada, in order to highlight topics receiving the most attention in a number of publication and citation activity.
Business as Usual with Article Processing Charges in the Transition towards OA Publishing: A Case Study Based on Elsevier This study focuses on three issues of the transition towards a fully OA publishing landscape and analyzes them from the perspective of a big commercial publisher, namely Elsevier.
Application of network analysis methods in the selection of information sources Therefore, one can conclude that it is necessary to develop a mechanism that would support decision-making regarding the selection of publications for the library collection, based on objective assessments.
Exploring scientific publications by firms: what are the roles of academic and corporate partners for publications in high reputation or high impact journals? Our main results are summarized below in Table 5.
Commercial publishers: What is to be done? All too frequently and to paraphrase Ferguson, for their owners, academic journals are foremost about making money and expanding corporate power, deliberately taking scholarship as their point of entry.
The Scientific Cooperation Network of Chinese Scientists and Its Proximity Mechanism The state should establish a scientific and technological resource sharing mechanism for the scientific cooperation of scientists, build a platform for scientific cooperation, strengthen information exchange and visit exchanges amongst scientists, and promote cooperative research between both sides and even multiple parties. The transformation of scientific results should be a focus, turning Beijing and Shanghai into global scientific and technological innovation cities with international influence. The state should properly adjust the spatial layout and structural allocation of economic resources and higher education resources, as well as providing more relevant preferential policies to marginal cities in the scientific cooperation network of Chinese scientists to promote the scientific research level of the marginal cities and strengthen the scientific research links with the core cities.
How many manuscripts should I peer review per year? This does not seem to be an unreasonable number of manuscripts to review.
Exploring the Significant Predictors to the Quality of Master’s Dissertations This study aims to find the predictors of the masters' dissertations with high quality, where the high quality refers to the high scores given by experts and publishing papers in SCI journals.
Developing a Protocol for Assessing the Quality of Published Scholarship in Mathematics Based on a Journal Ranking System Although ranking journals in mathematics is a contentious issue, especially when using a citation-based metric, I believe that the two metrics that I chose to use in my scholarly assessment do a reasonably good job of identifying journals that most mathematicians would consider prestigious. The excellent category rewards faculty with an active research program resulting in top-quality publications and the average category does not over-penalize faculty who are participating in scholarship but whose work product may be considered by some, especially those outside the discipline, as having little or no value. The inclusion of a grievance procedure provides researchers an option to support the validity of their work in journals or outlets that are not yet recognized or included in the databases.
How Many Papers Should Scientists Be Reviewing? An Analysis Using Verified Peer Review Reports Across all fields, these results suggest authors should review at least one publication per article they produce to balance the peer review system. I recommend scientists aim to conduct at least one review per publication they produce. This should ensure that the peer review system continues to function as intended.
A higher standard for women suggesting that women needed to produce higher quality work than men in order for referees to recommend publication.
Whether productive authors using the national health insurance database also achieve higher individual research metrics The AWS-based bibliometric metrics make individual weighted research evaluations possible and available for comparison.
Should highly cited items be excluded in impact factor calculation? The effect of review articles on journal impact factor Based on our findings, we suggest that sophisticated methods, in addition to the impact factor, be employed for research evaluation purposes.
Does the h-index and self-citation affect external funding of orthopedic surgery research? An analysis of fellowship directors and their subspecialties Self-citation has minimal impact among fellowship directors and should not be adjusted for when considering external funding. This suggests the h-index does not need to be adjusted for self-citation when used as a correlative for the distribution of external funding or grants for research. Additionally, sports medicine surgeons have significantly higher h-indices and total citations than other subspecialties, while foot and ankle surgeons have lower respective metrics, suggesting that appropriate benchmarks may be necessary for varying department sizes and subspecialties as it pertains to payment/salary, funding, or promotional considerations at the departmental level.
Sources without a CiteScore value: more clarity is required After analyzing the 78 sources from Scopus sub-subject area “Library and Information Science” it was established that the “N/A” abbreviation form embodied journals that were either discontinued, subjected to a name change or journals recently indexed by Scopus.
When do firms get ideas from hiring PhDs? Our findings not only suggest that firms strategically select PhDs for more or less exploratory R&D based on how (dis-) similar the knowl-edge of these PhDs is from the firm's knowledge stock.
A bibliometric outlook of the most cited documents in business, management and accounting in Ibero-America The BMA research in Ibero-America is passing through a complex period. It has achieved its highest level of output over the years but a closer examination reveals a few powerhouses in terms of production and influence (i.e., Spain, Brazil, Portugal, and Mexico). This study has two main limitations. Whilst Scopus is more inclusive that WoS in several BMA-related aspects, open platforms such as Google Scholar, Microsoft Academic, and Dimensions, as the latter is gaining maturity, have been showing overlapping and broad reach compared to Scopus or WoS. Further studies could compare the regional differences in terms of BMA subjects between Scopus and WoS and other databases such as Google Scholar and Dimensions.
Evaluating the impact of research using the altmetrics approach (case study: the field of scientometrics) In sum, the above findings suggest that some social networks and their indices can be representations of the impact of scientific papers, similar citations. However, owing to the weakness of the correlation coefficients, the replacement of these two categories of indicators is not recommended, but it is possible to use the altmetrics indicators as complementary scientometrics indicators in evaluating the impact of research. It should be used in conjunction with impact factor, h-index, the number of downloads and citation counts to provide a more rounded picture of the article's impact.
Digital multimedia tools, research impact, stated and revealed preferences: a rejoinder on the issue of video abstracts By adopting a revealed preference approach and, most of all, letting the data speak for themselves, doubts arise about the citation advantage supposedly engendered by video abstracts. It is instead possible to find clues that the self-selection bias takes place, namely, that authors are prone to attach a video abstract to their best, most representative articles, which then accrue more citations because of their quality.
Is there a gender gap in chemical sciences scholarly communication? We have conducted a thorough analysis of data available to us as the Royal Society of Chemistry, and as publishers of the chemical sciences, in order to identify gender imbalances. Rather than one dominant factor, it is more akin to 'death by a thousand cuts'. This female drop off through the publication process is most marked for female corresponding authors, but is also apparent to a lesser degree for female first authors.
Illuminating a Black Box of the Peer Review System: Demographics, Experiences, and Career Benefits of Associate Editors Our survey captured the perspectives of AEs serving ASLO journals and several conclusions about AE diversity can be drawn from this unique data set.
Impacto científico y contextualización bibliométrica de la Pediatría respecto a otras áreas temáticas The indicators of citation and impact of the Pediatrics area tend to be above areas such as Emergency Medicine, Primary Health Care, Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine, and Rehabilitation. Professional practice outside large hospitals, together with poor funding, as well as the low number of clinical trials due to the ethical requirements imposed on studies with children, may be the causes that result in moderate citation and impact indicators.
Citation behavior of Pondicherry University faculty in digital environment: a survey The present study provides some insights on the role of trust and authority in the citation behavior of Pondicherry University faculty in the digital world.
Use of scholarly communication and citation-based metrics as a basis for university ranking in developing country perspective It is evident from the findings of this study that a national-level ranking for universities can be developed based on scholarly publication and citation data obtained from citation databases.
Analyzing Food Science Research for Publishing Characteristics as a Model for Understanding the Needs of Researchers The researchers in the Food Science department published an average of 91 publications per year during this time. This is 3.74 times higher than the rate reported in 2007 for this department. By completing this project, we were able to study the Food Science faculty publications and identify their characteristics.
Publish less, read more: Replies to Clegg, Wiggins, and Ostenson; and to Trafimow Publication should aim to report present theoretical advances by showing that the research selectively strengthens one or a few of the competing hypotheses (i.e., at the cost of "inadequate worldviews”), and should not be based on secondary data properties (e.g., preregistration, significance, etc.), or social connections.
An examination of citation-based impact of the computational biology conferences Although citation-based measures of impact are imperfect, we submit that the results of our analyses provide a useful characterization of these venues.
Citation Analysis of Mathematics and Statistics Dissertations and Theses from the University at Albany The results of this study support those found in previous studies that the mathematics and statistics field does not have a small number of core journals like some of the other sciences. Additionally, as books constituted 30.5% of the citations, they are still important for mathematicians and worthy of purchase. Furthermore, the incomplete and incorrect citations found show a need to instruct graduate students in citation creation and their importance in scholarly communication.
Evolution and thematic changes of Journal of King Saud University – Science between 2009 and 2019: A bibliometric and visualized review From the angle of dynamics and trends of publications, the publishing profile of JKSU-S and the knowledge flow between JKSU-S and other journals were presented in the paper.
Does newspapers coverage influence the citations count of scientific publications? An analysis of biomedical studies Our results confirm previous observational studies: there is a publicity effect on the citation count when scientific publications are featured in newspapers. Our results indicated a positive correlation between the media coverage and the number of citations. These observations raise concerns about the influence of the media on the research communication and dissemination.
Predatory Publishing and the Academic Librarian: Developing Tools to Make Decisions However, STOPP meets the decision-making needs of academic librarians and authors working in a complex environment. An unintended consequence of creating these tools was the growth in the authors’ understanding of scholarly communication, all that it encompasses, and its importance for academic librarians. Next steps include a multi-site study validation study and a continued effort to disseminate the material.
Bulgarian authors’ open access awareness and preferences Bulgarian researchers are aware of arguments in favor of open access and believe that it benefits researchers in their discipline.
Open access practices: roadmap to research paper publications in academic institutions OAPs can be a roadmap to research paper publication in academic institutions in Africa, considering the wave of OAPs globally. OAPs can also demonstrate the value of academic libraries to their institutions and hopefully provide continual sources of funding.
The relationship of polarity of post-publication peer review to citation count This study indicated that the polarities of PPPRs (especially positive PPPRs) from Publons can potentially serve as a useful indicator for evaluating papers' academic impact.
Measuring editorial skill and error Since journal hierarchies sort knowledge by importance, as well as topic and reliability, editorial skill and error affect which ideas contribute to future growth of human knowledge. It seems likely that such data will soon be extracted and analysed systematically.
What is a Good Journal? Perceptions of Vietnamese Early-Career and Mid-Career Researchers The findings of this study have practical implications for key stakeholders including the government, universities, publishers and editors.
Availability of Research Data in High-Impact Addiction Journals with Data Sharing Policies Currently, data sharing is not a procedure likely to improve the quality and integrity of published addiction research. The nature of the data reported in addiction journals might partly explain this. Thus, data sharing might be rare in addiction studies, in part, because many investigators who have collected individual-level data may not know if they are ethically allowed to share these.
R&amp;D productivity for science, technology and innovation policy development in Nigeria: A scientometric analysis of academic literature For improved evidence-based science policy development in Nigeria, the following policy recommendations are advised:
International Collaboration in Open Access Publications: How Income Shapes International Collaboration In this paper, we present the first analysis of a data set that contains data on international collaborations from all papers published in MDPI journals. Our analyses confirmed that this is indeed the case. Specifically, researchers in low-income nations are far more likely to form international collaborations on papers that are published in MDPI journals.
Comfortably Numb? Researchers’ Satisfaction with the Publication System and a Proposal for Radical Change The findings suggest that untenured (WOP) researchers are dissatisfied with the publishing times of academic journals, which adds to the pile of criticisms of the journal-based publication system.
Response to Dolnicar and McCabe's pro-active model of journal editing Courageous articles become either sturdy branches, or fallen leaves. Cowardly articles merely become twigs.
Tracking self-citations in academic publishing Clarifying citation buildup will help to accurately evaluate how the various author-related factors influence bibliometric footprint. Instead of curation, we should adopt methods that utilize all the citation data, but in a way that carefully accounts for factors such as self-citation, collaboration, and “citation farms”. Future efforts centered on clarifying citations will better inform policymakers, funding agencies, hiring/promotion/award committees, and the general public about the value of published research.
Can citation metrics predict the true impact of scientific papers? In conclusion, our analysis demonstrates factually, using experimental data, the total failure of using quantitative bulk citation analyses to conclude on the scientific impact of publications.
Disruptive papers published in Scientometrics: meaningful results by using an improved variant of the disruption index originally proposed by Wu, Wang, and Evans (2019) The calculation of a field-specific version of DI5 (focusing on disruptiveness within the same field) for Scientometrics papers in the current study reveals that the variant is possibly able to identify landmark papers in scientometrics.
Can altmetrics reflect societal impact considerations?: Exploring the potential of altmetrics in the context of a sustainability science research center In conclusion, the proposed hypothesis that researchers funded by CCES achieve higher impact in terms of altmetrics scores with their research than those who were not funded could not be confirmed based on the results.
How scientific papers mention grey literature: a scientometric study based on Scopus data Grey literature is (still) part of academic research and communication, even more than before.
Why we publish where we do: Faculty publishing values and their relationship to review, promotion and tenure expectations Our results confirm that faculty value the readership of a journal over other citation metrics or perceived prestige, but that such values may be at odds with what they believe to be valuable in the RPT process.
A simple model suggesting economically rational sample-size choice drives irreproducibility Our model strengthens the argument that economic pressures may be a principle driver of insufficient sample sizes and irreproducibility.
Might Europe one day again be a global scientific powerhouse? Analysis of ERC publications suggests it will not be possible without changes in research policy We conclude that research performance in GFIS and in other EU countries is intrinsically low, even in highly selected and generously funded projects.
Comparison of bibliographic data sources: Implications for the robustness of university rankings Our concluding message is: Any institutional evaluation framework that is serious about coverage should consider incorporating multiple bibliographic sources. The process revealed cases of missing links between metadata and search functionalities within each database (for both affiliation and DOI). This means that the real coverage of each source is unnecessarily truncated.
Transfer of knowledge through international scientific mobility: Introduction of a network-based bibliometric approach to study different knowledge types The findings suggest that it is possible to identify the transfer of different types of knowledge among scientists. The underlying study is one step forward in improving our understanding of knowledge diffusion networks. In further studies in this area, I will focus on the tacit knowledge dimension that can be uncovered by studying the passing on of lexical terms.
Authorship growth in contemporary medical literature There has been substantial growth in the authorship bylines of contemporary medical literature, much of which cannot be explained by increased complexity or collaboration alone. The increasing authorship trend is a reflection of the contemporary research landscape-one with greater complexity and collaboration and also one with more competition from lessening resources. As the research environment continues to evolve with advanced tools and increased academic pressures for publication, it may be prudent to investigate how academic productivity is measured and rewarded based on contribution to quality medical literature.
Preregistration of exploratory research: Learning from the golden age of discovery I posit that the reduction of underpowered studies and overblown interpretations, the availability of negative and neutral results for evidence synthesis, the reduction of false positive/false negative studies, as well as greater transparency, will afford the overall reduction in the number of published articles that we are longing for, but those articles that get published will be more trustworthy and useful.
Authors overestimate their contribution to scientific work, demonstrating a strong bias Our demonstration highlights two conclusions, one pessimistic and the other somewhat optimistic.
Gender differences in citation impact for 27 fields and six English-speaking countries 1996–2014 The results show a general, but small, tendency for female first-authored standard journal ar-ticles to be more cited than male first-authored standard journal articles in all 27 broad Scopus fields 1996-2014 in Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, the UK, and the USA. However, the average effect size of the difference is almost certainly too small to have much influence on academic appointments, promotions, and tenure, in any field or country (from the six considered) over the past two decades.
Impact factor volatility due to a single paper: A comprehensive analysis We question the reliability of IF rankings given the high IF sensitivity to a few papers that affects thousands of journals.
Citation concept analysis (CCA) of Robert K. Merton’s book <i>Social Theory and Social Structure</i>: How often are certain concepts from the book cited in subsequent publications? These and further results of the study could demonstrate the high explanatory power of the CCA method.
R-Shiny as an Interface for Data Visualization and Data Analysis on the Brazilian Digital Library of Theses and Dissertations (BDTD) The use of modern tools for data visualization and data sharing helps the user to see a better picture of what it is looking at. Also, it could encourage other institutions to join the open access movement and make their documentation easier to be found and to be explored, without losing mid/long term crucial information. This case will also be extended to the osasisbr portal.
The relationship between journal citation impact and citation sentiment: A study of 32 million citances in PubMed Central Using a large full-text data set, this study analyzed the citation sentiment of more than 32 million citances and revealed citation sentiment patterns at the journal and discipline levels.
Three Commonly Utilized Scholarly Databases and a Social Network Site Provide Different, But Related, Metrics of Pharmacy Faculty Publication Significant differences in scholarly metric values were observed between databases despite the high correlations, suggestive of systematic variation in database reporting.
Which h-index? An exploration within the Web of Science With the rapid update of the WoS in recent years, the simple statement of the use of WoS as the data source without clarifications will bring about confusion and inconsist- ency in metrics. We argue that h-index, despite its deficiencies, if used, should be at least used consist- ently by detailing how they are calculated. We suggest that users should specify the details of data sources of h-index calculation for research promotion and evaluation practices.
Authorship Trends in the <i>American Journal of Neuroradiology</i> In summary, MDs and radiologists still dominate authorship in the AJNR; however, there are trends from 1998 to 2018 toward more PhD-authored, multi-institutional, and funded articles.
Facts to consider when analyzing the references of Nobel Prize scientific background So, taking into consideration the patterns and number of mentions of scientific publications cited by Nobel Prize scientific background when studying Nobel-awarded discoveries is important to ameliorate the outcomes of scientometric analyses related to Nobel Prize. That is why we invite scientists to consider these factors in the next years when studying Nobel Prize scientific background documents not only for Physics but also for Medicine, Chemistry and Economics.
Accuracy of funding information in Scopus: a comparative case study Therefore, Scopus needs to optimize the funding acknowledgement text identification method and improve the funding agency extraction and standardization strategy. Misidentification of funding agency is also a crucial problem for Scopus to solve. A few suggestions can be taken by Scopus to improve the problems exposed by this case study. I hope that all the problems mentioned in this study can be fixed as soon as possible.
The Diversity–Innovation Paradox in Science These results suggest there may be unwarranted reproduction of stratification in academic careers that discounts diversity's role in innovation and partly explains the underrepresentation of some groups in academia. This question stresses the continued importance of critically evaluating and addressing biases in faculty hiring, research evaluation, and publication practices.
Evaluation of the national research foundation-rated researchers’ output at a South African university The results of this study show that most of the rated researchers' outputs emanated from GS, followed by Scopus and WoS. Academic librarians who interact with researchers who would like to predict future academic impact of their documents can be advised to consider Mendeley readerships with some level of confidence compared to RG reads. These results point to the importance of constant self-evaluation by researchers to ensure that they have balanced profiles across the three main bibliographic databases that are also considered for ratings.
No place like home: geography and culture in the dissemination of economic research articles In a novel theoretical application, this paper analyses international citation flows in economics research between 1970 and 2016 using a gravity model framework.
Scientific Collaboration across Time and Space: Bibliometric Analysis of the <i>American Journal of Neuroradiology</i>, 1980–2018 From 1980 to 2018, as the quantity of articles published in the AJNR increased, their level of evidence improved, while an increasing number of authors with different affiliations and from different geographic locales collaborated on these articles. Scientific collaboration is essential for the dissemination of knowledge and production of high-quality research. Future studies might use sophisticated metrics for collabora-tion, such as a collaborative index, degree of collaboration, col-laborative coefficient, modified collaborative coefficient, and degree of centrality, as well as examine relationships of these metrics with research productivity, journal Impact Factor, and number of citations.
Correlation between the CiteScore and Journal Impact Factor of top-ranked library and information science journals Academics wishing to select a target LIS journal for submission of a paper can cautiously rely on either the CiteScore or JIF to make their selection.
Scientific impact and bibliometric contextualisation of paediatrics compared to other specialities☆ The indicators of citation and impact of the Pediatrics area tend to be above areas such as Emergency Medicine, Primary Health Care, Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine and Rehabilitation.
National variation in citation-based business journal quality measures and characteristics The AJG-listed journals published in the United States have higher citation-based measures of quality. Overall, the acceptance rate results show that nation-based differences are larger than dis- cipline-based differences. These and similar research extensions will help researchers understand the extent to which discipline and nation must be taken into consideration when using journal quality to assess research value.
Response to the comments of Turki et al. on “The journals that publish Nobel Prize research” In conclusion, Turki et al. have pointed out a series of interesting suggestions on how to perform additional analysis on the data provided by the Nobel Foundation. Some of the analysis, such as analysing author rank or only considering articles with multiple references, will only make sense for certain years of Nobel Prize awards. Finally, I can only recommend other scientists to further explore the data in the Scientific Background material to learn more about what makes a Nobel Laureate.
Evolving Document Patterns in UK Research Assessment Cycles Researcher behavior is shown to change under assessment. These changes are discussed in terms of consensus and influences on researcher concepts of the evidence of excellence. The increasing availability of citation data in the 1990s and the likely role of citation analysis as a steering factor are noted.
A bibliometric study of grey literature (2007-2019) This study highlights the research output in GL as published in the three sources of GL-Conference Series: Conference Proceedings, Grey Journal and Grey Literature in Library and Information Studies from 2007 to 2019. It is recommended that evidence-based research be undertaken to examine the relevance and use of GL and how it contributes to extending the frontiers of knowledge in different disciplines.
A cross-sectional analysis of self-reported scholarly publications among United States pharmacy practice faculty Scholarship is a fundamental responsibility of pharmacy practice faculty, and peer-reviewed publications are a common and reputable way of disseminating new information gathered through scholarship. Our study found a higher overall publication rate among pharmacy practice faculty compared to previous estimations. These data can help faculty and administrators set goals and measure productivity to maximize contributions to scholarly writing.
Topic modeling and technology forecasting for assessing the commercial viability of healthcare innovations Our results contribute to the understanding of promising healthcare technologies and help R&D managers to develop the knowledge they need to advocate technologies in support of commercial returns. Hence, this paper contributes to technology forecasting methodology and technology commercialization. Finally, we can extend our findings beyond healthcare ecosystems to other technological innovations that bear similar features (e.g., Daim and Brem, 2019).
Scholarly Publishing at a Crossroads: Scholarly Perspectives on Open Access Our finding that 71% of respondents had not made their work open access aligns with the finding of Gargouri et al. (2012) that a minority of articles are available open access and Rodriguez's (2014) finding that only 28.2% of faculty had published in an OA journal or repository.
Multi-criteria altmetric scores are likely to be redundant with respect to a subset of the underlying information Here it is proposed the following hypothesis: the scores that aggregate and combine different altmetric data provide little to no additional information, and that is because they essentially replicate the variable(s) on which excessive weight is placed. As far as the Altmetric Attention Score is concerned, the hypothesis is tested and confirmed on a number of articles published in Nature in 2018. Therefore, it comes to a question of whether it is worth our while to take into consideration such kind of metric.
Cross-national digital humanities research collaborations: structure, patterns and themes The analysis shows the international collaboration structure and patterns in DH research, including basic descriptive statistics of nations contributing to DH research in recent years, network structure and patterns of collaborations among nations, and research themes and topics of international collaboration community. These new and comprehensive perspectives facilitate a greater understanding of research collaborations in DH as a global phenomenon. The practical implications for the current study's findings favor efforts to create more collaborative work between nations involved in DH research; however, the physical and fiscal limitations of DH collaboration have already been expressed.
Mid-career field switches reduce gender disparities in academic publishing Thus, mid-career field changes within academia do not help to explain continuing gender disparities in publishing and other explanations must be sought. The results are positive for STEM and other fields lacking women in the sense that they can expect to be net gainers of female researchers from mid-career changes, at least in terms of academics that continue in the same career and continue to publish. Thus, there does not seem to be a universal problem for STEM-trained committed female academics to try to move into more female fields.
An empirical exploration of reviewers’ and editors’ roles fostering high quality research during peer review These results suggest both some strengths and weaknesses of how reviewers and editors are acting as gatekeepers and protecting the field from problematic research conduct.
Effects of Inferred Gender on Patterns of Co‐Authorship in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Publications While our results suggest that women are increasingly being represented in publications in EEB, the proportion of female authors remains well below the proportion of female PhD graduates in biology, including EEB in the United States; a problem given that advancement and retention within the academic job market is strongly dependent on publication numbers (Van Dijk et al. 2014).
Does international student mobility foster scientific collaboration? Evidence from a network analysis First, our analysis reveals that during the research period of 2001–2015, ISM and ISC networks have a high degree of spatial matching, which is reflected in the similarity of the positions of countries in these two networks.
Highly prestigious international academic awards and their impact on university rankings Highly prestigious international academic awards are too important to be ignored by university ranking systems, even if these awards have substantial overlap with other indicators used in the rankings, such as research output, citations, or reputation.
A validation of coauthorship credit models with empirical data from the contributions of PhD candidates The results are in agreement with those of Hagen (2010) and strengthen the case for replacing fractional counting with harmonic counting in scientometric research and evaluation.
The conditional nature of publication bias: a meta-regression analysis Our research suggests that re-analysis of previous meta-regressions of publication bias that do not distinguish between key and control variables could yield different conclusions and is thus necessary.
Gender Differences in Scientific Communication and Their Impact on Grant Funding Decisions Using a sample of Gates and NIH grant applications submitted by a common pool of US-based academic researchers, we find that despite significant institutional variation, there are consistent gender differences in scientific communication across a wide range of abstract text characteristics.
Establishing and promoting an institutional repository and research information management system Our work involved months of hard work, consistent outreach and collaboration with our stakeholders and a successful launch of the repository.
PMU101 METHODS FOR ANALYZING THE TYPE AND TIMING OF LIFE SCIENCE INDUSTRY-FUNDED PUBLICATIONS Publication strategy differed substantially between examples. Our PubMed search strategy successfully identified industry-sponsored research, and we intend to use the strategy to develop a larger sample of cases.
Better connected, more reputable? On the association between node centrality and academic reputation in the European Union research and innovation networks What the present study adds to the extant literature is that holding a central or key position in R&I networks is clearly associated with both academic reputation (as perceived by other academics and measured through the QS Ranking - Reputation) and scientific excellence (measured through the ARWU Ranking and one of its components, i.e., ARWU Citations).
Incentives to Open Access: Perspectives of Health Science Researchers Undoubtedly, the benefits of Open Access are widely known and accepted by medical researchers. However, the promotion of the model continues to pose legal and technical challenges that will have to be overcome.
COVID-19 publications: Database coverage, citations, readers, tweets, news, Facebook walls, Reddit posts The confirmed rapid increase in COVID-19 academic publications is encouraging in terms of the academic community rapidly reacting to the need for relevant research and commentaries. Dimensions seems to be the most comprehensive database to find relevant literature, although Google Scholar might have wider coverage and be useful to those that do not mind its false matches. The altmetric results suggest that altmetrics may be helpful for researchers needed to quickly identify the most useful new documents from the large number published daily.
Reconciliation Between Monetary Incentives and Motivation Crowding-Out: The Influence of Perceptions of Incentives on Research Performance This study offers partial evidence showing that in academic science, an autonomous workplace where scientists are highly intrinsically motivated, the effects of monetary incentives for publications may indeed differ depending on the perceptions of the incentives, as suggested by the motivation crowding theory.
Gender bias in patenting process It seems to be a characteristic of collaborative networks that the same gender inventors collaborate more affinity.
The Sustainable Development Goals in Scientific Literature: A Bibliometric Overview at the Meta-Level The existing thematic foci reveal current research gaps.
Development and Validation of Authorship Order Score (AOS) for Scientific Publication This 13-item scoring system provides a validated and practical guide for determining the order of authorship for scientific publications.
Science research regimes as architectures of knowledge in context: A ‘longue durée’ comparative historical sociology of structures and dynamics in science The specificity of each regime depends on the particular weaves between these dimensions. We argue that it is this dynamics that account for the birth, growth and change of scientific knowledge production across the centuries. Does our system with four dimensions organized in scientific regimes indeed still constitute a pertinent tool to describe the present development of scientific production? These are some of the questions that could open a new field of reflections.
Network-based indices of individual and collective advising impacts in mathematics We proposed a family of network-based advising impact metrics (a-indices) that are easy to calculate and interpret, as well as provided a flexible framework for quantifying advising impacts of individuals from different "eras" and stages of their academic careers, as well as collective advising impacts of countries and universities. This study shows the applicability of network-based techniques for these purposes. As one of the possible directions of future research, it could be of interest to look at "groups of influential advisors, for instance, using optimization-based techniques that identify “central" groups of nodes in a network [12].
Greater female first author citation advantages do not associate with reduced or reducing gender disparities in academia The results are broadly consistent with the absence of a systematic gender bias in citations and with this bias, if it exists, not being influential on the proportion of women in a field, at least at the level of citations per paper. Where women are in a smaller minority, their work does not seem to be less cited, and lower citation rates for women does not seem to lead to decreasing numbers of women in a field. Finally, taking into account the main findings and the above discussion of career citations, the main gender-related focus of scientometricians should be ensuring that career-level citation impact data, when used, is not biased against women.
Are disruption index indicators convergently valid? The comparison of several indicator variants with assessments by peers With the introduction of the new family of disruption indicators, the one-dimensional way of impact measurement may now give way to multi-dimensional approaches.
A theory of citations In the present paper, we studied a basic model of citation-driven research.
Design flaws and poor language: Two key reasons why manuscripts get rejected from <i>Austral Ecology</i> across all countries between 2017 and 2020 Across all studies that have been rejected by Austral Ecology, four key elements come out: design flaws, inappropriate focus, poorly written manuscripts and undersampled/under-analysed. Critical thought does need to go into the development of a research project, not just to avoid the difficulty in dealing with rejection, but also to reduce the amount of work hours and funding that can be essentially 'wasted' if the research is fundamentally flawed. This will give your manuscript a better chance of not only being accepted but also cited more (as more people will be likely to read your work and remember it).
The Internal Capability of Vietnam Social Sciences and Humanities: A Perspective from the 2008–2019 Dataset First, the internal research capacity in SSH fields in Vietnam has been increasing, as evidenced by a growing number of domestic lead authors and an expanding domestic research collaboration network. Second, even though the productivity and work quality of Vietnamese female researchers was undeniable, their participation in SSH research remained limited. Third, during the period, internationally collaborated research projects still dominated the scientific output of Vietnam's SSH; however, recent years have witnessed a strong rise in domestic authors and domestic networks.
U.S. News &amp; World Report Best Colleges rankings: Which institutional metrics contribute to sustained stratification? However, predicted graduation rate and peer assessment are highly subjective and speculative in nature, possibly contributing to the sustained stratification of U.S. News rankings.
All downhill from the PhD? The typical impact trajectory of U.S. academic careers The career-long decline in average citation impact per article for the United States overall is a key new finding, although it may be partly due to fewer self-citations to a researcher's last output (but coauthors may self-cite it).
Recency predicts bursts in the evolution of author citations We have studied the evolution of the citation dynamics of APS authors. We find a strong correlation between the numbers of citations accrued in nearby time intervals, confirming that recency is an important factor in the dynamics. Indeed, a model based on recency alone suffices to account for both the citation distribution and the burstiness of the dynamics, over eight decades of the system history.
Concentration of Danish research funding on individual researchers and research topics: Patterns and potential drivers Overall, the empirical examinations presented in this study document a strong concentration of Danish research funding allocated by 15 of the largest Danish funders.
A simple back-of-the-envelope test for self-citations using Google Scholar author profiles A simple test for strategic self-citations without self-citation information was proposed.
Longitudinal variation in national research publication portfolios: Steps required to index balance and evenness National patterns link to research capacity and regional networking opportunities whilst international collaboration may blend national differences. Appropriate indexing is therefore essential to support effective management and the background in and dataset provided with this paper will now enable others to perform similar analyses. This analysis confirms that it is essential to be aware of that part of research diversity (whether variety, disparity or balance) which is also part of the global research community and that part which is linked to national (or institutional) research policy and culture.
Rising expectations: Natural resources graduate student authorship of publications Current graduate students in natural resources are expected to publish at higher levels relative to historical levels of publication, which is a trend identified in other disciplines in academia (Barnard-Brak, Saxon, & Johnson, 2011).
How to avoid the ‘Jesus multiplying bread and fish’ myth and ‘Münchausen baron bootstrap’ legend in individual bibliometric indices: a simple bimedian method applied to Italian ASPA academic members The ASPA community exhibits a good scientific perform-ance with high values of the main bibliometric indicators, obviously greater for the older compared to the younger scientists, with a limited number of co-authors per paper and a low degree of self-citations. However, the bimedian method I proposed here, that can be also used with other pairs of medians than those reported in this letter and enriched with Q1 or Q3 thresholds to highlight areas of excellence, could be a useful tool to evaluate our ASPA academic members careers in the light of avoid the 'Jesus multiplying bread and fish' myth and 'Münchausen baron bootstrap' legend.
An Empirical Test of the Inter-Relationships between Various Bibliometric Creative Scholarship Indicators Based on these findings, we discuss the problems arising from the potential methodological overlap among indicators and we offer future directions for bibliometric explorations of the creative quality of scientific publications.
Busy academics share less: the impact of professional and family roles on academic withholding behaviour Our study offers new insights into how pressures from expanded academic role responsibilities and family pressures influence adherence to core academic norms.
Same same but different: self-citations identified through Scopus and Web of Science Core Collection This study has found different versions of self-citations in Scopus and Web of Science Core Collection which may confuse many users. Authoritative bibliographic databases should improve the quality of their own data, and remind users of the deficiencies and characteristics of their products. General users should be careful when using the tools provided by Scopus and Web of Science Core Collection to identify self-citations.
Big in the Big Ten: Highly Cited Works and Their Characteristics The data gathered indicates that the highly cited items from these schools show a strong preference for journals, a preference for commercial publishers, a preference for discipline-specific journals, a fairly strong representation from the sciences, and evidence of inter-school collaborations. The overlap between these institutions for these items points toward the value of multi-institution collaboration.
Allonymous science: the politics of placing and shifting credit in public-private nutrition research The social and epistemic organisation of science in industry is quite different, especially when it comes to the distribution of tasks and responsibilities across people.
Why are academics of science more productive than those of social science? Evidence from Indonesia Bearing all of these in mind, it is palpable that individual factors instead of institutional factors have more impacts on research and publication productivity.
Strategies for the use of open access institutional repositories at universities in Ghana This article proposed strategies for OAIRs at academic libraries in Ghana. However, attending to gaps in software provision, the up-skilling of staff, advocacy and marketing efforts as well as the implementation of policies, will enhance the use of OAIRs. Moreover, in this age of ICTs, access to full-text information resources should be readily available from OAIRs, if we as Africans are to meet the demands of the fourth industrial revolution.
Using collaboration networks to identify authorship dependence in meta‐analysis results In this work, we describe a simple method to detect and correct for the dependence of results in a meta-analysis on the research group of origin.
Quantitative science studies should be framed with middle-range theories and concepts from the social sciences We conclude that applying the sociology of professions framework to a broader set of countries would be worthwhile, allowing the emerging bibliometric profession to be charted in a comprehensive, and preferably quantitative, fashion. First, we conclude that it would be worthwhile to apply the middle-range sociology of professions framework to a broader set of countries. Second, we point out that insights into the emerging bibliometric profession should be combined with other important institutional factors, such as organizational autonomy in higher education systems. Third, we argue that many other sociological middle-range theories and concepts have potential for guiding empirical analyses in quantitative science studies.
Out of Africa: The underrepresentation of African authors in high-impact geoscience literature The African authors that are present on high-impact articles are highly cited and have prolific research profiles (Fig. 6), demonstrating that Africa has the capacity to produce high-impact research.
Information Sources in Environmental Science: A Citation Analysis of Master’s Theses at Florida Gulf Coast University The analysis revealed several insights about the information sources cited by graduate students in their master's theses in environmental science at FGCU. The most-cited formats in the study were journal articles, books, reports, conference proceedings, websites, theses and dissertations, unpublished materials, news articles, and other/miscellaneous sources, in that order. A wide range of classes were represented in cited journals, books, conference proceedings, theses, and dissertations, indicating the highly interdisciplinary nature of environmental science.
Perceptions regarding academic social networks for scholarly communications This study provided useful information regarding the use and perceptions of ASNs in the context of faculty members of Kuwaiti universities. This information is of interest to scholars, information providers and those who design such networks. Future research should expand the scope of this study to cover faculty members from other disciplines (e.g. science, engineering and medicine), while also including more universities from other countries in the Arabian Gulf region.
An Approach for Measuring Research Strength Map of an Institution From the results above we can see that articles in subject areas “Medicine”, “Engineering”, “Computer Science”, “Physics and Astronomy", and “Business, Management & Accounting" has dominated the research outputs of Universitas Indonesia.
Does the use of open, non-anonymous peer review in scholarly publishing introduce bias? Evidence from the F1000Research post-publication open peer review publishing model Thus, while immediate publishing of peer review reports appears to be unproblematic, caution may be needed when selecting same-country reviewers in open systems if other studies confirm these results. This study found a tendency for reviewers to be more likely to assign a positive review to authors based in the same country as them (16 out of 19 countries, with one small country set statistically significant after correcting for familywise error rates). In terms of whether the ability to view the report of one reviewer exerts an influence on subsequent reviewers, there was little evidence that this is the case.
A typology of scientific breakthroughs We conclude that earlier research in which breakthroughs were operationalized as highly cited scientific articles, may thus be biased against the latter.
An Overview of the Dynamics of Relative Research Performance in Central-Eastern Europe Using a Ranking-Based Analysis Derived from SCImago Data The importance of the findings lies in the possibility of replicating the methodology, adapting it to different spatial scales.
The current crisis of academia-led research: a threat to the common good? Preliminary data from Europe and the United States Our data, although preliminary, seem to suggest that, at present, academia risks losing its central role in the research field, while private companies are gaining prominence. This scenario deserves attention because of the threats it may pose to the independence of research and its role in supporting human equity and sustainable health for all. In this situation, the space for a free, independent debate among researchers, aimed to foster an equitable, sustainable world, risks to become increasingly limited.
Differences in author ranking: Development of SIGAPS scoring system for Japanese version Author ranking in the Japanese version largely differed from that of the French perspective. Point allocation for authors in the SIGAPS scoring system should be based on discussions with relevant stakeholders and according to the mindset of a country. The results of this study are preliminary, and it will be necessary to verify the results of this study by a large-scale study.
Visualizing the evolution and landscape of socio-economic impact research We identified and envision the landscape of socio-economic research and track how this international landscape has evolved.
Cities and countries in the global scientist mobility network The primary take-home message from this analysis is that scientist mobility has a strong spatial component and individual level career trajectories offer a window into this phenomenon.
Correlation between scientometrics and altmetrics score of scholarly literature of Medical Journal Armed Forces India The present study found a positive correlation between citations and altmetric score of the articles published in MJAFI. This study also found that the "Clinical Science" category published most of the publication with a good relative and field citation value. This signifies that articles published in MJAFI are getting favorable attention at both academic as well as social platform; however, the constant improvement and rigorous maintenance of standards is uttermost important by publishing high-quality evidence-based studies and its subsequent dissemination at both academic and non-academic platform, which might be beneficial to not only medical field but also well-being of entire human race.
What is there in the scoring and rating of journals? Although no ranking and scoring system can be 100% perfect and foolproof, yet the scoring systems are required to befair and objective in scoring the journals on various metrics and parameters.
Research Productivity Index (RPI): a new metric for measuring universities’ research productivity The RPI is an objective measurement tool as it is calculated based on a constant period of time, three years, and takes into consideration the university size by counting affiliated researchers in addition to the quality and quantity of research outcomes. RPI is unlike other existing metrics, which mainly include indicators for assessing impact, not productivity. We suggest that Scopus adopts this metric and displays the RPI score when a search by affiliation is made through the database.
Invention disclosures and the slowdown of scientific knowledge Our main finding is that the annual rate of technological advancement in new scientific knowledge, as measured here in terms of invention disclosures, has been declining, at least at NIST, during the new millennium.
A Provisional System to Evaluate Journal Publishers Based on Partnership Practices and Values Shared with Academic Institutions and Libraries Publishers, especially nonprofit publishers, could use the criteria to guide practices that align with mission-driven institutions. Institutions and libraries could use the system to identify publishers acting in good faith towards public institutions of HE.
Developing systematic search methods for the library literature: Methods and analysis This study has developed and analyzed a systematic search method for library and information science research. Findings indicate that multiple databases and supplemental search techniques are necessary to identify relevant research in LIS research due to differences in journal coverage, currency, and database indexing. This study will enable LIS researchers to apply a robust, evidence-based technique within their own systematic research methods.
Unwrap citation count, Altmetric Attention Score and Mendeley readership status of highly cited articles in the top-tier LIS journals In summary, using AAS and Mendeley readership to evaluate the impact of a publication have the following advantages: providing real-time reflection of a publication's impact via number of attention; providing transparent and traceable data; harvesting comprehensive data from multiple channels, including Twitter, Facebook, blog, news, etc.; representing a broad range of readers from public access to peers and researchers; and correlating with citation count in differing degrees. In addition, this study gives a snapshot of Mendeley readership profile for the most cited articles published in the top-tier LIS journals since 2013.
Differences in citation counts of radiology journals between citation databases In conclusion, WoS, Scopus and GS produce statistically significant differences in citation counts for the four highest impact radiology journals, with GS and Scopus demonstrating higher citation counts than WoS. Considering these differences, researchers, academic institutions and scientific journals should consider using all three citation sources to gauge the comprehensive impact of their scholarly work published in these journals.
Citational politics: Quantifying the influence of gender on citation in <i>Digital Scholarship in the Humanities</i> From our study of DSH/LLC, it is clear that the digital humanities community needs to pay greater attention to citation, both in terms of accuracy of content within citations and in terms of gender representation among citations. If we all encode the scholarly influences in our work through citational practices, our citations will more accurately reflect the shared values of community and collaboration of digital humanities.
Relationship of Altmetric Attention Score to Overall Citations and Downloads for Papers Published in JACC This study shows that, for papers published in the Journal, there was correlation between AAS and article downloads. Papers published in the Journal often receive social media attention. The AAS correlates with overall downloads of published papers, with Twitter engagement being one of the strongest individual parameters.
Civil Engineering Publications: A Case Study of Iranian Authors and Their Co-authorship Network The collaborative coefficient of all publications was 0.57, which shows a medium collaboration among Iranian authors. A comparison of national and international co-authorship shows that collaboration with Iranian partners was greater than with international partners; the co-authorship network at the national level shows more density and interconnection. It seems scientific communication in the field of civil engineering between Iranian universities and international universities and research institutes is not strong enough to form an ongoing collaboration effort resulting in international publication. The reasons, however, need further investigation.
Our Study is Published, But the Journey is Not Finished! "Ultimately, we need to find a way for researchers and their work to be assessed in a way that is fair and accurate, but not to be over-reliant on publication metrics."
Using the bootstrapping method to verify whether hospital physicians have different h-indexes regarding individual research achievement The x-index and the Kano models can complement the h-index for identifying group IRA characteristics. The bootstrapping method allows estimation of the sampling distribution for almost any statistic using random sampling methods and gains measures of accuracy (as defined by 95% CI). The finding of no difference in h-index for hospital physicians between departments in Internal Medicine and Surgery requires further investigation in the future.
A comparison of large-scale science models based on textual, direct citation and hybrid relatedness In this study we compared PubMed models created using seven different relatedness measures, two based on direct citation, one based on text, and four using text+citation hybrid measures.
A new algorithm for zero-modified models applied to citation counts This article introduces zero-modified distributions for citation count data, focussing on zero-modified hooked power law, discrete log-normal and Weibull distributions.
Bibliometric data based on the Pharm.D. and Ph.D. degree in United States research-intensive colleges of pharmacy Differences are apparent between the major doctoral degrees at research-intensive, federally funded colleges of pharmacy; however, these differences were primarily identified for Pharm.D.-only compared to the other doctoral degree types Future work should analyse the potential variables that explain the scholarly metrics differences between degrees and aim to analyse other areas of faculty impact beyond scholarly metrics.
Women as first authors in key pharmacy journals: Analysis by publication type Despite increases in research and reviews with women as first authors, there is still a need for increased representation of women in opinion-based publications such as editorials.
Citation re‐analysis of Australia‐trained optometrists: 10 years on As well as identifying the most highly cited Australia-trained optometrists, this analysis also highlights various caveats that come into play when considering citation metrics, such as taking into account papers with large authorships, as in the case of Pesudovs, and papers published in fields outside of the vision science domain that attract higher citation rates, as in the case of Vajdic and Efron. Not having recalculated m-ratios of all current Australia-trained optometrists (an onerous task beyond the scope of this Editorial), it is difficult to identify which individuals will rise up in these rankings, should a citation analysis be conducted again in 2030. However, I would confidently predict a more even gender balance in the future.
Value capture mechanisms in publicly funded research Our research offers a number of notable contributions. Most importantly, we show that value capture in publicly funded research requires efforts targeted at exploitation as well as exploration.
EM- and EM’-index Sequence: Construction and Application in Scientific Assessment of Scholars We conclude that the EM- and EM'-index sequence could be used as an alternative metrics to assess the impact of scholars. Finally, we can conclude that the excess citation of h-core and tail articles citations gives a fair contribution in the scientific assessment of scholars. The EM-index and EM'-index sequence values can provide a superior alternative – when compared to h-index sequence values – for assessing the scientific impact of scholars.
Funding sources and breast cancer research frame "The results of this study show that the focus unit of research is related to the source of funding."
Understanding Time-Evolving Citation Dynamics across Fields of Sciences As the Affinity Poisson Process incorporates the effects of subpopulation-level interactions on diffusion processes, it not only enables to predict the citation volumes of individual publications but also helps to reveal interdisciplinary citation dynamics across subfields of sciences, such as time-evolving latent affinity and novelty decay.
Money down the drain: predatory publishing in the COVID-19 era These findings may inform academic databases to exclude metadata from predatory journals (Beall 2016). Authors ought to remain cautious about requests from unfamiliar journals, especially when their formats raise alarms (Forero et al. 2018; Wilkinson et al. 2019). The academic community has the duty to respond to these deeply perverse practices, and thereby protect fellow researchers and combat misinformation.
Improving transparency and reproducibility of patent landscapes: the Reporting Items for Patent Landscapes (RIPL) statement and other considerations This article has highlighted that RIPL may be useful for a variety of stakeholders involved in patent landscaping and made suggestions for improving reproducibility and transparency beyond reporting quality in the report. New methods of analysis may become common and different features may be added to patent databases. As these developments occur, continued evaluation of the checklist will be required to deter-mine its effectiveness and ensure that it reflects best and current prac-tices.
Trends in Microbiology publications: are classic scientific journals condemned to extinction? In our view, this trend is damaging for Microbiology and its future development, because a consolidated and reliable source of knowledge may be lost. We think that the elimination of Impact Factor and other inappropriate metric indexes criteria for deciding research policies might help to turn round this unfortunate tendency.
Using network analysis to compare bibliographic database journal coverage "This article argues that researchers conducting literature reviews can increase the systematic rigor in search methods by separating literature searching into two general phases."
Tracing Long-Term Outcomes of Basic Research Using Citation Networks This initial attempt to interrogate a large network of documentary evidence, beginning with the results of basic research funded by NIGMS in 1980-1984, provided us with several interesting findings to be explored in more depth.
A new approach for estimating research impact: An application to French cancer research We argue that full engagement between scientific funders and the research community is needed if we are to expand the data infrastructure to enable a more scientific assessment of scientific investments.
Research Contribution of the Oldest Seat of Higher Learning in Pakistan: A Bibliometric Analysis of University of the Punjab PU leads peer universities in the number of research publications and citations.
How can citation impact in bibliometrics be normalized? A new approach combining citing-side normalization and citation percentiles The country results are similar to many other previously published results.
Expanding the actions of Open Government in higher education sector: From web transparency to Open Science Even so, this study shows that, despite different established policies, until now the level of Open Access policies implementation remains at medium levels in general terms.
Interdisciplinary phenomena and their regional differences in management science The conclusions are as follows: (1) the interdisciplinary intersection in the field of management science has the characteristics of small-world network and high degree of interdisciplinary intersection. (2) there are some differences in the degree of interdisciplinary in different regions, and the interdisciplinary in the southeast is more frequent than that in the northwest.
Who Pays? Comparing Cost Sharing Models for a Gold Open Access Publication Environment The most important result of this analysis is that the type of model that is applied to attribute costs for APC matters—not for all, but at least for some institutions.
Early career researchers’ perceptions of the benefits and challenges of sharing research with academic and non-academic end-users Possible implications for higher education providers arise from this study. Findings can be used to support ECRs' skills and knowledge development in sharing research with diverse audiences. Institutions need to acknowledge that while the benefits for external engagement are high, so are the potential risks (e.g., Haber et al., 2018), and provide support accordingly.
Disparities in document indexation in two databases (Scopus and Web of Science) among six subject domains, and the impact on journal-based metrics The greater indexing of documents in WoS than in Scopus in four fields of study may explain why the JIF of top-ranking LIS journals is different than their CiteScore.
Quality censoring in peer review The journal's standard introduces a limitation to the quality outcome of the peer review process, which we have called quality censoring in peer review.
Does open access to academic research help small, science-based companies? Results of this study show that OA research might be an efficient way used by small firms to overcome the barrier to knowledge transfer created by high journal subscription costs.
Purposes of peer review: A qualitative study of stakeholder expectations and perceptions This study provided an in-depth exploration into how stakeholders, including early-, mid-, and senior career scholars; reviewers; editors; and publishers, across academic disciplines perceive peer review and what they expect from it. One key finding of this study was that peer review serves a social function. As a final key finding, this study revealed an inter-relatedness between purposes of peer review.
Comparison of citations and attention of cover and non-cover papers Our analysis showed that cover papers can appropriately gain more citations and Altmetric scores than non-cover papers.
Reconciling conflicting themes of traditionality and innovation: an application of research networks using author affiliation Our paper provides a method to understand the nature of innovation (we term this adaptive innovation) that allows a canon of knowledge to not become extinct while ensuring continuity in content. In the specific context of herb-specific academic paper networks in Ayurveda, we find that a lower affiliation-based homophily is causally linked with higher publication ranking, as measured by the SCImago ranks of journals publishing these papers. A resultant effect is that these ties allow continuity in the content and structure of knowledge itself, despite an adaptation to modern publication standards.
Updated science-wide author databases of standardized citation indicators This extension allows the inclusion of more comprehensive samples of top-cited scientists for fields that have low citation densities and therefore would be less likely to be found in the top 100,000 when all scientific fields are examined together. Comparisons of citation metrics are more meaningful when done within the same subdiscipline. Of course, even within the same subdiscipline, different areas may still possess different citation densities, and assessing citation indicators always require caution.
Will the increase in publication volumes “dilute” prestigious journals’ impact factors? A trend analysis of the FT50 journals The results indicate that although to increase publication volumes is riskier than to stay put, it has a significantly higher probability of increasing the impact factors. If the increase of publication volumes is consistent and significant (but not too dramatic), a decrease of impact factors, or, “dilute” is unlikely. The results have some implications for top-tier journals which could cautiously consider increasing their publication volumes in order to better facilitate scholarly communication.
Initial bibliometric investigation of <scp>NIH</scp> mentored K to R transition Despite the limitations, our work makes a valuable contribution and points to the value of exploring the dynamic and network characteristics of MK awardees as they pursue research independence with cutting edge machine-learning approaches and we hope that others will join us in our endeavour to better understand the complex journey to research independence.
Article processing charge may be a barrier to publishing These articles highlight the challenges faced by authors and solutions for publishers and journals to avoid APCs.
National Lists of Scholarly Publication Channels: An Overview and Recommendations for Their Construction and Maintenance We conclude by presenting a list of recommendations for national publication channel lists based on our experience with scholarly publication channel lists in different countries as well as extensive discussion in the context of the COST-action ENRESSH (European Network of Research Evaluation in the Social Sciences and Humanities).
The Open-Access Availability of Criminological Research to Practitioners and Policy Makers Making journal articles open access is only one part of making criminological research more available and relevant to readers outside academia. Policies to incentivise authors to make research open access where possible are needed unlock the benefits of greater access to criminological research. The current lack of such practices in criminology goes some way to explaining why the discipline lags behind others in opening up access to research.
This is <scp>NOT</scp> spam!: An analysis of predatory publication invitations in library and information science Compared to Clemons et al.'s (2017) study, we identified a higher occurrence of questionable features of predatory invitation emails, including a higher percentage of flawed grammar, journals from unrelated disciplines, lack of information about the editor. Yet, those few journals with clever names that are similar to real journals (like the American Journal of Information Science and Technology and the Journal of Library and Information Science Education) complemented with professional-looking websites and published “articles” with names that seem appropriate for the journal's topic, could easily fool any researcher who feels pressured to "publish or perish."
Technology footprints in scientific discovery: Citation contexts of paper‐to‐patent citations The results showed that patents were more likely to be cited as part of background knowledge, as reflected by the high proportion of paper-to-patent citations found in the introduction sections.
Data to knowledge in action: A longitudinal analysis of <scp>GenBank</scp> metadata Our study makes a contribution in the area of science of science by highlighting the important role of data production in the diffusion of knowledge as measured by patents and suggests new avenues for future research.
Identifying citation growth patterns of the top scholars in <scp>I</scp>srael In this article we conducted a comparative analysis of characteristic citation growth patterns of 100 top impactful and 100 least impactful Israeli tenured profes-sors. Seven patterns have been detected based on the slope changes and timing in the citation trajectories of the scholars. This study provides a methodological basis for future research on predicting scholarly career success.
Correlation between references and citations in artificial intelligence: A preliminary study This preliminary study explores the relationship between the number of references and that of citations in three AI conference papers. Spearman's rank correlation tests show that an increasing number of references in a paper may be contributing to the increase in citations. We hope our work will provide a basis for predicting the number of citations of conference papers in the field of AI.
Does opening up peer review benefit science in terms of citations? We conclude that opening up peer review reports did not benefit papers in Nature Communications in terms of citations. Although the example of Nature Communications did not support the argument that opening up review reports benefits science in terms of citations, we still support OPR, as a part of open science, because it addresses the crisis of peer review to a certain extent. Future studies should focus on more OPR journals to generate more universal conclusions.
Drivers and Obstacles of Open Access Publishing. A Qualitative Investigation of Individual and Institutional Factors Taken together, the main findings of our study support previous research exploring the drivers and obstacles of Open Access publications, while fostering institutional frame conditions, the level of seniority and the geographical location of researchers as important analytical dimensions.
Are organizational and economic proximity driving factors of scientific collaboration? Evidence from Spanish universities, 2001–2010 Building on our results, we provide some policy implications.
The Scientific Impact Derived From the Disciplinary Profiles To our satisfaction, the impact ranking derived from the (dis)similarities between disciplinary profiles was free from anomalies that traditional citation indicators typically possess.
The Gender Productivity Gap in Croatian Science: Women Are Catching up with Males and Becoming Even Better At the largest Croatian University, applying the Mann-Whitney test, we demonstrate no gender difference in number of citations except for seven faculties, where males are significantly better than females on six faculties.
Bibliometric analysis of highly cited publications in health policy and Services A total of 1,927 highly cited articles were found in Web of Science category of health policy and services from 1967 to 2016. The US dominated the production by 80% of total highly cited articles. Based on the analysis of this study, we could find the most cited articles in this field are index developmental articles, and the SF-36 series articles are the most.
Keeping Science Costs in Check: A Cost per Use Review of Chemistry Journals This was a relatively easy review of the collection using cost per use, annual price increase, and usage statistics, with faculty input and ACS requirements as contributing factors. This review had the added benefit of improving collaboration with faculty, which resulted in an increase in the sciences librarian's connection to the department and an adjustment of the collection so that it better meets the instruction and research needs of the department, especially as these needs change with the addition of new faculty. In the future, it is anticipated that this review will be repeated for all of the departments starting with the sciences.
Regional and international research collaboration and citation impact in selected sub-Saharan African countries in the period 2000 to 2019 Research collaboration in sub-Saharan African countries has grown over time just as is the case in the rest of the world. The study affirms that different types of collaboration generate different levels of citation impact. International collaboration results in more citations, and therefore higher citation impacts than regional collaboration, with the North performing better than the South in terms of research productivity and impact in the five sub-Saharan African countries.
Predicting article citations using data of 100 top-cited publications in the journal Medicine since 2011 The breakthrough was made by developing dashboards showing the overall concept of the 100 top-cited articles using the Sankey diagram. MeSH terms can be used for predicting article citations. Analyzing the 100 top-cited articles could help future academic pursuits and applications in other academic disciplines.
Do journals and corporate sponsors back certain views in topics where disagreement prevails? In conclusion, the initial hypothesis about dedicated journals and sponsors was entirely substantiated at the general topical level and at the journal level of research disagreement, but not at sponsor level.
Gauging the quality of behavioral science journals by using bibliometric indicators The metrics of journal impact factor (JIF) have been considered the main indicator to compare with the metrics of other indicators namely ES, CS, SJR, SNIP and H5 index for the evaluation of 53 behavioral science journals. The indicator JIF v all the indicators show the linear correlation in term of metric of their ranks and values. Hence from the results, we agree with Leydesdorff [11] that the compatibility of indicators reflects that the researchers, academician from the field of behavioral science and information scientists can consult JIF, ES, CS, SJR, SNIP and H-index as an alternative to each other for the assessment of the journals.
Scholarly publishing experience of postgraduate students in Nigerian Universities "Based on its findings, the authors concluded that scholarly publication to the in Nigerian research students surveyed means the act of generating and assessing scholarly content, distributing it to the learned community, and conserving it for subsequent use, and writing and publishing academic novel ideas in scholarly communication outlets."
Is the quality of reviews reflected in editors' and authors' satisfaction with peer review? A cross‐sectional study in 12 journals across four research fields Our findings suggest that more constructive reviews may better guide the editorial decision-making process.
Scrutinising what Open Access Journals Mean for Global Inequalities The study and analysis conducted reinforces our concerns that Hybrid OA models are likely to perpetuate inequalities in knowledge production.
Arbitrage opportunities in publication and ghost authors If ghost authorship exchanges are to the benefit of researchers, administrators, and editors, then it may be difficult to find an effective gatekeeper. It is a conundrum that seems to be fundamental to bibliometric counting for the purpose of convenient research evaluation.
Examining association between cohesion and diversity in collaboration networks of pharmaceutical clinical trials with drug approvals Large pharmaceutical companies are more likely to collaborate with a wider range of actors from other specialties, especially smaller industry actors who are newcomers in clinical research, resulting in exclusive access to smaller actors. Future investigations are needed to show how concentrations of influence and resources might result in diminished gains in treatment development.
Systematics in the ALMA Proposal Review Rankings The results show that systematics are introduced primarily in the Stage 1 process and not the face-to-face discussion. While the origin of the trend in the ALMA proposal rankings with region is unclear, one speculation is that it can be attributed to differences in the proficiency in using the English language. In Cycle 7, ALMA took steps to reduce the impact of potential biases in the review process.
The Impact of Collaborative Research: A Case Study in a Developing Country This work has assessed the impact of collaborative research on an institution in a developing country.
Why Do Manuscripts Get Rejected? A Content Analysis of Rejection Reports from the Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine Common reasons for rejection included poor methodology and poorly written manuscripts.
A matter of time: publication dates in Web of Science Core Collection This study uncovers the black box that how Web of Science deals with different publication dates in retrieval and online analysis phases.
ResearchGate Altmetric scores and Scopus bibliometric indicators among lecturers As an appropriate context for disseminating and sharing scientific output, RG allows its users to interact in a dynamic environment. Researchers' contributions on the RG social network play a role in increasing their citation indicators in Scopus, like the citation number and the h-index. Providing more information on the advantages of using this network and the increased sharing of scientific output by researchers can improve the scientific placement of researchers and universities.
Like-for-like bibliometric substitutes for peer review: Advantages and limits of indicators calculated from the ep index These results indicate that in many research areas the substitution of a top percentile indicator for peer review is possible. However, this substitution cannot be made straightforwardly; more re-search is needed to establish the conditions of the bibliometric assessment.
Comparing Open Access Search Tools to Improve Interlibrary Loan Fulfillment Efficiency With just over one in four ILL requests in this study freely available online, it is worth devoting staff time to search for OA content. Google Scholar will be the easiest tool for ILL departments to integrate into a workflow for locating freely available articles.
The extent and drivers of gender imbalance in neuroscience reference lists We indeed find that neuroscience reference lists tend to include more papers with men as first and last author than would be expected if gender were not a factor. Importantly, this undercitation of women remains after accounting for relevant characteristics of papers and is driven largely by the citation practices of men. These results suggest that approximately two-thirds of the observed overcitation of men by other men remains after accounting for social networks, while women-led teams tend to cite at nearly proportional rates. Greater awareness of existing, persisting and even increasing imbalances in citation practices is an important step in heightening the willingness of researchers to address these issues. Addressing the identified imbalances will require researchers, particularly men, to make use of available resources and engage in more thoughtful citation practices. Efforts can also be made by journal editors and reviewers to inform authors of these issues and encourage transparency within manuscripts.
Intellectual Structure of Coronavirus Research: A Perspective From an Author Cocitation Analysis Four major dimensions of coronavirus research have been identified from an ACA of publications reporting research on coronavirus in all years: (I) outbreaks, (II) viral structure and function, (III) vaccine and therapeutics development, and (IV) coronaviruses in various animals.
How Frequently Are Articles in Predatory Open Access Journals Cited We conclude that articles published in predatory journals have little scientific impact. Overall we found few citations to predatory journal articles, even though we used a five-year window and Google Scholar, which typically finds more citations than Scopus and in particular Web of Science. More than half of the articles in our sample of predatory journals had no citations at all.
Bibliometric data as a tool for the analysis of the scientist’s mobility Using publications to collect bibliometric data (place, city or country of work) to analyze the migration of scientists is a good tool of data collecting.
Bibliometric analysis of a controversial paper on predatory publishing The authors are of the opinion that scholars and numerous media that cited the Pyne (2017) paper were unaware of its flawed findings. This research was conducted hopefully to bring awareness to future scholars that the study linking rewards to predatory publishing at a small business school in Canada has been challenged and that flaws have been detected in it.
Humanities: The Outlier of Research Assessments This main finding indicates that the humanities do not need new indicators for quantitative evaluation, but different approaches for assessment, such as bottom-up approaches.
Presenting a proposed framework for evaluating university websites This study provides a comprehensive proposed framework for evaluating university websites that eliminates the shortcomings of all models, frameworks and methods of university website evaluation that focused only on one or more dimensions of university websites.
Indian Doctoral Research in the Field of Library and Information Science: An Empirical Analysis The subject analysis of the theses and keyword analysis of titles of theses will assist the researchers to identify the active and more impactful areas of research.
Bridging the gap between invention and innovation: Increasing success rates in publicly and industry-funded clinical trials When inventions are translated into innovations, as is the case in clinical trials, there is likely a core skill set that researchers need in order to complete this transition successfully. The insights that can be drawn from this study could help practitioners and those involved in designing relevant public policy to improve the criteria for selecting investigators to conduct clinical trials. The distinction we draw between horizontal skills and vertical experience enables us to identify their direct effects on success and how they interact, as well as to uncover differences between publicly and industry-funded trials.
How academic researchers select collaborative research projects: a choice experiment Our analysis provides insights into the factors influencing collaboration choices. The results confirm earlier studies that have shown that university-industry collaboration is less common than collaborations with other researchers from universities or academic insti-tutes (Nature Index 2017). Finally, different organisational and institutional characteristics within the academic research system are not really associated with the likelihood of belonging to a group.
CiteScore: risk of copy-cat, fake and misleading metrics Ultimately, the only thing that will save the reputation of Elsevier's CiteScore—the true one—will be its fame and name brand, i.e., the association of CiteScore by global academia with the publisher Elsevier, as academics have done for decades with Clarivate Analytics' JIF, formerly Thomson Reuter's proprietary JBM (Teixeira da Silva 2013). Ultimately, openness and transparency about this JBM, as has already been called into question (Krauskopf 2020), will be important for CiteScore to become the metrics market leader, at least for JBMs, moving forward. Other academics might populate (with factual information) or pamper (for vanity purposes) their curriculum vitae with JBMs, including misleading metrics (Teixeira da Silva et al. 2020b), and in such cases, a mixture of metrics and alternative metrics (Piwowar and Priem 2013) might be one solution to diluting the impact of copy-cat, fake or otherwise misleading metrics.
Few self-citations among Chilean ecologists The 10% most-cited Chilean ecologists do not unduly rely on self-citations to increase their Researcher Pro-files. To the contrary, their publications have attracted citations from unrelated peers (institutionally speaking), likely because they are theoretically or empirically rele-vant.
Predatory journals enter biomedical databases through public funding US government agencies have been indirectly paying through their grants in excess of $3m to cover APCs for one single predatory publisher, OMICS, which gains access to PMC because federal funds are being used to pay for publication in their journals.
Thirty-Five Years of Peer-Reviewed Publishing by North American Economics PhDs: Quantity, Quality, and Beyond North American PhDs from North American universities produce an important share of peer-reviewed journal pub-lications; their share of publications in top economics journals is even larger than their share in all economics journals.
Buonocore research in adhesive dentistry : A remarkable sleeping paper Despite the fact that Buonocore is regarded today as the pioneer of adhesive dentistry, his landmark paper suffered from delayed recognition and became a Sleeping Paper. On the other hand, it was shown that Sleeping Paper papers can shed new light on various dimensions of knowledge diffusion.
Drawbacks to h-index, as a factor assessing the scientific impact and the scientific credit of a researcher In conclusion, I believe that in the current time, in which computer science and in-formation technology possess a striking potential to perform complicated analyses and fast-updating, researchers deserve a better ranking index.
Do women in science form more diverse research networks than men? An analysis of Spanish biomedical scientists From the perspective of biomedical scientists, our findings suggest that women are more likely to act as knowledge flow intermediaries between different types of actors, e.g., basic and clinical researchers. We would argue that women's propensity to build more diverse social capital not only increases the opportunities for knowledge recombination but also can reduce the barriers to women's career progress in the scientific community by enhancing their social legitimacy with peers and academic elites. Finally, future work linking brokerage position to innovation, could consider the gender aspects highlighted by the present study.
The scientific and technological interdisciplinary research of government research institutes: network analysis of the innovation cluster in South Korea Our study contributes to the current literature by suggesting the development patterns of IDR for various scientific disciplines that each research institutes represents in our data.
Computer Science in ASEAN: A Ten-Year Bibliometric Analysis (2009-2018) ASEAN countries are geographically and closely located near each other. Nevertheless, these countries do not share the same level of ICT development, hence creating a digital divide among them. Practically, the policymakers, as well as the ASEAN computer science scholars, are urged to focus on the exclusive author keywords in order to attract more citation counts, given that these topics were sparsely researched. Theoretically, this study has filled a research gap in a timely manner by comparing the research output of computer science over the latest decade among the ASEAN countries.
Real-time feedback query expansion technique for supporting scholarly search using citation network analysis We have presented a new RTFQE technique for retrieving relevant papers.
A cohort study of how faculty in LIS schools perceive and engage with open-access publishing Engagement with open-access publishing has increased among faculty in LIS schools between 2013 and 2018.
Cotton Fiber in Web of Science and Scopus: Mapping and Visualization of Research Topics and Publishing Patterns This study has evaluated cotton as associated with fiber-related topics using bibliometric methods of science mapping, visualizing several possible clusters of items.
Chemistry research in Europe: A publication analysis (2006-2016) This study shows the chemistry research outcome of the countries in the past decade. By means of research areas, Europe can be divided into five clusters, which have strong geographical and economic backgrounds. The observations in this study can be expanded by including other scientometric parameters such as impact factors of journals and subfields and author-based citation analysis [31], and explaining the local clusters.
Empowering open science with reflexive and spatialised indicators Finally, we compare the three methods and conclude that their complementarity can help go beyond simple statistics to better understand the epistemological evolution of a scientific community and the readership target of the journal. We believe that the open tools we develop in this context will contribute to the empowerment of authors within Open Science.
Citations Gone #Social: Examining the Effect of Altmetrics on Citations and Readership in Communication Research The data reported here indicate that the new metrics of dissemination, that is, altmetrics, are useful toward this end. The positive relationships among altmetrics and traditional citation metrics indicate that it does not hurt for scholars to access these new media venues for research purposes. This suggests that the more online presence that authors have, the more attention their work will get.
Incentivising international publications: institutional policymaking in Chinese higher education This study found that 84 out of 116 research-intensive universities in China actively promoted HSS international publications with incentive schemes.
Modeling the structure of recent philosophy For philosophy this approach discourages a metaphoric of universal divisions that run through the whole discipline, but encourages one that stresses a strong interconnectedness of many smaller and larger subfields.
The Effect of Service on Research Performance: A Study on Italian Academics in Management Overall, this study helps fill a gap in our knowledge of higher education system functioning, contributing to the comprehension of the interplay between the individual and organizational-level factors that account for research performance.
International Research Collaborations as Perceived by Top-Performing Scholars In this study, I show the complex perceptions of international research collaboration held by top-performing scholars, thus revealing the poignant need for a more nuanced understanding of the policies aimed at increas-ing international collaborations.
Hunting for points: the effects of research assessment on research practice In this paper, we have identified some of the implications of Danish research assessment, and research evaluation more broadly, for wide-ranging changes in research practice that go far beyond increasing numbers of publications in top journals.
Two hearts beating in a research centers' chest: how scholars in interdisciplinary research settings cope with monodisciplinary deep structures Our results suggest that dependencies from senior scholars with monodisciplinary research foci and the structure of academic career paths are the central factors that prevent scholars from conducting interdisciplinary research.
Application of bibliometrics in medicine: a historical bibliometrics analysis The trend of the literature production was positive. Medicine was in the forefront of knowledge development in bibliometrics. reference publication year spectroscopy proved to be an accurate method which was able to identify most of the historical roots.
A qualitative-quantitative study of science mapping by different algorithms: The Polish journals landscape The best results were obtained with the t-SNE algorithm.
Social dimension activates the usage and academic impact of Open Access publications in Andean countries: a structural modeling-based approach The application of PLS-SEM for modeling the information-seeking behavior, at the document level, highlights the positive evidence for the path social → usage → citation, but a negative and nonsignificant association between the social dimension and citation. In other words, this study provides compelling evi-dence for understanding the interaction between alt-metric indicators and the traditional measures of academic impact (i.e., citation in multidisciplinary databases).
A burden of knowledge creation in academic research: evidence from publication data Our results lend support to the existence of a burden of knowledge in economics. The quantity of knowledge that researchers process prior to their debut articles has increased sharply, they consequently contribute to research at a later age, and they develop various strategies to deal with the increasing quantity of knowledge. These strategies include refraining from changing between fields and distributing work within larger teams of co-authors.
High-income countries remain overrepresented in highly ranked public health journals: a descriptive analysis of research settings and authorship affiliations Our results demonstrate not only a significant underrepresentation of LMICs in research in the field of public health, but also a lower representation of non-English speaking and non-Western European countries.
Sex differences in the number of scientific publications and citations when attaining the rank of professor in Sweden We tested the hypothesis that when appointed to the rank of professor, females have higher publication merits than males, reflecting a sex bias favouring males at Swedish universities. The data falsified this hypothesis, in that none of the 12 comparisons (2 discipline clusters × 6 metrics based on WoS data) exhibited any significant effect in this direction. The present study can only conclude that no bias against females in attaining the rank of professor in relation to their publication metrics occurred for the years 2009–2014 in Sweden, and suggests that females have, on the contrary, been preferentially hired during this period.
Research productivity of Australian accounting academics We provide evidence of the publication data in A/A* journals over a nine-year period, 2010–2018, and provide a number of observations on Australian academic publication productivity.
Life course productivity model to analyze academic research issues: a longitudinal analysis at one Taiwanese university Our study confirms that age is a key factor shaping research productivity from a life-course perspective.
Funding Peyronie's disease: funding sources for primary research literature Most PD research is self-funded with only a small percentage from NIH or industry. Opportunities for grant applications and funding approval, both at the NIH and elsewhere, should be pursued.
Promoting Internationally Visible Researchers through Research Performance Policies: The Case of a Saudi University By understanding how different institutional actors made sense of the SU-RPP and responded to it, other universities can learn from SU and avoid the possible unintended consequences.
An overlooked key to excellence in research: a longitudinal cohort study on the association between the psycho-social work environment and research performance The results of this study are consistent with what previous international research has shown.
Renting Valuable Assets: Knowledge and Value Production in Academic Science First, findings underline how knowledge production is intertwined with valuation processes. The production of value is a social process that entails a set of actors, knowledge, and practices. Building on that observation, further empirical work is needed to demonstrate and unpack how such assetization processes influence the content of science.
Production profiles in Brazilian Science, with special attention to social sciences and humanities This is a first attempt to define where Brazilian university interacts with society. The methodology used needs to be discussed and improvements are necessary on the quality and usefulness of information collected. SSH areas show a different profile of interaction than the other areas, nevertheless the production is significant and has a high demand from outside the university.
Global trends assessment of environmental health degradation studies from 1990 to 2018 This analysis supported several important views about the patterns in global research and probabilistic relationship between EHD and AA between 1991 and 2018. The outcome of this study offered a systematically systemic view of AA's effect on EHD over the years. The study concluded that there is a global increase in environmental health degradation research; noticeable research outcomes are mostly witnessed in developed countries compared to the developing nations.
What large-scale publication and citation data tell us about international research collaboration in Europe: changing national patterns in global contexts In quantitative terms, Europe is clearly the global IRC leader.
The top-100 cited articles on biomarkers in the depression field: a bibliometric analysis According to this bibliometric study, research on depression has increased year by year, and we have come up with some influential journals, authors, countries and institutions. It is suggested that cooperation should be strengthened between developed countries and developing counties in the future. More research on biomarkers in the depression field may still mainly focus on major depression.
The influence of financial practice in developing mathematical probability Submitted for a special edition of Synthese, "Enabling mathematical cultures" The conclusions emphasise the distinction between pure and practical reasoning and that this should be mirrored in a distinction between the mathematics of physica and practica.
Do proceedings papers in science fields have higher impacts than those in the field of social science and humanities? We analyzed whether proceedings papers in science fields have higher impacts than those in SSH fields from the perspectives of scholarly and societal impacts.
Potential of European universities as Marie Curie grantee hosts The aim of this paper is to empirically investigate the potential of European universities as hosts for Marie Curie (MSCA) grantees.
An Overview of 25 Years of European Scientific Collaboration in the Field of Strategic Management: A Bibliometric Analysis Our study offers a number of research findings that may be useful for future research opportunities in the field of strategic management.
On the identification and analysis of citation pattern irregularities among journals Summarizing, in this paper we do an in-depth feature analysis which can help in a future study to early detect possible cases of anomalies. Finally, individual features can be controlled rather than blacklisting of a journal. In future work, we aim to propose a multilayered model using diverse feature sets, which can be used to detect such anomalous instances early.
Apparel Design Scholarship Practices: Analysis of ITAA Professionals' Design Abstract Proceedings From 1999 to 2017 The study findings provide an awareness for the strong need to establish citation practices for design scholars, which will add to the body of knowledge in clothing and textiles and increase the impact of design scholarship beyond the discipline.
The post-Soviet publication landscape for higher education research While planning this study, we were inspired by the idea of a better understanding of higher education research in the post-Soviet region. The main lesson we learned was that there is no "region" in the sense of a community of scholars bonded by communication ties. Our study contributes to an understanding of higher education research as a field.
Topic extraction to provide an overview of research activities: The case of the high-temperature superconductor and simulation and modelling Although the method used in this article is simple, important topics were extracted, and the relations with the original articles are clear, which can lead to further investigation of the extracted topics.
Which are the influential publications in the Web of Science subject categories over a long period of time? CRExplorer software used for big-data analyses in bibliometrics <SUP>*</SUP> An analyst of the results should keep in mind that the identification of landmark papers depends on the used methods and data. Small differences in methods and/or data may lead to other results.
Partitioning highly, medium and lowly cited publications This work proposes a novel approach to partitioning publications with different citation counts based on their citation distributions. The biggest advantage of the proposed method is that we determine the thresholds (xmin and Xmax) purely based on the citation distributions instead of manually. Meanwhile, more advanced statistical indicators might be considered for fitting the power-law or log-normal distributions in this process more accurately.
Academic (dis)qualifications of Turkish rectors: their career paths, H-index, and the number of articles and citations In conclusion, it can be argued that the level of institutional isomorphism increases at the universities managed by rectors with low-level academic qualifications.
Leaders among the leaders in Economics: a network analysis of the Nobel Prize laureates Finally, the laureates Deaton, Tirole, Arrow, and Stiglitz are identified as leaders according to the total production (NIF) of their respective networks.
Citation cascade and the evolution of topic relevance Our methods and findings can serve as a new tool for scientific evaluation and the modeling of scientific history.
OM Research: Leading Authors and Institutions Finally, as our findings show, top ranked authors have displayed a lower propensity to collaborate with practitioners in the authorship of research than that displayed by the overall set of all authors who have published in these journals.
Applied bibliometrics and information visualization for decision-making processes in higher education institutions This paper provides evidence that a bibliometric approach in conjunction with data visualization can be a valuable complement to in-depth literature reviews for the decision-making process.
Influence of the international collaboration in the field of metric studies of science and technology: the case of Mexico (1971-2018) Our conclusion indicates thus that international collaboration has little influence in the Mexican research in the field of metric studies a fact that it is not shared by other areas of knowledge in Mexico.
The prestige economy of higher education journals: a quantitative approach The unprecedented growth of higher education research in elite journals and core journals can be explained by several factors.
Research productivity of sociology PhD candidates at interdisciplinary schools of social science at elite Australian universities, 2013-17: A gender perspective We are confirming that, in this cohort of contemporary PhD sociology completions in Australia, women and men publish at similar rates during their candidacy. Results presented from Table 1 onwards suggest a stable disciplinary gender composition in Australia consistent with the trend across several decades rather than recent feminisation. This study opens up the contemporary importance of well-documented gendered differences in PhD study (e.g. Dever et al., 2008).
A topic analysis method based on a three-dimensional strategic diagram This study enriches topic analysis metho-dology in the field of bibliometrics, and the proposed model is reasonable in principle and flexible in practice.
Pharmacology and Pharmacy: research and innovation analysis Leadership in the discipline of Pharmacology and Pharmacy is neither determined by their highly productive institutions nor the impact generated by them. The analysis of the innovative and scientific activity of this discipline has shown that the most outstanding institutions at international level are profiled in only one of these activities and very few manage to carry out both in parallel. The current study proposes a more integral analysis of the metric indicators; where leadership is not considered with respect to the high values of each individual indicator, but in the high correlation that must exist between them.
Research networks on the access of drinking water in Mexico City (2004-2018) Finally, we may conclude that our findings indicate that there is a positive trend in the production and impact of the scholars active in this area of research, but a stronger effort is required in the prospects of possible solutions to this problem in the CDMX.
Research thematic and emerging trends of contextual cues: a bibliometrics and visualization approach First, this study narrows the gap with the theory and practice of implementation intentions and fills the research gap of contextual cues and implementation intentions.
Twenty-six years of LIS research focus and hot spots, 1990-2016: A co-word analysis The results of this study showed that in spite of the high frequency of the word 'library' in LIS literature, the pivotal role of the word has diminished over time in terms of its centrality score.
An alarming retraction rate for scientific publications on Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) "We observed an alarmingly high rate of retraction associated with COVID-19 publications, which may be due to a rush by researchers to submit papers for publications and the ease by which some of these are expedited for publication."
Thirty Six Years of Information Systems Management: A Bibliometric and Thematic Analysis This paper examined the focus of Information Systems Management over the past 36 years.
Is authorship sufficient for today's collaborative research? A call for contributor roles Adding contribution information to research objects has the potential to inspire innovation to help catalyze improved workflows in scholarly communication. More precise information on a researcher's contributions to outputs allows the precise, standardized human-readable and machine-operable expressions of researchers' contributions to be better represented, allowing for a more compre- hensive and transparent view of what roles and actions power research forward (Allen, O'Connell, and Kiermer 2019).
On being reviewed: from ghosts that haunt in isolation toward connection and unexpected agency "We argue that this connection relies on relationality, context and dialogue to support human flourishing."
Sentiment analysis of tweets through Altmetrics: A machine learning approach We have presented an annotated dataset for tweet sentiment classification using an Altmetrics dataset. Furthermore, we have tested the existing sentiment analysis tools and standard machine learning algorithms on an Altmetrics dataset. In the future, an interesting research direction could be sarcasm detection in Altmetrics tweets since many use positive words, although the context of the original tweet is negative, and vice versa.
Race, gender, and scholarly impact: Disparities for women and faculty of color in clinical psychology These findings, along with under-representation of non-White faculty across levels (11.2%) and women at the full professor level (42.8%), suggest disparities in academic clinical psychology that must be addressed.
Gender Patterns of Publication in Top Sociological Journals These prestigious journals seemed to especially favor men and their exclusive coauthorship ties: close to 60 percent of articles in both journals have been authored exclusively by male authors, alone or in male teams.
Authorship and justice: Credit and responsibility I have argued that the ICMJE proposal for assigning credit and responsibility for scientific research is unjust by the standards of consequentialism, deontology, and my own, common sense standards.
Error publication (published erratum) in neurosurgical journals worldwide using PubMed during the last 30 years Unlike other specialties, errors are infrequently observed in neurosurgical journals and mostly without altering the interpreta- tion of study findings.
Exploring the topic structure and evolution of associations in information behavior research through co-word analysis The findings supplement and provide refinements to work on the state of this field, and help researchers obtain an overview of the past decade to guide their future work.
Scientific globalism during a global crisis: research collaboration and open access publications on COVID-19 Although geopolitical tensions are ongoing, the extent of scientific globalism is generally higher in times of a global crisis and on the global crisis issue. The same analyses also showed that the higher the GDP, the lower the odds of international collaboration and open-access publishing during a global crisis. The next step for the current study will be a more focused examination among the leading international collaborators, the USA and China, as geopolitical tensions are increasing.
Individuation through infrastructure:Get Full Text Research, data extraction and the academic publishing oligopoly Much like the single sign-on universes of Google, Facebook and Amazon, commercial scholarly communication is rapidly moving to an era in which the individual user, rather than the published content, is positioned as the focal point of the publishing industry. The seemingly small infrastructural intervention of Get Full Text Research is indicative of a broader trend to individuate researchers in order to keep them within the walled gardens of the academic publishing oligopoly, thus preventing them from accessing research in other ways (illicit and otherwise). The ability of publishers to design systems to promote data colonialism is largely down to the fact that universities have ceded control of scholarly communication infrastructures to private, for-profit companies, through a process of marketisation that was to hasten in the 1980s and culminate in the system that exists today.
Exploring research trends and network characteristics in construction automation and robotics based on keyword network analysis This study investigated the structure of keyword networks as well as major issues and relationships in the field of construction automation and robotics research. For identifying the existing trends and relational patterns in a vast field, the methodology used in this study can effectively help gain meaningful information at various levels and perspectives based on quantitative indicators. Consequently, the results of this study can provide not only useful insights through which to better understand the knowledge structure and research trends, but also information on likely future directions of R&D in the field of construction automation and robotics.
Transdisciplinary knowledge production in mainstream journals: from the perspective of the participation of social actors in Mexico "The present study allows us to conclude, based on the theoretical framework, the background and the results obtained, that reliable empirical evidence has been presented regarding the participation of a large group of social actors that contribute to Mexican scientific production, which although it still has a low turnout, in previous studies we have been able to identify an increasing trend of the scientific production of these actors, for about a couple of decades, even though they still have a low turnout."
The emergence of the higher education research field (1976-2018): preferential attachment, smallworldness and fragmentation in its collaboration networks We conclude the paper by discussing possible explanations and by offering some suggestions for future research. We believe, for example, that the higher education research field would benefit from more informal opportunities for researchers to connect with each other. Dedicated programs could encourage collaborations between established scholars and newcomers.
On the evolution of library and information science doctoral dissertation topics in China Based on the analysis and mapping of the evolution of the dissertation research topics found in China's LIS doctoral dissertations, we find that there is no obvious change in LIS dissertation research topics in China, as the investigation was conducted on all three LIS majors: Library Science, Information Science and Archival Studies. This study does not confirm the findings of previous studies which show a radical change in that 'information science' has replaced 'library science' as the most prevalent dissertation topic, and there has been a shift towards interdisciplinary dissertation research in North America. This difference, as well as the reasons for it, should be explored by future studies. Future research should retrieve a full data set and apply the same classification scheme as previous studies to make further investigations.
Openness trends in Brazilian citation data: factors related to the use of DOIs The use of DOIs in cited references is a crucial factor in finding a match between the citation and the cited article, which can be of great value for citation indexes. The factors of influence revealed that there is a more pronounced tendency to use DOIs in the cited references to the hard sciences, but we even observed a clear heterogeneity among them (which confirms our first hypothesis). In light of this, studies on the availability and usability of DOIs can assist in the greater use of DOI in the flow of scientific information in the digital era and ensure greater consistency when conducting bibliometric analysis.
Making science international: Chilean journals and communities in the world of science Our analysis suggests that internationalization is not synonymous with the gradual extension of scholarly communities and their predominant socio-geographical imaginaries. Nor is it synonymous with the formation of one worldwide scientific community with a shared set of normative and cognitive presuppositions.
Does the geographical mobility of scientists shape their collaboration network? A panel approach of chemists' careers Encouraging permanent/job-to-job mobility to expand the network of co-authorship seems counterproductive for two reasons. Therefore, short-term mobility should be encouraged because it seems so much powerful to create linkage between scientists.
Characteristics of the Most Productive US Sociology Faculty and Departments: Institution Type, Gender, and Journal Concentration Not surprisingly, the most productive faculty are especially likely to be found at the major research universities. Nonetheless, individual faculty at other institutions (including teach-ing-focused undergraduate colleges) sometimes have publication counts just as high as those of typical TopR faculty. This finding supports the idea that many women who meet the research standards of the TopR institutions are instead working at other types of colleges and universities.
Open access availability of anatomy papers presented at meetings of the American and British Associations of Clinical Anatomists The average OA publication rate of 20.0% in anatomical research arising from these conferences is significantly lower than the average rate for scientific research.
Exploring direct citations between citing publications This article demonstrates the scope of DCCPs by constructing an ego-centred citation network for each paper.
The production economics of the economics production We find economics journals to be a good subject for studying the economics of economics. The model predicts that journals will produce longer journal issues, longer articles, and more articles, but as a net effect, the page share of an average article in a journal shrinks over time. This prediction receives support from the data. Using real economists to replace the objectified “expertise” in our model will be a fruitful direction for future research because authors in the journal data can be linked to voluminous online vitae.
Do new research issues attract more citations? A comparison between 25 Scopus subject categories The procedure introduced here has been shown to be capable of identifying new issues for a field from large collections of its journal articles (at least 5 years).
Being highly prolific in academic science: characteristics of individuals and their departments "Being prolific is a distinction that underlies depictions of “superstar” (Klavans and Boyack 2011), “eminent” (Kwiek 2016), and “elite” scientists (Parker et al. 2013)."
What is a scientific article? A principal-agent explanation The article is a unit of work in science. Here, I propose that it is the unit in a piece-rate scheme of exchange within the Mertonian reward system of science and, at the same time, as a device of the communication system of science. This explanation attempts to balance the communication system with the imperatives of the reward system; rather than contradicting the discussed explanations, it extends them.
A bibliometric analysis and visualization of theJournal of Documentation: 1945-2018 The results of this study can be beneficial to JDoc editorial team for decision making on its further development as well as helpful for researchers and practitioners interesting in LIS field to have better contact with and contributions to the journal. After more than 70 years, the journal has found its way of developing and influencing the field.
Terminological (di) Similarities between Information Management and Knowledge Management: a Term Co-Occurrence Analysis These results would help to (re) define curricular contents of LIS programs as well as research and practical activities conducted by academicians and managers.
Twenty-five years ofGender, Work and Organization: A bibliometric analysis The study provides a bibliometric overview of GWO's evolution between 1994 and 2018.
Does the quality of the presentation influence the outcome of a submitted manuscript? A plea for including "How to submit" in medical education Teaching how to submit a manuscript should be included in medical education. Our results from the study of 1200 consecutive submissions have shown that a well-presented manuscript has more chances to be accepted than a submission that does not fit the rules of the journal and that a wrong presentation is more frequently associated with a rejection.
An analysis of the academic capacity of anaesthesia in the UK by publication trends and academic units The details presented in this paper need to be refined by nationally-led data collection, as a comprehensive 'capacity map' of academic anaesthesia.
Collective and individual interdisciplinarity in a sustainability research group: A social network analysis Our results rejected the hypothesis: Researchers with high individual interdisciplinarity had fewer interdisciplinary interactions than others.
Research status and collaboration analysis based on big data mining: an empirical study of Alzheimer's disease This paper presents a systematic empirical analysis to (1) understand and monitor the technological development trends, (2) analyses the cooperation network more comprehensively and objectively, and (3) aims to facilitate more support for cooperation innovation.
Scientific misconduct and associated factors: A survey of researchers in three Chinese tertiary hospitals We recommend that the Chinese policy makers and hospitals pay more attention to increasing perceptions of scientific integrity, establish a more scientific evaluation system for promotion, and improve the auditing and surveillance of research.
The Chinese scientific publication system: Specific features, specific challenges Our overview of the Chinese scientific publication system iden-tifies how its peculiarities and complexity generate some specific challenges to improve journal quality, in particular in the context of new research evaluation policies as well as open science trends. From the initiatives China has taken, it tries to develop its own platform and local infrastructure in scientific communication, which the strategic intent not to give away its local knowledge control to international publishers.
Science, technology, security: Towards critical collaboration Security is a hard case, as it is concerned with questions of who is allowed to define threats to a social order, how, and in what contexts. Critical forms of socio-technical collaboration, as we have put forward here, can be seen as viable ways to open deliberative and constructive spaces for more inclusive framings of policy problems and solutions around the interplays of science, technology, and security. That is all the more reason that this is a vital and fruitful area of development in theory and practice for STS.
Bibliometrics in Academic Recruitment: A Screening Tool Rather than a Game Changer In the study, we display stable and discipline-dependent evaluation cultures where metrics foremost were applied as a screening tool to limit the number of eligible candidates rather than replacements of traditional peer review.
Comparing scientific productivity using Scopus and Web of Science (WoS): a case of Indian R&D laboratories Measuring productivity of R&D is a strategic initiative towards continuous monitoring.
Growing with collaboration: footprint of WISE Lab Our life-time analysis revealed that the research results of WISE Lab have great vitality, particularly for the highly cited papers for which the maturing and decline process of citations is much slower than that of the mainstream papers, as well as it is much slower than that of general scientific domains like related social science domain, indicating their important impact.
Top 100 most-cited papers in core dental public health journals: bibliometric analysis Top 100 most-cited papers in core DPH journals were predominantly observational studies from Anglo-Saxon countries.
Crypto access: Is it possible to use cryptocurrencies in scholarly periodicals? Major challenges impeding the integration of crypto assets into scientific periodicals were identified. The main obstacles in the process were the lack of understanding by the users of the main advantages of crypto assets, the complicated method of token deposit/withdrawal from the system, and unwillingness of professional scientists to pay for subscription. We proposed a crypto assets allocation model that can work with any token or cryptocurrency in both subscription journals and in different types of OA. Further improvements of this model will allow creating a more transparent mechanism of journals' revenue allocation.
Systematic mapping of disaster risk management research and the role of innovative technology Globally, disaster management has gone through the transpo-sition of criteria from static to a proactive approach based on technology in managing multiple disasters including natural and anthropogenic disasters.
How many scientists does it take to write a COVID-19 case report? Our analysis did not reveal any difference between the number of COVID-19 case reports' authors and the number of other infectious disease case reports' authors. We conclude that COVID-19 case reports reflect the modern trend of authorship proliferation with two-page case reports being authored from >15 scientists. And we do not yet know how many scientists would it take to screw in a light bulb.
Comprehensive world university ranking based on ranking aggregation Our comprehensive world university ranking will provide a reliable and efficient ref-erence for candidates and their parents, university administrators and human resources departments.
Analyzing Promising Researchers Using Network Centralities of Co-authorship Networks from Academic Literature We expect that the proposed use of the betweenness centrality measure can be applied effectively to extract promising young researchers.
Google Scholar, Microsoft Academic, Scopus, Dimensions, Web of Science, and OpenCitations' COCI: a multidisciplinary comparison of coverage via citations The results show that Google Scholar is still the most comprehensive data source among the six studied here.
University learning with anti-plagiarism systems In this study, a student-targeted anti-plagiarism architecture was proposed.
Publication records of Australian accounting and finance faculty promoted to full professor, set within an international context Based on median levels, professors required 15 papers in ABDC-listed journals, with seven at the highest A*/A quality levels for promotion. Promotees were typically 44 years old, with 14 years' academic experience including 9 years post-PhD. Finally, the results are consistent with the suggestion that co-authorship is not greatly ‘penalised' by promotion panels.
A comparative analysis of textile schools by journal publications listed in Web of Science<SUP>TM</SUP> While these bibliometric measures provide some insights of the trends of the research activities and influences of textile schools in the world, they should be interpreted with caution as the quality of research contributions in terms of originality, scientific rigor and societal impact may not be reflected by the publication counts and the cites they receive. Recognizing the limitations of the current study, it is recommended that the textile educational and professional community should consider a comprehensive benchmarking in order to promote the professionalism of the textile discipline.
Understanding and predicting future research impact at different career stages-A social network perspective Our findings have implications for individual researchers to strategically plan and promote their careers and for research institutions to better evaluate current as well as prospective employees.
An analysis of revising article processing charges for open access journals between 2018 and 2020 These findings indicate that the strategies for revising APCs differ between BMC and Hindawi.
The measurement of "interdisciplinarity" and "synergy" in scientific andextra-scientificcollaborations The operationalization of the two concepts—“interdisciplinarity" and "synergy"-as different and partly overlapping indicators allows for distinguishing between the effects and the effectiveness of science-policy interventions in research priorities.
I'll Read That!: What Title Elements Attract Readers to an Article? We hope our results aid in the instruction of writing in the discipline, and that undergraduate psychology students and authors alike can develop more effective and attractive titles to attract attention from scholars and invite broader audiences to read their work. Our study, in conjunction with past studies, suggests that longer titles are preferred and cover more material than short and to-the-point titles. Further, the use of positive title attributes uncovered here (long titles, titles that use a colon, titles ending in question marks, and titles with acronyms spelled out) can and should be presented to undergraduate psychology classes so they can begin making more effective and attractive titles themselves.
Coronavirus disease-19 in environmental fields: a bibliometric and visualization mapping analysis The conducting of global bibliometric analysis on COVID-19-related research activities in environmental sources was the primary issue of the present work. Various bibliometric indices (i.e., quantitative and qualitative ones) that are in relation to the performance of countries, sources, authors, institutions, etc., have been revealed, analyzed, and evaluated. The developments in environmental research on COVID-19 will guide efforts of promoting global environmental strategies to control the different global environmental risks (i.e., air pollution, climate change, and environmental degradation) in the future.
The transition ofARVOjournals to open access ARVO journals have successfully made the transition to gold open access.
Publication activity in the field of Sjogren's syndrome: a ten-year web of science based analysis The results of this study demonstrated a remarkable growth in global research productivity on Sjögren's syndrome between 2010 and 2019. More than three quarters of the articles were from high-income countries. When population and gross domestic product were considered, relatively small European countries came to the fore.
Faculty research productivity: differences between foreign and local doctoral degree holders in Pakistan The study found that FDDHs had published statistically significant research articles in journals with impact factors, published more research articles with international colleagues, and presented more papers at scholarly conferences outside the country than their LDDH counterparts. The findings suggested that FDDHs were relatively more internationalized in their research activities, their propensity towards quality papers, and their contribution to the visibility of produced knowledge at international level was significant. To increase faculty research productivity in HEIs throughout Pakistan, the government, HEC, and universities should work together for formulation of research-oriented policies, providing sufficient support for faculty members in terms of professional development and resources, better research funding facilities, forming national and international research collaboration and networking, establishing a conducive working environment for all researchers, balancing the time for research, teaching, and service, and designing proper reward and monetary incentive systems to the preferences and concerns of the faculty members.
The relationship and incidence of three editorial notices inPubPeer: Errata, expressions of concern, and retractions This descriptive analysis on the characteristics and distribution of errata, expressions of concern, and retractions in PubPeer has allowed us to draw several conclusions. The first is that the relationship between these editorial notices is scant. The results suggest that PubPeer could be an interesting source to study editorial notices, although they should be interpreted in the scope of a post peer review site.
Researchers' article sharing through institutional repositories and ResearchGate: A comparison study Through this study, we identified various social factors (i.e. perceived community benefit, subjective norm, and perceived reciprocity) and individual motivation factors (i.e. perceived career benefit, perceived career risk, and perceived ease of use) that affected researchers' intentions to share their works on IRs and on ResearchGate. We also identified how the impacts of these factors differ between IR and ResearchGate users' and their intentions to share articles on the two platforms. The results of this research suggest for academic libraries that it is more useful to encourage positive aspects of article sharing through IRs such as community benefit, reciprocity, career benefit, and ease of use.
Scientific Trends, Characterization, and Future Directions of Regional Development Research Based on a Bibliometric Analysis The study showed that RD research has demonstrated stable growth over the years. Therefore, in future research, social needs leader-ship—which insists on systematic thinking and collabo-rative problem research—should be studied. Despite the limitations due to the scope of the retrieved materials, the find-ings of this article can still provide researchers— young researchers in particular with an overview of the evolution of RD research based on the SCI-E and SSCI databases, which cover a wide range of subjects and contain core global journals.
Relationship between European postgraduate programme accreditation and national research output: The case of theNetwork of Erasmus-Based European Orthodontic Postgraduate Programmes(NEBEOP) in orthodontics. A bibliometric study A positive association was found between number of NEBEOP programmes and national research activity.
An analysis of retractions in neurosurgery and allied clinical and basic science specialties The major reasons for retraction in neurosurgery and allied specialties were plagiarism, duplication of articles, and compromised peer review.
How to Determine the Order of Authorship for Social Work Research The purpose of this research report is to inform social work educators and researchers of publication ethics in coauthorship. The proposed checklist serves as an example to encourage further studies on coauthorship. Further research is needed to justify its application in initiating a conversation about coauthorship. Operational guidelines should also be developed to prevent biases in reporting effort contributions.
Research interdisciplinarity: STEM versus non-STEM Research interdisciplinarity is a multifaceted issue, and the level of emphasis on interdisciplinarity between STEM and non-STEM disciplines varies considerably. In this article, the network-based visualisation reveals the heterogeneous ways interdisciplinarity is pursued by researchers across STEM and non-STEM disciplines when seeking funding. Overall, this article provides some useful information that may assist policymakers in making future guidelines for distributing the available research funding.
Do open access journal articles experience a citation advantage? Results and methodological reflections of an application of multiple measures to an analysis by WoS subject areas Our results lead us to conclude that access status accounts for little of the variability in the number of citations an article accumulates.
How hot are hot papers? The issue of prolificacy and self-citation stacking The present findings suggest that self-citation does pose a problem as hot papers are analyzed and identified by Clarivate Analytics based on a bimonthly citation window.
Authors'noninstitutionalemails and their correlation with retraction The above numbers may lead us to believe that retracted articles are more likely to use noninstitutional emails. However, it is difficult to generalize or to make a clear conclusion, because various scenarios may provide various results. This study leads to some questions beyond the scope of itself.
Visual exploration of scientific literature to formulate research policy: a case of GIS scholarly communication in Pakistan during 2000-2019 We explored the evolution of institutional and cross-institutional collaborations in GIS research in Pakistan based on authors' affiliations from articles published between 2000 and 2019.
Innovation adoption: Broadcasting versus virality This article proposes a method of building an innovation diffusion tree based on scientific collaboration and explore broadcasting channel and virality channel of innovation diffusion from three aspects: scale, depth, and speed. This research also faces some limitations. In the future, we will continue to explore innovation adoption through the diffusion process of scientific innovation.
The financial market of ideas: A theory of academic social media The emergence of academic social media and other platforms for scholarly communication extends processes of calculability of knowledge, potentially broadening the audit culture that is now predominant in universities across the globe. In fact, new logics have been incorporated, which I have summarized through a new metaphor, the financial market of ideas. This has consequences for the production and valuation of scientific and academic knowledge: the objects circulated, the qualities to be valued, and the temporalities shaping academic labor are all affected by academic social media.
Follow the leader: Documents on the leading edge of semantic change get more citations This article shows how to identify the leading examples of semantic change, by leveraging the models underlying dia-chronic word embeddings.
A bibliometric analysis of academic misconduct research in higher education: Current status and future research opportunities Academic misconduct has rapidly become a prominent research domain in the literature on higher education and, therefore, it is timely to explore the state-of-the-art and opportunities for more impactful research on the topic. This paper presents a bibliometric analysis of 779 studies published between 2000 and 2020. Drawing upon the key findings from each cluster, review of the extant literature and authors' knowledge and experience of the field, several opportunities for future research have been delineated in the following sections: thus responding RQ4.
A bibliometric analysis and science mapping of scientific publications of Alzahra University during 1986-2019 Undoubtedly, universities and educational institutions are the most influential social institutions in any society.
Silently withdrawn or retracted preprints related to Covid-19 are a scholarly threat and a potential public health risk: theoretical arguments and suggested recommendations Strict ethical guidelines are urgently needed for preprints, and preprint authors, in the case of misconduct, should face the same procedure and consequences as standard peer-reviewed academic literature.
Mathematical modelling and numerical bifurcation analysis of inbreeding and interdisciplinarity dynamics in academia In the presence of an external control action against inbreeding and moderate rates of influence of Inbreds/Lobbyists, our model predicts bifurcation points beyond which inbreeding disappears and there are again two stable states both characterized by zero levels of inbreeding.
Citation contagion: a citation analysis of selected predatory marketing journals Based on these findings, this study concludes that the conventional marketing literature has been already contaminated by predatory marketing journals.
Patterns and evolution of publication and co-authorship in Social Sciences in Mexico This study documents the evolution of publication, co-authorship and collaboration in social sciences in Mexico over 28 years.
On the disruptive power of small-teams research Our results point out that small teams are more likely to lead to disruptive research (i.e. research with higher ex-ante expected value) than large teams because of strategic considerations and self-interest reasons inherent to the individuals.
The use of bootstrapping method to compare research achievements for ophthalmology authors in the US since 2010 IRAs assessed by these (1) hx-index, (2)the bootstrapping method, and (3) AWS should be synergically and complementarily combined together to evaluate author/institute IRA in the future.
The coauthorship networks of the most productive European researchers Our study thus contributes to the currently coalescing literature on profiling the European research elite, and we hope it will be informative to policy-makers in their efforts of driving Europe towards an integrated research area. In summary, our work provides insights into the relationship between coauthorship ego-networks and research impact. And, also, it adheres to the currently coalescing efforts of profiling the EU research elite.
Does research collaboration influence the "disruption" of articles? Evidence from neurosciences We investigated the relationships between collaboration at different levels (i.e., author, institution, and country) and the disruption of articles in neurosciences using logistic regression analysis.
Mapping computer science research in Africa: using academic networking sites for assessing research activity We conclude that utilizing only traditional bibliometric databases for mapping computer science research activity in sub-Saharan Africa provides an incomplete picture of the research happening in this region. Using academic networking sites as data sources, despite being labor intensive and having other limitations, can help to fill in some of the gaps. A combination of alternative and bibliometric sources of data can provide a more systematic analysis of research activity occurring in Africa, research evaluation, as well as its dissemination and impact.
Impact of the reference list features on the number of citations From this analysis, we distill a recipe for crafting impactful reference lists, at least in ecology.
Research Constituents, Intellectual Structure, and Collaboration Pattern in the Journal of Forecasting: A Bibliometric Analysis In conclusion, our study makes several contributions. First, it identifies JoF's publication and citations trends. Sixth, the study identifies factors associated with JoF's global and local citations, which may help the journal and its contributing authors improve their future impact.
Number of references: a large-scale study of interval ratios The results of the investigation show significant differences between fields and document types.
Ages of cited references and growth of scientific knowledge: an explication of the gamma distribution in business and management disciplines "The gamma distribution parameters and derived metrics can be applied diagnostically and descriptively to characterise corpora of literature, or prospectively to set norms, expectations and criteria for new research."
Spatial analysis: a bibliometric approach (1950-2019) The article analyzed 16,961 articles from WoS that had the expression SA in the title, abstract, or keywords and were published between 1950 and 2019.
A bibliometric analysis of publication of funded studies in nursing research from Web of Science, 2008-2018 Nursing-related research has been drawing increasing attention over the years. Analysing the output of funded publications and monitoring the new dy- namics of the international development of academic research in the field of nursing are crucial for determining future directions of nursing-related research development.
Retaining, resigning and firing: bibliometrics as a people analytics tool for examining research performance outcomes and faculty turnover First, the results imply that the hIa-index, which controls for career length and elements of coauthorship is a superior bibliometric indicator for comparison of research performance. Results suggest that the hla metric may serve as a useful tool for the examination of employment decisions for universities. The results from the current study offer the first empirical evidence of a measurable relation between contract renewal/termination decisions and metrics of research performance.
For how long and with what relevance do genetics articles retracted due to research misconduct remain active in the scientific literature This work has shown that close to 25% of citations of genetics articles retracted due to research misconduct occurred after retraction of the article. Thus, the median time to retraction for articles retracted for this reason was nearly 5 years; in this period, these retracted articles earned close to 6,800 post-retraction citations. Journals should implement processes to enhance transparency, standardize retractions, and minimize post-retraction citations.
A co-citation study of information security patents in the USPTO database Patents are scientific literature determining the effective causes of innovative activities, which can be used in the citation analysis. Overall, the findings of this study can lead to potential capabilities in the production of new tools to maintain information security as well as study and identify the existing needs in this field. Therefore, officials all over the world should refrain from insisting on wrong policies of patent registration and must take serious steps to improve this system and scientific management of its functions in the form of national and international innovation systems.
"Heterogeneous couplings": Operationalizing network perspectives to study science-society interactions through social media metrics We argue that a better understanding of the couplings and interactions between social media and science has the potential to pave the way toward more advanced, relational, and multi-dimensional science-society studies.
Local use of metrics for the research assessment of academics: the case of Poland This study revealed that, despite the high levels of autonomy granted to HEIs in Poland, the majority adhere to the national regulations and use the same indicators to evaluate individual researchers.
A Bibliometrics Analysis on Academic Influence of Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine All indicators show that the Journal is a high-quality journal reflecting the excellent achievements in the field of integrated Chinese and Western medicine in China. Through further analysis of relevant indicators, the authors put forward some specific suggestions on how to run the Journal well.
GENDER DISPARITIES IN INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH COLLABORATION: A STUDY OF 25,000 UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS This research reveals substantial gender disparities in the collaboration patterns of Polish scientists.
Forty years of Fuzzy Sets and Systems: A bibliometric analysis Fuzzy Sets and Systems is now forty years old. To commemorate this anniversary, this study presented a bibliometric overview of the journal between 1978 and 2016.
Scientific Collaboration on COVID-19 Amidst Geopolitical Tensions between the US and China Consistent with previous research (Lee & Haupt, 2020a), at a global level, there is a higher proportion of internationally coauthored papers on COVID-19 than internationally coauthored papers in the past and compared to non-COVID papers during the same time period. Related specifically to the US and China, they lead in COVID-19 publications and collaborate more with each other than any two countries on this research. In other words, the US and China are especially cooperating on COVID-19 research.
Investigating collaboration in project management research: using action research as a meta-methodology A retrospective analysis of collaboration in the PMI research project using action research cycles has helped the authors to understand how collaboration worked in a research project led by the authors. The combined analysis has contributed to a better understanding of how collaborative research takes place in a practice-oriented discipline such as project management, adding to the existing literature on scientific collaboration as well as collaboration in social science. From the point of view of practice, this research has provided some useful ideas in Table 1 for project management researchers to take into consideration in setting up collaborative research projects.
Favoritism or equality: difference analysis of users' utilization of academic social networks for top research corporations This paper focuses on corporation researchers, who have started to embrace ASNs but whose behaviors were less studied.
An analysis of use and performance data aggregated from 35 institutional repositories We wish to emphasize that the conclusions drawn from this study should be considered with caution. The RAMP dataset holds much potential for further research. The purpose of this research was to demonstrate the kind of analysis that is possible with the openly published RAMP dataset and to encourage its use for further research.
A ResearchGate-way to an international academic community? Our findings show that for most of our Japan-based participants, RG is a regular part of their academic activities, and that benefits outweigh the challenges. Nevertheless, at the micro-level, use of RG is unbalanced, focused largely on knowledge sharing, and specifically on access to literature and dissemination of English-language outputs. While this provides a vital service to researchers that is clearly important and valued, this narrow use of RG means that it may be positioned more as a tool, rather than a community.
Visualizing research trends and research theme evolution in E-learning field: 1999-2018 The findings in this study implies that e-learning research has undergone a healthy evolution over the past two decades. New e-learning techniques emerge that are then researched and absorbed into the existing knowledge landscape, advancing the whole field. Thus, future studies should not only research on the traditional research themes, but also explore the applications of new education technologies in e-learning field.
Funding research in Brazil Data here can help in formulating funding policies for research. The low level and impact of national funding, should be seen in the context of the need for rethinking the way financing is carried out by agencies, depending on their missions. Financing could therefore focus on increasing international cooperation and payment of APCs for open access in higher impact journals. More effective definition of setting national priorities is necessary, looking at where Brazil can be an effective player internationally.
Scientific knowledge production and research collaboration between Australia and South Korea: patterns and dynamics based on co-authorship This paper explored how scientific knowledge production and collaboration by Australia and Korea has grown over time. The relative field specialization of scientific knowledge production analyzed for each country shows that Australia and Korea take different paths in terms of their research focus. Additional research and interviews showed that the collaborative links are formed mostly by personal ties or by any kind of interactions made between researchers.
Use of relative extra citation counts and uncited publications to enhance the discriminatory power of the h-index The results have shown that the c-index enhances the discriminatory power of the h-index.
A TOPSIS model for understanding the authors choice of journal selection The findings have indicated that “the acceptance rates” of the journals have been a decision factor with the highest priority (39%). This study, on contrary the others, excludes the impact related factors (IF, 5 year IF, article influence) since they don't improve the model's preferability. Further research could focus on Fuzzy TOPSIS models that can be used to describe the non-linear behavior of the authors. This might be considered as a potential research area.
Ranking of author assessment parameters using Logistic Regression Findings of the study suggested that the average authors/paper author assessment parameter outperformed all other indices by achieving the accuracy of 67%.
Conference proceedings publications in bibliographic databases: a case study of countries in Southeast Asia The article concludes that conference proceedings have become increasingly visible in the major citation databases, that interesting country-level patterns can be revealed by analysis, and that there has been a steep growth in preferential conference paper publishing in Indonesia coinciding with an increase in locally hosted conferences. Our study is relevant to policy makers in the area of research evaluation because it highlights potential changes in academic publishing behaviour by those being assessed. Follow up studies are therefore encouraged to look at the Indonesian local higher education and research promotional policies, and surveys of Indonesian scientists would be especially warranted.
Forty years of applied mathematical modelling: A bibliometric study In 2016, AMM celebrated its fortieth anniversary. Motivated by this special occasion, the work presents a bibliometric analysis of the journal during this period in order to identify the most significant results occurring in the journal.
A study on day-of-week effect of submission: Based on the data of JSFST With the study results, a initial evaluation strategy was developed for JSFST.
Validation of the Astro dataset clustering solutions with external data We have conducted an independent validation study on ten topic clustering solutions for a publication records benchmark dataset from astronomy and astrophysics.
Finding rising stars through hot topics detection In this study, HTRS-Rank is proposed to find the junior researcher as rising stars in an academic network, who contribute to start Hot Topics.
A Chinese professor's academic career rhythm We created the citation rhythm indicator Rᵢ, which measures and presents the rhythm of a scientist's academic influence.
Are evaluative cultures national or global? A cross-national study on evaluative cultures in academic recruitment processes in Europe Our results thus show that the particular evaluative cultures in recruitment were pri-marily embedded in the fields and, to some extent, national contexts.
Destabilization and consolidation: Conceptualizing, measuring, and validating the dual characteristics of technology This paper makes three contributions to the literature.
Can we estimate a monetary value of scientific publications? The main contribution of our study lays in making the challenge of measuring the value of publications in research policy assessment and funding strategies visible.
Do synthesis centers synthesize? A semantic analysis of topical diversity in research We conclude by suggesting social processes within collaborations that might account for the observed effects, by inviting further exploration of what this novel textual analysis approach might reveal about interdisciplinary research, and by offering some practical implications of our results.
Exploiting Structural Similarities to Classify Citations Therefore, we conclude that papers' abstracts should be used to compute content-based similarity for two reasons: (1) better performance compared to the full-content approach, and (2) abstracts are normally freely available.
Transformative agreements: Do they pave the way to open access? Negotiations between libraries and publishers have shifted their focus from cost containment towards the inclusion of OA clauses. Despite the diversity of TAs in the marketplace, contracts are increasingly transparent, allow authors to retain copyright, and make provisions to facilitate OA workflows. However, it is hard to assess whether they only represent a temporary phase in the path towards OA or will perpetuate the current state of affairs in the scholarly communication market with its associated high costs.
Do working papers increase journal citations? Evidence from the top 5 journals in economics This paper addressed how many more citations a journal article receives depending on whether a working paper is also available. We showed that there is a roughly 25% increase in the number of citations for articles which also appeared in working paper series. Determining the exact channel through which the additional citations is beyond the scope of the paper, but could potentially be an interesting avenue for future research.
Interdisciplinary influences in headache literature: A network citation analysis of PubMed Central articles This work demonstrates the value of network citation analysis in the identification of interdisciplinary influences on headache medicine.
An analysis of the scientific literature produced on bank marketing through bibliometrics and scientific mapping - what has been the role of sales in banking? To sum up, it should be stressed that it has been found that sales-related topics (techniques, salesforce, etc.) have not and do not play a major place in the global literature on bank marketing. This study has made it possible to detect strong relationships between topics within commercial banking, the evolution of major lines of work and the rise of issues of a more contemporary nature. Research into sales and sales techniques in this field will be vital to connect with the consumer's new reality.
Pharmaceutical industry-authored preprints: scientific and social media impact Pharma-authored research is being increasingly published as preprints and is also being cited in other peer-reviewed publications and discussed in social media. To conclude, pharma-authored research is being increasingly published as preprints as revealed by the gradual increase in the absolute number of preprints over the years. While preprints are not a substitute for peer-reviewed publications, they could be considered in case faster dissemination of the research is important for global healthcare.
Green Open Access in Astronomy and Mathematics: The Complementarity of Routines Among Authors and Readers First, it could be shown that green OA plays an important role in the communi-cation system of both disciplines. This finding suggests that the emergence of complementary routines could be a necessary condition for the green OA model to succeed. Regarding a possible generalization of the results, it seems therefore unlikely that green OA works along the same principles in science at large.
Navigating Uncertainty: Early Career Academics and Practices of Appraisal Devices This paper has investigated how early career academics in two disciplinary cultures use appraisal devices in the form of assessors to deal with the tension between their aspiration to succeed with an academic career and the uncertainty of not knowing how they will be evaluated by gatekeepers on the academic market. As such, the study has provided an analysis of how junior scholars come to orient themselves within highly complex institutional environments by learning how to anticipate future evaluative criteria.
Topic diversity: A discipline scheme-free diversity measurement for journals This paper proposes an indicator to quantify the diversity of journals, called TD.
Journal self-citation trends in 1975-2017 and the effect on journal impact and article citations Journal self-citation can therefore be seen as a useful indicator to determine whether an article is a good fit for a journal and of interest to its readers.
Mammography: density equalizing mapping of the global research architecture The present study represents the first concise assessment of the worldwide mammography research architecture.
How wide is the citation impact of scientific publications? A cross-discipline and large-scale analysis These details are indicative in terms of the specializations of academia. Moreover, the findings have far-reaching implications on research assessment practices and literature searching. In this article, one of our findings is that more recent publications have more connected component counts than older ones, which is indicative in terms of specializations of science. Thus, future studies should employ more sophisticated approaches, such as econometrics methods, to investigate how these factors interact with each other.
NIGERIA'S LOW CONTRIBUTION TO RECOGNIZED WORLD RESEARCH LITERATURE: CAUSES AND REMEDIES Participants advocated for increased funding, reduced conference fees and entrenchment of collaboration between reputable publishers abroad and African publishers.
The steering effects of citations and metrics The two perspectives are considered as a tension between the norms and values for which scholars and researchers aspire to, on the one hand, and the requirements imposed by economic, social and political obligations in the larger system of knowledge production, on the other.
Cycles of invisibility: The limits of transparency in dealing with scientific misconduct Our analysis of the procedures surrounding scientific misconduct suggests that in science, visibilization relies mainly on sanctions.
Evaluating the correlation between different impact indicators for library and information science journals: Comparing the journal citation reports and scopus "For LIS journals, the results of this research have disproven the hypothesis that there is little correlation between the different impact measures as all bivariate correlations have demonstrated the strength of correlations between the IF and all indicators tested."
Three decades of research in the technology analysis & strategic management: a bibliometrics analysis In a nutshell, this study provides a holistic overview of the significant contribution made by TASM in strategic management research. Nonetheless, the limitation of the current research was reflected by the limitation of the database used, where Scopus utilised the full counting method to address the bibliographic material. Furthermore, the findings may vary in the future due to the field's dynamic nature, with emerging issues and fluctuating state of position of several variables in the journal.
Does the citation period have any effect on the informative value of selected citation indicators in research evaluations? The results show that the fundamental validity of citation indicators increases with time. However, if the goal of the analyses is to establish a ranking order, then even short citation periods are informative. Based on the empirical findings, we can draw the conclusion that the length of the citation periods with regard to the effect of the research does not differ between the disciplines.
How the publish-or-perish principle divides a science: the case of economists Among economists we discover a clear divide between the skeptics and the true believers of the publish-or-perish principle, with the skeptics representing two third of the respondents. Still, the attitudes and opinions stated by these economists cannot be easily dismissed and some findings may trigger further research and offer food for thought for economists, but also for scientists and managers of science in general. The unintended consequences of the publish-or-perish principle can be detrimental to the way a social science like economics is practiced.
Forecasting the future of library and information science and its sub-fields It is expected that more scholars will work together. The future subjects of the LIS field show astonishing diversity from fake news to predatory journals, open government, e-learning and electronic health records. For this reason, decision-makers and managers must consider field- and time-based differences in their research evaluation tasks.
Citation inequality and the Journal Impact Factor: median, mean, (does it) matter? Referring to the initial question of the article’s title, yes, it does matter: by analysing a large sample of medical and a selection of non-medical journals, the present analysis confirms a considerable inequality in citation distribution as illustrated by several quantitative meas-ures—thus, disqualifying the JIF to adequately represent a journal’s or a paper’s citedness.
Impact for whom? Mapping the users of public research with lexicon-based text mining The maps give, first of all, an impressive view of the size and complexity of research in society.
The evolutionary pattern of language in scientific writings: A case study of Philosophical Transactions of Royal Society (1665-1869) Overall, this study clearly demonstrated how the language of scientific writings in early journals followed an inherent evolutionary pattern and how its evolutionary route was greatly influenced by external factors.
Recurrent-DC: A deep representation clustering model for university profiling based on academic graph In this paper, we characterize top universities based on the quantification of complexity features in exploring academic graph.
Acting hot or not? Testing the citing to show-off hypothesis This study of the claim that authors tend to cite recent literature in order to show-off does not confirm the hypothesis.
The importance of collaboration and supervisor behaviour for gender differences in doctoral student performance and early career development The observed gender gap in productivity during doctoral studies can to a large extent be explained by the size of the external collaborative network and co-authoring with the supervisor. Collaborative behaviour continues to be a central factor in explaining the gender gap in productivity in the early career phase.
Peer review analysis in the field of radiation oncology: results from a web-based survey of the Young DEGRO working group The scientific content of the manuscript, reputation of the journal and a high IF determine the attractiveness for peer reviewing in the field of radiation oncology.
Evaluating the Highest- and Lowest-cited Research Articles in the Cardiothoracic Surgery Literature This review suggests that there are several important distinguishing charac-teristics that should be considered by investigators when designing and implementing cardiothoracic research studies to maximize the impact of their published research.
A Solution to Academic Radiology's Experience With Solicitation E-mails From Predatory Journals Soliciting publishers have little impact on scientific literature. Academicians can avoid soliciting e-mails with customized e-mail filters.
Politics matters: The power dynamics behind Chinese English-language humanities and social science journals Based on our investigation of the dynamics and contradictions involved in the development of CELHSSJs, we argue that the power dynamics and social contexts in which Chinese English-language journals operate shape China's knowledge production and dissemination as much as the content of these journals does.
News and social media coverage is associated with more downloads and citations of manuscripts that focus on substance use Traditional and social media coverage of manuscripts focusing on substance use are associated with more downloads and citations. Researchers should consider sharing findings not only to increase downloads and citations but also to educate the general public.
Exploring Nobel laureates' practice of text borrowing The findings of the current study reveal that the investigated Nobel laureates' journal publica- tions outperformed those of their counterparts in terms of text borrowing, even though there were still some incidences of extensive text borrowing and a lack of appropriate citations.
National Institutes of Health Support for Clinical Emergency Care Research, 2015 to 2018 During the 4-year study period, emergency care research increased, but the number of grant submissions remains low.
Important citation identification using sentiment analysis of in-text citations The researchers concluded that all citations are not of equal importance. Therefore, this research proposed a citation sentiment analysis-based approach that effectively enhanced the results of the state-of-the-art approaches. The results evaluation and comparison show that the proposed approached achieved an f-measure of 0.83 with an improvement of 13.6% for D1 and 0.67 with an improvement of 8% for D2 as compared to the state-of-the-art results.
Perspectives on institutional valuing and support for academic and translational outputs in Japan and Australia While further research is needed to explore the generalizability of our findings, we found inconsis-tency in the levels of support perceived by ECRs in two geo-graphical contexts across community and organizational levels.
A topic models based framework for detecting and forecasting emerging technologies Despite its usefulness, this study is subject to limitations. The term-based themes can indeed be discovered by the TNG model, but many n-grams are not technical terms, even not terms. This study mainly focuses on three indicators: relatively fast growth, scientific impact, and radical novelty.
The Top 100 Most-Cited Papers in Cariology: A Bibliometric Analysis In conclusion, the top 100 most-cited papers in Cariol- ogy were published mainly by European and Anglo- Sax- on American authors and were composed mainly by lit- erature reviews with etiology/pathogenesis as the most frequent topic of interest.
Contribution based author categorization to calculate author performance index Hence, if adopted, the proposed author categorization scheme together with the API would provide a better way to evaluate the credit of an individual as a primary and principal author.
A decade of Ecuador′s efforts to raise its health research output: a bibliometric analysis Ecuadorian HSRA output increased significantly after 2008. This larger volume of scientific output could be the result to the Mandato 14/LOES implemented in the last decade. However, a low percentage of HSRA are dedicated to addressing the country's health priorities. Proper planning, execution and monitoring of national health research agendas would reduce the mismatch between health burden and the HSRA output in Ecuador and other low-and middle-income countries.
Trends in Healthcare Research on Visual Impairment and Blindness: Use of Bibliometrics and Hierarchical Cluster Analysis Given the increasing prevalence of visual impairment in an aging society, an under-standing of the current knowledge structure in scientific literature is essential for innovating on the existing healthcare system. The results of this study can guide researchers to discover the unex-plored research areas and provide new directions for future work.
Scientific productivity in neurology: impact of the socio-economic status Our analysis provided novel evidence of the adequacy of the scientific return on country-specific investment of local dedicated resources, which gives cues to ameliorate the scientific activity and the research quality.
Scientometric evaluation of highly cited scientists in the field of forensic science and legal medicine The top ten most cited individuals in both databases (2019 and 2020) were the same and these should therefore be considered an elite group among all forensic practitioners. This testifies to their sustained contribution and that they continue to publish important papers that were highly cited during the past 15 years since 2005.
Classifying economics for the common good: a note on the links between sustainable development goals and JEL codes Although it is possible to link SDGs with existing JEL codes, as demonstrated herein, introducing a specific JEL code for each SDG would reduce search costs for those searching for economics research related to specific SDGs and for those analyzing to which global challenges academic economists allocate their limited attention. Future studies could analyze the content of the articles classified to JEL codes related to specific SDGs in order to explore whether there are any systematic patterns in the perspectives taken by these articles. Such systematic content analysis would enable identifying research gaps related to SDGs in the economics literature as well as estimating the share of economics articles that take critical perspectives towards SDGs and associated targets and indicators (e.g., measurement of poverty (I32); inequality and discrimination (J15); environment and economic growth (O44)).
Using altmetrics for detecting impactful research in quasi-zero-day time-windows: the case of COVID-19 In this work we investigate altmetrics and citation count as tools for detecting impactful research works in quasi-zero-day time-windows, as it is for the case of COVID-19.
The contribution of CEE authors to psychological science: a comparative analysis of papers published in CEE and non-CEE journals indexed by Scopus in the period 1996-2013 The present study contributes to the still insufficient body of literature examining the gap in scientific productivity between Western and CEE countries, a gap that continues to exist 30 years after the beginning of the integration process. Our results examining the quantitative trends in national and international publishing among CEE authors demonstrated a clear trend towards the internationalization of psychology in CEE countries as well as a rise in its impact in the global scientific community. The significance of these results for European cohesion processes are discussed.
Webometrics: evolution of social media presence of universities Our findings obtained from the analysis performed on the dataset from 2005 to 2016 indicate a positive correlation for North American and European universities, but weak correlation for Asian universities.
Exploring WorldCat identities as an altmetric information source: a library catalog analysis experiment in the field of Scientometrics The investigation shows that this type of analysis is possible but that WI has a series of methodological limitations (Table 5).
Comparison of academic book impact from a disciplinary perspective: an analysis of citations and altmetric indicators According to our findings, the impact of books shows evident disciplinary differences in the citation and altmetric indicators. Clinical, Pre-Clinical and Health books had the highest altmetric impact but the lowest citation impact. However, Physical Sciences books showed the opposite traits. Another major conclusion was that the relationship between altmetric and citation indicators was clear but weak.
Extension of Direct Citation Model Using In-Text Citations The overall results indicated that in-text citation frequencies play a vital role in discovering degree-of-relevancy between the citing and cited papers. The comparisons revealed that the proposed extended Direct Citation Model provides better results than other contemporary models. These results indicate that the proposed mechanism may be applied in future information retrieval systems for better results.
Trends and hotspots of family nursing research based on Web of Science: A bibliometric analysis Family nursing started late, and its exploration was limited.
The lack of meaningful boundary differences between journal impact factor quartiles undermines their independent use in research evaluation We recommend the abandonment of the quartiles reification as an independent method for the research assessment of individual scholars.
Quantifying the publication preferences of leading research universities Our study has analyzed the research preferences of twenty leading research universities according to the last edition of THE rankings 2020. The results provide clues for enhancing existing collaboration, defining and re-directing lines of research, and seeking for new partnerships to face the current pandemic to find was to tackle down the covid-19 outbreak. In future research, we would like to conduct a deeper analysis of the research patterns of the lowest- ranked research universities with the top-ranked and explore further opportunities in addition to the ones we have presented in this study, and possible extend the band to universities ranked in the 800+positions.
Comparative analysis of the research productivity, publication quality, and collaboration patterns of top ranked library and information science schools in China and the United States In this study, we investigated the monetary reward policies for publications of the top- ranked Chinese LIS schools, and examined the research productivity and collaboration pat- terns of researchers from Chinese and US LIS schools using WoS and Scopus. The results of our investigation show that more than 80% of the Chinese LIS schools in our sample offer monetary rewards to encourage their faculty to publish in journals indexed in WoS as first authors. This observation suggests that policy makers and administrators in China should take a close look at China's performance in the metrics measuring research quality other than only considering the number of publications.
A study of citations to STEM databases: ACM Digital Library, Engineering Village, IEEE Xplore, and MathSciNet The impact of STEM databases in citations appears to be undercounted since they are not regularly incorporated in citations. The absence of conformity on citation format to STEM resources is worthy of further discussion by the academic and publishing community. It is hoped that this project may serve as a catalyst for discussion on citations to databases and other Web-related resources.
An intersectional approach to analyse gender productivity and open access: a bibliometric analysis of the Italian National Research Council The analysis of CNR scientific production provides a starting point in order to reflect on the inter-linkage between gender performance and Open Access adoption and their reciprocal synergies.
Quantitative evaluation of the production and trends in research applying the structural equation modelling method The current study is a quantitative bibliometric analysis that evaluates the application of the structural equation modelling method to different disciplines of Social Sciences over the last three decades and offers an overview of the trends spanning four time frames of the study period. The findings reveal the impact of the introduction and evolution of new information and communication technologies and highlight the gradual increase of publications and thematic areas throughout the different periods. This article offers the first comprehensive examination of the evolution of the application of structural equation modelling in the framework of Social Sciences.
Knowledge mapping analysis of research progress and frontiers in integrated disaster risk management in a changing climate The number of articles on integrated disaster risk in a changing climate is growing exponentially, reflecting that scholars are paying more attention to this field, and the research perspective is gradually being enriched.
Communicating Collections Cancellations to Campus: A Qualitative Study These themes, along with the practical advice we heard from participants, will serve to assist academic libraries in developing strategies to communicate big deal journal cancellations so that the campus community supports the library. The results from this study also lead to larger questions. We, as a profession, need to reimagine the library's mission in academia. Should we be advocates for a transition to a more equitable and sustainable journal publishing model?
Academic Impact of Articles by Practitioners in the Field of Library and Information Science This study confirmed that each type of coauthored article had greater average academic impact than did single-authored articles.
A new ethos for science? Exploring emerging DIY science "qualities" We found that despite diversity, there seem to be some common dimensions of an ethos that strongly speaks to logics of care.
Tracing the evolution of physics with a keyword co-occurrence network Our approach for tracing the evolution of a research field with a keyword co-occurrence network can shed light on identifying and assessing the evolution of science.
Mapping the Scientific Landscape of Diabetes Research in Malaysia (2000-2018): A Systematic Scientometrics Study The diabetes literature in Malaysia has grown steadily over the past 19 years. However, the cumulative evidence remains inadequate and is insufficiently powered to guide policymaking and the control of diabetes. It does not yet seem feasible to direct the diabetes epidemic curve to a plateau for the Malaysian population based on Malaysian diabetes publications.
Citation-based criterion for identifying long-lasting research papers These qualitative considerations are clearly borne out by the application of our proposed criterion for L-L research papers.
The effect of peer review on the improvement of rejected manuscripts Our findings suggest that authors often disregard advice from peer reviewers after rejection.
A bibliometric analysis of highly cited publications in Web of Science category of emergency medicine A total of 1,026 highly cited publications with TC2019 of 100 or more citations in the Web of Science category of emergency medicine in SCI-EXPANDED were found within five document types indexed in the Web of Science. Results showed that the USA ranked top in the six publication indicators. The University of California Davis in the USA was the most independent institute. Words such as 'pain', 'cardiopulmonary resuscitation', 'cardiac arrest', and 'ventricular fibrillation' were most used in the highly cited articles in emergency medicine.
A Survey of Iranian Retracted Publications Indexed in PubMed Although Iranian retracted publications represent small portion of all Iranian publications, but the number of retracted publications has increased. More than half of retracted publications have had authorship issues and plagiarism that requires more attention to research ethics authorities. Because persons, organizations and countries are judged as an unethical behavior with retraction, so we suggest the followings: • Authors become more aware about consequences of scientific publication misbehaviors; • Journals editor-in-chief should follow instructions mentioned in COPE guidelines; • New technologies for plagiarism detection services should be used such as iThenticate, Unicheck (https://unicheck.com/), quetext (https://www.quetext.com/), etc.
National Institutes of Health Research Funding to Academic Surgical Oncologists: Who Are We and Where Do We Stand? Among surgical subspecialties, SSO-accred-ited surgeons accounted for the largest share of the NIH grants.
Characteristics of Imperial College London's COVID-19 research outputs Authors were served with options to publish rapidly in non-peer review form and under open access models throughout the entire period, and from January to March, these options were exclusively used. That the majority of outputs were published under some form of open access is positive; however, whether the bronze OA cohort is truly compliant with the long-term needs of this global challenge (World Health Organization, 2020a) (Wellcome, 2020) is not clear. The inclusion of reports, preprints, datasets and software/code as output types permits a richer and more accurate description of the institution's activities and talents than considering journal articles alone.
RETRACTED: Assessing the Dissemination of COVID-19 Articles Across Social Media With Altmetric and PlumX Metrics: Correlational Study (Retracted article. See vol. 24, 2022) Our study demonstrated that citation count weakly correlated with AASs and strongly correlated with PlumX scores, with regard to COVID-19 articles at this point in time.
Taking histories: joint working of disciplines in medical history scholarship Scholarship engaging both historians and clinicians is rare in medical history journals. Possible solutions include enhanced research collaborations between historians and clinicians, interdisciplinary educational seminars and cross-institutional knowledge exchanges.
Creation and dissemination of hospitality and tourism research outputs in the new millennium Research implications – The hospitality and tourism academic society is clearly illustrated by tracing academic publication activities across 20 years in the new millennium. In addition, this study provides a guide for scholars to search for multidisciplinary collaboration opportunities. Government agencies and NGOs can also benefit from this study by identifying appropriate review panel members when making decisions about hospitality- and tourism-related proposals.
Publishing, signaling, social capital, and gender: Determinants of becoming a tenured professor in German political science Our results suggest that success in German political science is based on legitimate achievement.
A scientometric overview of CORD-19 While we fully endorse the CORD-19 initiative, it is important to be aware that CORD-19 extends beyond research on COVID-19 and coronaviruses.
Bibliometric analysis of bacterial central nervous system infection research in Southeast Asia Bacterial CNS infection research output in SEA countries was low in terms of quantity. The %GDP for R&D was associated with the number of research publications. The total number of neurologists was associated with all of the bibliometric indices.
Multidimensional Scientometric indicators for the detection of emerging research topics Our methodology contributes to the literature by providing a systematic process for identifying and evaluating emerging topics on a fine-grained level, which is crucial for decision-makers in the science and technology policy domain. In addition, different R&D layout strategies are proposed based on the characteristics of the identified ERT patterns, offering actionable insights for policymakers and research institutions.
SwCS: Section-Wise Content Similarity Approach to Exploit Scientific Big Data As the experimental results suggested that employing a finer content similarity technique improved the quality of results, the proposed approach has led the foundation of knowledge-based startups.
Most notable 100 articles of COVID-19: an Altmetric study based on bibliometric analysis The more citations an article is made, the more it indicates the contribution of that article to science. However, the number of citations is not always the only indicator of article quality.
Who Is Citing Your Work? Journals With Impact Factor and h-Index in Social Work and Related Fields This journal list is updated annually to provide information for social work scholars, researchers, and doctoral students as a reference when identifying journals to disseminate their research results.
A Proposed Model for Source Code Reuse Detection in Computer Programs According to comprehensive experiments on the SOCO dataset, our system could perform appropriately for both Java and C/C++ languages.
On the Matthew effect in research careers In the present paper we have shown that hard work and talent do not guarantee success or even survival in academia if factors related to the Matthew effect prevent the deserved peer recognition.
Predicting the number of article citations in the field of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) with the 100 top-cited articles since 2014: a bibliometric analysis The breakthrough was made by developing 1 dashboard to display 100 top-cited articles on ADHD.
Citation Intent Classification Using Word Embedding Finding citation intent is vital for citation analysis, for which we need a substantial labeled dataset.
An overview of research on natural resources and indigenous communities: a bibliometric analysis based on Scopus database (1979-2020) Qualitative studies with methodological rigor, having potential for social and policy implications, are warranted to understand and respect ingrained cultural and socio-economic diversity among these communities.
The funding-productivity-gender nexus in science, a multistage analysis In this study, we revisited the funding-productivity nexus looking, in particular, at primary and secondary gender effects.
A Description of Predatory Publishing in South African Economics Departments The large proportion of academic economists in South African universities that have published in a predatory journal suggests that the quality of much of economics research is poor.
Thirty years of the Global Finance Journal: A bibliometric analysis Over the years, GFJ has established itself as an important refereed finance journal. Despite publishing on numerous topics, GFJ has not lost sight of its original mission: to act as a forum for exchange of ideas and as a context for evaluating present and future issues related to global finance. GFJ continues to fulfill that mission.
Elitism in mathematics and inequality Our results demonstrate concerted efforts by academic committees, such as prize giving, can either reinforce the existing elite or reshape its definition.
Author self-citation in orthodontics is associated with author origin and gender Authors in orthodontics do not self-cite at a frequency that suggests potential citation manipulation. Author origin and gender were the only variables associated with citations counts. More bibliometric research is necessary to draw solid conclusions about author self-citation trends in orthodontic literature.
Authorship inequality: a bibliometric study of the concentration of authorship among a diminishing number of individuals in high-impact medical journals, 2008-2019 Overall, these data suggest a growing inequality in authorship across authors publishing in high-impact academic medical journals, especially among the highest impact journals.
Scientific Mapping on the Impact of Climate Change on Cultural and Natural Heritage: A Systematic Scientometric Analysis The results obtained will be very useful for researchers working in this scientific area, as they can find a synthesis of scientific production in this document, allowing them to draw their own conclusions regarding the current gaps in research; constituting the starting point of their research, with the aim of filling these gaps. The production of authors is classified as “transient", 94% of the authors appear as signatories of a single study. The relational measures corroborate that the thematic approach is new, by identifying a high presence of isolated relationships among the authors.
Algorithmic labeling in hierarchical classifications of publications: Evaluation of bibliographic fields and term weighting approaches Our results show that the level of aggregation needs to be taken into account when labeling the classes in an ACPLC. Extract terms from titles and keywords to label classes at the topic level. Use TFS to calculate term relevance for labeling classes in a hierarchical ACPLC.
How is science clicked on Twitter? Click metrics for Bitly short links to scientific publications This study provides an overview of the extent to which Bitly short links pointing to scientific publications are clicked on Twitter. It has particular implications for quantifying the traffic to scientific publications derived from Twitter and evaluating the Twitter reception of sci-ence information in depth.
Obstacle Comparisons to Achieving Distance Learning and Applying Electronic Exams during COVID-19 Pandemic This study investigated the current situation under the COVID-19 pandemic at some universities in Algeria, Egypt, Iraq, and Palestinian universities in the governorates of Gaza.
A retrospective analysis of the peer review of more than 75,000 Marie Curie proposals between 2007 and 2018 Our analysis of over 75,000 thousand proposals from both FP7 and H2020, covering the period from 2007 to 2018, suggests that the peer review process used to evaluate these proposals is resistant to organizational changes, such as the reduction of the number of evaluation criteria and the format of the consensus meeting. As such, this study gives us confidence that the outcomes of the grant peer review pro-cess will not be impacted by this change.
Conjoint analysis of researchers' hidden preferences for bibliometrics, altmetrics, and usage metrics Our study’s findings indicate that quantitative indicators are a part of many researchers’ practices when initially assessing literature for its relevance, albeit next to a vari-ety of qualitative aspects like for instance topical rele-vance or accessibility.
Book Publishing in the Humanities and Social Sciences in Australia, Part One: Understanding Institutional Pressures and the Funding Context Our interview study revealed that global university rankings and changing national research assessment and funding rules are key drivers of institutional strategies and priorities, which in turn affect Australian HSS academics' publishing behaviours. The current methods by which scholarly books are recognized and rewarded is concerning for HSS. There is a need for governments, universities, and funding bodies to rethink the way that research and societal impact is measured.
Are All the References Mentioned in Academic Papers? A Quantitative Analysis of the Nonmentioned Phenomenon First, not all references were mentioned in the citing papers. According to our research, 3.45% of papers included the nonmentioned phenomenon and 0.14% of all references included the nonmentioned phenomenon, which shows that nonmentioned phenomenon did not appear in 96.55% of papers and therefore that most of the papers were consistent with citation normativeness, but the nonmentioned phenomenon does exist in scientific papers.
Towards the Construction of Productive Interactions for Social Impact The importance of assessing and valuing productive interactions was identified as a fundamental element in promoting the social impact of research, as well as integrating inter- or multidisciplinary projects that impact the conservation of socio-ecological systems.
Value of special issues in the journal of business research: A bibliometric analysis This bibliometric review provides an objective state-of-the-art ex- amination of the JBR SIs published between 1973 and 2020.
Stretched Exponential Dynamics in Online Article Views In conclusion, we present a useful statistical approach for article page views of online published articles.
"MANY-CITEDNESS": CITATIONS MEASURE MORE THAN JUST SCIENTIFIC QUALITY In the case of economics, citations cannot be interpreted as unbiased proxies of scientific quality. On the one hand, citation indexes at the author level should be interpreted as reflecting a mix of both intellectual achievement and social relations in nonobvious ways, and the use of citation counts to rank authors does not lead to unambiguous measures of the quality of their work. On the other hand, with specific respect to economics, in light of the relevance of social connections and especially political views in shaping citation behavior, it may be necessary to question the efficiency of the discipline’s organization in rewarding scientific achievement only.
Research on pathways of expert finding on academic social networking sites First, personal pages, search pages and publication pages are the most frequently visited when users search for experts on ASNS.
Conceptualizing, Financing and Infrastructuring: Perspectives on Open Access in and from Africa I pick up his point to argue that unless studies and policies pertaining to scholarly communications broaden out beyond discussions of business models and content, and turn their gaze on the established publishing infrastructures themselves, it would appear that OA systems could very well re-entrench long-standing colonial power imbalances. Leaders working on open access would do well to think and act broadly and strategically with regard to how funding programmes, especially state-run initiatives, contribute towards enhancing inclusive know-ledge infrastructures (Okune et al., 2018). Rather than training a narrow gaze on enabling journal publications to be freely viewed across Africa — an important first step but not the end in itself — the radical potential of open access to more fundamentally change the relationships and practices of knowledge production on the continent requires a more expansive view of what 'openness' (Chan et al., 2019) and 'access' really represent.
Bibliodiversity at the Centre: Decolonizing Open Access Decolonizing open access requires that we practise bibliodiversity, providing space to support, expand and value local knowledge (Piron, 2017). We need self-determined, meaningful scholarly production and evaluative practices that support all stakeholders, including small and under-resourced publishers. Reclaiming the promise of open access for the South is undoubtedly complex, but this process can only begin through self-determination and a vision of egalitarian knowledge transfer (South-to-South, South-to-North and North-to-South), creating space for the many Southern voices that are not receiving adequate recognition.
Journal Open Access and Plan S: Solving Problems or Shifting Burdens? Unfortunately, we believe that the cosmetic revisions made to Plan S do little to alleviate these concerns.
Where Can the Crow Make Friends? Sci-Hub's Activities in the Library of Development Studies and its Implications for the Field Our analysis proves that researchers from the global South, especially, are following this call. For them, Sci-Hub provides access to all the literature they need. These lessons can then be used in future applications of open access to provide evidence-based policy recommendations.
Research Misconduct in the Fields of Ethics and Philosophy: Researchers' Perceptions in Spain The main finding of this study is the widespread perception of research misconduct in the areas of ethics and philosophy in Spain.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Top Cited Articles in Sports and Exercise Medicine Narrative reviews from the United States and published in English-language journals were the most likely to be highly cited. In addition, the knee was a common anatomic area of study on the top cited list of research in sports and exercise medicine
Visegrad countries' scientific productivity in the European context: A 10-year perspective using Web of Science and Scopus Practical implications suggest that uni-versity management within the Visegrád Group must develop and con-tinue strategies to strengthen international collaboration between researchers in order to accelerate change in the dissemination of scientific output at the global level. Academic scholarly publishers may benefit from publishing research on specific issues important to different regions of the world in order to expand their audience and gain new potential resources. The V4 coun-tries are visible in terms of the number of scientific publications and citations. However, not all V4 countries collaborate at the same level in scientific terms.
Standardizing terminology for text recycling in research writing The proposed taxonomy is, of course, imperfect.
Software plagiarism detection in multiprogramming languages using machine learning approach The comparison has shown better plagiarism detection results even the dataset contains five different programming languages. In the future, we will try to embed the Sherlock plagiarism detection tool in the experiment to analyze source code fragments for semantic similarity.
The open access usage advantage: a temporal and spatial analysis In this study, employing the metric data provided by The New England Journal of Medicine, we confirmed the OA advantages from both temporal and spatial perspectives.
Five decades of the Journal of Consumer Affairs: A bibliometric analysis Our study makes several contributions to the literature.
Did anthropause generate a research pause during the pandemic? The experiences of a non-medical journal From the findings of this study, the anthropause might not generate an obvious research pause during the first year of the pandemic. However, as the pandemic continues or the world moves to post-pandemic time, the long-term impact on research activities (e.g., the generation of new experimental data and whether a data gap appears in the future) is worth investigating. We will continue to pay attention to this matter.
Spanish research in Educational Psychology from a gender perspective (2008-2018) The Spanish production in educational psychology collected and published in journals indexed in the WoS Journal Citation Reports (JCR) databases during the period 2008-2018 is characterized by a constant increase over the years, which confirms an upward trend as shown by studies carried out previously (González-Sala & Osca-Lluch, 2016). The presence of women in Spanish production in educational psychology is notorious. We consider that obtaining it periodically is important to be able to monitor the participation of women in the different facets of scientific activity.
A bibliometric analysis on studies of nanomedicine applications in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma The results of this study not only provide a historical perspective on the scientific evolution within the field, but also revealed the trends and key topics of the field. Overall, nanomedicine research in HNSCC is still in its infancy, and further investigations, especially clinical trials, are still required. Nevertheless, nanomedicine, as a cutting-edge technology is poised to create a paradigm shift in the early detection, prevention, and treatment of HNSCC.
The Journal of Small Business Management: A bibliometric overview of 1996-2019 Our objective was to present contributions that JSBM has offered to the scientific community and also to identify the major trends and themes in JSBM articles during the period 1996–2019. This study may be useful for researchers, publishers, and educational institutions interested in small business and entre-preneurship research. Certainly, JSBM publishes multidimensional research, but works related to the financial literacy of small firm owners, personality traits, FinTech, WealthTech, RiskTech, and social trading in the context of small businesses could be encouraged and explored.
Assembling research integrity: negotiating a policy object in scientific governance To conclude, this article has discussed policy efforts to enhance research integrity in Danish science as an example of a policy object.
The micro-geography of academic research: How distinctive is economics? In terms of the question posed in the title of this paper, economics has a distinctively high level of micro-geographic concentration of research production and research recognition.
Analysis of the scientific production of the effect of COVID-19 on the environment: A bibliometric study The results of the current study therefore offer an agenda for future research and constitute a starting point for academics in the field of environmental studies to evaluate the effects of COVID-19. Hence the findings of this article offer information professionals with a true and objective framework of the main current scientific research combining COVID-19 and the environment. Journalists as well as information and documentation professionals, by incorporating these findings into their news stories and narratives, would bolster and guarantee their credibility in a time marked by an unprecedented information explosion.
Scientific HIV research in Africa and the Middle East: a socio-economic demographic analysis Our study confirmed the leading role of South Africa in driving HIV/AIDS research, but also highlighted the contribution of countries such as Uganda, Malawi, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Mozambique.
Generating a Citation Summary Based on Cited Sentences and the Implied Citation Emotions The emotional citation summary can provide more comprehensive feedback than a general citation summary regarding academic peers' evaluation of the given article, so as to more effectively express the function and contribution of the article in the scientific community.
Software Engineering in Saudi Arabia: A Bibliometric Assessment In general, KSA is performing well comparing to three of its neighboring countries (UAE, Jordan and Egypt) in terms of the quantity of the published SE papers and received citations. However, in comparison to developed countries, the results suggest that more work on the quantity, quality and visibility of the SE papers authored by KSA-based researchers is needed. The assessment is meant to help SE Saudi researchers, PhD students and practitioners to wisely select their potential future re-search areas.
Exploring the Interdisciplinary Nature of Precision Medicine: Network Analysis and Visualization This study can help researchers, clinicians, and policymakers comprehensively understand the overall network of interdisciplinary cooperation in precision medicine.
Comparison of self-citation patterns in WoS and Scopus databases based on national scientific production in Slovenia (1996-2020) Results show similar self-citation patterns in two databases with some differences on account of better coverage by Scopus of local academic journals published in Slovenia and some other regional journals, e.g. published in Croatia. The citation rankings were not noticeably altered by subtraction of self-citations in all fields. Similar patterns of faster ageing of self-citations than citations were found in both databases, indicating similar diminishing impact of self-citations on citations over time.
Turing Award elites revisited: patterns of productivity, collaboration, authorship and impact Our results show that most of the winners have received long-term professional education in the world's top universities, and more than 61% of the researchers have obtained a degree in mathematics, which shows that mathematics plays a vital role in computer science. In general, the productivity and impact of the winners' works are considerable, reaching average publication productivity of about 191.6, with the h-index of 49. While, the deviation is extensive, with coefficients of variation of 88.25% and 76.19%, respectively, indicating that these widely-spread metrics are not the primary indicators of the evaluation of the Turing Award. Scientific breakthroughs take time. We need to be patient with our researchers, and it is best to provide them with as loose an specific evaluation environment as possible.
The relationship between web usage and citation statistics for electronics and information technology articles In this study, we show that, for an extensive set of 191,881 papers in several different subfields, usage is indeed correlated with citations, even after these variables are normalized by age, subfield and document type.
Ranking journals through the lens of active visibility By considering distinct individual researcher as building unit in the proposed AVI index, the index automatically obviates the effect of much discussed optimizing factors like journal self-citations, author self-citations or recitations and thus becomes better immune to the great game of artificially increasing journal rankings. To sum up, the conceptual framework presented in this paper in developing ranked order list of journals through a novel basic building unit i.e., distinct researcher, can be an appealing methodology for obtaining fair comparisons of journals and can further be used for other ranking in academic arena like ranking individual authors also.
Measuring research performance of Iraqi universities using Scopus data In this article, we proposed a methodology for quantification of the quality of scientific performance of Iraqi universities by using h-index data in Scopus database.
Attitudes towards plagiarism among faculty members in Egypt: a cross-sectional study The results of the current study revealed a moderate ATP among the faculty members of Egyptian universities. Given the tested ATP, the study recommended several procedures by the Supreme Council of Universities, including developing an academic integrity policy, launching an obligatory training programme on plagiarism, and establishing an interna- tional publishing unit in each campus to disseminate awareness of academic integrity.
Robust h-index In this work, we present a generalization of the h-index called robust h-index (rh¡-index). In summary, we state that based on our proposed index, it is possible to determine the robustness of an author, by determining if the researcher could be increasing her/his h-index in a fraudulent way.
Diversity of success: measuring the scholarly performance diversity of tenured professors in the Israeli academia In this paper, we systematically investigated the relationship between the academic career success and scholarly performance as reflected by the performance diversity among 663 successful scholars in Israel. This finding provides an additional motivation for decreasing gender inequality and increasing women promotion in the Israeli academia. We, therefore, recommend academic institutions to adopt this approach and use both indices' data for promotion consideration.
Dispersion measures for h-index: a study of the Brazilian researchers in the field of mathematics The study concludes that the dci and dco indices were able to reliably measure the distribution dispersion of the researchers' citation impact together with their h-index. Consequently, they managed to estimate the representativeness of h-index as an indicator of the researchers' scientific performance in the field of mathematics in Brazil. We concluded that the dci and dco indices can contribute to evaluate the h-index representativeness as an indicator of a researcher's cumulative scientific impact and to distinguish, more accurately, selective and productive researchers. As a last suggestion, it is considered that future studies that compare the performance of the indicators analyzed in the present study with those proposed by Zhang (2009) and Ye and Rousseau (2010) can contribute to the understanding of their independence in relation to each other and the description of different aspects related to the characterization of the researchers' scientific performance, particularly those related to the representation of the information contained in the tails (upper and lower) of their frequency distribution.
The use of citation context to detect the evolution of research topics: a large-scale analysis In this paper, we presented an empirical work aimed at discovering research topics and their trends in biomedical and life sciences. By aggregating topics distributions at journal level, we found that most journals essentially cover different topics, while some focus more on a specific topic. By aggregating topics distributions at country level, we found that some countries pay more attention to some topics at the expense of others.
A Bibliometric Network Analysis of Coronavirus during the First Eight Months of COVID-19 in 2020 These results will form the basis for future research and guide decision-making in coronavirus focused on COVID-19 research and treatments.
RETRACTED: Predatory publishing in Scopus: evidence on cross-country differences (Retracted article. See vol. 128, pg. 1459, 2023) Taken at face value, the evidence presented in this paper indicates that countries at a medium level of economic development and with large research sectors are most susceptible to predatory publishing. This should be a dire warning for developing countries which devote large resources to support research, but which may not pay sufficient attention to upgrading their research governance capabilities, including research evaluation framework. Moreover, the evidence suggests that oil-rich and/or Arabic and/or eastern countries tend to be particularly vulnerable, which completes the picture of who should be primarily on the lookout for predators.
Do journals raise their impact factor or SCImago ranking by self-citing in editorials? A bibliometric analysis of trauma and orthopaedic journals Editor self-citation influences the IF and SJR indicators in T&O journals. Therefore, these metrics should be considered in conjunction with other factors such as audience, topics included and international presence when evaluating journals.
Sleeping Beauties of Coronavirus Research Overall, the evaluations show that the effectiveness of investigations is the infrastructure of the science, besides the research itself in which the SBs of different research topics stay awakened.
Ranking Disciplinary Social Work Journals: Comparing Faculty Perceptions With Two Citation-Based Approaches The results provide some guidance to disciplinary stakeholders making assessments about top-tier journals.
Diversity and interdisciplinarity in nanoscience and nanotechnology: a time-related analysis of the subject category Summing up, data demonstrate that the evolution of the interdisciplinarity/diversity features of NST scientific literature, captured by “N&N" subject category journals, is mostly concentrated in the first years of life of the subject category itself.
INVESTIGATING ALTMETRIC INFORMATION FOR THE TOP 1000 JOURNALS FROM HANDELSBLATT RANKING IN ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS STUDIES With this finding Mendeley counts can be recommended to libraries as useful indicators respectively as popularity factors (complementary to citations) that might help to provide a better ranking of search results for library services.
A breeding pool of ideas: Analyzing interdisciplinary collaborations at the Complex Systems Summer School Our results suggest that project group composition at the Santa Fe Institute's Complex Systems Summer School does not follow patterns of academic collaboration found in many other studies.
For the further training of individuals in neurosurgery II: the academic legacy of the William P. Van Wagenen Fellowship Over the past 50 years, more than perhaps any other opportunity for academic development available in neurosurgery, the Van Wagenen Fellowship has helped fellows to begin academic neurosurgical careers, following in Cushing’s legacy to Van Wagenen himself.
Publishing at any cost: a cross-sectional study of the amount that medical researchers spend on open access publishing each year Medical researchers in 2019 were found to have paid between US$0 and US$34676 in total APCs.
Dynamic academic networking concept and its links with English language skills and research productivity-non-Anglophone context Summing up, this study contributes to the SciTS by introducing Dynamic Networking (DN) concept that refers to some aspects of academic relationships that were largely neglected in prior literature and it provides the empirical evidence that in the context of non-Anglo-phone business science in Poland DN leverages academic productivity, while it is leveraged itself by the scholars’ English language skills.
Expanding Research Integrity: A Cultural-Practice Perspective In conclusion, cultural and practice theory can enrich the discourse on RI.
Dot-science top level domain: Academic websites or dumpsites? "Based on the results obtained, it is concluded that the dot-science top-level domain is scarcely adopted by the academic community, and mainly used by registrar companies for reselling purposes (35.5% of all web domains were parked). All dubious content reveals bad practices on the Web, where the tag ‘science' is fundamentally used as a mechanism to deceive search engine algorithms. As a conclusion, and given the results obtained, the feasibility and advisability of transforming the dot-science from a generic to a sponsored top-level domain should be explored."
Bibliometric Analysis of Statistics Journals Indexed in Web of Science Under Emerging Source Citation Index A consistent publication trend was observed in terms of documents production and articles as major contributors, over the 5-year time span.
Does a Predator Need Prey? Examining the Evolving Terminology of Predatory Publishing In this article, we have seen that Beall's (2010) initial term choice "predatory publisher," which he coined in an ad hoc fashion in 2010 to discuss an emerging phenomenon in the field of scholarly publishing, has been questioned and criticized as the associated concept has continued to evolve and grow, meaning that the initial definition and term now seem less appropriate.
The interplay between the reviewer's incentives and the journal's quality standard In conclusion, we find that the journal's quality standard and the reviewer's incentives interact to produce the following insight: Moral hazard considerations motivate choosing higher quality standards, and journal's standard considerations lead to higher-powered reviewer's compensations. From this insight, publishers and editors should be cognizant of both the reviewer's compensation and the journal's standard when making decisions about either.
Tracing the development of mapping knowledge domains Enhanced science overlap mappings like these can be used to trace the diffusion of a research topic across disciplines, model the evolution over time of cross-disciplinary citations, and explore the multidisciplinary knowledge flow and dynamic patterns. The bibliometric analysis of publications in CNKI and literature review of published on science mapping research confirms that Liu has made significant contributions to promoting and applying the concept and tools of science mapping in Chinese academic circles. He is the pioneer who first introduced the mapping knowledge domains to the scientific community in China, and he is an outstanding researcher who employed the science mapping approach to technological science, rather than merely scientometrics and science of science.
Towards medical knowmetrics: representing and computing medical knowledge using semantic predications as the knowledge unit and the uncertainty as the knowledge context We have proposed a conceptual framework of Medical Knowmetrics by using semantic predications as the knowledge unit and the uncertainty as the knowledge context. And a case study on extracting and characterizing clinical knowledge with ‘diversity' and ‘controversy or contradiction' on drug treatment for lung cancer from large-scale published medical documents has validated the proposal.
Quantitative quality: a study on how performance-based measures may change the publication patterns of Danish researchers Our results show that SSH and Natural Sciences & Technology researchers have increased focus on publishing in BFI2-3, while Health Sciences appears not to have changed behavior (RQ1).
A bibliometric analysis of top 50-most cited articles on repetitive trans-cranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for treatment of depression Our research provides an insight on emerging trends in rTMS for depression and highlights the characteristics, quality and dynamics of frequently cited articles in the field. After conducting a quantitative analysis of the top-50 most cited articles, it was observed that high impact articles are usually published in field-specific journals, have been published from USA, are usually authored by a pool of eminent Psychiatrist and are published between 1993 and 2012.
Effects of institutional policies and characteristics on research productivity at Vietnam science and technology universities The research results helped answer our research questions about the impact of institutional policies and university characteristics on univer-sity research results and research productivity.
Research productivity and collaboration of the NIH-funded HIV vaccine trials network: A bibliometric analysis Beyond the productivity, influence, and collaboration measured in this study, the NIH values work that culminates in advances to human health, a process that historically takes decades.
Business and management research in Latin America: A country-level bibliometric analysis This work presents a general overview of the lead- ing countries in business and management research in Latin America between 1990 and 2019. Focusing on topics, the publications in the Spanish and Portuguese journals, Operations Research, and Finance explained more than 50% of the publications in the region. However, there are several limitations worth noting.
Leading countries in computer science: A bibliometric overview The general profile of countries in computer science research indicates that European countries, English-speaking countries, and those with high incomes are the ones that are more important in this field.
Availability of ORCIDs in publications archived in PubMed, MEDLINE, and Web of Science Core Collection This study puts into evidence a relatively weak implementation of ORCIDs in articles indexed in the three bibliographic databases studied: over the period 1966–2019 the percentages of articles with at least one ORCID in MEDLINE and PubMed (entire database) were 34.3% and 3.9%, respectively, and over the period 1990–2019 the percentage of articles with at least one ORCID was 41.1% for the five indexes studied in WoSCC. As a whole, with such weak percentages of articles with at least one ORCID and authors with ORCIDs, using solely ORCIDs to collect exhaustive researcher output is unreliable in these databases. Results presented in this study should convince decision-makers to establish recommendations encouraging editorial services, publishers, institutions, and professional and scholarly associations to consider more frequent use of ORCIDs.
Can we 'feel' the temperature of knowledge? Modelling scientific popularity dynamics via thermodynamics In summary, we report a thermodynamic approach to evaluate the popularity of scientific topics. Our analysis unveals that a continuous stream of useful information is the key to topics’ prosperity in the long run, to which the arrival of eminent child papers contributes a lot. Although knowledge temperature cannot directly be used as a scientific impact metrics, our study suggests a new possibility to quantify research impact in a most intuitive way.
Quoted speech in linguistics research article titles: patterns of use and effects on citations However, the regression analysis indicates that it may not be in the best interests of authors to employ speech act quotations in a paper's title. Their presence particularly in a compound structure with a fronted quotation was a strongly significant (p=0.001) negative predictor of age-weighted citation rates. Future studies are recommended to test for replication of the findings in other social science disciplines that feature speech act titles.
Internally Incentivized Interdisciplinarity: Organizational Restructuring of Research and Emerging Tensions Our analysis highlights the organizational challenges of implementing novel strategies to purposely induce interdisciplinary research within universities.
Predicting scientific breakthroughs based on knowledge structure variations Our results so far give affirmative answers to and empirical and theoretical evidence for the three research questions proposed at the beginning of this article, and there is a long way to go in the quest to create practical tools for early identification of scientific breakthroughs.
Analysis of retracted articles in the ophthalmic literature We conclude that the number of retractions in the ophthalmic literature have increased since 2010, though relatively limited information is available on the retracted articles.
Co-citation, bibliographic coupling and leading authors, institutions and countries in the 50 years of Technological Forecasting and Social Change In sum, our study provides insights into the evolution of research published in TF&SC over its 50-year history.
Forty years of the International Journal of Information Management: A bibliometric analysis In 2019, the IJIM marked its 40th year of publication.
Mapping the intellectual structure of GIS-T field (2008-2019): a dynamic co-word analysis On the basis of publications included in the Web of Science (WoS) database service, and also utilizing co-word analysis, this study mapped the relationships among research topics of GIS-T field. Furthermore, strategic diagrams are used to show the structure and evolution of communities more clearly.
The visibility of philosophy of science in the sciences, 1980-2018 The overarching message that comes out of our detailed analysis of the growing visibility of philosophy of science in other scientific fields is that, contrary to what many may think, philosophy of science as a specialized field is far from autarchic and closed on itself.
A SIR epidemic model for citation dynamics In summary, the SIR epidemic model proved very valuable to fit the citation histories of hit papers and, in addition, offered unexpected insights into the citation dynamics.
How Many Neurosurgeons Does It Take to Author an Article and What Are the Other Factors That Impact Citations? Multi-author and multi-institutional studies ensure greater expertise and thus better impact. Both journals have shown a steady increase in their impact and quality of publications.
Citation Metrics in Psychological Science In sum, although a few highly productive scientists have a very large influence, trends reveal that contributions to psychological science are growing over time, widespread, and not limited to a few stars and elite departments. Our findings are encouraging in showing that most psychology faculty have been involved in research that has been cited and also that citation counts are rising over time. Because citation counts across psychology seem to be increasing, it will be important to have norms that are updated every few years, and this should become increasingly easier with computer software.
Advancing science or advancing careers? Researchers' opinions on success indicators Our survey grasps the perspective of researchers on the value that different research activities have in advancing science, in advancing research careers, and in contributing to researchers’ personal satisfaction. To ensure that changes to research assessments benefit, rather than worsen, research practices and researchers’ working conditions, a thorough restructuration of the resources and infrastructures needs to take place.
Open is not forever: A study of vanished open access journals Our results raise vital concern for the integrity of the scholarly record and highlight the urgency to take collaborative action to ensure continued access and prevent the loss of more scholarly knowledge. Our results indicate that OA journals are not vanishing in vast numbers, but we observed journals with certain characteristics appear more frequently than others. Successfully solving this issue will require the active involvement of the scholarly community as a whole and solutions as diverse as scholarly research itself.
Stop evaluating science: A historical-sociological argument The notion that contributions to the improvement of society by technological or social innovation can always be mapped and measured is erroneous.
Networks and themes in the publications of the New Zealand Ecological Society over the last six decades Thus, the research published by the Society reflects NZ-specific concerns and broader trends in knowledge production (e.g. the shift to team-based science).
Quotation Accuracy Matters: An Examination of How an Influential Meta-Analysis on Active Learning Has Been Cited As evidenced by our citation context analysis, quotation errors were common in studies citing Freeman et al. (2014), and these errors could affect the scholarly discourse surrounding active learning and lecture.
Using Kano diagrams to display the most cited article types, affiliated countries, authors and MeSH terms on spinal surgery in recent 12 years There was a rapidly increasing scientific productivity in the field of spinal surgery in the past 12 years.
Discipline note: A ranking of business school operations management departments based on current faculty publications in five journals Unlike others, this ranking numerically reflects more accurately the – so far qualitative – view of gaining or losing "star" faculty.
Trends in funding research and international collaboration on greenhouse gas emissions: a bibliometric approach This work contributes to the development of scientific knowl-edge about GHGE because it identifies important characteris-tics of research in this field integrating bibliometric and social network analysis.
Predatory nursing journals: A case study of author prevalence and characteristics Swedish nurse researchers help legitimize predatory journals, thus jeopardizing the trustworthiness of academic nursing knowledge. Experienced researchers in high-income countries also engage in predatory publishing. While the problem of predatory publishing needs to be continuously addressed by the academic nursing community, there is some hope from this study that educational efforts might have an effect in combating predatory publishing in nursing.
Does economics have an 'Africa problem'? This paper has provided some of the first-ever comprehensive estimates of what I have described elsewhere as economics' 'Africa problem' (Chelwa, 2015). The hope is that, in a small way, this paper sparks a long-overdue conversation about the politics and implications of the patterns of knowledge production in economics on Africa.
Research productivity, quality, and impact metrics of Australian psychology academics In conclusion, the current study provides normative data including new metrics now available for researchers to track the quantity, quality, and impact of their outputs.
Bridging fields: A comparative study of the presence of think tanks This article has offered major insights into the think tank literature in the last 35 years. The paper has equally clarified the main lines of research of the scholars and produced somewhat surprising results. This work can be useful for scholars who venture to study think tanks to obtain information on the main authors and papers, as well as observing the main lines of research and further areas of study.
One Door Opens: Another Door Shuts? The authors conclude that while OA represents a positive step forward in making knowledge a public good, it is no substitute for a more comprehensive rethink to pluralize our ways of knowing. OA is no substitute for a much more comprehensive rethink of what constitutes useful and legitimate knowledge about the world, and efforts to break down the artificial walls that the journal system has helped create between academics and the rest of us.
Research patterns and intellectual structure of Managerial Auditing Journal: a retrospective using bibliometric analysis during 1986-2019 In summary, the present study has made three contributions to understanding regarding the MAJ's on-going success and future potential. First, by undertaking detailed performance analysis we have demonstrated growth and advancement in the journal's productivity and impact. Finally, and relatedly, we have offered some suggestions regarding specific areas, building on existing expertise while reflecting structural changes in the (increasingly globalised) broader financial environment.
NIH Funding for Surgeon-Scientists in the US: What Is the Current Status? Our study found surgeon-scientists are increasing in number and NIH funding and are becoming more diverse in their research efforts, while maintaining a focus on basic science. Our study reaffirms the longstanding success of surgeon-scientists and their important contribution to both basic science and clinical research. However, to ensure that sur-geons remain in a unique position to greatly impact future scientific discoveries, we must continue to develop robust and unified programs that provide education, pro-fessional development, mentoring, and funding for the future.
Altmetrics of Highly Cited Research Papers in Social Science The evaluation of the research impact on the number of citations could not identify the actual impact on policy or the public.
The classification of citing motivations: a meta-synthesis This research utilized meta-synthesis to synthesize the findings of 38 primary studies related to citing motivations.
Tracking developments in artificial intelligence research: constructing and applying a new search strategy The paper has put forward a systematic method for constructing a bibliometric definition for the field of artificial intelligence.
hu-index: a unified index to quantify individuals across disciplines In this paper, a unified index, h_u-index, is proposed to improve the widely-used h-index.
The correlation between scientific collaboration and citation count at the paper level: a meta-analysis Using a meta-analysis method to explore the relevant primary studies, we found that there was a positive and weak correlation between scientific collaboration and citation count.
Article age- and field-normalized tools to evaluate scientific impact and momentum We created and implemented an algorithm to automatically collect the FWCIs and TPPs of any desired set of papers available at Scopus from the year 2000.
Journals publishing social network analysis This paper provides insight into the most prominent journals in the filed of SNA, and reveals their relationships to each other using direct and indirect approaches for link construction: direct citations between journals, and bibliographic coupling showing the similarities between journals according to common referencing and content.
Exploring the direction and diversity of interdisciplinary knowledge diffusion: A case study of professor Zeyuan Liu's scientific publications This study not only demonstrates how extensive Liu's knowledge contributions have been to Chinese academia. We also shed light on the methodology to measure inter- disciplinary knowledge diffusion. Therefore, the phenomenon of reverse-flow of knowledge deserves to be further explored, which indicates that a certain part of knowledge fragment (a method, a scholar, a document, etc.) in a discipline of low DPE may be of significance to a discipline with high DPE.
Characteristics of high research performance authors in the field of library and information science and those of their articles To summarize, this study revealed that high research performance authors in LIS had higher academic ages, higher percentages of articles using international collaboration, and higher interest in publishing in journals with high impact factor than prolific authors and highly cited authors did.
Open access in Europe: a national and regional comparison Through this article, we have mapped and analyzed the OA publications produced by the European countries over three periods (2000–03, 2008–11 and 2015–18). Results show that the share of OA has increased significantly for all European countries. At regional level, there is no particular lesson to be learned from it. The distribution of open access publications within countries is uniform.
Authors' perception on abstracting and indexing databases in different subject domains "Overall, this study reveals the positive attitudes of authors on A&I databases irrespective of their subject domains."
Bibliometric assessment of national scientific journals The current article has shown that the relatively simple measure of national orientation used in the current and in earlier papers, aiming to characterise national orientation as a percentage of papers published by the most productive country in a journal, uses only data obtained from the journal itself, and strongly correlates with more sophisticated indica- tors that take into account international collaboration and a country's share of articles in the total base, or, alternatively, in the subject field the journal covers.
Journal rankings and publication strategy Our study confirms that journal rankings are an important tool in shaping publication policy.
Factors affecting the citations of papers in tribology journals The results revealed that citations received by papers published in tribology journals are affected by all of these parameters.
Evaluation of publications by the part-set method In evaluating total scientific impact (e.g. life-work) of publications of scientists who are active in several fields, the application of sum (or weighted sum) of the pertinent impact indices (e.g. h or n-index) obtained for the individual fields separately may be recommended instead of calculating the impact of the total set.
Global citation inequality is on the rise Our findings align with recent evidence suggesting intensified international competition and widening author-level disparities in science.
QUANTIFYING AND MAPPING THE EVOLUTION OF A LEADER JOURNAL IN THE FIELD OF CIVIL ENGINEERING The results suggest that Automation in Construction has obtained increasing influence and reputation from scientific community over the past decades.
Interinstitutional Research Team Formation Based on Bibliographic Network Embedding This study aims at the interinstitutional research team formation.
Characterizing Highly Cited Papers in Mass Cytometry through H-Classics In conclusion, this study shows for the first time the main protagonists and predominant trends in the area of mass cytometry, reflected in the most cited articles in the discipline. Likewise with studies in other areas, we think that this bibliometric information can help researchers, in particular those with an interest in immunology, to expand knowledge in this field and set valuable collaborations in the mass cytometry research field.
The Most Widely Disseminated COVID-19-Related Scientific Publications in Online Media: A Bibliometric Analysis of the Top 100 Articles with the Highest Altmetric Attention Scores In conclusion, our study presents a detailed list and analysis of the altmetric top 100 articles on COVID-19 research, thereby providing important information pertaining to the dissemination of scientific knowledge during the pandemic caused by a novel virus.
Evolution Trend Research of Global Ocean Power Generation Based on a 45-Year Scientometric Analysis In this study, we used visual scientometric analysis to explore the overall trend of OPG research, draw the knowledge map of OPG research, clarify the relationship between topics, and mine the frontier and hot topics.
The "Nanotechnology Innovation Diamond", a model for successful nanoscience research and development The presented model can be used to increase the rate of success of nanotechnology R&D projects, nanotechnology project portfolio selection, and nanotechnology foresight exercises. In conclusion, this study has reported on a nanotechnology innovation management and foresight model, the Nanotechnology Innovation Diamond. This model can be used to increase successful innovations in nano-technology, and alternatively, as a foresight tool in identifying strategic nanotechnology research areas that have a high likelihood of success.
GENDER DIVERSITY IN RESEARCH TEAMS AND CITATION IMPACT IN ECONOMICS AND MANAGEMENT In this paper, we have investigated the relationship between GD and citations received by academic papers in Economics and Management. Our results show the existence of a positive and modest effect of GD on the citations received. Finally, given the strong promotion of GD and inclusion in academic research, our results seem to confirm the benefits of gender collaboration, and further research could test their validity in other disciplines.
Responsible Science Assessment: downplaying indexes, boosting quality Overall, to change the current situation and allow research to reach its full contemporary potential, we propose a scientist-based movement to improve scientific assessment, the Initiative for Responsible Scientific Assessment (IRSA). Therefore, basic research must be valued, prioritized and protected. Scientists must rally and defend basic research openly to ensure this.
Research Productivity of Canadian Radiation Oncology Residents: A Time-Trend Analysis Canadian RO resident publication productivity nearly doubled over a 12-year period.
Honest signaling in academic publishing Our models have implications for how to modify academic publishing to promote honest paper submission, and provide a range of insights regarding the repercussions of various pub- lishing reforms. How can we feasibly reform academic publishing to make it more honest, efficient, and reli- able? We still lack definitive answers to this question. However, to the extent that we seek a publishing system in which journal rank correlates with paper quality, our models highlight several solutions. Reforms based on these ideas should be subjected to rigorous theoretical and experimental test before implementation. Doing so will be our best hope for improving the efficiency and reliability of science, while minimizing the risk of collat- eral damage from the unintended consequences of otherwise well-intentioned reforms.
Using the IPcase Index with Inflection Points and the Corresponding Case Numbers to Identify the Impact Hit by COVID-19 in China: An Observation Study We used the IRT model to assess the IPcase index for each region on the negative impact of COVID-19, and to compare the difference in SACOVID between all regions of the world and China.
Scientific Mobility, Training and Entrepreneurial Skills in Health Sciences: The Spanish Case For all the above reasons, this paper has provided data that shows that mobile scientists in the Health Sciences are more entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial, have acquired more entrepreneurial skills, and have received more education in these subjects.
Analysis of key factors of influence on scientometric indicators of higher educational institutions of Ukraine Conclusions are drawn about the need for building university rankings using operational (rather than cumulative) indicators of scientific activity and the importance of taking into account the profile of educational institutions by introducing weighting factors.
The thin ret(raction) line: biomedical journal responses to incorrect non-targeting nucleotide sequence reagents in human gene knockdown publications Viewed collectively, different journal responses to human gene knockdown publications with a common reagent error type suggest that editorial staff require more support to interpret post-publication notifications of incorrect nucleotide sequence reagents.
A call for governments to pause Twitter censorship: using Twitter data as social-spatial sensors of COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2 research diffusion Twitter can play a crucial role in the rapid research response during the COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, especially to spread research with prompt public scrutiny. Governments are urged to pause censorship of social media platforms to support the scientific community's fight against COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2.
Using technology-based tools in ensuring quality of publishable journal articles: the case of Chinese undergraduate research writing experience This paper suggests the utilization of online technology tools that will facilitate the quality of articles to be submitted for publication. The study highlighted that using the online grammar checker, plagiarism scanner, online readability scanner, citation generator, and Google scholar reference manager improved the quality of the papers on grammar and lexical quality, similarity index, readability index, number of references, number of correct bibliographic entries for submission in high impact journals. Implications of this study will further develop the research writing competence of academic community to creatively and effectively disseminate the results of their research studies with higher chances of being accepted in respected global databases as their contribution to knowledge generation and development of the country in terms of scientific publication as the measurement of human intellectual capital.
Fear of the academic fake? Journal editorials and the amplification of the 'predatory publishing' discourse We have analysed the affective discourses about 'predatory pub-lishing' deployed in scientific and medical journal editorials since 2012 to understand the consequences of normalising an affective discourse about 'predatory publishing'. The great major-ity of the editorials use a combination of metaphors to invoke an affective response in the reader, emphasising the 'fake' and 'decep-tive' nature of 'predatory' publishers, presenting them as a critical threat to the integrity of science and, in healthcare, as a risk to patients themselves. Finally, the research demonstrates the need to understand the institutional drivers and incentives shaping the publishing practices of individual academics, rather than simply resorting to rhetorical strategies to belittle and dismiss these phenomena.
A Bibliometric Evaluation of the Top 100 Cited Dimethyl Fumarate Articles In conclusion, we have tried to shed light on the use of dimethyl fumarate over the years by searching for information on which publications are the most cited, as well as the associated investigators, countries, and institutions participating in the studies.
Citations versus expert opinions: citation analysis of featured reviews of the American Mathematical Society We conclude that the two notions of significance described by being a featured review article and being highly cited are distinct. This indicates that peer review and citation counts give largely independent determinations of highly distinguished articles. We feel that this trend is unfortunate and identifying important articles from the viewpoint of independent experts is valuable to the community of scholars.
Sleeping beauties gain impact in overdrive mode In this study we investigate several characteristics of SBs that have not or hardly been investigated previously.
Accuracy of PubMed-based author lists of publications and use of author identifiers to address author name ambiguity: a cross-sectional study When used by senior physicians, the advanced search in PubMed is accurate for retrieving authors' publications. Author identifiers are only used by a minority of physicians and are therefore not recommended in this context, as they would lead to inaccurate results. A short training by librarians or peers to learn how to employ this option would be desirable as few physicians use it.
Trend and research status of agronomy based on the Essential Science Indicators during 2009-2019 The 734 top papers include 730 highly cited papers and seven hot papers, all written in English, were from 3,540 authors; 1,225 organizations; and 91 countries/territories, listed in 47 journals in the field of Agronomy.
Publication rate and citation counts for preprints released during the COVID-19 pandemic: the good, the bad and the ugly We found a remarkably low publication rate for preprints within our sample, despite accelerated time to publication by multiple scholarly journals. However, our findings show that preprints had a significantly lower scientific impact, which might suggest that some preprints have lower quality and will not be able to endure peer-reviewing processes to be published in a peer-reviewed journal. Also, researchers should be careful when using and citing preprints in their publications.
The Ranking Prediction of NBA Playoffs Based on Improved PageRank Algorithm The experimental results show that the predicted winning rate is equivalent to the integral method, but it is closer to the actual results in some parts.
Collection Development in the Era of Big Deals Our research has both academic and economic implications.
Research impact evaluation and academic discourse The initial, dynamic phases of the introduction of impact to British academia represent, in terms of Foucauldian theory, the phase of 'emergence'. This was a new reality that academics had to quickly come to terms with, positioning themselves towards it in a process of subjectification. It will be fascinating to study the emergence of analogous evaluation systems in other countries and institutions. 'Impact infrastructure' and 'genre' are two excellent starting points for an analysis of ensuing changes to academic realities and subjectivities.
Assessment of gender divide in scientific communities The gender divide framework is a tool that allows to recognize gender divide in scientific communities and suggests some possible directions to intervene to reduce such issue.
The editor-manuscript game One of the most striking features to emerge from our analysis is that in the separating equilibrium of the real-life scenario, the high-ability editor does not send the paper to external peer reviewers and issues a desk-decision consistent with their private signal about the manuscript's quality instead, whereas the low-ability editor sends the manuscript out to external review regardless of their private signal.
A multi-perspective analysis of retractions in life sciences The methods and results of this study can be applied to continuously understand the nature and evolution of retractions in life sciences, thus contributing to the health of this research ecosystem.
Assessment of author ranking indices based on multi-authorship Overall, none of the multi-authorship index remained successful in bringing 100% of award winners in the list of top ranked authors.
Multidimensional quantitative analysis of the Cuban scientific output and its regional context Cuba has outperformed for 19 years in position 7th since 1973 regarding annual scientific output in the LAC region, and currently at position 6th cumulatively through the SJCR 2020, as have been demonstrated in this study. Its ranking has been highly influenced by the output published at the Cuban journals indexed by Scopus. It is also proposed for future studies to consider the special case of countries showing stabilization on GDP and population parameters, including those insular states, to explain further stabilization in the annual output.
Analyzing the relationship between text features and grants productivity Our analysis revealed there is indeed a relationship between text features and grants productivity.
Visualizing the knowledge outburst in global research on COVID-19 The study reveals that global scientific communities are proactively fighting with this most extended sequence of RNA virus (Majumder, 2020). Such a proliferation of scientific information is unprecedented in the history of science. The above findings shall be helpful to propose future strategies in the research of this emerging area.
Statistical methods used in Arabic journals of library and information science All variables—except journals' ones-affect Arab researchers' choice of statistical methods to use in their research in LIS.
Evaluation of accounting journals by coverage of accounting topics in 2018-2019 This study may help scientists to select a journal for pub-lishing or researching an appropriate accounting topic.
Challenges to the validity of topic reconstruction Thus, if we apply an algorithm to a data model, we cannot know which ground truth, if any, it reconstructs.
Retracted articles in the biomedical literature from Indian authors The present study on retracted publications in the biomedical literature authored by Indian scientists highlights some fruitful insights on growing interest: retraction.
Author preprint behaviour and non-compliance with journal preprint policies: One biomedical journal's experience In this study, we utilized a convenience sample of available data to determine authors' use of preprint servers.
The relevance of context in plagiarism detection: The case of a professional legal genre Findings from this paper confirm that plagiarism detection is a complex, multilayered task going beyond and above the discovery of copied text of an earlier original work into another, and show the relevance of context in discerning between real cases of plagiarism and those that are not. From the analysis of the exemplary case study, it can be concluded that the expert linguist must be cautious when reporting cases involving plagiarism because, on the one hand, not every single instance of copy-pasted text is plagiarism, and because, on the other hand, not every single instance of plagiarism implies copyright infringement. The suggested pragmatic turn may have a positive effect on the relevance and accuracy of the linguistic evidence that the expert linguist can provide to the courts of justice.
Mapping the Research on Knowledge Transfer: A Scientometrics Approach Bibliometric analysis is used to identify the main trend and trajectories of research in an area of research or a journal. Thus, in this study, we aimed to identify the publication trend of knowledge transfer research in the latest decade from 2010-2019 to characterize and provide valuable information to assist all the knowledge transfer field, stakeholders. Besides, the analysis of literature enables us to jot down some future research directions.
Predicting potential knowledge convergence of solar energy: bibliometric analysis based on link prediction model This work can provide guidance not only for scholars to grasp the research direction and to generate more innovations but for the government to formulate the policies of government funding.
Trends in Academic Spine Neurosurgeon Productivity as Measured by the Relative Citation Ratio Current academic spine neurosurgeons have high median RCR values relative to the NIH standard RCR value of 1.0.
Digital technology helps remove gender bias in academia Our results suggest that while traditional metrics used by academic institutions exacerbate bias, new metrics, such as the AAS, may present a levelling of the playing field.
National orientation of Ukrainian journals: means-ends decoupling in a semi-peripheral state It is concluded that as Ukrainian journals indexed in Scopus do not operate as quality outlets for international exchange of academic research results, they reflect a case of means–ends decoupling. To summarise, the explored Ukrainian journals sustain means-ends decoupling, the degree of which varies from case to case. Enhancement of the quality of Ukrainian journals requires the enhancement of the level of science in the country in general.
Flipped classroom in the second decade of the Millenia: a Bibliometrics analysis with Lotka's law This study aims to examine the trend of research on flipped classroom by looking into the current state of publication, the pattern of citations, presenting the theme involved, test the applicability of Lotka’s law and propose the areas for future research in the flipped classroom. This study’s results will help specific researchers understand the worldwide success of flipped classroom learning and propose pathways for further studies. With a pool of committed researchers, scholars as well as educators that Lotka’s Law has predicted in this study, the literature in the flipped classroom will presumably survive in contributing to combat the potential difficulties arise in the educational setting in future.
Navigating power in doctoral publishing: a data feminist approach The purpose of this paper was to provide an approach for doctoral students and those who support them to engaging with power in knowledge production and challenge power in the interest of equity. Teams in doctoral publishing emerge as an important area of inquiry. Future work may involve comparing the outcomes of team-based publication and sole author strat-egies in doctoral education. And examining how strategies such as mentorship or team-based supervision can challenge power and promote equity by prioritising inclusiv-ity and openness in doctoral publishing.
Research trends in COVID-19 vaccine: a bibliometric analysis This is the first bibliometric study that provides detailed information about published literature on the COVID-19 vaccine. Majority of the publications were published in developed countries. The findings may useful for researchers and policymakers.
Global optometrist top 200 research ranking The optometric profession is supported by a robust research base, prosecuted by a large international cohort of optometric researchers who publish extensively on a broad range of ophthalmic issues and whose work is highly cited. The 200 most impactful optometrists in the world are identified. It is envisaged that the on-line web version of the Global Optometrist Top 200 Research Ranking (www.optomrankings.com) will serve as an ongoing, visible benchmark for excellence, and will perhaps inspire and motivate subsequent generations of optometrists who seek to contribute to underpin the intellectual fabric of the profession of optometry.
A systematic metadata harvesting workflow for analysing scientific networks With an increase in the popularity of open access and open metadata, we hypothesise that this workflow shall provide an avenue for understanding scientific scholarship in multiple dimensions. The workflow provides a means for fast and interactive analysis. Techniques for author name disambiguation and partial counting have not been included. For effective analysis these need to be incorporated in future.
Interplay between success and patterns of human collaboration: case study of a Thai Research Institute "The key findings of this study indicate that the success of a research institute needs to be assessed in the context of not just researcher or team level, but also on how the researchers engage in collaboration as well as on how teams evolve." "This result suggests that variables such as team size, turnover rate, team compactness and team openness are critical factors that must be taken into account for the success of a team." "The results obtained in this article, also supported by the current literature15,31, shows that collaboration is beneficial to achieve a common goal."
Research Career Paths Among Political Scientists in Research Institutions Thus, more than half of those scholars who earned tenure crafted a research path that does not conform to conventional wisdom.
Contemporary Assessment of the Most Cited Clinical, Basic Science, and Guidelines Papers in Urology: A Reference for Urology Journal Club Contemporary citation analysis of indexed manuscripts in urology may serve as a valuable educational tool for urologists and trainees. This study may serve as a practical reference that can be used by urologists, urology trainees, and residency programs to identify manuscripts that have played a pivotal role in the development of the field.
Collaborations in communication: Authorship credit allocation via a weighted fractional count procedure Results from our study indicate that authors with higher levels of productivity are associated with higher coauthor totals.
The faculty hiring network for PhD-granting communication programs In summary, the current study in many ways replicated the results of the original Bar-nett et al. (2010) findings that indicated a disproportionately small number of programs place students into doctoral-granting PhD programs. We learned from our updated analyses the number of programs placing students is increasing, indicating greater diversity in many ways, at least in terms of outdegree centrality. Future analyses would go far to learn the migration patterns of program graduates.
How coupled are capillary electrophoresis and mass spectrometry? Our results revealed that coupling between both techniques is not clustered in the network. So, the papers are more well-grouped according to their respective applications than to the employed analytical tech-nique. Furthermore, the presented analysis can assist literature reviews of a given desired area.
A two-dimensional journal classification method based on output and input factors: perspectives from citation and authorship related indicators After analyzing the assessment indicators of each journal at the current stage, this study has proposed a framework of two-dimensional journal classification method from both output and input perspectives, which makes up for the inadequacy of one-sided assessment indicators in the past. The effectiveness of this method has been verified by the journals selected from the “Operation Research & Management Science” field. The ranking result obtained by the Pareto non-dominated set-based sorting method is highly correlated with the that of the JCR indicators, and is similar to the general consensus of most scholars in the field.
Analyzing knowledge entities about COVID-19 using entitymetrics This paper presents an entitymetric analysis on COVID-19 literatures. We construct an entity-entity co-occurrence network and employ network indicators to analyze the extracted entities. We find that ACE-2 and C-reactive protein are two very important genes and that lopinavir and ritonavir are two very important chemicals, regardless of the results from which rankings.
Investigating the impact of collaboration with authority authors: a case study of bibliographic data in field of philosophy This study measures the impact of collaboration of authority authors on growth of junior researchers in the field of philosophy.
What Documents Cannot Do: Revisiting Michael Polanyi and the Tacit Knowledge Dilemma Three significant conclusions can be drawn from this work.
Ensuring Sustainable Evaluation: How to Improve Quality of Evaluating Grant Proposals? If we want ensure that the process of evaluation promotes proposals that are harmonising social, environmental and economical interest, reflecting values and ethics, the process of the evaluation itself need to be sustainable [48].
Collaborative contribution networks and hotspot evolution in earthquake Over the past 10 years, the output of papers and co-authored papers in the earthquake field has increased steadily, with the growth rates of 85.51% and 92.40%, respectively. That means that the annual average growth rates are 10.69% and 11.55%, respectively, which indicates that the research attention in this field has been continuously warming up.
pmparser and PMDB: resources for large-scale, open studies of the biomedical literature As our examples highlight, PMDB's structure offers great flexibility to query and join multiple data types.
Global publication productivity in dermatology: a bibliometric description of the past and estimation of the future The top-10 countries including the USA, Canada, a few European and Asian countries contributed more than 3/4 of all publications. The USA hold the dominant leader position both in past publication productivity and currently registered trials.
An internationalised Europe and regionally focused Americas: A network analysis of higher education studies In response to our second research goal concerning the internationalisation of studies on higher education, we found that studies on higher education are not internationally oriented, as also confirmed by previous research (Avdeev, 2019; Horta & Jung, 2014; Jung & Horta, 2013; Kwiek, 2020; Lovakov & Yudkevich, 2021). The two main communities (0 and 1) highlight a stark division between the Americas (community 1) and the rest of the world (community 0) (Tight, 2007, 2014). Efforts to balance the observed tendencies can have an impact on the current division that our analysis has observed in research co-authorships between the Europe-Asia-Oceania block and the Americas.
Will Your Paper Get Promoted by a Citation? A Case Study of Citation Promoter in Computer Science Discipline In this paper, we proposed a new concept of citation promoter, which boosts the citation counts of the cited paper shortly after this citation is received.
A Population Model for Academia: Case Study of the Computer Science Community Using DBLP Bibliography 1960-2016 We believe that the results can help academics and policy makers alike to better understand and evaluate the development and evolution of their respective academic communities. By proposing a population model for the academic community, our approach creates a systematic method to describe the size as well as the composition of the community (in terms of immigrants, seniors and their offspring) over time. For example, it can improve scientific evaluation methods by accounting for inflation, and in general, aid in policy-making for better resource allocation in academia.
On the Expressive Power of Scientific Manuscripts The paper proposes interesting analysis of research citations from unsupervised semantic analysis perspective. The paper also proposed various article level metrics like ‘deep cite’ and 'expressive power' which shall be used as bench mark metrics for measuring the semantic strength of research article. Using expressive power for measuring article quality would transform the concept of semantic measurement of scientific article into a world of measuring the useful idea communicated by the article into the research arena.
Multilevel Graph-Based Decision Making in Big Scholarly Data: An Approach to Identify Expert Reviewer, Finding Quality Impact Factor, Ranking Journals and Researchers The proposed graph-based analysis mechanisms performed well to make decisions for the defined four critical problems that are raised by the research community.
Fitness and Research Complexity Among Research-Active Universities in the World This paper examined fitness of research institutions and complexity of research fields based on the research out-put. The finding showed that there's no clear correlation between the ARWU ranking over oppor-tunity value, research complexity index and fitness. Opportunity value against fitness illustrated a negative correlation in the second order regression, which suggests that if a university already has a high fitness value, there's limited room to further grow.
Understanding the Inter-Domain Presence of Research Topics in the Computing Discipline Our results reveal interesting motifs in the ecosystem of inter-domain topics. Contrary to conventional wisdom, we find that the involvement of many authors or highly eminent ones, do not relate to higher inter-domain presence of topics. Higher interdomainness of topics appear to be more closely associated with inherent characteristics of the topics. These results can help individual researchers identify research topics they want to pursue further, and research organizations make informed decisions on grant proposals and the setting up of research groups.
The quantity of health-related article publications from universities in Saudi Arabia: A bibliometric analysis, 2008-2017 This study has identified a continuous significant increase in the number of publications during the period from 2008 to 2017.
Winning and Losing Relationship: A New Method of University Ranking in the Case of Countries along the Belt and Road This paper, for the first time, systematically evaluates and ranks universities in the BRI countries.
Investigating gender differences in journal selection decisions: A survey of academic researchers The findings suggest that women are focussed on what is required to succeed in the academic environment but further research on the relative engagement of women in all aspects of scholarly publication would help to provide a wider picture.
Factors associated with high Altmetric Attention Score in dermatology research These findings support the potential impact of online platforms for scholarly literature dissemination, recognising that social attention may be dependent on some manuscript characteristics.
Are mega-journals a publication outlet for lower quality research? A bibliometric analysis of Spanish authors in PLOS ONE Results show a moderate correlation between the total number of articles published by prolific Spanish authors in Biology and Medicine and the number of their articles in PLOS ONE. Frequent Spanish authors in PLOS ONE have a larger than average citation impact in Biology and Medicine, reinforcing the idea that they do not need to submit to PLOS ONE for the purpose of publishing in a high-impact journal. This question will require further investigation using participatory research methods such as surveys and interviews.
Publishing speed and acceptance rates of open access megajournals As megajournals have rapidly grown to thousands of articles per year, the time from submission to acceptance has grown by almost two months.
Pediatric literature trends: high-level analysis using text-mining The topics in pediatric literature have shifted in the past two decades, reflecting changing trends in the field.
Comparative bibliometric analysis of publications by past Royal Australasian College of Surgeons research scholarship recipients RACS scholarship recipients have generated more peer-reviewed publications since the completion of their scholarship which dem-onstrates a continuing interest in advancing and disseminating med-ical knowledge.
The impact of gender on early scientific publication and long-term career advancement in Israeli medical school graduates We found a strong association between EP and the number, impact, and quality of publications throughout their academic career. This study illuminates the need for further investigations into the causes of gender discrepancies. We should invest in support programs encouraging early high quality research projects for young physicians and female graduates.
Creative Destruction: The Structural Consequences of Scientific Curation Our analyses describe the significant discur-sive transformations, both dramatic and sub-tle, that accompany curated academic review. Articles in Annual Review journals affect the future of the works they cite.
Integration by Parts: Collaboration and Topic Structure in the CogSci Community Our bottom-up approach yields converging support for the claim that cognitive science researchers have become more integrated over the past two decades.
Developing a measure of innovation from research in higher education data In conclusion, the unique factor that this study contributes to the literature is the quantification of the “public health” factor, which is most difficult to quantify and no other institutional research evaluations includes this metric to the best of our knowledge. The results of this study indicate that broader categories of evaluation are necessary to provide a more comprehensive picture of an institution's research outcome societal benefits. It is incumbent on research administrators, funding agencies, and peer reviewers to ensure that the criteria for institutional research validly represents a comprehensive contribution to society.
Role taxonomy of green and sustainable science and technology journals: exportation, importation, specialization and interdisciplinarity Results suggest that the great majority of journals in this field are specialized or interdisciplinary.
Topic evolution, disruption and resilience in early COVID-19 research "The findings raise questions about whether shifts are advantageous for global scientific progress, and whether the research community will return to the original equilibrium or reorganize into a different knowledge configuration."
Characterizing research leadership on geographically weighted collaboration network In this paper, to address the spatial bias in research leadership flows in research collaboration, we examine the spatial distribution and the dynamic trend of research leadership flows in pharmaceutical sciences.
How accurate are Twitter and Facebook altmetrics data? A comparative content analysis These results suggest that Twitter and Facebook altmetrics data in the Altmetric database are reliable on the whole, although there is still space for further improvement.
A large-scale comparison of coverage and mentions captured by the two altmetric aggregators: Altmetric.com and PlumX Firstly, PlumX has an overall higher coverage of articles than Altmetric.com and tracks a wider number of sources.
Evaluating the state-of-the-art in mapping research spaces: A Brazilian case study To the best of knowledge, we performed the first systematic evaluation of the state-of-the-art methods for creating research maps, referred in the text as the Frequentist model [5] and the Embedding model [7].
Pathways of influence: understanding the impact of philosophy of science in scientific domains Our findings indicate that direct, interpersonal, and often face-to-face interactions are associated with greater impacts outside the discipline. Furthermore, our interviews suggest that many philosophers of science deeply value the impacts they've had among scientists, policymakers, and other relevant stakeholders. We have used this data to generate several recommendations as to how philosophers might increase their broader impacts and what types of changes may be needed at institutional and disciplinary levels.
Honorary authorship in cardiothoracic surgery Our results show that, despite the high awareness of the ICMJE guidelines, there is a large discrepancy in perceived HA and guideline-based HA.
Surgical Oncology in Romania: An Analysis of Research and Impact Based on Literature Search in PubMed and Web of Science Research originating from Romania in the field of surgical oncology is present and visible at an international level mainly through Romanian journals.
Scientific efforts on SARS-CoV-2 research: A global survey analysis Scientific research on SARS-CoV-2 is from worldwide researchers' efforts, with some countries and journals having special contributions. China was the most prolific country, and had the highest quality of publications on SARS-CoV-2. The countries with large number of total confirmed cases and total deaths have a tendency to produce more publications in the field of SARS-CoV-2.
From scientific experiments to innovation: Impact pathways of a Synchrotron Light Facility Overall, our analysis showed that experiments at synchrotron light sources usually do not directly generate innovations, but rather create knowledge embodied in scientific papers which in turn are used downstream for innovation purposes as documented by the analysis of citations in other papers and patents.
The Anniversary Tribute of PICMET: 19892018 The analysis of PICMET papers confirms the results of previous studies that used the analysis of individual journals to describe the changes in the MET field: the core focus of MET has changed from R&D to strategic management and further toward innovation management [3], [7], [20]–[23].
From collection curation to knowledge creation: Exploring new roles of academic librarians in digital humanities research This librarian-led collaborative project has produced not only the crowdsourcing system and the authority file respectively as the technical and information infrastructure for supporting DH research, but also the bilingual dictionary to fill a publication gap for Chinese history scholars and students.
The rise of multiple institutional affiliations in academia Our findings regarding RQ1, reported in Section 3.1, showed increases in multiple affiliations across countries and fields.
Changes in Social Media Impact of the Radiological Literature During the Covid-19 Pandemic "Social media engagement with the radiological literature significantly increased during the Covid-19 pandemic."
Publication delay adjusted impact factor: The effect of publication delay of articles on journal impact factor In this paper, we have demonstrated the effect of publication delay on the most influential academic evaluation system, JIF.
Will collaborators make scientists move? A Generalized Propensity Score analysis In this study, we provide significant evidence to show that as the main channel by which scientists obtain human and social capital (Bozeman et al., 2001a), collaboration indeed influences scientists' mobility.
The effect of Russian University Excellence Initiative on publications and collaboration patterns First, Project 5-100 proved effective in stimulating the overall publication activity of participating universities. Second, the Project had a significant impact on publications in high-quality journals and multi-authored publications (including both domestic and international collaborations). The Project 5-100 demonstrates that it is possible to achieve measurable changes in publication outcomes within a relatively short period, especially in a research system previously characterized by low publication rates in international journals.
SciKGraph: A knowledge graph approach to structure a scientific field The SciKGraph framework contributes by structuring knowledge that might aid researchers in the study of their areas, reducing the effort and amount of time devoted to groundwork.
The Matthew effect and the halo effect in research funding The findings have several theoretical and practical implications that are relevant to funding in science.
Exploring the interdisciplinarity patterns of highly cited papers Our study demonstrates that variety and disparity have a positive effect on citation impact, and balance has a negative effect on citation impact, whether or not control variables are considered.
Is funding related to higher research impact? Exploring its relationship and the mediating role of collaboration in several disciplines Overall, our study provides evidence of the positive relationship between funding and research impact. Our findings suggest that funding is a key factor to achieve higher research impact, as it enhances the probability of publishing in prestigious journals, increases the number of authors per paper and promotes higher quality research, which in turn attracts more citations. Future studies could replicate our analyses in other countries/institutions and using different disciplinary classifications.
On the relation between the degree of internationalization of cited and citing publications: A field level analysis, including and excluding self-citations Findings might inform research policies geared towards internationalization.
Great minds think alike, or do they often differ? Research topic overlap and the formation of scientific teams These findings – which we replicate for different units of analysis (individuals and groups), genders of collaborators, disciplines, and collaboration types (intra- and interdisciplinary) - support the notion that researchers seek collaborators to augment their scientific and technical human capital.
Mitigating ageing bias in article level metrics using citation network analysis We introduced a new article level metric (ALM), the Time Debiased Significance Score (TDSS), that addresses the ageing bias typically found in cumulative ALMs like PageRank. Our results clearly show that TDSS effectively eliminates the ageing bias, allowing for a fair comparison of articles from different publication years. Future work will focus on integrating TDSS with other scientometric indicators, such as interdisciplinarity or research front analysis, to provide a more holistic assessment of scientific impact.
The inconsistency of h -index: A mathematical analysis The main conclusion of this study is that the h index, in synthetic citation series, is not a good indicator of research performance.
The correlation between author-editorial cooperation and the author's publications in journals In short, the cooperation with the editorial board will not directly bring about the increase in publications and article influence of the authors, but through the hard work of the editorial board members for the journal.
Examining the characteristics of impactful research topics: A case of three decades of HIV-AIDS research Our results suggest that the secret to high impact is to be novel, integrate knowledge from disparate (but not too disparate) areas, and work in less crowded (less popular) areas. Our findings have both theoretical and practical implications for scientists and policymakers.
Functional analysis of generalized linear models under non-linear constraints with applications to identifying highly-cited papers In summary, the proposed methodology for generalized linear models, and for the Generalized Logistic Link estimation procedure in particular, is seen to give equal or better model fit, inference and classification/prediction results, to existing methodologies when the assumptions of the model are relevant and the link condition is satisfied. Yet the methodology can give much better model fits, inference and prediction results especially for out-of-sample data when the traditional assumptions for GLMs are violated, even in comparison to Al and ML methods such as the ANN. Therefore, it is shown to be more flexible to violations of the assumptions on the error distribution, in both simulation and real-world applications.
Are Altmetric.com scores effective for research impact evaluation in the social sciences and humanities? Overall, the results suggest that Altmetric.com scores are not yet sufficiently effective for evaluating the impact of SSH research though they can provide new insights into impact evaluation. Overall, considering all the drawbacks and light of Altmetric.com scores presented in this paper, it seems supportive that Altmetric.com scores are not ready for application in impact evaluation at present, but altmetric indicators may be used to complete impact metrics and point to research that receives other types of attention or impact, highlighting that research deserves notice for scholars (Galligan & Dyas-Correia, 2013). Future research should investigate the effectiveness of altmetrics in different publication types, domains, languages, and countries.
Use of classification trees and rule-based models to optimize the funding assignment to research projects: A case study of UTPL In this work, the problem of classifying research projects for funding assignment in an efficient and automatic way has been addressed, making it possible to predict whether a research project will be accepted or rejected by an applicant. The results showed that an accurate classification (95% accuracy in both classes and 99% in accepted projects class) is possible using a classification tree with rule-based features (C5.0 algorithm) and balancing the dataset with the SMOTE method. This work will allow decision makers in the area of scientific research to establish a robust and effective classification model that predicts with great precision whether a research project submitted by a researcher will be accepted or rejected.
Conference presentations and academic publishing* In this study, we quantify the role of conferences on improving the publishing prospects of presented works. Our results show a significantly positive association between conference presentation (especially at AEA conferences) and the probability of being published in a high-quality journal. Our analysis and subsequent work should also help design better professional conferences in the future.
International representation of authors, editors and research in neurology journals There is urgent need for strategies to support high-quality and contextually appropriate biomedical research in developing countries. Supporting high quality and contextually appropriate biomedical research now is necessary for developing countries to meet the rising healthcare needs of their populations in the future. International research organisations can contribute to reducing the disparity in research through multinational research collaborations, and international peer-reviewed journals can contribute to improving the diversity of authors through writing support services and to improv-ing the diversity of editors through international advis-ory boards.
A scientometric analysis on coronaviruses research (1900-2020): Time for a continuous, cooperative and global approach This study provides a comprehensive reference and a summarized macroscopic overview of coronavirus related scholarly research evolution and performance over time. Authors strongly recommend recent COVID-19 pandemic as a call for continuous, more cooperative, and collective global research.
Doctoral publishing as professional development for an academic career in higher education The aim of this research was to discover the views, practices and advice of experienced doctoral educators on how doctoral students may be encouraged and supported to write for publication, in order to promote their development as future academics.
The journal coverage of Web of Science, Scopus and Dimensions: A comparative analysis First, the three databases are found to differ significantly in their journal coverage, with Web of Science having the most selective journal coverage, whereas Dimensions having the most exhaustive journal coverage.
Prevalence of potentially predatory publishing in Scopus on the country level Our data suggest a relation between PPJ prevalence and national research evaluation policies. As such policies become more widespread, the expansion of potentially predatory journal research will be increasingly important.
An NLP-based citation reason analysis using CCRO For citation reason analysis using Citation's Context and Reasons Ontology—CCRO on citation texts, two approaches are used.
COVID-19 enabled co-authoring networks: a country-case analysis This study attempted to imprint the scientific outputs related to the COVID-19 pandemic that have been (co)authored by the science base at the country level. In addition, it sought to highlight the respective international level of collaboration. In relation to the research findings, the number of publications as well as the number of scientific collaborations indicates a steady increase over time.
What is the benefit from publishing a working paper in a journal in terms of citations? Evidence from economics This paper showed that the yearly citation count of working papers which are subsequently published in a journal more than doubles relative to unpublished working papers. This increase in citations is substantial, controlling for a number of observable and unobservable variables that are time or paper specific in a panel regression. There is thus a substantial stamp of approval effect when publishing in journals.
Collaboration Network and Trends of Global Coronavirus Disease Research: A Scientometric Analysis This study demonstrates how governments, public sectors, and private sectors, such as the pharmaceutical industry, can use scientometric analysis to gain insight into the holistic research trends and networks of players in this field, leading to the formulation of strategies to strengthen research and development programs.
Publishing and assessing the research of economists: Lessons from public health The bottom line is that there are things that economists can learn from other disciplines. A research agenda should be about trying to make an impact and doing so efficiently. Traditional papers and their high standards are needed. Other types of papers, however, also should be considered. A good research program ultimately should be assessed on impact.
The Effect of a Points System on Incentivizing Academic Behaviors of Attending Ophthalmologists Our data suggest that within the framework of the points system, attendings—rather than prioritizing publications—gravitated towards mentorship activities to accrue points. While our results do not indicate that the points system caused a change in research productivity by attendings, it was associated with an increase in mentorship activity. More time is likely needed to determine if research productivity in ophthalmology can be increased through such a system described herein.
The Top 100 Most Cited Articles Published in Dentistry: 2020 Update An appropriate selection of search engine and search strategy are extremely important to conduct a thorough bibliometric analysis.
The nature of rapid response to COVID-19 in Latin America: an examination of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico In this paper we sought to identify the nature of the rapid response of the Argentinean, Brazilian, Chilean, Colombian and Mexican scientific communities to the COVID-19 health emergency.
Altmetric scores analysis reveals a high demand for psychiatry research on social media In conclusion, we found a very high degree of public engagement with psychiatry research, especially when compared to other medical specialties. This highlights great opportunity as well as responsibility for psychiatry research community.
20 years of Electronic Commerce Research Through performance analysis, we found that ECR has grown exponentially in terms of its publi- cations and citations.
Taiwanese and American Graduate Students' Misconceptions Regarding Responsible Conduct of Research: A Cross-National Comparison Using a Two-Tier Test Approach This study provides empirical evidence regarding the effectiveness of employing a two-tier test in RCR-specific contexts through a cross-national comparison.
Intangible benefits of clinical trials: a survey on a hospital research community Clinical trials mean “better researchers” rather than “high-er budget”: the main finding of this survey is that par-ticipation in clinical trials increases research capacity.
Teamwork at the Bench: Strategies for Collaborative Surgical Science in a Pandemic CBATS early efforts to support surgical basic science through regular interdisciplinary gatherings, team mentorship, and shared resources paid unexpected dividends in the COVID-19 crisis.
The Arab region's contribution to global COVID-19 research: Bibliometric and visualization analysis Continuing and improving future collaboration between developing and developed countries will also help to facilitate the sharing of responsibilities for COVID-19 in research results and the implementation of policies for COVID-19.
The evolution and shift of research topics and methods in library and information science This study demonstrates that, though it is not clear based on main topics and data collection methods, the areas of focus (i.e., subtopics) in LIS research have shifted rapidly over the period from 2006 to 2018.
More is more: Explicit intertextuality in university writing placement exam essays The results illustrate the importance of making intertextuality visible (Pecorari, 2006). The results of the present study affirm the powerful rhetorical impact of integral citation using reporting verbs. Ultimately, the findings of such investigation will contribute to a growing capacity to support students' development of effective intertextual writing techniques as they begin their university education.
Incentives, competition, and inequality in markets for creative production This discussion contributes to the cumulative advantage debate in creative industries specifically, and to the creative aspects of scientific fields and industrial markets more broadly.
Evaluating impact from research: A methodological framework Using the proposed definitions, typology and methodological framework, researchers, funders and other stakeholders working across multiple disciplines can select a suitable evaluation design and methods to evidence the impact of research from any discipline.
Training across the academy: The impact of R&D funding on graduate students We further explore the role of the graduate advisor in this training process and find the award does not disrupt the apprenticeship model, but instead, increases the student's interaction with their advisor.
Social representations of socioenvironmental dynamics in extractive ecosystems and conservation practices with sustainable development: a bibliometric analysis This document closes with a discussion regarding the influence of the social representations of rural communities related to their territories, in order to foster sustainable participative conservation practices.
Authorship trends and collaboration patterns in hospitality and tourism research First, the collaborative nature of H&T research is confirmed; almost 80% of the articles in the sample were co-authored. This study contributes theoretically and empirically to our understanding of the collaborative habits of H&T researchers by demonstrating that, to overcome the difficulty of identifying the true intellectual contribution of an author, observers can consider factors such as the number of authors or their position in the order of signatures, as well as who is credited as the corresponding author. This work provides relevant information on researchers' authorship habits that may help evaluators assign credit and accountability and avoid malpractice in the authorial assignment.
Citation bias and other determinants of citation in biomedical research: findings from six citation networks The probability of being cited seems associated with positive study outcomes, the authority of its authors and the journal in which that article is published.
Depth and breadth relevance in citation metrics The results presented here are useful to academics, as it allows them to match their (current or aspirational) citation profile against the profile sought after by economics departments of different ranks.
Effects of open access and articles-in-press mechanisms on publishing lag and first-citation speed: a case on energy and fuels journals Employing a large-scale analysis, this study demonstrated that the OA mechanism can influence the lag of publication, but it does not form a citation advantage. Furthermore, the AIP mechanism affects citation speed but is not significantly related to publication lag. Therefore, from the perspective of scholarly communication, both of these mechanisms contribute to the efficiency of communication, but they work at different stages.
Collaboration between research institutes and large and small publishers for publishing open access journals Although the internationality and academic influence as measured by citation scores improved overall, collaboration with publishers did not guarantee an improvement in journal performance. Furthermore, the scale and persistence of the effects varied across journals, regardless of publisher size. Additionally, the results of this study imply that large and small publishers can coexist in the academic journal market, although a publisher's website is a of platform-mediated network, and such networks tend to be monopolistic.
META-RESEARCH Weak evidence of country- and institution-related status bias in the peer review of abstracts Contrary to the idea of halo effects, our study shows weak and inconsistent evidence of country- or institution-related status bias in abstract ratings.
The evolving role of preprints in the dissemination of COVID-19 research and their impact on the science communication landscape Our results highlight the unprecedented role of preprints and preprint servers in the dissemination of COVID-19 science and the impact of the pandemic on the scientific communication landscape.
Ankylosing spondylitis rehabilitation publications and the global productivity: a Web of Science-based bibliometric analysis (2000-2019) Between 2000 and 2019, the number of AS rehabilitation articles showed a significant increasing trend from year to year.
Orthopaedic Randomized Controlled Trials Published in General Medical Journals Are Associated With Higher Altmetric Attention Scores and Social Media Attention Than Nonorthopaedic Randomized Controlled Trials Orthopedic RCTs published in 5 high-impact general medical journals had a significantly greater mean AAS relative to non-orthopedic RCTs with no differences in citation rates.
Corporate engagement with nanotechnology through research publications This study has depicted corporate entry into nanotechnology publishing.
The Simpsons did it: Exploring the film trope space and its large scale structure The study of tropes in the field of cinema is a very interesting topic for researchers in social sci- ences and other fields, for example to understand how humans interact and consume this cul- tural media, or to find inspiration to develop new works.
NSERC discovery grants and a tribute to Leo A. Behie Professor Behie was an outstanding educator, a visionary and a leader in the paradigm shift towards biomedical sciences from heavy industry.
Mapping environmental impact assessment research landscapes in the Arab world using visualization and bibliometric techniques The outcomes displayed, in general, a rapidly and steadily rising interests on EIA.
Lung cancer research and its citation on clinical practice guidelines Analysis of the references on CPGs allows an alternative means of research evaluation, and one that may be more appropriate for clinical research than citations in academic journals.
Scientific Productivity in Rheumatology Among Countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and Its Correlation to National Economic Indicators This study provides a current highlight on the relationship between academic productivity in rheumatology and economic indicators of OECD countries. We showed a positive moderate to strong significant correlation between total health expenditure as percent of GDP and different bibliometric indicators, implying another possible advantage of national investment in this filed.
Scientometric analysis of the Chaos journal (1991-2019): From descriptive statistics to complex networks viewpoints<?A3B2 show [feature]?> We performed a detailed scientometric analysis of Chaos, starting with some standard descriptive statistics related to traditional bibliometric studies. It is noteworthy to highlight that Chaos attracts authors of all the continents and that the communities' study exhibits robust collaboration networks between countries or even different continents. We expect to extend this type of analysis in other contexts of scientometrics and introduce new indicators that might consider the concepts of multilayer networks.
Towards complexity-sensitive book metrics for scholarly monographs in national databases for research output Our proposed typology and specifically the group GV-ME can serve as a source of information for an evaluative inquiry into the international standing of scholarly monographs written in a specific country, institution, or a department similarly to the study by Sapiro and Bustamante (2009). Therefore, if research evaluation procedures and book metrics in particular were to take more innovative routes, there is a need for an active dialogue between LIS and the neighbouring communities all of which share interest in bibliographic data.
Top 100 cited paramedicine papers: A bibliometric study The present study of the top 100 cited paramedicine articles is not only a comprehensive list of landmark publications within this rapidly growing profession but also proof of its own unique body of knowledge. Paramedicine articles have a high citation count and are published across numerous journals, but with a relative lack of contribution from paramedic and female researchers.
Fresh teams are associated with original and multidisciplinary research One of the main findings in this paper is that the papers of fresh teams are associated with higher originality and a more-diverse impact.
Modeling the Epidemic Growth of Preprints on COVID-19 and SARS-CoV-2 In conclusion, it is fair to say that, alongside the public health crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic also triggered a scientific emergency.
Interdisciplinarity: A complexity approach towards academic research From a bird's eye view, the findings revealed that both attitude and context are important for rising researchers' awareness, in forming their abilities and reporting interdisciplinary achievements, reinforcing the evidence brought forward by the previous studies (e.g. Gero, 2017; Misra et al., 2015). In order to catalyse the interdisciplinary collaboration and teamwork, and consequently provide integrative solutions to complex problems, decision-makers should create propelling contexts for the interaction of scholars from different domains and fields and institutionally foster an agora for knowledge sharing. Due to its exploratory nature, the current study opens up new research avenues, yet admitting some limitations to be considered by future investigations.
An Improved PageRank Algorithm Based on Text Similarity Approach for Critical Standards Identification in Complex Standard Citation Networks This paper aimed to overcome the limitations of traditional PageRank in the context of standard citation networks, by incorporating the TSA.
The Impacts of Incentives for International Publications on Research Cultures in Chinese Humanities and Social Sciences This study revealed the influences of incentives for international publications on research cultures in Chinese HSS, demonstrated by tensions between internationalization and indigenization, quality and quantity, integrity and instrumentalism, equity and inequity. Considering these tensions, we propose several implications for institutional policymaking, which speaks not only to China but also to other systems with incentive mechanisms that aim to stimulate research productivity via an increase in publication volume (Franzoni et al. 2011). Finally, the evaluation of research should not be only based on publication counts and other narrow or wrongly extrapolated metrics, but evaluations should consider the intrinsic value, quality, originality, contribution, and impact of knowledge and research, in local, national, and international contexts.
A bibliometric analysis of the dental scientific literature on COVID-19 The dental literature on the COVID-19 pandemic does not provide data relevant to the evidence-based decision-making process.
Research on Industry 4.0 and on key related technologies in Vietnam: A bibliometric analysis using Scopus Our results showed that the number of papers in Industry 4.0 from Vietnam increased rapidly in recent years, mostly in the research areas of Computer Science, Engineering, and Mathematics.
A Prediction Method of Publication Productivity for Researchers Even where it does not provide an exact productivity pre-diction for individuals, especially for productive researchers, our model may still be of use in its ability to provide a satisfactory prediction for a group of researchers on average.
How pharmaceutical innovation evolves: The path from science to technological development to marketable drugs From the above analysis, we can conclude that the relationship between scientific research and technological development is crucial, but a time lag does exist in the knowledge transformation process (Collins, 2011; Reidenberg, and Erle, 2012).
Evolution of scientific collaboration on COVID-19: A bibliometric analysis Through this bibliometric study, we found some interesting phenomena.
The collective wisdom in the COVID-19 research: Comparison and synthesis of epidemiological parameter estimates in preprints and peer-reviewed articles The validity of the COVID-19 parameter estimations of the preprints was on par with that of peer-reviewed publications, and synthesized results of literatures could reduce the uncertainty and be used for epidemic decision-making.
The 50 most-cited articles on clear aligner treatment: A bibliometric and visualized analysis The number of citations on CAT is expected to grow steadily in parallel with the rising number of research projects. The present work identifies the most influential articles on CAT and their characteristics, placing emphasis on the journals, the authors, and the topics addressed. There is considerable room for the improvement and further development of CAT.
Research output of Indian universities in sciences (2015-2019): a scientometric analysis The present study presents a scientometric analysis of papers published during 2015–2019 from the selected five Indian universities in the sciences. Multi-authorship is the general trend of science research. This study can be a useful reference to identify the major challenging research areas in science.
Specialized terminology reduces the number of citations of scientific papers Given that these elements are the hook to readers, we urge scientists to restrict jargon to sections of the paper where its use is unavoidable.
The most 100 cited papers in addiction research on cannabis, heroin, cocaine and psychostimulants. A bibliometric cross-sectional analysis This study has made it possible to identify and characterize the T100 in addiction research using bibliometric techniques.
MD-PhD Program Graduates' Engagement in Research: Results of a National Study Most MD-PhD graduates were engaged in research, but the extent of their engagement varied substantially among specialties. Across specialties, participation in research during GME may be one factor that sustains MD-PhD graduates' subsequent early- to midcareer research engagement.
Journal article publishing in the social sciences and humanities: A comparison of Web of Science coverage for five European countries Our study shows that despite some fluctuations, publication patterns in the social sciences and humanities in CEE countries are changing towards broader representation in WoS, particularly in journals with greater influence in terms of citation impact. Despite the clear differences between the CEE countries studied and the two Western/Nordic countries across all disciplines, publication patterns in CEE countries are becoming more similar to those in Western and Nordic countries, albeit with different intensity. Hence, in bibliometrics, research evaluation, and science policy we suggest taking into account the differences not only between social sciences and humanities but also between disciplines within them.
Fifteen Years of a PBRFS in New Zealand: Incentives and Outcomes This article has examined the transformation of NZ universities, in terms of the quality of their research, between 2003 and 2018, following the introduction of a PBRFS which substantially changed the incentives facing researchers and managers.
Can Russian Research Policy be Called Neoliberal? A Study in the Comparative Sociology of Quantification This essay makes three interrelated claims: first, that functions and political usages of quantification are many and varied; second, that only some of them owe their existence to the New Public Management model, while others, and arguably much older ones (see below), developed independently of it; third, that the prevalence of a certain mode of quantification reflects a wider perception of the causes of academic underperformance. The usage of metrics in the United Kingdom is aimed at managing the subjects of assessment; in Russia it is aimed at controlling the assessors, who are seen as the weak link. My argument in this essay was that an extension of the principal-agent model to a situation involving three agents allows us to identify different ideal types of quantification in national research assessment policies.
Coword and Cluster Analysis for the Romance of the Three Kingdoms This paper developed a general framework for analyzing the character relationship in the novel.
A nanotechnology-foresight perspective of South Africa In conclusion, this research has presented an environmental scan of nanotechnology in South Africa for the past 20 years, and also evaluated possible socio-economic relevant sectors arising from this information.
Comparing the Prices of Commercial and Nonprofit Journals: A Realistic Assessment Commercial publishers' databases provide a cost-effective means of acquiring the full-text journals identified by faculty as important for their teaching and research. The results presented here are markedly different from those reported in most earlier studies. Further research might explore how commercial publishers can maintain a relatively low median cost per wanted journal.
Trust and professionalism in science: medical codes as a model for scientific negligence? While we caution against unreasonable negligence provisions as well as disproportionate sanctioning systems, we do argue that negligence provisions are crucial for justified trust in the scientific community, and hence that there is a very strong rationale for including negligence provisions in codes of conduct.
A quantitative study of letters to the editor by medical students in medical education journals Our quantitative study reveals a high number of Letters to the Editor by medical students, a rise in letters published by medical students from 2018/19 to 2019/20 and the overrepresentation of UK medical students.
Bibliometric Analysis of Neurology Articles Published in General Medicine Journals The results of this study provide some guidance to authors regarding where they may wish to consider submitting their neurology research.
Adopting open access in an emerging country: Is gender inequality a barrier in humanities and social sciences? In conclusion, given the seeming existence of gender inequality in Vietnam's SS&H scholarly communities, we recommend the policymakers, academic institutions, and scholarly communities pay more attention to female researchers' unequal resource allocation.
Day-to-day discovery of preprint-publication links The preprint-publication linker we designed matches preprints with subsequently pub-lished articles.
Barriers and opportunities for dental school faculty research These findings were consistent with the view that lack of time and formal training in standardized research skills were not major impediments to scholarship.
Contrasting Views on Scope of Practice: A Bibliometric Analysis of Allied Health, Nursing, and Medical Literature "The foci of interest in one discipline may help disciplines with a less comprehensive research base to advance their scholarship more rapidly."
Forty years of the Journal of Futures Markets: A bibliometric overview In conclusion, our study makes several contributions to the literature and research community. Despite its contributions, our study has several potential limitations. One limitation results from using the Scopus database. Another drawback is that we do not distinguish whether researchers cite an article because they positively or negatively view its content.
Are we paying-to-play? A quantitative assessment of Canadian open access research in ecology and evolution While I focused only on Canadian grants in ecology and evolution, there was no evidence funding influenced the rate of OA publishing in terms of the proportion of articles (Table 1).
Co-authorship network analysis of Iranian researchers on osteoporosis The co-authorship network of Iranian researchers operating in the field of osteoporosis has low cohesion and slow communication between its members. The results of this study can be used to guide future collaborations, identify elite researchers in the field, and encourage universities and institutions to develop their interactions with each other, and further strengthen IORN. Creating the environment to familiarize researchers of different network clusters together in the setting of meetings and conferences and encouraging active, broker, and influential authors of the network to use their potential to attract and cooperate with young researchers would lead to the maintenance and development of the network.
The Impact of Hospital/University Affiliation on Research Productivity Among US-Based Authors in the Fields of Trauma, Surgical Critical Care, Acute Care, and Emergency General Surgery (Publication with Expression of Concern) There was a significantly higher average number of peer-reviewed TS publications between 2015 and 2019 among FAs and SAs who were affiliated with a top US institution(s).
Exploiting Contextual Word Embedding of Authorship and Title of Articles for Discovering Citation Intent Classification Understanding the reason for a citation in a research article is crucial to investigate the essential related documents. Machine learning can perform well in classifying numeric metadata. In the future study, the meta- and NLP feature, consisting of text information, can both be combined to classify citation intent class.
Performance Appraisal of Select Nations in Mitigation of COVID-19 Pandemic using Entropy based TOPSIS Method The study made it clear that the mitigation strategies adopted by the countries like New Zealand and Australia were not only the best, but it could also serve as the role model to combat any pandemic in future. The study's most important contribution was to determine the relative importance of the criteria. The rest of the world needed to take lessons from the experiences of the better performing nations to effectively strategize the pandemic mitigation interventions followed by its execution in the best possible way.
Linguistic Diversity Index: A Scientometric Measure to Enhance the Relevance of Small and Minority Group Languages This article offers such an indicator to measure the rarity of cultural influence in a scientific discourse based upon the citations of the sources published in various languages.
Awareness of predatory journals and open access publishing among orthopaedic and trauma surgeons - results from an online survey in Germany The impending hazard of predatory journals is unknown to many orthopaedic and trauma surgeons. Early stage clinical researchers must be trained to differentiate between predatory and scientifically accurate journals. For this purpose, courses about scientific publishing as part of medical school or later during residency programs seem useful to guide and protect young colleagues from the beginning of their professional career.
Do Journals' Author Guidelines Tell Us What We Need to Know about Plagiarism? The study's findings showed that, although author guidelines differed in their coverage of issues related to plagiarism and self-plagiarism, the subjects most commonly addressed were duplicate publication, copyright, the definition of plagiarism of others' work, and citation. Further analysis of the guidelines' contents revealed that, generally speaking, they offered only a vague definition of plagiarism. Future research could examine how prospective authors or students interpret the content of author guidelines to shed light on how effectively these guidelines communicate with their readers and to identify their more problematic areas of communication.
Behavioral Reluctance in Adopting Open Access Publishing: Insights From a Goal-Directed Perspective Many scholars seem reluctant to publish in open access journals despite recognizing that it is an indispensable way to make their research more broadly accessible.
Writing Energy Economics Research for Impact We apply these findings, integrated with prior research on effective economics writing style, to recommend how energy economics articles should be written to increase their impact. This study thus propounds the strong benefits of paying attention not just to the topic of an article, but also to how it is written, presented, and structured. Future research, when feasible, could explore influences on a wider meaning of impact.
Enriching and analyzing small citation networks: A case study on transistor's history Several interesting results have been reported and discussed, which need to be understood in the context of the adopted dataset and methodology, as well as parametric configurations. The study of the identified areas along time revealed the onset and coming of age of the several identified areas, with the communities related to high frequency and digital control presenting a more recent pattern of growth. Several future developments are possible, including the extension of the analysis to other areas of electronics (e.g., integrated circuits, personal computers, telecommunications), or even other fields such as the Internet, artificial intelligence, among many other possibilities.
Overview of Educational Research from Turkey Published in International Journals: A Bibliometric Analysis According to the results obtained from the analyses, it is seen that relevant publications from Turkey was more stable from 1981 to 2007, and there was a rapid increase after 2007. The finding of this study confirms this risk by showing that the number of relevant publications in WoS has been in a serious decline after 2016. It may be suggested that similar studies can be conducted in the future by using different databases.
Thematic research clusters in very old populations (≥ 80years): a bibliometric approach Scientific research in very old populations covers a wide variety of interrelated topics.
Bibliometric Analysis on Tuberculosis and Tuberculosis-Related Research Trends in Africa: A Decade-Long Study This study provides a quantitative and qualitative analyses of the leading journals, most cited published papers, most relevant authors in publications on tuberculosis from 2010–2019. This bibliometric study also provides insights into authors research outputs, countries collaborations, and relevant countries by corresponding authors. Therefore, the increase of united academic collaboration or partnerships among English and non-English speaking African countries may be an outstanding mechanism to achieve this goal.
Mental health disorders research in the countries of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), 2008-17, and the disease burden: Bibliometric study Although the OIC countries as a group are publishing more research on mental health disorders, relative to their disease burden, than either Europe, or Canada and the USA, some individual countries are under-performing in view of their wealth and the rising disease burden that they face. More international collaboration would help, especially between different OIC countries which may share common social norms. In particular, suicide and self-harm are seriously under-researched, and lessons can be learned from countries where research-based methods of prevention have achieved some success.
Profile of Articles Published in AJR From 2014 to 2018 and Potential Association With Bibliometric Parameters The main AJR bibliometric indexes increased slightly from 2014 to 2018, except for those from the Eigenfactor Project.
Paper self-citation rates of leading soil science journals Most soil science publications seem to show a common behaviour regarding self-references and only small differences can be found in the distribution across nine journals.
Analysis of publication speed of anesthesiology journals: a cross-sectional study The study provides an overview of total time required for peer review, acceptance, and publication in indexed anesthesiology journals.
\Manuscript characteristics associated with the altmetrics score and social media presence: an analysis of seven spine journals Our analysis of seven spine journals revealed a weak, positive correlation between AAS and number of citations. Number of references was associated with higher AAS. We believe these findings may be useful to authors seeking ways to maximize the impact of their research.
Analysing the stability of India Rankings The results of the study give useful inputs to policy makers and stakeholders for improving the ranking methodology. It will also help general readers in understanding to what extent they can believe in the ranking results.
Retractions in the Middle East from 1999 to 2018: a bibliometric analysis Based on the results, we proposed suggestions to address the issue. Particularly, we suggest the use of technology in article submission systems as well as enhanced education on academic integrity to help address the issue of academic misconduct.
RelPath: an interactive tool to visualize branches of studies and quantify the expertise of authors by citation paths This work proposed a visual analytics system to explore influential citation networks and find experts on a certain research topic by citation paths.
Do senior faculty members produce fewer research publications than their younger colleagues? Evidence from Ph.D. granting institutions in the United States Our analysis demonstrates that age alone does not determine overall publishing productivity, but age does influence the mode of publication.
A note on reference publication year spectroscopy with incomplete information We thus recommend that researchers using RPYS use the “constant” smoothing procedure, and that it is implemented in future developments of the software used for RPYS.
Fraud in scientific publications in the European Union. An analysis through their retractions. Scientific publications come with a guarantee that is necessary for the dissemination and credibility of science. Retractions are an important communication tool for correcting science and warning about those studies that are no longer valid or reliable. Common policies and guidelines should be applied in the EU that serve to harmonise criteria, as well as to prevent and avoid scientific fraud.
The influence of academic advisors on academic network of Physics doctoral students: empirical evidence based on scientometrics analysis The above findings provide implications for academic supervision in the training of doctoral students' research ability to enhance the contribution of their research products.
What happens when a journal converts to open access? A bibliometric analysis Overall, these results indicate that flipping to an OA pub- lishing model can bring positive changes to a journal. Our study as well as related work have shown that flipping to an OA publishing model can positively affect the number of published articles as well as journal and article citation indicators. More in-depth studies are needed to control for the various factors affecting journal success.
Self-citation and citation of top journal publishers and their interpretation in the journal-discipline context Large skewness and significant correlations of self-citation and citation exist in the top 20 journal publishers according to the scientometric information of the articles published by their master journals in essential science indicators.
Scientific knowledge production and economic catching-up: an empirical analysis Our results show that scientific knowledge production is positively correlated with eco-nomic development.
Influence of accessibility (open and toll-based) of scholarly publications on retractions "OA publications have an advantage of greater post-publication content scrutiny, and as such fair chances to have retraction compared to TA publications."
A distributed hypergraph model for simulating the evolution of large coauthorship networks A distributed model is proposed to simulate the evolutions of large coauthorship networks.
Scholarly book publishers as publicity agents for SSH titles on Twitter Our results show that scholarly book publishers have a considerable presence on Twitter, and whilst University presses and Commercial publishers are almost equal in terms of holding a Twitter account, commercial publishers are more likely to create multiple accounts relevant to specific fields/subjects.
Do researchers know what the h-index is? And how do they estimate its importance? As the h-index is important for many researchers and as not all researchers are very knowledgeable about this author-specific indicator, it seems to be necessary to make researchers more aware of scholarly metrics literacy.
Evolutionary exploration and comparative analysis of the research topic networks in information disciplines In summary, it might be predicted that the emerging and mature technologies in CS discipline will be applied more deeply in associated with future research in LIS discipline. Meanwhile, there will be more innovative methods designed based on deep learning in LIS discipline, which will be enormously applied to relevant research on social media or bibliometrics.
An in-text citation classification predictive model for a scholarly search system Overall, this yields improved search results against the queries by the user.
Analysis of the new scopus CiteScore Because the formula to calculate the new CiteScore includes more items representing early citations, the new CiteScore has a bias in favor of journals that have high proportion of early citations in their total number of citations within 4 years after publication.
Can tweets be used to detect problems early with scientific papers? A case study of three retracted COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2 papers Mixed conclusions can be drawn from this case study.
A bibliometric study of human-computer interaction research activity in the Nordic-Baltic Eight countries The results confirm that there was an unbalanced participation in the HCI research communities among the Nordic-Baltic countries even when adjusting for variations in GDP and population size. Implications of these results are that the HCI research activity intensity should be increased in several of the Nordic-Baltic countries. Furthermore, it may be more effective to publish in journals than top-tier conferences if the goal is to accumulate citations.
Identifying 'seed' papers in sciences Using ‘seed’ metaphor, we identify ‘seed’ papers from the massive data. The ‘seed’ papers are characterized by not only high citations but also network structure and core function in sciences. While the O-Seed resembles to be a ‘root’, the D-Seed develops to become the ‘stem’.
Assessment of the different citation systems in the scientific publication of nursing authors from Spanish-speaking countries The Google Scholar citation system requires essential adjustments in its algorithm for selecting works and citations, and it should also allow some system of confirmation by authors.
Systematic Evaluation Model for Developing Sustainable World-Class Universities: An East Asian Perspective This research provides a systematic perspective and a useful tool for senior decision-makers at EACUs to achieve sustainable development goals.
A study of differences between all-author bibliographic coupling analysis and all-author co-citation analysis in detecting the intellectual structure of a discipline In this study, through two author network methods, AABCA and AACA, we found that scientometrics has remained stable over the past decade.
Exploring Chinese researchers' research information management practices: Implications for academic libraries Based on the findings, this study provides academic libraries and university RIM systems with suggestions on how to engage Chinese researchers in sharing and curating research information on personal and community-wide levels. Future research includes examining how Chinese university libraries support researchers and their institutions to meet their RIM needs.
The citation impact of articles from which authors gained monetary rewards based on journal metrics Although desired by policymakers to exemplify excellence many PR3 articles are characterized by a rather commonplace indi- vidual citation performance and have not achieved the impact presumed and rewarded after publication based on journal metrics. Furthermore, identical rewards have been offered to articles with markedly different impact.
A measure of reliability for scientific co-authorship networks using fuzzy logic This paper provides an estimation process (inference) based on fuzzy rules to estimate the reliability of the individual components (nodes or researchers) of a co-authorship network, considering two node centrality measures.
Utilizing Artificial Intelligence to Manage COVID-19 Scientific Evidence Torrent with Risklick AI: A Critical Tool for Pharmacology and Therapy Development Hence, Risklick AI could become a useful alternative assistant to scientists fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.
Information structures in sociology research papers: Modeling cause-effect and comparison relations in research objective and result statements<SUP>1</SUP> The results carry implications for the knowledge representation of academic research in knowledge graphs, for semantic relation extraction, and teaching of academic writing.
Application of Mathematical Methods to the Study of Special-Needs Education in Spanish Journals This paper has established that the publication of SNE documents during the 2000–2019 period in Spanish high-impact journals is considerable. The findings of this study offer insights into the current state of special-needs education in Spain and provide future research directions. However, these deficiencies should not discourage researchers on a quest for research networks and rigorous information based on new meta-analyses and different indicators that allow for reinforcing the body of knowledge on this field of study, which would be far-reaching for researchers and education administrators alike.
Journal Metrics in Psychiatry: What do the rankings tell us? Although each metric provides a particular ranking, they are highly correlated. Rankings also change according to distinct subject categories in which they are assessed. We suggest less emphasis should be given to Journal Metrics to infer journal's quality.
Analysis of trending topics in glaucoma articles from an altmetric perspective Bibliometric-based altmetric analyses offer important but different perspectives regarding article impact. This study provides valuable information about trending topics related to glaucoma research and its impact in both the academic literature and social media. Altmetrics can be used as a complementary tool to traditional analysis.
The open access advantage for studies of human electrophysiology: Impact on citations and Altmetrics These findings demonstrate that open-access publishing is increasing in popularity in the sub-area of human electrophysiology and that open-access articles enjoy the "open access advantage" in citations similar to the larger scientific literature. The benefit of the open access advantage may motivate researchers to make their publications open access and pursue publication outlets that support it. In consideration of the direct connection between citations and journal impact factor, journal editors may improve the accessibility and impact of published articles by encouraging authors to self-archive manuscripts on preprint servers.
Bibliometric analysis of ecopreneurship using VOSviewer and RStudio Bibliometrix, 1989-2019 The findings intend to guide and encourage research scholars toward the field of sustainability, entrepreneurship and innovation and provide a baseline for future research development and research coordination across countries, authors and affiliating universities.
Recognizing New Trends in Brain Drain Studies in the Framework of Global Sustainability Results show that there were 1212 articles produced by 2400 authors that present an exponential growth knowledge generation process. That process adjusts by approximately 70%, achieving a critical research mass in an exponential density-independent growth form, with a nucleus of 33 journals that discuss deeply brain drain studies, conforming to Bradford's law with a margin of error equal 1.1% that is considered not significant. Finally, and as a precautionary note, scholars need to be aware that beyond the change of direction in the national effects, they need to extend their analysis to other countries when countries consider themselves destination countries.
Citing and referencing habits in medicine and social sciences journals in 2019 Our findings suggest that reference styles do not fully accomplish with their role of guiding authors and publishers on providing concise and well-structured bibliographic metadata within bibliographic references to allow the easy and accurate identification of the referenced works, in particular when different types of work, in addition to articles and books, are considered. In particular, in response to RQ1 concerning the claims pointed by Sweetland (1989), our study confirmed that even with the use of bibliographic tools like reference styles and reference manager softwares, several of the issues highlighted by Sweetland (1989), introduced by table 1, still hold today. In response to RQ3, which refers to the impacts that may be expected by readers on retrieving information from citing and referencing metadata considering such a revision, a trend towards an asymmetry on the way information may be represented within bibliographic references and bibliographic catalog was detected.
Does greater diversification increase individual productivity? The moderating effect of attention allocation First, it contributes to prior research on diversification and the attention-based view by exploring the interplay between an individual's level of diversification (diversification of knowledge and collaborators) and attention allocation as a mechanism through which the performance of skilled individuals is manifested.
What 5,000 acknowledgements tell us about informal collaboration in financial economics Our financial economics acknowledgements dataset facilitates studying informal collaboration, its effects, consequences and causes. We show that the data contain information not captured by co-authorship networks. From our work, many avenues for further research open up: One avenue relates to the topology of the network and its impact on and the relation to the profession.
Culturally diverse expert teams have yet to bring comprehensive linguistic diversity to intergovernmental ecosystem assessments Yet, our analysis shows that having diverse expert teams does not fully address the issue of low linguistic diversity. Further efforts and mechanisms are needed to effectively incorporate linguistically diverse literature and knowledge into ecosystem assessment processes (Table 1). To reframe power balances in science, it is time to move beyond the bare minimum of encouraging culturally and linguistically diverse experts and knowledge holders to bring to the table literature and expertise available in their own languages in addition to English and actively apply non-English knowledge and better integrate non-Anglophone expertise into team dynamics.
Varieties of collaboration: On the influence of funding schemes on forms and characteristics of international collaborative research projects (ICRPs) We propose that ICRPs do not represent one type, but that different funding conditions lead to considerable variety in the forms of interna- tional collaborative research projects.
Alphabetic norm and research output Our findings shed light on how teamwork incentives interplay with social norms in this case, a deviance from the alphabetic norm punishes alphabetically early members more than it rewards alphabetically late members.
Teacher training and employment in Spanish scientific research from 1977 to 2019 (Formacion y empleo de profesores en la investigacion cientifica espanola de 1977 a 2019) The conclusions are that the incorporation of the teaching career into the university environment leads to an increase in interest in research on teacher training reflected in an increase in publications in recent years.
A framework for inventor collaboration recommendation system based on network approach Upon the evaluation of a real-world case study of a technological area namely- 'Wireless Power Transmission', using popular indicators that measure the novelty, coverage, and diversity, the effectiveness of the system in terms of these aspects is confirmed. As anticipated, the ability of the recommendation system to toss recommendations to and from inventors who are in various phases of their careers is confirmed. The capability of the system to toss intra-organizational as well as inter-organizational recommendations is also revealed.
A Novel Research Clustering Scheme Using Bibliometric Analysis: A Case Study of Global Trend in Electrical Power System Load Shedding The result presented in this study proved that the proposed RCS is capable to identify the popular topics and trends of load shedding study.
COVID-19 and ophthalmology: A scientometric analysis Our scientometric analysis presents descriptive quantitative metrics for COVID-related research in the field of ophthalmology and provides evidence for the increased global collaboration that global researchers have fostered to fight this pandemic.
Publication trend of COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 articles in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology during the pandemic The quality and quantity of articles published in IJO increased and improved significantly. The results were seen with progressive improvement in citations and impact factors of the journal. Despite the adverse circumstances during the pandemic, a balance was maintained between the publication trend of COVID-19 and non-COVID-19-related articles.
Data Mining of Scientometrics for Classifying Science Journals This study proposed a unified classifier for the ranking of science journals of different indexed databases.
Research Publications Growth Rate of Chemistry and Related Subject Areas in Pakistan and Fifty Countries from 2001 to 2020 The impact of the reforms introduced since the establishment of HEC have been found to exceed the cumulative impact of almost 50 years of existence of the country.
Bibliometric analysis on tendency and topics of artificial intelligence over last decade As a bibliometric analysis on AI over the recent 10 years, the study presents a number of interesting observations that include some common features and a few hot topics in AI studies during that period of time.
Research on Covid-19: a disruptive phenomenon for bibliometrics The study of the Covid-19 research illustrates the relativity of indicators and the need for context.
Iterative weighted EM and iterative weighted EM′-index for scientific assessment of scholars From the empirical research, we concluded that this could be an effective solution in the scientific assessment of scholars.
The internationalization of Chinese scholarly journals based on publications deriving from the G8 countries In conclusion, by analyzing G8 countries' publication performance in Chinese scholarly journals from 1979 to 2016, this research reveals that Chinese journals' internationalization has been continuously growing since 1979 and experienced a period of rapid increase from 2004 to 2010. Moreover, the results suggest that international collaboration or internationally co-authored publications, regardless of whether they are in English, are a key aspect of world-class universities.
Research at public policy schools in the Asia-Pacific region ranked This article provides a first-ever research ranking of public policy schools in the Asia-Pacific. We hope that this ranking will give impetus to this conversation and stimulate related research.
The remarkable growth in financial economics, 1974-2020 This paper uses detailed data from the Journal of Financial Economics and other sources to examine the extraordinary growth in the quantity and quality of academic finance research in the past 47 years. The set of people who serve as authors, referees, and editors has grown as academic finance has evolved to span a much larger geographic footprint and as women have come to play a larger role in all aspects of academic finance. My opinion is that the largest challenge for the industry in the future is to manage the growth of journals in such a way that the demands on referees do not become so onerous that talented academics decide to withdraw from the peer review process (e.g., Ellison, 2010).
A bibliometric analysis of COVID-19 research in Africa This study highlights Africa's COVID-19 research and the continent's existing capacity to carry out research that addresses local problems.
ALPHABETICAL AUTHOR ORDER, INTELLECTUAL COLLABORATION AND HIGH-SKILLED MIGRATION We document substantial consequences of alphabetical author order for job placement of Chinese-born economists. We find that solely because of an alphabetically disadvantageous surname, which is uncorrelated with individual characteristics, those with later surname initials are more likely to return to China after earning PhDs in the US and are less likely to work at (top) US universities. Academic convention harmony is therefore called for to encourage intellectual collaboration among economists and, consequently, enhance economics research outcomes.
Predictive value of Altmetric score on citation rates and bibliometric impact Citation rate index and Altmetric score appear to be important predictors of interval citation gain, and better at predicting future citations than the historical and established impact factor and Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine quality descriptors.
The Research Excellence Framework 2014, journal ratings and the marginalisation of heterodox economics Overall, the REF in its present form marginalises heterodox economics, pushes it out of the discipline and endangers pluralism in economics research. In economics, it has led to a substantial narrowing of the discipline and created an increasingly hostile environment for heterodox economics research. The design of the REF should be reconsidered to ensure pluralism regarding theories and methodology, fields within the discipline and interdisciplinarity within the panel.
Interpersonal relationships drive successful team science: an exemplary case-based study This case-based study increases understanding of the development and processes of an exemplary team and provides valuable insights about interactions that enhance scientific expertise to train interdisciplinary scientists.
Intellectual Structure and Publication Pattern in Journal of Global Information Management: A Bibliometric Analysis During 2002-2020 The general audience of the journal may get a broad idea about the kind of research published in the journal and its progress over time.
Global-level relationships of international student mobility and research mentions on social media The findings of this research may suggest that social media can be used effectively to spread academic ideas in the real and online worlds while considering the features of social media and related policies in different countries.
Multivariate dynamics of Spanish universities in international rankings Spanish universities should attempt to improve this situation, since the prestige resulting from a good position on these lists will always be beneficial in terms of the visibility of both the universities themselves and the whole Spanish university system. Therefore, we can conclude that Spanish universities show a low level of internationalisation and only a small percentage have sufficient capacity to compete in global classifications: only 29% of organisations continuously appear in one of the two most prominent and influential international rankings. Competing in them will bring prestige that is always beneficial for the organisation and for the projection of the Spanish university system.
Mapping open knowledge institutions: an exploratory analysis of Australian universities The indicators provide high dimensional and complex signals for the progression of Australian universities as OKIs.
OLGAVis: On-Line Graph Analysis and Visualization for Bibliographic Information Network The visualization tool that was developed through this study will be used to conveniently perform various online analysis of the bibliographic data, and the information and knowledge acquired as a result of the analysis are expected to contribute to the research development of various researchers. Furthermore, this visualization tool can be applied to other types of data in the future, and it is expected to develop into a useful tool for various information network analysis by improving, supplementing, and expanding the functions and performance of the developed prototype.
Have you Read This? An Empirical Comparison of the British REF Peer Review and the Italian VQR Bibliometric Algorithm "The extreme closeness of the outcome, especially when comparing size-sensitive measures, is striking."
Topic space trajectories A case study on machine learning literature Altogether, we see that topic space trajectories are an effective method for a human interpretable analysis of topic drift. Our novel analysis method may be employed for paper classification, for the prediction of future research topics, and for the recommendation of fitting conferences and journals for submitting unpublished work. An advantage in these applications over previous methods lies in the good interpretability of the results obtained through our methods.
Semantic and relational spaces in science of science: deep learning models for article vectorisation In this paper, we explored the use of embeddings as representations of research articles.
Scientific Production Convergence: An Empirical Analysis Across Nations First, for analysing convergence in scientific systems of world countries, the log t test methodology (Phillips and Sul 2007, 2009) was applied to the national produc-tion of scientific papers per capita. The results suggest that there is not an absolute convergence. Instead, evidence is found that convergence occurs in five clubs, rang-ing from the more scientifically advanced groups to the less scientifically developed groups.
More than meets the eye: traditions, nucleus and peripheries of the biographical research field All profiles have a singular contribution to the definition of the field's structure, contents and dynamics in analytical, methodological and conceptual terms; thus, showing the many faces of biographical research.
Assessing the publication output on country level in the research field communication using Garfield's Impact Factor Our results provide an accurate picture of the development of research in Communication by nation.
Understanding authors' psychological reactions to peer reviews: a text mining approach By extracting various psychological process related words from motivation texts, this study provided richer insight into how multiple peer review characteristics affect authors' psychological processes than a single overall rating can reveal.
A lexical and syntactic study of research article titles in Library Science and Scientometrics The findings reveal that both Library Science and Scientometrics have equivalent title length. However, between Library Science and Scientometrics, there does exist interesting disciplinary differences in some elements of lexical density, punctuation marks, and title types. In light of the above findings, it can be concluded that Library Science and Scientometrics demonstrate disciplinary differences in individual preference of lexical words, punctuation marks, and title types, even though both fields are nested under the same big umbrella of the Library and Information Science.
Learning on knowledge graph dynamics provides an early warning of impactful research Although this manuscript represents an initial dem- onstration, we think that such a system offers some intriguing possibilities.
How do Price medalists' scholarly impact change before and after their awards? Our results show that: a Price Medal award may not necessarily boost the medalist's scholarly potential, actual academic impact and collaboration patterns in a degree that is statistically significant. But the SVA method is a better indicator to evaluate the Price Medalist, especially in five-year time windows. We believe that Structural Variation Analysis is an interesting supplement as a method to evaluate the potential scholarly impact from the perspective of the milestone knowledge scientists come up with.
Does the Financial Times FT50 journal list select the best management and economics journals? Our study of multiple bibliometric indicators and the comparison with other major journal lists tend to validate the representativeness of the FT journal list, and, as a consequence, the prestige it confers on the journals on that list. Eighty percent of the FT journals would deserve their place according to bibliometric indicators. The comparative rankings and the rankings of the subfields allow to signal potential candidates for inclusion in the next reshuffling of the FT50.
Assessing the ideological homogeneity in entrepreneurial finance research by highly cited publications Based on the Y-index and co-authorship analysis, we find Western ideological dominance and low tolerance of heterogeneity among highly cited papers across three levels (author, institution, and country), strong evidence for the Western ideological homogeneity in entrepreneurial finance.
On the Coercive Nature of Research Impact Metrics: The Case Study of Altmetrics and Science Communication Accordingly, research impact metrics stand as an alien, objective power determining whether and how each academic producer takes part in the social metabolic process – thus exerting coercion upon science labourers. The latter must subject themselves to what scores on the most relevant indicators tell them to do. However, altmetrics lack in their current state the capacity of autonomously organizing social production in the sphere of science communication via social media.
The 100 most-cited papers in oral medicine and pathology In conclusion, this biometric analysis identified the major areas of interest in the field of oral medicine and pathology.
International collaboration in higher education research: A gravity model approach European scholars appear to give preference to linguistically proximate partners over geographical neighbours.
Global distribution of publications in anesthesiology A bibliometric analysis from 1999 to 2018 Regarding quantity trend, the output of global production in anesthesiology increased continuously as the number of articles from the high-output countries showed an increasing trend; however, there was still a gap between developing and developed countries in research quality. High-quality research should be encouraged in developing countries.
A bibliometric study of Revista Espanola de Enfermedades Digestivas (REED) based on SciELO indicators for the period 2004-2018 The usage and impact indicators described in the present paper for the journals in SciELO Spain may supplement those provided by the JCR and Scopus databases, which are more commonly used, as they inform on how a journal is doing within the SciELO platform, which provides a better coverage of how information is produced, disseminated, and used in the Iberoamerican region.
Pivoting in Context Using the Forging Alliances in Interdisciplinary Rehabilitation Research Model to Collaborate During COVID-19 We suggest that a portion of the FAIRR model can be used to successfully shift research inputs and activities while keeping fit in mind for all team members.
Optimal pricing and quality of academic journals and the ambiguous welfare effects of forced open access: A two-sided model Our conclusions are the following. First, with regard to the relationship between journal quality and open access in a copyright protected regime (i.e., the status quo), our model suggests that it is not true that open access journals will necessarily have lower quality than closed access journals.
Growth of knowledge: dual institutionalization of disciplines and brokerage The specialization and its associated peer-group function according to a logic driving individual researchers in a common direction (and hence can sometimes produce “undue persistence” or “overconcentration” of research effort). The department and its associated collegium provide, potentially, a counter-weight to this logic, fostering or at least disinhibiting more adventurous contributions by peers to their specializations, and thus offering an alternative to “undue persistence”.
Quantitative author inputs to Earth science research publications: survey results, insights and potential applications Generally, the first and/ or second authors lead the study with a sharp fall-off to a contribu- tion of about 5% for the fifth.
The marginalisation of voice in the fight against climate change: The case of Lusophone Africa "This study revealed the hegemony of English in African climate change science."
Knowledge creation through collaboration: The role of shared institutional affiliations and physical proximity Overall, our results support the idea that shared institutional affiliations and physical proximity can play an integrative role in shaping knowledge creation and impact through collaboration.
The 100 most cited articles on lung cancer screening: a bibliometric analysis Our study presents a detailed list and analysis of the 100 most cited articles published about lung cancer screening which provides insight into the historical developments and key contributions in this field.
The effects of electronic alert letters for internet surveys of academic scientists These findings indicate pre-notification messages remain useful when studying academic scientists.
Scopes of accounting journals and published papers: what do they signalize? Our main objective was to create a framework to analyze signals sent from academic journals.
Prediction and application of article potential citations based on nonlinear citation-forecasting combined model Ranking academic articles according to the potentional citation counts can help researchers retrieve the desired articles efficiently in a short time. No matter which criterion is applied to evaluate our model, the experiments can always demonstrate the high superiority of the NCFCM over the single-model method. The new literature ranking method can assist the scientific researchers to efficiently retrieve the desired academic articles which are updated and promising.
A deep learning approach for identifying biomedical breakthrough discoveries using context analysis "All the evaluation results prove the effectiveness of the others-self evaluation method in identifying potential breakthroughs."
Open access uptake in Germany 2010-2018: adoption in a diverse research landscape Our study presents the first comprehensive empirical study investigating institutional OA uptake in Germany. Overall, our results enable data-driven decision-making in the context of OA in Ger-many at the level of institutions. Against the background of the ongoing OA adoption in general and the negotiation of transformative agreements in particular, our empirical find-ings can serve as a baseline to assess the impact of this new publishing model in the future.
Research ethics: a profile of retractions from world class universities We conclude that the uni-versities with a higher ranking tend to have a lower rate of retraction. The study established a relationship between WCUs that are deeply interested in high-impact research, which requires strategic and increasingly competitive funding, and ethical conduct in research, which today is monitored through scientific retractions. This relation-ship is pertinent as WCU status is achieved not only by the productivity of research, but by the quality of research and its contributions to society.
A bibliometric methodology to unveil territorial inequities in the scientific wealth to combat COVID-19 Policies for rebalancing the north-south divide should also consider, in addition to tangible assets, the gap in production and availability of quality medical knowledge. Our findings support the observations communicated by authoritative physicians and local governors, that if the pandemic had struck first in the south of Italy, all others equal, there might have been even worse consequences.
Barriers to research productivity among gastroenterologists and hepatologists in Saudi Arabia Barriers to research productivity are highly prevalent among gastroenterologists in Saudi Arabia.
Research community dynamics behind popular AI benchmarks Although the results cannot be extrapolated beyond our selection of popular machine learning benchmarks, the methodology can be extended to other areas of artificial intelligence or robotics, and com-bined with bibliometric studies.
Overburdening of peer reviewers: A multi-stakeholder perspective on causes and effects Thereby, this study revealed a more differentiated account of reviewing burden than most anecdotal reports, which describe the entire academic community as being overwhelmed by its own demand for peer review (Alberts et al., 2008; Arns, 2014; Stahel & Moore, 2014).
Who are the users of national open access journals? The case of the Finnish Journal.fi platform This paper shows that open access publications in national languages can be central for reaching important users of research both within and beyond academia, including experts, private citizens, teachers and students. This is a strong argument why open access publishing platforms, which provide access to publication in national languages, are an important part of the knowledge infrastructure. Thus, open access to publications in national languages is vital for the local relevance and outreach of research.
Citation Classics in Consumer Neuroscience, Neuromarketing and Neuroaesthetics: Identification and Conceptual Analysis This paper has allowed us to present the evolution of neuromarketing, neuroaesthetics, and consumer neuroscience during the last decade.
Trend of international collaboration in three decades: A case study of Taiwan The number of international collaborated publications increases continuously in the last three decades.
The Democratisation Myth: Open Access and the Solidification of Epistemic Injustices Conclusively, this diagnosis positions OA next to other technologies that promised more equity but could not deliver on this promise. Successful change through technology is contingent on the problem that it is set to solve: the problem of accessibility is posed in a way that allows for OA to being only a cosmetic shift within existing epistemic hierarchies, without posing significant change to these hierarchies themselves. We need to look at culture principles just as we go along establishing technological means.
Impact of Coronavirus Outbreaks on Science and Society: Insights from Temporal Bibliometry of SARS and COVID-19 In this work, we compare the past and present coronavirus outbreaks in terms of published literature, and attempt to reflect upon the impact of the crises on science and societal priorities.
Prevalence of nonsensical algorithmically generated papers in the scientific literature Unexpectedly, the scientific literature includes computer-generated nonsensical papers getting published and sold by various publishers. Most of the 243 nonsensical papers detected went unnoticed to date: 197 papers are available, sometimes sold, without any warning or withdrawal notice. Flagging nonsensical, incoherent, redundant, poorly informative, or contradictory publications calls for enhanced tools to screen the scientific literature.
Trends in general and public health scientific output of authors affiliated to Brazilian institutions among high-impact and SciELO journals: 1995-2019 The main findings of our study do not confirm the assumption made by some commentators, regarding the decreasing presence of Brazilian science, at least based on the citation count. The results suggest that the presence of Brazilian science is increasing, and the scientific impact has increased more than average. This general trend that Brazilian science is growing above average, detached from any bias that could be produced by the SciELO base 28,29, has already been reported elsewhere 26.
Relationship between altmetric and bibliometric indicators across academic social sites in article-level: the case of Iranian researchers' "Top Papers" in clinical medicine It is concluded that altmetrics could reflect an alternative dimension of the research performance, close, perhaps, to science popularization and networking abilities, but far from citation impact.
Past, present, and future research on self-service merchandising: a co-word and text mining approach The conclusions of this study hold implications at the intersection of merchandising, sectors, new technologies, research methodologies and merchandising-practitioner education. Research trends suggest that, in the future, virtual reality and augmented reality using neuroscientific methods will be applied to the e-merchandising context. This study provides a pioneering analysis based on an integrated approach to merchandising as a marketing tool, from conceptual, evolutionary and thematic points of view.
Journal editors and journal indexes: Internationalization pressures in the semi-periphery of the world of science The scientific databases have created new worlds within which journals have to perform, because the prestige of publications in indexed journals has come to delimit the type of output that is valued.
Bibliometric analysis, progress and prospects of Journal of King Saud University-Science at global level The performance of JKSU-Science in global sciences has markedly increased during the period 2016-2020.
Performance of China's journals indexed in SCIE: An evaluation based on megajournal metrics Our analysis, by viewing all China's SCIE journals as one megajournal, provides evidence that their performance has improved under the Chinese government's new policies. Further improving China's academic journals will require fundamental reforms of the traditional Chinese publishing system. Our results lead to several suggestions for ensuring the continued success of China's academic journals.
Fate of rejected manuscripts in the journal Medicina Intensiva during 2015-2017 period The articles rejected in Ml show a stable subsequent publication rate, similar to that of other journals. Most of these texts are published in journals with a lower IF and with a number of citations below the IF of MI. A European or North American origin, papers in English, a woman as submitting person, and evaluation by reviewers are variables associated to a higher rate of posterior publication in journals indexed in PubMed.
Characterization of an Open-Access Medical News Platform's Readership During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Retrospective Observational Study The readership significantly increased for one open-access medical literature platform during the pandemic.
Developing doctoral students' / researchers' understanding of the journal peer-review process The journal peer-review process provides several benefits to journal editors and authors and is increasingly synonymous with being scientifically sound and approved. The data analysis suggests that authors should understand what each section of a manuscript is supposed to accomplish. In summary, research faculty and young scholars should continue improving their skills and consider the peer-review process as a help rather than a hindrance.
Detecting seminal research contributions to the development of ethnobotany by reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS) Our present study, however, revealed the long history of ethnobotany.
Only two out of five articles by New Zealand researchers are free-to-access: a multiple API study of access, citations, cost of Article Processing Charges (APC), and the potential to increase the proportion of open access In May 2019 we ran our specially-developed software to discover that about two out of every five articles authored by New Zealand researchers in 2017 were freely available on the web (41%). This is the first time we have an evidence-based picture of access to research by New Zealand universities with such detail since, as a result of our work, we have far more than a simple overall proportion: we can investigate the ways in which work has been made accessible, we can compare the citation rates for these different modes of access, we can quantify the volume of works that are closed access and could be made open and we can estimate how much paid forms of open access have cost. Our overall proportion of open work lags behind other countries, our corresponding authors are less likely to make research open than corresponding authors from other countries and, clearly, we could be taking advantage of Green open access to a far greater extent than we are.
Is rapid scientific publication also high quality? Bibliometric analysis of highly disseminated COVID-19 research papers This review of the most widely disseminated COVID-19 studies highlights a preponderance of low-quality case series with few research papers adhering to good stan-dards of reporting.
Home country bias in academic publishing: A case study of the New England Journal of Medicine Firstly, in terms of the quantity of publications, the NEJM does publish a disproportionately large number of papers from its home country. Secondly and more importantly, US-based NEJM papers are found to have lower research impact than non-US NEJM papers, while in all SCIE-Medicine journals, US-based papers show significantly higher research impact than non-US ones. The results of this study suggest that, with the same research impact, US-based papers may be more likely to be published in the NEJM, while non-US papers would probably receive a rejection. Such a contrast indicates a possibility of home country bias of the NEJM. Future research may combine bibliometric analysis with other methods, such as surveys and interviews with editors, authors, and reviewers, to identify the specific reasons for the home country bias.
What shall I compare thee to? Legal journals, impact, citation and peer rankings It is submitted that there is no perfect indicator of quality, and that no evaluation system will ever convince every legal scholar in the world of its value.
Complex networks reveal emergent interdisciplinary knowledge in Wikipedia The complex networks approach proposed here shows the need to consider interdisciplinary knowledge as a whole instead of focusing on local and specific information.
Early indicators of scientific impact: Predicting citations with altmetrics Given the proliferation of research publications, predicting the scholarly impact of research at an early stage would save time for the scholarly community, research agencies, and policymakers and thereby accelerate the overall progress of research.
The consistency of impact of preprints and their journal publications In this study, we studied the consistency of the impact of preprints and their subsequent journal publications.
Characterizing references from different disciplines: A perspective of citation content analysis In this study, we characterize the references from different disciplines based on 210,334 full-text articles on PLoS.
Tracing the main path of interdisciplinary research considering citation preference: A case from blockchain domain This paper proposes a new MPA method named preference main path and testes it on a dataset of blockchain.
Measuring the impact of novelty, bibliometric, and academic-network factors on citation count using a neural network This study proposed an effective approach to identify the influences of novelty, bibliometric, and academic-network factors on the paper citation count.
On the relationship between download and citation counts: An introduction of Granger-causality inference We find that there is significant directionality between these two variables for many publications.
A new citation concept: Triangular citation in the literature This paper proposed a new citation relationship, namely, triangular citation, which combined direct citation, co-citation and bibliographic coupling, and defined three kinds of literature in the triangular citation, namely, original Literature A, intermediary Literature B and following Literature C.
Classification of abrupt changes along viewing profiles of scientific articles It was found that models incorporating joint dependencies between the properties of the segments provided the most accurate results among the considered alternatives. All in all, the obtained results confirm to a good extent the initial hypothesis that the view profiles are not trivial or random and have intrinsic structure that were progressively reflected by modeling approaches taking into account additional information. For future developments, additional metadata about the papers can be taken into account in the analysis. In particular, it would be interesting to investigate how the views dynamics changes according to the subject area and authors institution.
Gender differences in research performance within and between countries: Italy vs Norway Our study has contributed to further knowledge on research performance by gender in Italy and Norway. It is evident that women are significantly underrepresented in the academic staff, accounting for approximately one-third of the population analysed in both countries. This suggests that oft-heard generalizations, like 'women have lower performance than men' are incorrect. As a matter of fact, the performances of men and women performances do not differ much, expect in the top performing groups.
The research productivity of universities. A multilevel and multidisciplinary analysis on European institutions The findings lend support to a theory of research productivity in which institutional factors play a role. Summing up, we find evidence that a more general theory of research productivity at university level for STEM disciplines is validated when differences across disciplinary areas are examined. This research has important limitations. First, it simply ignores Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH), for which bibliometric indicators are affected by well known limitations.
The gap between Plan S requirements and grantees' publication practices This implies that implementation of Plan S would require either a change in publication practices by researchers, or a substantial transformation of the academic publishing market to meet the expectations designed by cOAlition S and implemented by national and regional funders.
Ranking institutions within a discipline: The steep mountain of academic excellence Plotting the size of the stable sets with respect to the exclusiveness parameter reveals the competitiveness of the analysed field.
SCiMet: Stable, sCalable and reliable Metric-based framework for quality assessment in collaborative content generation systems In this paper, we proposed a novel framework for quality assessment in collaborative content generation (CCG) systems. To make quality scores comprehensive, the proposed method takes into account all referenced-based and network-based parameters when computing scores. The promising results of the experimentation suggest that the proposed model provides more robust and comprehensive quality scores in comparison with the related approaches.
Predicting the Q of junior researchers using data from the first years of publication Lastly, we note that both approaches are robust approaches to deal with the inflation of citation bias.
The internationality of published higher education scholarship: How do the 'top' journals compare? Overall, the findings of this study mirror those of past studies, showing that higher education journals are dominated by research and researchers from several core countries, particularly the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia. This also shows that application of the SDI alone is problematic, as it does not detect meaningful diversity: that is, diversity that extends beyond a group of core countries.
Neural embeddings of scholarly periodicals reveal complex disciplinary organizations Together, these results indicate that our periodical embeddings, while being much more efficient, can better capture the relation-ships between journals than the sparse vector-space models based on citations and other baseline approaches.
Assessing the quality of pharmacy journals accessible to community pharmacists The results indicate that community pharmacists are at risk of accessing journals of questionable quality.
Trends of the main bibliometric indicators of Anais Brasileiros de Dermatologia (2010-2019) There has been a consistent increase in the main bibliometric indicators of ABD in the last decade, especially when compared to the indices of global dermatological journals and national medical scientific journals.
Chief editors in aquatic science and communication are more likely to oversee editorial boards from their own regions Finally, we want to stress that although our paper encourages an expansion of the geographies of EBMs where suitable, it does not want to undermine the effort of the thousands of scientists in underrepresented regions that are currently serving on editorial boards and whose inputs are enriching the scientific discourse. Clear from our research is that even though there is prevalence of European and Northern American editors, all global regions are contributing editors to these disciplines.
Evaluating Scholars' Impact and Influence: Cross-sectional Study of the Correlation Between a Novel Social Media-Based Score and an Author-Level Citation Metric We found a weak positive correlation between a novel author-level complementary metric and the h-index. More than a chiasm between traditional citation metrics and novel social media-based metrics, our findings point toward a bridge between the two domains. It appears that novel author-level altmetrics based on network analysis in social media and digital publications have a positive association with traditional bibliometric benchmarks.
Top Central Asian Educational Institutions on Publons: Analysis of Researchers and Reviewers There appears to be much disparity among the rankings, number of researchers, reviewers and published manuscripts across various countries in Central Asia. The gross heterogeneity of Central Asia needs to be minimized by nurturing and mentoring potentially upcoming researchers in publication, peer reviewing as well as in ethics involved. Concrete steps must be taken to ensure equity in the region.
Integrity of Databases for Literature Searches in Nursing Avoiding Predatory Journals This analysis documented that none of the predatory nursing journals in the study dataset were currently indexed in MEDLINE or CINAHL, and only one journal is still in Scopus. The findings of this study offer some reassurance to those who search the profes-sional nursing literature: if you begin a search in a database such as MEDLINE, CINAHL, or Scopus, then the results will probably not include citations to predatory publica-tions. Google and Google Scholar searches, however, may very well include predatory citations, and in that case, it is the searcher's responsibility to carefully evaluate the out-put and discard findings from nonlegitimate sources.
Research ethics dilemma in higher education: Impact of internet access, ethical controls, and teaching factors on student plagiarism This research principally suggests that internet access does not necessarily play a significant role in aiding and abetting students' plagiarism behavior. Nevertheless, the absence of effective university control policies and the lack of stress on zero tolerance of plagiarism from the perspective of teaching factors have a strong and significant bearing on students' behavior associated with plagiarism. For further extension of this work, researchers can undertake a comparative study of students from public and private universities or a comparative study of provincial-based universities in Pakistan.
Contribution of researchers in the Arab region to peer-reviewed literature on mental health and well-being of university students The current study noticed (1) an increasing interest and research activity by researchers in the Arab region lately, and (2) certain research gaps in mental health research including substance use, eating disor-ders, suicide, adjustment disorders, self-esteem, and happiness.
Preprints as an alternative to conference proceedings: A hands-on experience at EDICIC Iberian Meeting 2019 Few authors participating in EDICIC 2019 had previous experi- ence in the use of preprints: just 11% had published preprints before their participation at the conference. The new model of participation in EDICIC 2019 was not fully sat- isfactory. It will be diffi- cult to obtain authors' commitment to the publication of preprints and, in general, to open science targets such as open access, data sharing or open peer review, if involvement in these tasks is not reflected in the criteria applied by research assess- ment bodies.
Studying the characteristics of scientific communities using individual-level bibliometrics: the case of Big Data research Considering the community size, overall academic age, and persistence of publishing on the topic, our results support the idea of Big Data as a research topic with attractiveness for researchers.
A deep-learning based citation count prediction model with paper metadata semantic features We have shown that our proposed model outperforms the existing state-of-the-art models, and metadata semantic features are useful for the citation prediction performance improvement. Our study provides a promising approach for the citation prediction task. As the future study, we will collect more papers to expand the experimental dataset for learning a better citation prediction method.
Effect of policies promoting open access in the scientific ecosystem: case study of ERC grantee publication practice Two lessons have been learnt from the ERC's endeavour and experience in the international scientific ecosystem in the first decade since its institution.
Predicting publication productivity for authors: Shallow or deep architecture? We proposed a model to predict the number of publications by authors that integrates the advantage of LSTM with that of the piecewise Poisson model.
Characterizing the patterns of China's policies against COVID-19: A bibliometric study This research reveals how China responded to the public health emergency of COVID-19 from the perspective of policy making.
Detecting research topic trends by author-defined keyword frequency Our empirical result confirms the feasibility of word frequency prediction by forecasting precision.
Open access information resources and university libraries: Analysis of perceived awareness, challenges, and opportunities University libraries were fully aware of HEC OA information re-sources, OA journals and Pakistan Research Repository but their awareness level about OA publishing models (Gold, Green, Diamond) is low. The findings also revealed that university libraries lack additional resources (staff, effort, time) and inadequate tools and infrastructure for integration of OA resources into library collections. University libraries are taking advantages of OA information re-sources which helps them to get free access of OA information resources, increase library value by providing maximum access to information and helps them to fulfill their users' information needs with limited budgets.
Demystifying East Asian language monograph publishing: Contemplations on the current status, challenges, and opportunities We conclude that East Asian studies librarians must battle the trend toward e-centric collection development approach to ensure a well-curated collection that reflects the concept of equity, diversity, and inclusion. Print monographs written in East Asian languages are heavily used by East Asian scholars and students. The e-preferred collection policy, which is escalated by the global COVID-19 pandemic, does not cater to the needs of East Asian scholars and students.
Are predatory journals contaminating science? An analysis on the Cabells' Predatory Report A paper published without serious peer review in any predatory journal affects all fields of science in terms of its method, findings and discussions.
Is research with qualitative data more prevalent and impactful now? Interviews, case studies, focus groups and ethnographies The results suggest that qualitative research increased substantially in prevalence between 1996 and 2019. Arguments that some qualitative methods are threatened by big data are not supported by the results, although this may still occur within some narrow specializations. This suggests that methods teachers, researchers, editors, librarians, and publishers should be increasingly open to the value of qualitative data.
In-text citation's frequencies-based recommendations of relevant research papers In comparison to the baseline, it was found that in-text citation frequencies-based recommendations have a higher precision in identifying the most relevant documents, i.96. At the same time, other state-of-the-art techniques have relatively low precision of 0.76, 0.56, and 0.48 for content, bibliographic coupling, and metadata-based techniques, respectively. In the future, we intend to extend our experiments on diversified data set covering multiple aspects such as the substantial number of journals and conferences.
University accreditations and publication of articles on education in Spain (Acreditaciones universitarias y publicacion de articulos sobre educacion en Espana) The main conclusion of this study is that the requirement to publish on teaching in the university professorate accreditation processes in recent years has significantly influenced the publication figures in indexed journals as well as the number of indexed journals headquartered in Spain. This article shows the close relationship between the meteoric increase in both publications on university education by Spanish higher education institutions and the creation of journals on education that are headquartered in Spain, on the one hand, and the accreditation requirements of university professors on the other. A reflection on one's own teaching is essential in order to improve it, which unquestionably has repercussions on an overall improvement in university academic quality.
Applying text similarity algorithm to analyze the triangular citation behavior of scientists The experimental results show that in the triangular citation structure, language differences, literature types, discipline differences, and author self-citation are all influencing factors for the indirect ci- tation exerted by follower C.
Re-invent Yourself! How Demands for Innovativeness Reshape Epistemic Practices Overall, the attempt of this paper to critically scrutinise demands for innova-tiveness in the current research landscape and their consequences for research practices may contribute to discussions about which kinds of research are and should be furthered through mechanisms of research governance—a discussion that is increasingly seen as indispensable by members of the academic commu-nity themselves (see e.g. Alberts et al. 2014; Curry 2018; Pagano 2017), and that seems all the more pressing in the light of growing socio-ecological crises. The second central argument I have made is that prevailing valuations of inno-vativeness, and especially the de-valuation of taking second steps and doing con-tinuous work on one topic they entail, bring along considerable frictions with what researchers perceive as a valuable progress of knowledge and with the pursuit of more long-term epistemic agendas. Overall, such an understanding of the broader cultural logics and valuations that are embedded in current regimes of research governance and the ways in which they reshape epistemic practices then seems indispensable for discussions about how sci-ence should be governed, and for working towards a transformation of contemporary research cultures.
Reproducing scientists' mobility: a data-driven model Our results allow interpreting the model assumptions as micro-based decision rules that can explain the observed mobility patterns of scientists.
Librarians' Perceptions of the Challenges for Researchers in Rwanda and the Potential of Open Scholarship This paper has examined the potential of open scholarship to address the challenges of research in the Global South, specifically in Rwanda.
A bibliometric overview of the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Management: Research contributions and influence Overall, this bibliometric analysis of JHTM has underlined the rapid growth in the publication and citation performance of the journal from 2006 to 2020.
Cite unseen: Theory and evidence on the effect of open access on cites to academic articles across the quality spectrum "Our results suggest that OA exerts a "Matthew effect," causing poor articles to lose and good articles to gain."
Taxonomic papers on Collembola in Zootaxa, 2001 to 2020 For a relatively small pool of taxonomists, we conclude their output has been considerable and Zootaxa has provided a useful vehicle in which to publish their research findings.
A quantitative approach to the scientific production on radar altimetry Bibliometric studies offer a means to gain knowledge on the evolution of scientific production in dedicated areas. The techniques applied in this paper create artefacts that can be used to support different analysis and gain knowledge about: The size of the scientific production in a specific area and its evolution over time. Collaboration between entities and data that can be used to assess the outcomes of shared research programs and efforts. The concepts that are discussed together in documents and identify potential areas of research using new combinations of concepts.
Evaluation of articles in metabolism research on the basis of their citations Our analysis contradicts concerns over increasing amounts of publications with little impact.
Analysis of single comments left for bioRxiv preprints till September 2019 "Our results indicate that comments posted for bioRxiv preprints may have potential benefits for both the public and the scholarly community." and "Further research could measure the direct impact of these comments on comments made by journal peer reviewers, later preprint versions or journal publications, as well as the feasibility and sustainability of maintaining and moderating commenting sections of bioRxiv or other preprint servers."
The Bibliometric Literature on Scopus and WoS: The Medicine and Environmental Sciences Categories as Case of Study This study has analyzed the bibliometric documents produced between 1996 and 2020. It has been observed how bibliometrics were applied to research in all scientific fields during these years.
The prevalence and impact of special issues in communications journals 2015-2019 "Publishing special issues has proven advantageous in terms of impact for 76% of the journals studied."
Research Self-Efficacy and Productivity in Communication Sciences and Disorders Faculty The results of this study further our understanding of the resources and limitations for research in different types of programs that offer CSD degrees. This information is necessary to inform policy decisions regarding academic careers in CSD, provide context for students considering an academic career, and enhance the research productivity of the field.
An audit of the editorial process at the Indian Journal of Cancer: Lessons learned, and how to improve chances of acceptance of your paper "The study provides evidence that it is difficult to get referees."
Blockchain for scholarly journal evaluation: Potential and prospects Considering the demands of multidimensional scholarly journal evaluation, this paper offers perspectives on the blockchain-based scholarly journal evaluation, exploring the potential and prospects of blockchain supporting journal evaluation.
Mapping the intellectual structure of the coronavirus field (2000-2020): a co-word analysis The present research aimed to map the intellectual structure of the coronavirus field from 2000 to 2020 using co-word analysis of publications in the WoS Core Collection database. The results confirmed that research in the coronavirus field is still in its early stage, which consists of a wide range of heterogeneous, interdisciplinary knowledge domains. As a result, many research gaps still need to be bridged by further research.
Business and publication models of radiology journals Radiology journals are largely published by a few multinational commercial entities using a traditional subscription-based model.
Peer Review Research Evaluation in Iran: Strengths, Weaknesses and Suggestions "Review missions of clinical research centers with more emphasis on health impact is necessary to clinical improvement."
Factors associated with the research efficiency of clinical specialties in a research-oriented hospital in China The five-year effectiveness ratio of research hospitals' specialties is approximately 50% in China.
Disparities in Cardiovascular Research Output and Disease Outcomes among High-, Middle- and Low-Income Countries - An Analysis of Global Cardiovascular Publications over the Last Decade (2008-2017) Female faculty were less likely to be involved in research than men counterparts. The University needs to narrow the gender gap in research by designing and implementing an appropriate intervention strategy. Our findings indicated that Addis Ababa University has to go to a great length to narrow the publication gap of peer-reviewed articles and the gap in grant writings for application between male and female faculty.
Derailment or Turning Point? The Effect of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Sustainability-Related Thinking In summary, it can be stated that the COVID-related pandemic has not been a short-term derailment of modern history, but an important milestone towards a more sustainable future. These facts highlight the importance of harmonic development within society (e.g., decreasing of social differences, enhancement of inclusion), as well as of harmony with the natural environment. On the other hand, the COVID crisis propels deep rooted changes in the forms of services and employment. These could also have a positive effect on sustainability.
A Bibliometric Study of Research Topics and Sustainability of Packaging in the Greater China Region Academic bibliometric research on packaging in the Greater China region remains rare. Therefore, this study explored and analyzed journal papers concerning packaging in the leading academic journal databases of Chinese-speaking regions (CNKI-CAJD and CEPS), and summarized the developments and changes in academic research on packaging. Through the analysis of crucial common subjects and individual subjects that show regional differences, the opportunity for the incorporation of environmental sustainability in the field of packaging is contemplated.
An integrated approach for detecting and quantifying the topic evolutions of patent technology: a case study on graphene field The above integrated m method can reveal the development process, details and mechanism of the whole field more clearly. Besides, it increases the readability and interpretability of the topic evolution so as to helps us understand easily the development of various technical topics.
Do they practice what they preach? The presence of problematic citations in business ethics research The fact that problematic citation behavior, including the use of inaccurate citations and citation plagiarism, impedes the growth of knowledge, contaminates the existing knowledge base and disserves the science is undoubtful (e.g. see Wright and Armstrong, 2008; Hassan and Serenko, 2019). This study reminds writers and researchers about the epistemic role of citations and asks them to exercise vigilance and care when using citations to preserve and protect their epistemic function. Regrettably, it shows that it is unlikely that attempting to improve researchers' awareness of the unethicality of this behavior will bring a desirable outcome.
Team Science in Precision Medicine: Study of Coleadership and Coauthorship Across Health Organizations Our findings suggest that organizations in the field of precision medicine could greatly benefit from institutional-level team science.
The Dynamics of Retraction in Epistemic Networks To summarise our findings: we find that contagion-type models are a useful tool in exploring the dynamics of retraction. They show why false beliefs can persist indefinitely, even in light of a retraction, when agents stop sharing new beliefs. Our results also suggest it is important for retractions to be spread by the same sources that originated a false belief. In sum, while these models are highly simplified, they are useful in directing further research into retraction.
Should science be evaluated? current quantitative bibliometric indicators are poor measurements of the research or institutional quality, and, in addition, instigate opportunistic individual and institutional behavior.
Detecting a network of hijacked journals by its archive First, this study explores a new method of identifying hijacked journals based on an analysis of journal archives. This research improves the current knowledge on the circulation of text similarities. Fifth, this study shows that the data and content of nine journals have been compro- mised in legitimate scientometric databases.
Career Research Productivity Correlates With Medical School Ranking Among Cardiothoracic Surgeons Overall, we conclude that attending a top 10 medical school correlates with greater future research productivity but not with faster career advancement.
Assessing research misconduct in Iran: a perspective from Iranian medical faculty members This study confirms that research misconduct needs to be actively addressed among the medical fac-ulty members.
Evaluation and innovation: An antagonistic pair? Setting aside the complications of the larger ideological and political context, the fact that there does indeed seem to be an empirically demonstrable as well as a theoretically articulable antagonism between innovation and evaluation (in its dominant contemporary forms) ought therefore to discourage reliance on such evaluation and lead to the exploration of other ways in which science can more adequately be managed and supported.
Networking Universities and Hospitals: A Case Study of Research and Commercialization in the Taiwanese Herbal Medicine Sector The case presented in this study takes a snapshot of how an advanced economy, such as Taiwan, has developed a productive innovation system for herbal medicine.
A Bibliometric Analysis and Visualization of the Top-Cited Publications in Mild Traumatic Brain Injury "This study provides both a transverse section summary and historical retrospect for the clinical advances of mTBI, and the publications of important observations that contributed a significant impact on the treatment and prevention of mTBI had been identified."
Alphabetical ordering of author surnames in academic publishing: A detriment to teamwork Generally, this study concludes that that author alphabetical ordering disincentivizes teamwork and reduces the overall quality of scholarship. Based on these findings we recommend that, to drive the highest-quality research, teamwork should be incentivized, and therefore all fields should adopt a contribution-based journal article author-ordering convention and avoid author ordering based upon the spelling of surnames.
Article-level classification of scientific publications: A comparison of deep learning, direct citation and bibliographic coupling In conclu- sion, deep learning is promising because it performed just as well as the other approaches but has more flexibility to be further improved.
Media and social media attention to retracted articles according to Altmetric Allowing for these limitations, our analysis documents that most eventually retracted articles and their retraction notice receive media and social media attention. In fact, eventually retracted articles tend to receive more media and social media attention than very similar, matched unretracted articles. Worryingly, popular articles receive additional attention upon retrac-tion and this attention does not always reflect their retraction, but may perpetuate the original misconception.
Getting to the bottom of research funding: Acknowledging the complexity of funding dynamics Overall, the findings presented above support the key assumption in this paper: taking a researcher-led perspective to get to the 'bottom' of research funding can reveal important, var-ied funding co-use dynamics.
Research policies and scientific production: A study of 94 Peruvian universities The number of research policies implemented by Peruvian universities and authorized gradu- ate schools is not large.
Deep learning-based prediction of future growth potential of technologies "This study developed a deep learning model for prediction of the future growth potential of technologies and used it to select 10 promising technologies."
Academic Collaboration Recommendation for Computer Science Researchers Using Social Network Analysis The result gotten from the network analysis is a valuable source of information for accessing the different centrality values of researchers in computer science. It also formed the foundation for developing an academic collaboration recommendation system for a small world research network.
An analysis of scientometric data and publication policies of rheumatology journals We failed to show that the OA model positively affects the scientometric indexes of rheumatology journals; our results contradict the literature reporting that the OA publication model causes an increase in citations.
The Marginal Impact of a Publication on Citations, and Its Effect on Academic Pay Using data from three separate state university systems, each comprised of research-focused institutions, we find that the marginal impact of an additional academic publication on a scholar's citations increases that scholar's pay by anywhere from 2.8 to 8.9%.
Do main paths reflect technological trajectories? Applying main path analysis to the semiconductor manufacturing industry Our analysis has shown that main path analysis is a robust method. In terms of external validity, however, our analysis has indicated that the main path cannot be said to represent the backbone of the technological trajectory of the field in question. This opens a compelling avenue for future work on the understanding of the main path analysis algorithm, especially regarding the role played by patents that make many citations and the suitability of the method for analysing cluster technologies.
Introducing a novelty indicator for scientific research: validating the knowledge-based combinatorial approach As such, this study demon-strates that the proposed novelty indicator is a suitable means of identifying the novelty of various types of natural scientific research. This study thus advances the utility of this indicator for large-scale novelty analysis, including comparative and time-series analyses. First, this study confirms that Dahlin and Behrens' (2005) novelty indicators can be used to identify the novelty of publications in various types of research across multiple fields in the natural sciences.
Mapping the field of psychology: Trends in research topics 1995-2015 The most remarkable result is that psychology appears to head towards an application oriented, clinical discipline with a growing focus on brain imaging techniques (e.g., fMRI) and approaches closely aligned to neurosciences and cognitive sciences.
Letters to the editor in exercise science and physical therapy journals: an examination of content and "authorship inflation" "Overall, the results clarify the role of letters in post-publication review. They also suggest "authorship inflation” in letters published in scientific journals."
Journal ratings: a paper affiliation methodology In this paper we have proposed a new method, called paper affiliation index (PAI), with which to rate journals based on bibliometric data; and it has been applied to journals specialized in the Social Science subjects. All comparisons have been highly satisfactory, to such an extent that it could be said that, given the high implementation costs and the little updating of the survey and panel-based methods, as Lowry et al. (2013: 1005) suggest, expert opinion adds no significant value when it comes to building a ranking to identify the top, mainstream journals in any subject. Our PAI has demonstrated sufficient capacity to identify top journals and produce a ranking of journals similar to those generated by other assessment tools.
Do scientific publications by editorial board members have shorter publication delays and then higher influence? As a whole, the scientific publications by board members have shorter publication delays than those by non-board members.
Measuring academic entities' impact by content-based citation analysis in a heterogeneous academic network In this paper, we have presented a ranking method for the impact of papers, authors, and venues in a heterogeneous academic network. Its main characteristic is rather than assigning equal weights to all the citations, we assign variable weight to each of them based on its strength and topical similarity between the citing paper and the cited paper. Based on the AAN data set with some fake citations added, we demonstrate that WCCMR is more robust than the others.
Partnership ability and co-authorship network of information literacy field Findings related to correlations show that Φ-index is a measure based on the number of articles and fixed teams of scientific collaboration, while the centrality measures such as degree and betweenness are based on the number of articles, diversity in co-authors. This seems to be in contrast with the Φ-index concept.
Evaluation of the productivity of hospital-based researchers: comparative study between the h-index and the h(fa)-index In conclusion, in this sample of Swiss hospital-based senior physicians, we found that despite a high correlation between the h-index and the h(fa)-index, the inter-rater agreement was only moderate.
Bibliometric studies outside the information science and library science field: uncontainable or uncontrollable? The results of the present study confirm the growing and generalized interest in bibliometrics as a research methodology to be used across all areas of knowledge, albeit with important differences in output levels between them.
The effect of web of science subject categories on clustering: the case of data-driven methods in business and economic sciences It may be concluded that the multiple assignment to subject categories can have a great impact on the result of the mapping. The paper comes to the conclusion that the multiple assignments of subject categories in Web of Science may lead to massive changes in the results. Finally, it depends on the reader to decide which mapping is more beneficial to them.
Publication patterns' changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic: a longitudinal and short-term scientometric analysis Our analysis showed a significant increase in published papers both in peer reviewed journals and in preprint servers compared to previous years. Unfortunately, this seems to have come at a cost for non-COVID-19 papers, whose time to acceptance was longer than that which was observed in previous years (and obviously longer than that of COVID-19 papers). However, contrary to our original hypothesis, international collaboration diversity in COVID-19 papers was lower than in non-COVID-19 papers and lower than previous years. As the pandemic continues to spread, these changes may cause a slow down in research in non-COVID-19 biomedical fields and bring about a lower rate of international collaboration.
Authorship and citation cultural nature in Density Functional Theory from solid state computational packages Citations of computational packages implementing density functional theory show how influential and transcending this theoretical development in the understanding of material properties has been.
Consistency index: measuring the performances of scholar journal reviewers This paper propose a new index, consistency index to indicate the performances of scholar journal reviewers.
Development of a tool to accurately predict UK REF funding allocation In summary, our results provide a simple practical tool that can help individual research-ers and/or heads of departments/faculties in the Unit of Assessment: Neuroscience, Psychi-atry, and Psychology and Biological Sciences to accurately estimate the UK REF quality score based on the IF of their publications.
Understanding and predicting the dissemination of scientific papers on social media: a two-step simultaneous equation modeling-artificial neural network approach The findings of this study contribute to the literature on the dissemination of scientific papers beyond academia and provide practical implications for scholarly communication.
A Computational Complexity-Based Method for Predicting Scholars' Ages through Articles' Information The experimental results show that the accuracy of the prediction of scholars' age is above 90% by using the method proposed in this paper, and the combi-nation of intuitive factors and complex factors shows the best performance when predicting scholar's age.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Publications in the Web of Science Category of Educational Psychology in the Last Two Decades This bibliometric review provides a comprehensive overview of the development and structure of educational psychology research from 2000 to 2019. Based on our analysis, research on educational psychology has increased slightly in the last 20 years and most of the publications in the discipline are published in the English language. Nevertheless, we believe that our study offers a novel and comprehensive picture of recent developments of educational psychology research and provides useful information for researchers to understand the evolution of the discipline.
'Science' has always been evaluated ... and will always be One cannot stop evaluating science, but one can use the right tools at the right scale (individuals, institutions, countries) to better understand the dynamic of scientific change.
Translational Applications of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Diagnostic Pathology in Lymphoid Neoplasms: A Comprehensive and Evolutive Analysis The use of AI and ML tools in diagnostic hematopathology is increasing over time, as demonstrated by the crescent trends reported in the literature.
Scientific Cooperation and the Co-production of Scientific Outcomes for Physical Activity Promotion: Results From a Transdisciplinary Research Consortium Scientific E&C is a learning process and needs time to develop.
Evaluating the Evaluators in Russia: When Academic Citizenship Fails First, results based on bibliometric data indicate that scholars who perform less well with respect to publications and citations in selective Russian journals are more likely to become an expert engaged in academic citizenship in the form of regulatory activity.
What is the relationship between research funding and citation-based performance? A comparative analysis between critical disciplines The results here can sup-port best practices of research policy directed to fund vital scientific research for increasing the diffusion of science and scientific findings in society. These results have main implications of research policy because a strategy of increasing funding for research can generate a higher diffusion of scientific results and a higher impact of science in society (Coccia et al. 2015; Coccia, 2005a, b). As a future development, additional empirical research can further clarify an optimal scheme of research funding between different disciplines in order to support a vast diffusion of vital discoveries and new technologies for progress and well-being in human society.
The value of an overseas research trip Returning to the research questions posed at the beginning of this study, it is now possible to state that international mobilization of the scientists to the USA significantly contributes to their scientific human capital and scientific social capital. The mobile scientists are found to get published in more prestigious journals, be cited more, and collaborate more internationally compared to their almost the same counterparts created by the synthetic control method. Primary policy priorities for governments and scientific institutions should therefore be to plan for promoting the researchers for making academic visits for longer periods as well as constituting strong enough incentives that encourage the mobile scientists to return.
The link between ethnic diversity and scientific impact: the mediating effect of novelty and audience diversity Overall, regardless of Web of Science subject category, we have observed a weak positive relationship between the two variables. More specifically, in the relationship between ethnic diversity and scientific impact, audience diversity played the largest part in the relationship, regardless of which Web of Science subject category was studied, while novelty played a smaller role. Our study confirms and extend these results, but suggesting that the effect of international collaboration on scientific impact may be driven by audience diversity.
Learners' Perspective towards E-Exams during COVID-19 Outbreak: Evidence from Higher Educational Institutions of India and Saudi Arabia Online assessment is gaining more and more popularity during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Its benefits are very encouraging for students, teachers, and universities as well. The conclusion further revealed that online examination is especially relevant for formative assessment of learning instead of summative assessment, provided authenticity, security, and flexibility are used as fundamental tenants in the proper implementation of e-exams. The outcome of the present study will facilitate higher education institutions and policymakers in taking the electronic examination system to the next level.
Characteristics of Publications on Occupational Stress: Contributions and Trends In conclusion, this study analyzed the publications on occupational stress according to the authors, journal, publication year, country, institution, and study type.
Peer Reviewers in Central Asia: Publons Based Analysis Central Asia has a good number of peer reviewers on Publons though only a minority of researchers are involved in peer reviewing. However, the heterogeneity between the nations can be best dealt with by promoting awareness and international networking including e-learning and mentoring programs. This analysis of the reviewers from the core CA countries reveals that Kazakhstan seems to top the list while two specific countries need a major boost.
Universal and specific features of Ukrainian economic research: publication analysis based on Crossref data Based on our analysis, we discuss specific and universal features of Ukrainian economic research.
Quantifying scientific collaboration impact by exploiting collaboration-citation network In this study, a directed heterogeneous collaboration-citation network is constructed, and its statistical properties of the evolving collaboration-citation network in temporal domain are drawn to measure the impact of scientific collaboration in heterogeneous scholarly networks.
A new method of co-author credit allocation based on contributor roles taxonomy: proof of concept and evaluation using papers published in PLOS ONE This study proposed a new method to allocate the co-author credit based on the 14 contributor roles in CRediT and compare it with the other five representative ones. We find that the total AC value of co-authors in an article is 1, which avoids inflationary bias. Furthermore, compared with Ca, the method can reduce the impact of the increasing number of co-authors on the first co-author's credit.
Altmetrics analysis of highly cited academic papers in the field of library and information science Finally, it is estimated that the field of academic communication is highly sensitive to tweets, and is relatively frequently mentioned by policy developers and industries related to library and academic information distribution.
Are bibliometric measures consistent with scientists' perceptions? The case of interdisciplinarity in research The disagreement between qualitative and quantitative evaluations, as well as the significant field-specific nature of interdisciplinarity, calls for the use of multidimensional assessment approaches for assessing IDR, and the building of a consensus about the meaning and measurement of interdisciplinarity among scientists, respectively.
Networking among Scientific Journal Editors. A Network Analysis among the Top 100 Sociology Journals First, editors are recruited from prestigious universities, especially those in the US. Sociology journals form a unified yet non-centralized network, creating a disciplinary structure offering extensive opportunities for collaboration. Future studies should examine the connection between different forms of professional and academic networking to contribute to studies of scientific collaboration and scientometrics in sociology.
International Comparison of the Evolution of Sociological Research Topics in Two Indexed Journals (1995-2018) By examining the thematic agenda of sociological research from the two journals, it is evident that these agendas vary over time. Second, the topics that are studied and published in each area continue to be anchored to historic problems and peculiarities of each context. An analysis of additional journals is necessary, as well as the study of the intrinsic factors differentiating the trajectories of publications in each country.
Bibliometric analysis of the scientific production of literature on peri-implant diseases in the Web of Science Scientific literature on peri-implantitis shows scientific growth in recent years, with a growing trend towards collaboration between authors and institutions. Most of the works have been published in high-impact journals, and in the last 2 years, more than half of the works have received some type of public or private funding.
Who profits from the Canadian nanotechnology reward system? Implications for gender-responsible innovation This research draws upon the two approaches from the “gendered innovation” framework—namely ‘fix the number of women' and 'fix the institutions'—and applies a gender dimension to questions about who drives nanotechnology and related scientific innovations and who is most likely to profit from the scientific reward system in nanotechnologies. This paper also shows that the reward system of science presents different levels of interactions under different institutional cultures. Consequently, there is a clear need for the introduction of policies to change the culture to be more accepting of gender-inclusive initiatives in an institution, particularly in the aspect of family-friendly policies and women's progression.
Citations and the readers' information-extracting costs of finance articles This paper extends a strand of literature that is dedicated to the evaluation of scientific research in finance (e.g., Borokhovich, Lee, and Simkins, 2011; Kerl, Miersch, and Walter, 2018): It analyzes how finance articles are perceived and how information-extracting costs affect the number of citations. We find that information-extracting costs of the full text as measured by the Flesch-Kincaid readability score is associated with a higher number of citations, while abstracts with low information-extracting costs have a positive effect on the number of citations. However, we find that minimal information-extracting costs are not always rewarded by the relevant research community.
The Hotspots of Sports Science and the Effects of Knowledge Network on Scientific Performance Based on Bibliometrics and Social Network Analysis The research in this paper is helpful to understand the research status quo and development situation of the field and provide decision-making and reference information for the selection of thesis topics, research projects, and discipline planning in sports science. Therefore, knowledge networks can be used to predict the scientific performance of knowledge elements.
Thirteen years of Operations Management Research (OMR) journal: a bibliometric analysis and future research directions This study provides an in-depth analysis of OMR’s publica-tions, annual citation structure and trend, and its intellectual evolution over the period 2008–2020. The analysis of the thematic evolution concludes to three main clusters: "Manufacturing and Supply chain Performance", "Six Sigma and Lean Management", and "Reshoring, Backshoring and Offshoring". This study recommends to further investigate the implications of the fourth industrial revolution and the sequels of COVID-19.
Top Citations of Pediatric Emergency Medicine Publications in the Emergency Medicine Literature This analysis provides a review of citation frequencies of top-cited PEM articles published in EM journals. This determines the influence of these PEM publications on the EM specialty. Most of these articles were published more than 10 to 15 years ago, indicating that they could be considered landmarks in this subspecialty of PEM.
Relating research growth, authorship patterns and publishing outlets: a bibliometric study of LIS articles produced by Pakistani authors The current study reveals scholarly publishing trends, using bibliometric tools, of Pakistani authors during first 16 years of the twenty-first century.
Illusion in the Digitised Public Sphere: Reading WhatsApp through the Grammar of Phantasmagoria "Using the grammar of the phantasmagoria, we can read the ability of WhatsApp to expose the unconscious. The delusional WhatsApp arguments on fake journals by university lecturers, an elite group in the epistemic community, remind us of the possibility of mediated shared psychosis swamping other crowds in society. We should, therefore, remain aware of the ability of personalised social media, like WhatsApp, to spread shared delusions even among unexpected groups."
An approach for detecting the commonality and specialty between scientific publications and patents The intersection and integration of science and technology in modern society has become an important driving force for technologies to emerge.
Guest editor networking in special issues We indeed find that guest editors are more likely to publish papers with networked authors. We find though no empirical evidence that guest editors undertake a relatively light review of their connected papers. There is thus no evidence of unfairness in the reviewing process. Interestingly, we find that guest editors manage to collect papers that receive more citations and if any, the use of guest editors should be encouraged.
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Research: A Bibliometric Analysis over a 50-Year Period In conclusion, this bibliometric analysis provided a comprehensive overview of the status of SLE research, which could enable a better understanding of the development in this field in the past 50 years. It is hoped that this bibliometric analysis will provide useful information for determining research and publication strategies in future investigations of SLE.
Status Quo and Research Trends of Neurosurgical Departments in China: Bibliometric and Scientometric Analyses Co-word analysis and visualization results provided insight into the emerging research topics that are of vital importance, which can be used as a reference by neurosurgeons and researchers for future investigations.
Staying or leaving? Patterns and determinants of Italian researchers' migration These findings are interpreted as major determinants of the decision to emigrate and develop an academic career abroad.
Towards Evaluating the Research Impact made by Universities of Applied Sciences Finally, this article will conclude that the recommendations necessitate the creation of a new framework where the context and process of practice-based research and their stakeholders are included.
Benefits, Motivations, and Challenges of International Collaborative Research: A Sociology of Science Case Study The benefits, motivations, and challenges of international collaborative research were analyzed to understand diverse subjective perspectives on the dynamics relating to such collaboration in a specific globe-spanning team. While the presented findings derive from one case study and thus cannot be generalized, the results of this autoethnography highlight specific dimensions of IRCs in the social sciences—and confirm previous findings. Building international, intergenerational networks provides the explicit collaboration opportunities necessary to ensure that the benefits outweigh the challenges of international collaborative research that, in many fields, is increasingly the norm.
Funding for few, anticipation among all: Effects of excellence funding on academic research groups Our study shows excellence policies indeed have a broader effect on the science system than only for these extraordinary researchers, but not in terms of a better performance.
The oracles of science: On grant peer review and competitive funding My overall focus will be on the limits of competitive funding and also that the writing and reviewing of proposals is a waste of researchers' precious time.
Finance for the Environment: A Scientometrics Analysis of Green Finance The thesis established in this paper had the bibliometric analysis of green finance as its core focus. That is a new debate, and there are still several possibilities for fresh research prospects, including the holes found in this report. Firstly, given that green finance is fundamentally a finance topic, there is an immediate need to research the problems of green finance from the viewpoint of finance and the use of financial techniques. Secondly, further research from developed countries’ viewpoints on green finance issues will be beneficial for regulators and decision-makers to coordinate diverse policy priorities and develop well-defined policy targets.
Can expensive research equipment boost research and development performances? The results of this study link R&D performance with investment in and allocation of resources to public R&D budgets. They also provide policy implications.
Societal impact of research: a text mining study of impact types In addition to the six already identified in existing frameworks of research utilization, we observed three emerging types of practice impact, as summarized in Table 5.
News media attention in Climate Action: latent topics and open access Collectively, our study seems to suggest that OA can potentially contribute to a broader communication of SDG 13, as OA papers had a news count advantage (8.8%) over non-OA papers. Thus, it seems that in topics where both journalists and scientists have similar interests, OA might be advantageous in wide dissemination of research topics in SDG 13. As another future line of research, it would be also interesting to apply the methodology used in this paper to other SDGs.
Analysing the evolution of computer science events leveraging a scholarly knowledge graph: a scientometrics study of top-ranked events in the past decade In this article, we study common characteristics of renowned events by analyzing their metadata. We obtained crite- ria based on event metadata and showed that it is possible to build metrics for these criteria that can be used to compare events (RQ.3). In the future, we aim to implement all the proposed tools directly plugged into the Openresearch.org platform.
Link-based approach to study scientific software usage: the case of VOSviewer "Results evidence that URL mentions can be used to gather all sorts of online impacts related to non-traditional research objects, like software, thus expanding the analytical scientometric toolset by incorporating a novel digital dimension."
Scientometrics for management of science: collaboration and knowledge structures and complexities in an interdisciplinary research project The proposed framework will allow to implement real-time and evidence-based management practices in scientific research.
Acknowledgement network and citation count: the moderating role of collaboration network The theoretical contributions are as follows.
The political economy of academic publishing: On the commodification of a public good Against the background of our empirical results we conclude that academic publishing is in urgent need of institutional reform. Apparently, despite the success of the open access movement in recent years, academic publishing is still a very lucrative business for a very small number of private academic publishers. While increasing obligations to publish open access could challenge the traditional business model of academic publishers, initiatives for a better and more comprehensive evaluation of research output [38] are a promising road to tackle the destructive academic culture of publish or perish.
Attitudes and practices of open data, preprinting, and peer-review-A cross sectional study on Croatian scientists In conclusion, our study presents the validation of a multi-item questionnaire for measuring open science attitudes, specifically open data, preprinting and open peer review. Additionally, using the questionnaire we found that attitudes Croatian researchers towards these topics were neutral, and that more positive attitudes were found among those that participated in open science practices before or had an education in open science. Further studies are needed to assess attitudes of researchers on these topics in other countries, as well as to track changes of these attitudes over time.
The h-index is no longer an effective correlate of scientific reputation Our results suggest that the use of the h-index in ranking scientists should be reconsidered, and that fractional allocation measures such as h-frac provide more robust alternatives.
Publication speed in pharmacy practice journals: A comparative analysis Publication process duration of pharmacy practice journals is similar to a general random sample of articles from all disciplines.
Measuring novelty in science with word embedding Overall, these results confirm the validity of the proposed measure. Combining citation data and text data, we provide a well-validated and user-friendly measure of scientific novelty. Overall, we recommend the title-based measure for data accessibility and reasonable validation results.
30th Anniversary of Applied Intelligence: A combination of bibliometrics and thematic analysis using SciMAT The evolution of Applied Intelligence (APIN) journal has been positive since its beginning.
NIH funding trends for neurosurgeon-scientists from 1993-2017: Biomedical workforce implications for neurooncology Over the past 23 years, despite the overall increasing trends in the number of NIH grants awarded to neurosurgery departments overall, the proportion of neurosurgeon-scientists that were awarded NIH grants compared to scientists demonstrates a declining trend.
The geographic bias of mammal studies: a comparison of a half a century of research on Palearctic and Neotropical mammals There is a regional bias in WoS and Scopus, which retrieve more articles and citations about Palearctic mammals than about Neotropical mammals; this bias is worse in WoS and means that an urgent increase in indexed research about Neotropical species is needed to be on par with Palearctic research.
Bibliometrics of Cambodian Science: subjects, researchers and impact in the Science Citation Index Expanded The nature and impact of Cambodian science outside the SCI-EXPANDED remain unknown, but publications in that index have increased, concen-trate on solving local problems, and depend heavily on international collaboration, following a well-known pattern of science in tropical countries. Our recommendation would be that the Cambodian government establis-hes a funding system based on international peers who assign funds to the most productive researchers with minimal bureaucracy, so that local research is done on a greater variety of topics and with less participation of Cam-bodian researchers as low-level members in foreign projects.
Systematic Bias in the Progress of Research This paper has shown that there is a systematic bias in referencing previous scientific work. Authors tend to be fixated on referencing top-tier journals, and the high impact of articles published in those journals is partially due to strategic practices. These findings have important implications for the progress of research.
Evaluating quality of science in CGIAR research programs: Use of bibliometrics The CRP review process clearly demonstrated that standardized, harmonized and consistent data on research output is paramount to provide high-quality quantitative instruments and should be a priority throughout the transition toward One CGIAR.
A Bibliometric Analysis of COVID-19 Research in Malaysia using Latent Dirichlet Allocation "This paper conducted a bibliometric analysis to research conducted related to COVID-19 focusing on Malaysia cases."
H-type indices with applications in chemometrics I: h-multiple similarity index In this work, the h-index with great success in bibliometrics was extended, and a multiple similarity measure HMSI was proposed.
Tracking the dynamics of co-word networks for emerging topic identification In this paper, we proposed a dynamic co-word network analysis to identify emerging topics.
Are publications on zoological taxonomy under attack? Menaces to taxonomy as a science come from distinct sources and the relatively low bibliometric indexes including citation rates of its journals is only one factor that contributes to establishing the so-called taxonomic impediment. The reversion of the suppression of Zootaxa by Clarivate is irrelevant to biological sciences and taxonomy because Journal Impact Factors are statistically illiterate [41] and cause a great deal of harm to science. This reinstatement should certainly not be regarded by taxonomists as a victory for the field. Myths about Zootaxa as the unique journal that publishes taxonomic studies are clearly harmful to the field.
The Ironic Becomings of Reflexivity - The Case of Citation Theory in Bibliometrics Finally, I will discuss the potential of irony as a distancing function complementary to objectivity when applying the framework to your own discipline.
Rethinking Law School Tenure Standards This article assesses the potential value of using data to inform personnel decisions at law schools. We find that law professors' pretenure research records can be used to make fairly accurate predictions about their posttenure academic impact.
Understanding peer review of software engineering papers Based on the insights we gained through our study, we conclude our work by compiling a proto-guideline for reviewing.
Identify Topic Relations in Scientific Literature Using Topic Modeling Possible application of the methodology in telling good stories of a target corpus is also explored to facilitate further research management and opportunity discovery.
Parallel or Intersecting Lines? Intelligent Bibliometrics for Investigating the Involvement of Data Science in Policy Analysis From our investigation, we find intersecting lines between data science and policy analysis in terms of research content and geographical distribution. At a macro level, such insights provide a bird’s-eye view for federal governments and research agencies to evaluate research disciplines (e.g., measuring research outcomes and locating the status of an entity’s research strength in the globe), foresee research frontiers (e.g., tracking leading players’ research interests and identifying emerging topics), and allocate research funding (e.g., emphasizing technical breakthroughs and strengthening research advantages). In fact, this study noticed that despite a relatively active interaction between the two disciplines, such interaction still stays at an early stage—i.e., collaborations between policy analysts and data scientists are limited and the co-citations between journals in the two disciplines are rare.
Bilingual Textual Similarity in Scientific Documents In an attempt to resolve the difficulty of content-based maps to compare documents in different languages, this article presented the best method for generating document vectors in the same space from bilingual (English and Japanese) scientific documents.
Revisiting the relationship between downloads and citations: a perspective from papers with different citation patterns in the case of the Lancet Using our previous research methods (Hu et al., 2021) and revisiting the Granger causality between cumulative downloads and citations, there is an obvious Granger causal relationship between cumulative downloads and citations of scientific publications, which is mainly bidirectional.
Brain drain and brain gain in Russia: Analyzing international migration of researchers by discipline using Scopus bibliometric data 1996-2020 Our findings provide new insights for Russia that may be used in the development of high-skilled migration policy.
Article length and citation outcomes We examine whether there is any relationship between article length and the number of citations that an article receives.
Development, implementation and impact of a new preprint solicitation process at Proceedings B Altogether, we believe that this paper reflects an overtly successful but still imperfect process for leveraging preprint servers to raise awareness of a journal with a global reach and to move towards achieving goals regarding broader disciplinary coverage and author representation.
Variability in research productivity among Canadian surgical specialties There is wide variability in average research productivity among Canadian surgical specialties. Obtaining a research-oriented graduate degree, being part of a larger clinical group, and presence of an on-site training program were all associated with higher productivity, even after adjusting for academic rank and specialty.
Detecting anomalous citation groups in journal networks In this paper, we put forward an algorithm-named CIDRE-to identify groups of journals that cite each other at excessively high rates.
COVID-19 Pandemic Related Research in Africa: Bibliometric Analysis of Scholarly Output, Collaborations and Scientific Leadership "In conclusion, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has exerted a subtle, complex impact on research and publishing patterns in African countries."
A Bibliometric Analysis of 4 Major Foot and Ankle Surgery Journals In conclusion, the field of foot and ankle surgical research has increased over the past 10 years.
The Top 100 Most-Cited Articles on Hallux Valgus In conclusion, this study examines the most cited 100 articles on HV and sets forth the analysis of the studies on HV within the last 40 years. The changes and developments in HV surgery still attract attention. Thus, it is possible to have an idea about which subjects will be researched regarding HV and what the limitations are.
Bibliometric Analysis of SARS, MERS, and COVID-19 Studies from India and Connection to Sustainable Development Goals In the present study, the authors performed a bibliometric analysis on COVID-19 publications in India and at multiple places compared to the worldwide data. Our results indicate that the studies on COVID-19 are published by institutions worldwide as also reported by [63], who studied bibliometric features on the COVID-19 globally. We also identified important connections between COVID-19 studies at the 17 SDGs of the UN.
A bibliometric analysis of publications in Ambio in the last four decades The results in the study provided some initial evidence that highly cited papers in a journal might not necessarily greatly contribute to the journal impact factor. This observation leads to a striking
Evolution of IT, management and industrial engineering research: A topic model approach This study presents a deep knowledge about the internal research evolution of domains and illustrates the effect of topics on each other over the past 20 years. Furthermore, the methodology of this study could be applied to determine interdisciplinary topics and observe the research evolution of other academic domains.
Survey on the Research Misconduct and Questionable Research Practices of Medical Students, PhD Students, and Supervisors at the Zagreb School of Medicine in Croatia The results overall show a high incidence of reported and self-reported misconduct and questionable research practices, in addition to some problematic attitudes towards misconduct and questionable research practices. The incidence of problematic authorship practices was particularly high. The study emphasizes the need for additional research to shed more light on the relationship between education in ethics in science and the everyday practices and behavior of supervisors and senior researchers, as well as the overall research climate in a research institution.
TeamTree analysis: A new approach to evaluate scientific production TTA fills a gap between global investigations of the scientific endeavour and the recurrent need to identify and evaluate the teams working on a user-defined topic of interest in science and technology. Notably, the significant correlation of TTP values of authors with their numbers of citations and their H indices in all fields tested indicates the usefulness of the new measure. Future versions of TTA should provide web-based access to TTA allowing for direct retrieval and immediate processing of bibliographic information and the interactive display of results.
Cuba-US scientific collaboration: Beyond the embargo The results show that the Cuban-U.S. joint scientific production, measured as the number of articles, reviews, and proceedings paper published in the Web of Science, and Scopus increased steadily over the past forty years Tables 1 and 2, and Fig 1.
Retracted papers by Iranian authors: causes, journals, time lags, affiliations, collaborations All in all, the results suggest that fake peer review plays a pivotal role in the retractions of Iranian articles, affiliated not only with lesser known but also with the most prestigious Iranian scientific institutions, and published in quite reputable international journals.
Trends in Multidisciplinary Hazard and Disaster Research: A 1982-2017 Case Study This analysis has drawn key connections regard-ing trends in the funding of multidisciplinary research useful in the project proposal context.
Article processing charge expenditure in Chile: The current situation Perhaps the implementation of an OA policy ought to be accompanied by sustain- able APC funding grants aimed at supporting under resourced researchers that want to make their research freely available.
Understanding, measuring, and encouraging public policy research impact This article provides a conceptual framework for understanding, measuring, and encouraging research impact for academics.
Bibliometric Analysis on Utilization of New Information Technology in the Prevention and Control of COVID-19-China, 2020 In conclusion, this study could help medical professionals understand the application status and trends of new IT in the prevention and control of COVID-19 and help researchers find cooperative institutions and partners.
Self-reported positive impact of mentored clinical research training is associated with academic success in hematology Self-reported perception that CRTI had an impact on research retention, career development, and connectedness to hematology investigators was significantly associated with more publications and percent effort in research. Clinical research training programs should identify and implement approaches to enhance these characteristics.
An Estimation of the Retraction Gap Across Neurosurgery-A Crevice or a Chasm? Neurosurgery as a discipline had a higher RGap but also a higher PTP than the other 2 groups.
NIH Funding of Researchers in Surgery: Decreased Career Development Awards Over Time Our study found that there has been a significant decrease in career development awards to department of surgery awardees and procedural specialists.
Global soil science research on drylands: an analysis of research evolution, collaboration, and trends Our survey provides the basis for understanding the evolution and dynamics of global soil science research on drylands over the past 50 years. Soil ecological function and studies related to soil biology, with a strong emphasis on biological crusts, are probably the research front of soil science studies on drylands. The researchers Belnap J and Maestre FT are at the forefront of this area of knowledge, being the second with multidisciplinarity work and being at the center of the research map and in the interconnection between the various researchers and topics of interest of soil science research on drylands in the world.
The US Academic Fisheries Co-Authorship Network Under the Lens of Diversity and Inclusion "Our findings illustrate that although progress has been made towards the inclusion of diverse talent in fisheries science over time, continued progress requires strategic, explicit efforts to overcome biases and barriers."
Statistical Analysis of Articles Published in China CDC Weekly - Worldwide, 2019-2020 Study results can help the editorial department improve the journal's international influence through targeted measures, such as adjusting article types according to view and download analyses and increasing the proportion of international manuscripts selected.
Combining deep neural network and bibliometric indicator for emerging research topic prediction This study makes theoretical contributions to emerging research topic prediction and can guide the practice of related stakeholders.
Characterizing scientists leaving science before their time: Evidence from mathematics Using comparisons between the SLBTs and their selected counterparts, some of our findings are not found or are rarely found in existing literature.
Comparison of MeSH terms and KeyWords Plus terms for more accurate classification in medical research fields. A case study in cannabis research Our findings determine that this is particularly significant when WoS's KW Plus terms are used, because, compared to the medical descriptive standard (MeSH), the KW Plus description system is effective only in a small portion of highly specialized, unequivocally classified documents- in our case just 4.6% of the documents processed.
Do research articles with more readable abstracts receive higher online attention? Evidence from Science Our findings have useful implications for making RA abstracts accessible to the general public. Our findings provide empirical evidence for the importance of making RA abstracts accessible to non-expert readers in order to increase the impact of research outputs among the general public. Our findings also offer several specific linguistic complexity features that researchers can tap into to increase the readability of RA abstracts and maximize reader comprehension and interest.
A bibliometric analysis of COVID-19 publications in the ten psychology-related Web of Science categories in the social science citation index The findings suggest that there are substantial clinical implications associated with COVID-19. There are recommendations offered for future research and clinical practice. Considering the growing recognition of clinical and psychopathology impact of COVID-19, the findings from this bibliometric research has implications for treatment.
Why blacklists are not reliable: A theoretical framework This paper argues that human biases may interfere in the creation of such blacklists and that research that has been conducted using such blacklists carry these biases into their own research papers, even though some published papers issue caution and list limitations with the use of such blacklists. The issue of bias in predatory publishing has not yet been discussed, and the presence of this factor in the debate on this important issue in academic publishing is relevant to all academics today.
Exploring the research themes and their relationships of LIS in China from 2013 to 2018 using co-word analysis This study contributes to revealing the current research themes of LIS in China in recent years and the relationship between them, which can promote the development of LIS in China. In addition, the study has revealed some emerging topics, which can provide references for future LIS research.
A bibliometric approach to quantitatively assess current research trends in 5G security Finally, 5G security areas, having open challenges, are identified for future research work. Although several systematic reviews and surveys exist on 5G security, this paper is the first bibliometric study in the field. Using analysis for productivity, research areas, and keywords, this paper has identified research trends in 5G security among the scientific community as well as highlighting specific challenges which require further efforts.
The explanatory power of citations: a new approach to unpacking impact in science In this paper, we propose a new method to enhance citation analysis by focusing on the thematic context of citations.
A qualitative and quantitative analysis of open citations to retracted articles: the Wakefield 1998 et al.'s case the citing entities generally did not wait for a full retraction notice before acknowledging the retraction of the cited article; the social sciences subject area is the one that dealt the most with the retraction of WF-PUB-1998; the authors of the citing articles introduce WF-PUB-1998, after its retraction, from a general perspective without recalling strictly medical details in their text.
Violations of Standard Practices by Predatory Economics Journals This research studied the number and types of predatory practices by predatory economics journals and overall, we found that there are factors that contribute to the type of predatory practices that a journal may use.
What academic mobility configurations contribute to high performance: an fsQCA analysis of CSC-funded visiting scholars The main purpose of this study is to identify the complex combinations of factors that lead to high research performance after academic mobility and to provide insights to design and inaugurate similar academic mobility programmes. We identify multiple combinations of factors explaining their high research performance after mobility, suggesting that instead of focusing on a single factor, we should examine these factors in a holistic manner. This study will enrich research on the relationship between mobility factors and scientific productivity, as well as individual influences and international collaboration.
A comparative study of first and all-author bibliographic coupling analysis based on Scientometrics This paper reveals the intellectual structure and development of Scientometrics from 2010 to 2019 by using factor analysis and visualization software Gephi.
COVID-19 Publications in Family Medicine Journals in 2020: A PubMed-Based Bibliometric Analysis In this bibliometric study, we determined that family medicine journals demonstrate a high sensitivity to emerging infectious diseases.
Forestry Research in the Middle East: A Bibliometric Analysis We employed a bibliometric analysis with the objective of investigating and comparing Middle East countries in terms quantity and quality of forestry research.
A bibliometric analysis of top 100 most-cited articles in dentistry with author(s) affiliated with Taiwan institutes This is the first study that provides valuable information in the dentistry regarding the academic activity, and empirical contribution of author(s) affiliated with Taiwan institutes in the world.
Corporations, high-stakes biomedical research, and research misconduct: yes they can (and sometimes do) This article aims to rewrite this corner of research integrity: organizations can directly commit RM and should be held accountable as such. Part V discusses implications, describes ways in which federal regulations could already encompass organization-level RM, and identifies some needed legal and regulatory adjustments. Now, more than ever, we need to be able to trust science. But now, more than ever, corruption of science is a problem that must be addressed forthrightly and precisely.
A bibliometric analysis of creative industries: Current trends and future directions This research provides the intellectual structure for the current ac-ademic understanding of creative industries using scientometric and bibliometric analyses. The findings provide a broad overview of the field and scope for further systematic literature reviews. The findings of the study suggest that the field is in its infancy and has been dominated by a select few authors, sources, and countries.
Grand challenges and emergent modes of convergence science Applying our method of analysis to a comprehensive bibliographic dataset in human brain science, we found that shortcut convergence is crowding out classic convergence, despite the latter's impact.
The boundary-spanning mechanisms of Nobel Prize winning papers The boundary-spanning mechanisms of a select group of Nobel Prize winning papers are demonstrated through a series of experiments with SVA. Through this work, we not only isolated key SVA leading indicators that are representative of the Nobel Prize papers’s qualities but also proposed new techniques for improving SVA signal detection. Overall, our findings support the structural variation theory as a promising scientific breakthrough theory.
Computer Simulations of Scientific Peer Reviewing In this paper, we developed a mathematical model of the scientific peer reviewing process.
Changing the Status Quo: The 100 Most-Disruptive Papers in Urology? The disruption score identified landmark papers in urology that have introduced innovative ideas. Disruption score captures a unique profile of scientific impact that may be used in combination with other bibliometric indices to identify scholarly achievements in urology. This discordance suggests that disruption score captures impactful urology research through a differ-ent lens than citation count.
Influence of Department Leadership on Scholarly Productivity and Research Funding in Academic Urology Academic success of a DC and RD was associated with urology departmental scholarly productivity and NIH funding. The presence of a RD, funded or unfunded, was associated with increased departmental NIH funding. These findings may offer perspective about the structure of academic urology departments and aid in the creation of an environment conducive to future advancements in urology.
TWENTY YEARS OF AIRPORT EFFICIENCY - A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS The rapid progression of scientific knowledge with an increasing number of publications requires reviews of the scientific literature in order to have up-to-date knowledge on a subject.
Descriptive Elements and Conceptual Structure of Glass Ceiling Research We identified some relevant findings from the descriptive bibliometric study. First, the glass ceiling phenomenon has been a growing research topic and is nowadays a hot topic in business management research and gender literature.
Analyzing the vast coronavirus literature with CoronaCentral By integrating Altmetric scores with detailed topic and article-type information, CoronaCentral (https://coronacentral.ai) enables users to narrow their focus to identify important papers in a timely manner.
Bibliometric analysis of global scientific literature on effects of COVID-19 pandemic on mental health The study provides insight into the global research perspective for the scientific progress on the COVID-19 Pandemic public health emergency and the mental health issues, thus significantly impacting and supporting intervention towards improving people's mental health post-COVID-19 outbreak. This study highlights the extent of mental health vulnerabilities experienced globally from the outbreak of COVID-19 and expanded knowledge on the most prominent articles, authors, publishing journals, countries, and funding agencies. From a global perspective, the evidence becomes pertinent to formulating policy interventions to prevent post- -COVID-19 mental health vulnerabilities.
A Hierarchy of Interests: Discursive Practices on the Value of Particle and High-Energy Physics The result indicates a hierarchy of interests that coordinates different values of particle physics in discourse: the status of scientific and cultural value is higher than that of societal and material value. This finding implies that value propositions are inseparable from the articulation of interests, and qualitative discourse analysis can approach a combined understanding of the two. The hierarchy of interests discovered merits attention concerning the influence of public outreach for particle physics.
The distribution of indirect cost recovery in academic research Together, our results show where universities are under-recovering indirect costs.
Literary runaway: Increasingly more references cited per academic research article from 1980 to 2019 In summary, our investigation revealed the fact that reference lists have continued to lengthen in the journal articles of many fields between 1980 and 2019.
Publishing in Predatory Journals: Guidelines for Nursing Faculty in Promotion and Tenure Policies APT criteria do not provide guidance to faculty and promotion and tenure committees about issues related to predatory publications as low-quality publication outlets.
Strengthening research integrity: which topic areas should organisations focus on? The study clearly shows that research and funding organisations must consider disciplinary differences when formulating research integrity policies.
PRESUMED PREDATORY JOURNALS ARE ABUNDANT IN ORAL HEALTH "The present study found that some specific characteristics such as distorted images and grammatical errors are more prominent in PP dental journals."
A bibliographic analysis of 20 years of research on innovation and new product development in technology and innovation management (TIM) journals Our key contribution is a comprehensive bibliometric review of the current state of the performance of TIM research related to innovation management and new product development.
Publication cultures and the citation impact of open access This paper has estimated and compared the citation impact of gold and green OA in two disciplines: Biology and Economics & Manage- ment.
Exploration of Science and Technology Interaction: A Case Study on Taxol The study offers qualitative and quantitative support that the approach is valuable in detecting patent and publication linkages.
Six Sigma in Health Literature, What Matters? This study sheds light on the aspects that better explain publications' impact in the field of Six Sigma application in health, either from an academic or a societal point of view.
Tracing the Pace of COVID-19 Research: Topic Modeling and Evolution In the early days of the epidemic, the majority of COVID-19 research focused on Medicine and Biology, such as coronavirus mechanisms and drug discovery. With the development of the epidemic, the research focus of COVID-19 has expanded to other research hotspots, such as analyzing the impact of coronavirus from social, economic, and psychological perspectives. In addition, Al is always a hot topic, which is also regarded as a common and effective method to be conducted in various research of different fields. Overall, this study provides readers with deeper insights into topic development and the evolution of COVID-19 research at the early stage.
The hidden influence of communities in collaborative funding of clinical science "The results of this paper indicate that collaborations can potentially accelerate innovation, not only among authors but also funders."
Assessment of Research Topic Prevalence by Journal Impact Quartile in Oral Health Sciences Using Bayesian Methods This methodology is relevant for researchers looking to define their research agendas with potential outcomes aligned with the expectations of quantity and quartile set by their home institutions.
Important Topics for Fostering Research Integrity by Research Performing and Research Funding Organizations: A Delphi Consensus Study RPOs and RFOs should address each of these topics in order to support researchers in conducting responsible research. This study has made a first step towards changing the landscape by, together with institutional policy experts, exploring which RI topics should be addressed in the RI policies of RPOs and RFOs. While the ranking provides suggestions on which topics to tackle first, RPOs and RFOs will need to address most of the identified topics to build a comprehensive institutional RI policy.
Influence of social networking sites on scholarly communication: A study using literature in Artificial Intelligence It was found that amongst the SNS, Mendeley had the greatest influence on research in AI. Thus, the influence of Mendeley on formal scholarly communication in Al research is gaining impact and journal articles are more popular in Mendeley than conference papers. Perhaps, this gives scope for further research to evaluate the influence of SNS on scholarly communication more widely.
Integration of the elements involved in scientific publication I conclude that there are advantages, disadvantages and costs that should be addressed at a global level to better balance the process of publication and that should have some adjustments to better balance of the parts involved in the process.
Innovation for sustainability in the Global South: bibliometric findings from management & business and STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) fields in developing countries In terms of output and impact, iS-GS is growing at an 18% rate and has been driven by global announcements and summits since environmental governance improves research production. In terms of structure, iS-GS clusters are peripherical compared to those vertebral for SDGs research (e.g., maternal, newborn, and child morbidity and mortality). Finally, academic-corporate collaboration is in its infancy and limited to particular economic sectors: energy, pharmaceuticals, and high-tech.
A further step forward in measuring journals' technological factor This study has presented the development of the Relative Technology Factor (TFR), a new metric of the technological impact of scholarly sources that aims to measure their contribution to technological progress through the analysis of citations to the scientific literature from patent applications.
The Shanghai Global Ranking of Academic Subjects: Room for improvement "The results of this study show that the methodology currently used by the Shanghai Global Ranking of Academic Subjects presents several issues, which negatively affect a large proportion of universities around the world."
Cross-sectional study of preprints and final journal publications from COVID-19 studies: discrepancies in results reporting and spin in interpretation The COVID-19 preprints and their subsequent journal publications were largely similar in reporting of study characteristics, outcomes and spin in interpretation. However, given the urgent need for valid and reliable research on COVID-19 treatment and prevention, even a few important discrepancies could impact decision-making. All COVID-19 studies, whether published as preprints and journal publications, should be critically evaluated for discrepancies in outcome reporting or spin, such as failure to report data on harms or overly optimistic conclusions.
Beyond the metrics of health research performance in African countries In this paper, we provide insights arising from literature, conceptual and empirical explorations into HR in Africa to reflect on the usefulness or limitations of the variety of quantifiable indicators available internationally one might use to consider evaluating performance on developing health sciences. Our reflection highlights gaps and opportunities for stronger measurement efforts. Furthermore, our reflection challenges stakeholders, especially recipients of results of measurement of complex phenomena like HR capacity to demand and provide for appropriate measures and indices. It is important that the global health community avoid over-simplistic performance assessments when planning for or comparing HR systems in low-income and middle-income countries.
Citation patterns between impact-factor and questionable journals The findings show that neither the impact factor of citing journals nor the size of cited journals is a good predictor of the number of citations to the questionable journals.
Inequalities in the growth of Web of Science In the broad area of the social sciences, the growth of WoS and the SSCI is particularly favoring areas of research, which grant much value to WoS coverage and bibliometric indicators and rankings. The big and small winners of the editorial expansion strategy of WoS are the winners and losers in the real academic world. In the concluding section, we suggest that the providers of WoS reconsider the cov- erage of their databases in order to reflect and protect the interdisciplinary diversity in the world of science.
Fine-grained academic rankings: mapping affiliation of the influential researchers with the top ranked HEIs This research effort was aimed at enhancing the creditability of the academic ranking process by fine-grained analysis of the academic ranking data.
Quantifying the Research Diversification of Physicists Based on our findings, we suggest that physicists should focus on their main research fields and span multiple research fields over their entire careers which could promote their scientific impact.
Impact of cytopathology authors work: Comparative analysis based on Open-access cytopathology publications versus non-Open-access conventional publications We observed that the cytopathology publications in the OA journal attained a higher rate of CPA than the publications in the traditional non-OA journals in the field of cytopathology during 2010-2015.
An Effective Scholarly Search by Combining Inverted Indices and Structured Search With Citation Networks Analysis The evaluation illustrates that the framework can filter the most relevant scholarly papers in a more nuanced way, comparatively.
The impact of top scientists on the community development of basic research directed by government funding: evidence from program 973 in China This study analyzes the impact of top scientists on the community development of basic research and uses the evidence from the basic research funding Program 973 in China.
Visualization and Mapping of Knowledge and Science Landscapes in Expert Systems With Applications Journal: A 30 Years' Bibliometric Analysis The outcomes underline the significant growth of ESWA through time. The vitality of topics addressed in ESWA to solve real-world problems boosts the progress and advancements of knowledge in this journal.
Mapping theme trends and recognizing research hot spots in the use of ultrasound in orthopaedics: a bibliometric analysis of global research While the contribution of United States to publications in this field has been substantial, the future contributions of China cannot be ignored. Moreover, it is hypothesized that diagnostic and epidemiological aspects may become hotspots. The United States was the most productive country with regard to research on the use of ultrasound in orthopaedics, and we predict that China will surpass the United States in publications over the next two decades.
The rapid, massive growth of COVID-19 authors in the scientific literature The rapid and massive involvement of the scientific workforce in COVID-19-related work is unprecedented and creates opportunities and challenges.
The impact of internet access on research output-a cross-country study "The Internet has changed the way we access information profoundly and lowered the costs of searching for information."
Collaboration enhances career progression in academic science, especially for female researchers The rapid and massive involvement of the scientific workforce in COVID-19-related work is unprecedented and creates opportunities and challenges.
Readiness towards the implementation of open science initiatives in the Malaysian Comprehensive Public Universities Arising from the findings of this research, it could be concluded that some elements of the open science practices were already available in these universities. It can be concluded from the findings also that the public universities in Malaysia were aware of open science, but not all were involved in its practices most especially open evaluation, citizen science, crowdsourcing, and open innovation. Some key aspects mentioned by the respondents to support the transition to open science in their institutions were, to provide more modern infrastructures that support open science with relevant experts and to also enlighten the participants more on the system.
University rankings and institutional affiliations: Role of academic librarians Our results show that authors tend to use different variants of names as their institutional affiliations, and thus when searching by affiliations, a certain number of papers cannot be attributed either to the University of Split or to a particular faculty. The efforts by the librarians of the University of Split who added additional affiliation name variants manually have led to an increase in the number of papers attributed to institutions in our sample. Professionals who are most familiar with the scientific productivity of their institutions' scholars are the academic librarians.
Librarians as gate-openers in open access publishing: A case study in the United Arab Emirates Our results indicate that libraries and librarians are finding ways to re-intermediate themselves in a scholarly landscape that has been transformed by both the advent of OA and the ways in which OA has later expanded to new practices. This shift in roles is particularly important in a region like the UAE, where, unlike in Europe, Americas and China, overarching science policy, local OA policies and mandates are sporadic. This study is also different in that it diverges from the common trend of perceptions and beliefs and instead focuses on the librarians' gate-opener role and their help in tipping the scale towards increased OA adoption.
A "Trojan horse" in the reference lists: Citations to a hijacked journal in SSCI-indexed marketing journals "The emergence of a single hijacked journal poses several threats and challenges to any discipline or field of inquiry."
Searching for LIS scholarly publications: A comparison of search results from Google, Google Scholar, EDS, and LISA The study examined the effectiveness and content coverage of several information sources in the context of exploratory searching for LIS scholarly publications. The findings revealed that in this type of searching, using simple queries, Google performs best in all aspects. The findings of the study may help LIS researchers in optimizing the choice of information sources when searching for scholarly publications.
Scientific publications in internal medicine and family medicine: a comparative cross-sectional study in Swiss university hospitals We found no association between the bibliometric indices and the medical specialty. Further studies are needed in the future to confirm that the quality and impact of research in family medicine and in internal medicine are similar and that family medicine has definitely become a very attractive academic field.
The emergence of heterogeneous scaling in research institutions Our work deepens the understanding of emergent behavior in research institutions and their role in facilitating collaborations.
Have Academics' Citation Patterns Changed in Response to the Rise of World University Rankings? A Test Using First-Citation Speeds The findings broaden our understanding of the citation patterns of academics in the rise of WURs and provide practical grounds for research policy as well as higher education policy. Finally, future theory-based research could contribute theoretical explanations for the social mechanisms driving the changing publication and citation behaviors among academics' amid the establishment of the WURs that were documented in this study.
Bibliometric analysis of publication activity in the field of familial Mediterranean fever in 2010-2019: a Scopus-based study The results of this study showed that the number of FMF articles displayed a stable course over the years.
Scientific papers citation analysis using textual features and SMOTE resampling techniques By evaluating the classification model on performance evaluation metrics, it is concluded that Word2Vec is not appropriate for citation sentiment analysis.
Pushing performance by building bridges: Human and social capital as mechanisms behind the mobility-performance link Our study strongly highlighted the importance of social capital gains in explaining the performance effects of temporary stays abroad.
A decade of nanotechnology research in Nigeria (2010-2020): a scientometric analysis This study has examined the status of Nigeria in nanotechnol- ogy R&D by analyzing the articles pub- lished in outlets that are indexed in Scopus from 2010 to mid-2020 using scientometrics approach.
Network of networks: A bibliometric analysis Our analyses reveal that the field of NoN was conceived mainly from the 1990s as a coherent discipline primarily around neural networks. But over the following decades, other aspects of NoN, such as "interconnection", "multilayer" and "interdependence" became popular. Most recently, network interdependence and its application in cascading failure seem to be among the main topics attracting more academic attention. It is envisaged from the analysis that NoN concepts will develop stronger ties with nanoscience with increasing understanding and data acquisition from the molecular, atomic, and subatomic levels.
Top economics universities and research institutions in Vietnam: evidence from the SSHPA dataset Our findings show a correlation between a researcher's affiliation, sex, and their scientific productivity.
Twenty-five years of the Journal of Corporate Finance: A scientometric analysis In conclusion, during its first quarter of a century, JCF has emerged as an important academic outlet in corporate finance as documented by its growth in the number of publications and citations. Its primary contribution is providing an in-depth analysis of JCF's content, which may help its global readers gain a comprehensive overview of the journal's evolution during its first 25 years and its board members to shape JCF's editorial policy and future strategy. Its key limitation is restricting the source of bibliometric data to Scopus.
The use of rewards in the sharing of research resources This study focused on the sharing of intermediate resources and how this relates to reward structures in science.
Publication outperformance among global South researchers: An analysis of individual-level and publication-level predictors of positive deviance The main motivation of this study was to understand more about research in the global South through a first application of the data-powered positive deviance methodology; a methodology that helped identify and understand those researchers who were able to achieve better research outcomes than their peers. The key finding of this study is the identification of a set of factors that are significant predictors of PD outcomes.
Profiles not metrics: the case of Brazilian universities Despite all the challenges mentioned above, Brazilian university still manages to produce relevant research for the country's development. Future generations depend on these institutions to secure Brazil's autonomy in creating knowledge, innovation, solving its problems, and preserving its culture. Instead of amplifying the threats, strengths should be highlighted and strategies formed for a healthy future.
The promising drugs included in WHO's Solidarity Project: a choice based in scientific knowledge and institutional competencies Hence, the results shown in this study illustrate that decisions taken by an international scientific body, as WHO, were mainly based in scientific knowledge and institutional competencies.
Comparative evaluation of top papers outputs of OIC member countries in the Essential Science Indicators database At the macro level, the leading countries based on the overall TPs produced were Saudi Arabia, followed by Iran, Turkey, Malaysia, Pakistan and Egypt. However, Iran was ranked first in terms of HPs, followed by Saudi Arabia and Turkey. New science and technology policies, OIC leadership and collaboration and funding are urgently needed to address this situation.
Discovering Interdisciplinarily Spread Knowledge in the Academic Literature We proposed the diffusion meme score D, which evaluates the knowledge diffusion distance in a paper citation network.
Attainment of an Additional Graduate Degree Is Associated With Sustained Scholarly Activity Beyond Surgical Residency Attainment of an additional graduate-level degree was associated with increased research productivity that was sustained beyond surgical residency.
Collaboration on evidence synthesis in Africa: a network study of growing research capacity The development of more regionally based network-building initiatives would help to foster communi-ties of practice and inter-institutional collaboration, strengthening regional research capacity. Moreover, the analysis in this study adds depth beyond a simple bibliometric analysis and illustrates that network analysis could provide a useful tool to evaluate the effectiveness of capacity-building strategies and programmes in the future. We found the collaboration network to be increasingly connected, with greater involvement of African institutions over time and increasing collaboration amongst African institutions.
Preprinting is positively associated with early career researcher status in ecology and evolution "This study indicates that preprint servers are used disproportionately between ECRs and non-ECRs at institutions of different sizes."
"Fake" Journals and the Fragility of Authenticity: Citation Indexes, "Predatory" Publishing, and the African Research Ecosystem "This paper has described the cultivation of a fear of 'fake' scientific journals amongst African academics and the struggle for authenticity pursued by the journals themselves."
Research Career Paths Among Political Scientists in Teaching Institutions Understanding research activities in our profession requires accounting for various career paths, their motivations, and their place in our research community.
Analysis of Factors That Influence Academic Productivity Among Neurological and Orthopedic Spine Surgeons "These results demonstrate the importance of the h index in measuring academic productivity among neurological and orthopedic spine surgeons."
Identifying Management of Technology and innovation (MOT) and Technology Entrepreneurship (TE) centers of excellence We have provided the first ranking of MOT centers of excellence in 17 years, finding stability and change in the process. Through the inclusion of six alternate journals to our TE review, we also provided insights into analyzing TE as a sub-field of MOT, and found that TE centers of excellence differed from MOT centers of excellence. This suggests that TE is emerging as a field in its own right.
From BRICS to BRICS plus: selecting promising areas of S&T Cooperation with developing countries The results of the analysis provide an overall picture of the development of science and technology in the BRICS and BRICS Plus countries. The future research collaboration between countries from these groups could be noticeably strengthened in the highlighted areas. Particularly mutually beneficial and efficient cooperation between the countries of the two groups can be expected in the priority areas of BRICS countries (14 areas that were discussed in Sect. S&T capacity of BRICS and BRICS plus countries in BRICS S&T priority areas).
Returns of research funding are maximised in media visibility for excellent institutes We find differences across institutes, and find that research funding is an important determinant of these differences.
The value of research funding for knowledge creation and dissemination: A study of SNSF Research Grants Understanding the role played by competitive research funding is crucial for designing research funding policies that best foster knowledge generation and diffusion. By investigating the impact of project funding on scientific output, its relevance and acces-sibility, this study contributes to research on the effects of research funding at the level of the individual researcher.
Identification and comparison of key criteria of feedback of funding decisions: mixed-methods analysis of funder and applicant perspectives This study provides key insights and understanding into the quality, content and value of feedback provided to NIHR applicants.
Text Analysis and Visualization Research on the Hetu Dangse During the Qing Dynasty of China In this study, we used machine learning to analyze and visualize the catalog data of the Hetu Dangse, revealing the functional relationship of the Qing Dynasty, Shengjing regional institutions recorded in this historical document, and showing the institutional communicated relationships.
Who are the dominant players in the experimental field of quantum entanglement? A bibliometric analysis The results of this study provide meaningful information for researchers and governments.
A bibliometric analysis of Iranian Journal of Fuzzy Systems (2007-2020) IJFS is an international journal with great development potential and influence. Since the first paper was published, the number of publications and citations has gradually increased, attracting more and more attention from domestic and foreign researchers. In summary, this research applied bibliometric methods to explore the basic characteristics, collaboration networks, co-citation networks and thematic evolution of publications in IJFS, which will help researchers interested in this journal to understand its research status, hot topics and development trend.
A new journal power-weakness ratio to measure journal impact This strengthens the case for using Ramanajucharyulu's Power-Weakness paradigm in journal citation analysis. An important limitation of the present work is the omission of journals that result in rather large or indeterminate PWR values. However, it is worthwhile in future work to explore empirical corrections of PWR, and by extension, jPWR, that retain all data points such as that proposed in Todeschini et al. (2015) or Todeschini et al. (2019).
Metrology, Agriculture and Food: Literature Quantitative Analysis The proposed search methodology based on a quantitative literature analysis represents a useful and potent tool to identify emerging research directions, collaboration networks, research infrastructures, and authors that are more active in the selected area of research.
Academic Promotion of Physicians in Medical Schools: A Special Focus on Primary Health Care in Taiwan Academic promotion was incredibly challenging for primary health care educators in Taiwan.
Is Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing Coming out on Top? A Comparison with Activity-Based Costing in the Health Field This paper contributes to the health literature by showing that the evolved cost system is currently more successful than its predecessor. Its research has more impact in the academic world than papers using ABC and also reaches wider and more general audiences according to the findings in the altmetrics.
Citation contexts as a data source for evaluation of scholarly consumption The paper presents an approach to use data from citation contexts for building four scientometric indicators characterizing different sides of scholarly consumption of authors of publications. The first results allow to analyze the thematic homogeneity/heterogeneity of scholarly consumption in the authors citation network. A pair of digital images of an author in his/her consumer/producer roles allows solving various analytical tasks and developing new prospective services for the research community.
Predictors of societal and professional impact of orthodontic research. A multivariate, scientometric approach Grant-funding and article type were common predictors of both societal and professional impact of orthodontic research.
Cumulative advantage of the impact of the Latin American and Caribbean science system on JCR journals outside the region The results confirm the existence of an accumulate advantage of articles published in JCR journals outside the region. The results constitute a warning to the committees of journals in the regions that compete with JCR journals located in the countries with the most developed economies, primarily the USA and the UK. The results of the allometric analysis show that Latin American and Caribbean articles published in journals outside the region have a much greater impact than those published in journals within the region.
Iranian COVID-19 Publications in LitCovid: Text Mining and Topic Modeling The present study indicates a better understanding of essential and strategic issues of Iranian publications in LitCovid.
International trends in mining tailings publications: A descriptive bibliometric study Our article aims to contribute to generating an integrated vision on international research in mine tailing deposits, delivering a structured synthesis of scientific development during the last 10 years.
Understanding the onset of hot streaks across artistic, cultural, and scientific careers Taken together, these results unveil identifiable regularities underlying the onset of career hot streaks, which appear to apply universally across a wide range of creative domains. Overall, our results highlight the important role of both exploration and exploitation in individual careers. These findings may hold broad relevance for identifying, training, and nurturing creative talents, especially given the various forces that sometimes appear in tension with the exploration-exploitation dynamics, ranging from the intensifying pressure to publish39,40 to the increasing trend of exploration over a career16, from the specialization of individual expertise10 to how such specialization is favored in personnel evaluations41,42.
Research Culture: Creating SPACE to evolve academic assessment We hope the SPACE rubric will encourage a wide variety of institutions to align on their values and support the development of interventions that make sense for them.
Breast Cancer Research in Pakistan: A Bibliometric Analysis Research on the subject of breast cancer has grown from 1 publication in 1991 to 272 publications in 2020, totaling 1,605 publications for the 200million strong country. The scientists of Pakistan have been publishing in teams nationally as well as internationally with scientists in China, USA, and the UK. There is a need for further attention and revisiting of the policy at the national level.
Rethinking the disruption index as a measure of scientific and technological advances This study provides evidence that the low coverage of the citation database results in a boost in D, i.e., the low coverage of non-journal literature of WOS resulted in a boost in D values in social sciences, and the exclusion of non-Chinese language literature in CSSCI resulted in a boost in D values in Chinese language papers.
How did COVID-19 affect medical and cardiology journals? A pandemic in literature Our analysis highlights the big impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on international scientific literature. General and internal medicine journals were mainly involved, with cardiology journals only at a later time.
Analysis of three decades of research in marine sciences in Uruguay through mapping of science and bibliometric indexes Decentralization and strengthening sectorial funding for marine science will boost Uruguay's discipline for facing future challenges.
Trends of High-Impact Studies in Pharmacology and Pharmacy: A Cross-Sectional Study The high-impact studies in pharmacology and pharmacy research have grown over time.
Chinese Universities' Cross-Border Research Collaboration in the Social Sciences and Its Impact During the decade of 2010–2019, Chinese scholars' cross-border collaboration in the social sciences have grown extensively in terms of quantity and academic impact.
The Study of Network Effects on Research Impact in Africa The aim of this paper is to analyze the influence of co-authorship networks on scientific production and its impact in Africa. Our results indicate a strong influence of network measures (centrality of cliquishness), as indicators of the extent of their collaboration, on scientific productivity and impact. The world needs the contribution of African scholars affiliated to African research institutions.
Globally Bred Chinese Talents Returning Home: An Analysis of a Reverse Brain-Drain Flagship Policy The effort made by the Chinese government to feed its research-in-tensive universities with worldwide globally bred researchers is re-markable, and worth receiving attention in order to understand the extent to which China is capable to get the most from its policies of reverse brain drain.
Scholarly Productivity Evaluation of KL2 Scholars Using Bibliometrics and Federal Follow-on Funding: Cross-Institution Study Multi-institutional data showed a high level of scholarly productivity, impact, collaboration, and federal follow-on funding achieved by KL2 scholars. This study provides insights on the use of bibliometric and federal follow-on funding data to evaluate CTR training success across institutions. CTSA KL2 programs and other CTR career training programs can benefit from these findings in terms of understanding metrics of career success and using that knowledge to develop highly targeted strategies to support early-stage career development of CTR investigators.
Exploring the research landscape of data warehousing and mining based on DaWaK Conference full-text articles The outcomes of this study would be beneficial for comprehending the knowledge in data warehousing and the relevant cross-disciplinary areas of research and collaboration networks in this field.
The Correlation between Altmetric Score and Traditional Bibliometrics in Orthopaedic Literature AAS and traditional bibliometrics are currently not strongly correlated in orthopaedic literature.
Citations optimal growth path: A tool to analyze sensitivity to citations of h-like indexes This study focused on the OGP models and sensitivity to citation comparisons of h-like indexes. We formulate of the OGP models of the h-index, g-index, A-index, R-index, and e-index, which allows us to reveal how additional citations can be allocated strategically to publications to achieve the desired value of the corresponding h-like index. By analyzing the combination of the h-index with another h-like index, we obtain new insights into how to evaluate scientific outputs based on h-like indexes: we can make a comprehensive evaluation combined with the h-index and A-index from the perspective of defending against the manipulation to citations.
Implementation of the PaperRank and AuthorRank indices in the Scopus database In this paper, we show the result of a preliminary study on the application of the PaperRank and AuthorRank indices proposed in Amodio and Brugnano (2014) to the Scopus database. The two indices give more interesting values than the bare number of citations and h-index, respectively, with practically the same computational cost. This fact allows to easily keep them always updated. They can also be used for the definition of new indices and to evaluate, always quantitatively, scientific journals and research groups.
Understanding interdisciplinary knowledge integration through citance analysis: A case study on eHealth The analytical framework offers a way to better understand an interdisciplinary field by disclosing the characteristics of interdisciplinary knowledge integration from the perspective of knowledge content and usage.
Team Size, Research Variety, and Research Performance: Do Coauthors' Coauthors Matter? Our findings first provide important implications and strategies for scholars to enhance team-based research performance.
Bi-layer network analytics: A methodology for characterizing emerging general-purpose technologies In this paper, we presented a methodology for characterizing EGPTs based on bi-layer network analytics. We defined three indicators to quantify the impact of EGPTs and applied a refined link prediction approach based on weighted resource allocation to reveal emergence. Researchers and policymakers in information science and bibliometrics should find valuable de- cision support from the empirical insights presented.
Predicting the popularity of scientific publications by an age-based diffusion model The age-based diffusion (AD) model we propose in this paper is a model simulating the attention diffusion process along citation networks.
Scientific collaboration and career stages: An ego-centric perspective In this work, we investigate the relative role growth types of researchers in the field of physics in their academic careers and the influence of collaborators on the formation of relative role growth types.
Associations between author-level metrics in subsequent time periods In this paper, we analyzed whether relevant scholarly variables are correlated.
Is culture related to strong science? An empirical investigation Thus, the freedom of expression and trust in society might contribute to better scholarly communication systems, higher level of international collaborations, and further quality research.
The effect of publication traditions and requirements in research assessment and funding policies upon the use of national journals in 28 post-socialist countries A comparison between publications of authors from 28 post-socialist countries in national journals (INO-P>50 in 2019) in 1996 and 2019 reveals that the tradition of publishing in national journals which dates back to the 1990s and publication requirements are two factors that affect the country's percentage share of publications in these journals. These findings support earlier studies indicating that journals from post-socialist countries are used mainly for local promotions and formal fulfilment of policy rules. The present study results show that in order for academics not to focus extensively on publishing in national journals, firstly, publication requirements should define appropriate criteria for the journals focusing either on higher impact quartiles or on the CiteScore or on alternative, more sophisticated measures. Secondly, publication requirements should stimulate an international orientation which can be beneficial both for academics and for local Scopus-indexed journals.
On the inequality of citation counts of all publications of individual authors By using all non-zero-cited publication records in the APS dataset, this paper finds that authors' most number of citations come from their small proportion of publications, essentially referring to inequality.
Influence difference main path analysis: Evidence from DNA and blockchain domain citation networks This paper introduces several algorithms named SPX-PR to enrich the research on MPA. The proposed SPX-PR algorithms take the influence difference into consideration, which are able to modify the traditional assumption that the links in the citation network are treated equally.
A network embedding-based scholar assessment indicator considering four facets: Research topic, author credit allocation, field-normalized journal impact, and published time Raw citation-based scholar performance indicators lack cross-field comparability in practical evaluation applications and have difficulty determining the contributions of multi-author publications.
The effects of citation-based research evaluation schemes on self-citation behavior In this study, we have shown that self-citation rates, i.e. the average number of self-cited works in the reference list of publications authored in a period of time, increases with the number of citable papers, while it decreases, in order of importance, with the number of authors, the cognitive distance of the citable publications (extent of diversification), and the presence of international authors. The results of this work show that Italian professors have responded to the ASN incentive with an average increase in self-citation rate of 9.5%. Interestingly, the increase in self-citation following introduction of the ASN has not been widespread.
Characterizing interdisciplinarity in drug research: A translational science perspective Interdisciplinary research engaging both basic science and clinical science should be encouraged in translational research for drugs.
Breaking community boundary: Comparing academic and social communication preferences regarding global pandemics This study analyzed the attitudes and opinions of the academic and social communities on pandemic-related research to identify the communication differences between academia and the public on pandemics and the related research. In answer to the first research question, the academic community and social community have inconsistent knowledge of pandemic-related research. If research results are to have higher social value, researchers should conduct scientific research according to the information needs of the public.
Use of Benford's law on academic publishing networks This paper proposes a methodology for following changes and assessing the maturity of research system.
A sensitivity analysis of factors influential to the popularity of shared data in data repositories This study proposed a practical approach to predict a high-influence dataset based on metadata calculations. We identified factors that influence dataset web hits from intrinsic and extrinsic perspectives. The results revealed that the length of the published time and missing value factors have a stronger influence than other factors on shared data popularity. This study's findings contribute to users, researchers, developers, and other stakeholders understanding the factors that affect the popularity of a dataset or software package, enabling greater organization and reuse of these resources.
A novel approach to measuring science-technology linkage: From the perspective of knowledge network coupling The proposed approach enriches the current methodology for measuring S&T link-ages and provides references for policymakers to conduct policy adjustments, by identifying the lead-lag relationship between S&T.
'To tweet or not to tweet?' A study of the use of Twitter by scholarly book publishers in Social Sciences and Humanities The overall results show that nearly 41% of the 18,691, BKCI indexed books have at least one tweet on Twitter, and around 12.3% tweeted by their book publishers.
Scoring the resourcefulness of researchers using bibliographic coupling patterns In closing, the author follow-score indicator proposed in this work formulates the problem of finding follow-worthy researchers as efficient sparse matrix calculations that iteratively score bibliographic coupling relationships between authors as well as the number of works that they refer to. The resulting scores provide a measure of resourcefulness.
Convergent validity of several indicators measuring disruptiveness with milestone assignments to physics papers by experts The fact that these indicators perform well suggests that it is important to take into account how strong the citation links between citing papers and cited references are when assessing whether the citing papers depend on the focal paper's cited references. As DI5 in particular performs well, it seems that only citing papers with a certain number of citation links to the focal paper's cited references are reliable indicators for a developmental focal paper. Thus, we encourage the realization of other studies investigating the validity of the indicators using datasets from fields other than physics, and other time periods and databases than those used in this study.
Solving the cold-start problem in scientific credit allocation With collaboration and a large team set to dominate the agenda of the current science system, our study provides a more effective method for allocating early credit to co-authors of a paper, which may be beneficial to various academic activities, including faculty hiring, funding, and promotion decisions.
Screening the most highly cited papers in longitudinal bibliometric studies and systematic literature reviews of a research field or journal: Widespread used metrics vs a percentile citation-based approach In short, all the results related to RQ1 showed there is a period-representativeness bias associated with different choices to select the most impactful papersťo be used in bibliometric studies.
How do media mention research papers? Structural analysis of blogs and news networks using citation coupling From the obtained results, three main conclusions can be derived.
Gender-based homophily in research: A large-scale study of man-woman collaboration Our results show that in the Polish academic science system as a whole, the same-sex collaboration ratio for males is more than three times that for females (a finding which is confirmed by a fractional logit regression analysis: it is on average 20 percentage points higher for males).
New perspectives in bibliometric indicators: Moving from citations to citing authors "Our analyses in the framework of Pure Mathematics have shown that the citing authors index when computed on a very large number of researchers returns, with some relevant differences, an evaluation of aggregate entities (groups of researchers, departments, universities) not so dissimilar to what would be obtained considering the classical indicator given by total citations."
Potential index: Revealing the future impact of research topics based on current knowledge networks This study contributes to the research of scientific impact modeling by establishing an explicit relationship between the impact of topics and the knowledge structure, and is thus helpful in predicting the potential impact of research topics.
Post-publication expert recommendations in faculty opinions (F1000Prime): Recommended articles and citations Although the recommended articles in Faculty Opinions are significantly cited more than the other articles for most journals, there is no linear relationship between recommendation level and citedness despite correlations found in the dataset.FM or in the quantile or quartile subsets. Faculty Opinions as an innovation in scientific communication, Faculty Opinions can be the right place for researchers looking for a few current articles. To truly understand how FMs used the star ratings and what these ratings meant to the users, only surveys and interviews of these two groups can further strengthen the system.
The open access effect in social media exposure of scholarly articles: A matched-pair analysis This study finds that OA links tend to generate more article visits than paid content links on social media platforms.
Impact of scientific, economic, geopolitical, and cultural factors on international research collaboration To summarize, the international research collaboration network is shaped by multiple and complex drivers, including the scientific, economic, geopolitical, and cultural factors.
Changing research topic trends as an effect of publication rankings-The case of German economists and the Handelsblatt Ranking The results show that the introduction of the HBR does not lead to German-authored paper topics becoming more similar to each other or the untreated international control group, even though there is a significant trend towards topic convergence between both groups and within the German group, which cannot be attributed perfectly to the HBR.
The scholarly impact of private sector research: A multivariate analysis Industry only publications show an average impact lower than that recorded for U&PROs only publications; similarly, the share of highly cited publications by the private sector is significantly lower than that by the public sector. In essence, it would seem that in public-private mixed teams it is the presence of public researchers to give the research results a greater relevance. This result highlights a trade-off between policies aimed at increasing public researchers' productivity and those aimed at encouraging their involvement in technology transfer activities, among which, joint research collaboration with industry is a relevant one.
A theory of pointwise defined impact measures We conclude by stating that in this article we contributed to the fundamentals of a basic theory underlying practical informetrics. We studied pointwise defined impact measures, providing a mathematical characterization of such measures. We showed when such measures are complete evaluation systems (CES) in the sense that they determine the function itself. Based on these results, the classical (generalized) h-index, g-index, R-index and μ-index are investigated. It is shown that they can be pointwise defined on an appropriate set of functions.
Become a better you: Correlation between the change of research direction and the change of scientific performance On one hand, we find that the direction change is strongly and positively correlated with the change of impact.
Impacts towards a comprehensive assessment of the book impact evaluation sources This paper constructed an evaluation system for book impact and provided a comprehensive impact evaluation result.
What should be rewarded? Gender and evaluation criteria for tenure and promotion Our empirical findings do not support the existence of a dominant preferred academic evaluation criterion for tenure and pro-motion.
A novel approach for assessing academic journals: Application of integer DEA model for management science and operations research field "In summary, our integer DEA model is feasible and could be used by universities to form suitable journal ranking list."
Where should I publish? Heterogeneous, networks-based prediction of paper's citation success In this paper we have trained and proposed end-to-end models for classifying papers as highly successful in citations during the initial years after their publishing.
Professional Applications of Information Literacy: Helping Researchers Learn to Evaluate Journal Quality By strengthening the overall information literacy skills of researchers and encouraging the development of specific techniques like lateral reading, librarians can support authors as they learn to evaluate publishing opportunities.
Performance of highly cited multiple sclerosis publications in the Science Citation Index expanded: A scientometric analysis "The findings may be of interest to multiple sclerosis researchers and policymakers all around the world."
Author and journal self-citation in Emergency Medicine original research articles Our findings indicate that author self-citation rates are generally low but vary considerably.
Scientific prizes and the extraordinary growth of scientific topics These findings reveal new dynamics behind scientific innovation and investment.
Academic entrepreneurship: A bibliometric engagement model As a claim to international standing and reputation, institutions are increasingly drawing on bibliometric data to assess research performance.
A bibliometric analysis of paramedicine publications using the Scopus database: 2010-2019 This study demonstrates the progressive increase in paramedic scholarly activity over the past decade. Although a large number of articles originate from two countries (Australia and the USA) and one university, numerous nations and institutions are contributing to this body of knowledge. The growing literature base is indicative of the evolution of paramedicine; however, the high level of non-paramedic authors suggests the opportunity for further scholarly development within the paramedic discipline.
A visualized bibliometric analysis of mapping research trends of machine learning in engineering (MLE) This study provides an insight view of the overall research trends of MLE and may help researchers better understand this research field and predict its dynamic directions.
"Evidence-based checklists" for identifying predatory journals have not been assessed for reliability or validity: An analysis and proposal for moving forward EBCs to detect PJs lack assessment of reliability and validity. To a varying degree, the EBCs contain items that match the scope of the new consensus definition of PJs. With the recent consensus definition, EBCs creators now have a clearer target, and can make adjustments. Longer-term future work may also include focusing on identifying and setting standards surrounding the editorial and business transparency practices of a journal which can help set benchmarks to achieve across publishers.
Caveats for the use of Web of Science Core Collection in old literature retrieval and historical bibliometric analysis This research note complements Fosso Wamba and his colleagues' study and also helps avoid improper interpretation in the use of WoSCC in old literature retrieval and historical bibliometric analysis.
Geographic diversity in economic publishing The data and descriptive statistics presented here give an overview of the state of geographic diversity in economic publishing.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Neurosurgery Research Productivity in Arab Countries Between 2005 and 2019 The results reached by this study reflect an undoubtable need for more research on neurosurgery by Arab countries. To conclude, although neurosurgical research has increased in the past few years, it's still minimal compared with the number of people and GDP. There's an emphasis on collaboration between high- and low-income countries, in establishing new institutions that can come up with high-quality research and improving health care systems on a multidisciplinary level.
Mapping the biomedical sciences using Medical Subject Headings: a comparison between MeSH co-assignments and MeSH citation pairs These two types of maps emphasize different aspects of biomedical sciences, with MeSH co-assignment maps focusing on the relationship between topics in different categories and MeSH direct citation maps providing insights into relationships between topics in the same or similar category.
Relationship between an editor in chief's commentary publications and the impact factor of cardiovascular medicine journals In conclusion, we found significant moderate correlations between a journal's IF and the number of all commentaries and first-author commentaries published by its EiC.
Mapping the literature of health care management: an update The literature of HCM has expanded rapidly in the last decade, with cumulative citations increasing by 76.6% and the number of cited journal titles increasing by nearly 70% since the original study. Coverage of the core journals in popular databases remains high, although specialized health care management and business databases did not perform as well as general or biomedical databases. Libraries serving health care administration researchers should prioritize subscribing to general databases such as Scopus or Web of Science and consider adding CINAHL Complete in addition to providing access to and linking out to their journal collections via PubMed.
Scientific publication trends of emergency department of International Federation for Emergency Medicine members, 2009 to 2018 The research capacity of EDs has been increasingly recognized by other medical specialties.
Service networks for sustainable business: A dynamic evolution analysis over half a century The insights and contributions provided in this paper pertain to revealing the fundamental characteristics, knowledge structure, and hot-keyword tendency of documents with regard to service networks for sustainable business (SN-SB) by conducting a bibliometric analysis from different perspectives. Overall, this study presents important implications for academics, companies, and policymakers. In the future, we will focus on the development of SN-SB research from the perspectives of both theory and application.
Impact and visibility of Norwegian, Finnish and Spanish journals in the fields of humanities The results obtained from the analysis of the humanities journals of the three countries allow us to draw the following conclusions.
An analysis of top author citations in software engineering and a comparison with other fields Overall, given that a large portion of researchers classified as software engineers were not in software engineering, we suggest that other fields using the database for their rankings need to review the author lists. However, overall, 60%-80% of the researchers listed in other software engineering rankings were identified, there is some confidence in the identification of relevant researchers. In future work, we suggest using the database further to assess researchers in other fields, e.g., taking into account the conventions in the field regarding the author order as weighted in the Composite Citation index and the reliability of underlying classification of the researchers.
Mapping the impact of papers on various status groups in excellencemapping.net: a new release of the excellence mapping tool based on citation and reader scores With the new release, a completely revised tool has been published, which is not only based on citation data (traditional bibliometrics), but also Mendeley data (an alt-metrics source).
Modelling trend life cycles in scientific research using the Logistic and Gompertz equations Our results further support the view that the Gompertz model is applicable across different scientific domains.
Growth rates of modern science: a latent piecewise growth curve approach to model publication numbers from established and new literature databases In this study, we used publication data from four literature databases to investigate scientific growth processes from the beginning of the modern science system until today. Both limitations might be targeted in future studies on growth processes of science. Future studies should try to explore empirically the reasons for different growth processes over time.
What affects publications' popularity on Twitter? The study confirms that timing, influential accounts, and accessibility directly affect the social popularity of research articles, using tweets/retweets as examples. The findings suggest that publications' social popularity can be easily influenced by non-paper factors. Hence, the study reveals that factors matter for social impact are different from those for research impact, and the findings can add to the discussion on the low correlation between altmetrics and citations.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Peer-Reviewed Journal Publications of Pharmacy Practice Department Chairs The scholarship productivity of pharmacy practice department chairs varies widely depending on institutional and individual characteristics.
Author Choice of Journal Type Based on Income Level of Country Authors in low-income countries frequently published gold open access articles, and authors in lower-middle- and upper-middle-income countries are not inclined to choose hybrid open access articles. These findings indicate that the economic conditions for authors influence their choice of article publication type. Open access articles provide authors with an opportunity to access published research, but there is room to improve the publishers' waiver policies.
I Explain, You Collaborate, He Cheats: An Empirical Study with Social Network Analysis of Study Groups in a Computer Programming Subject "The first conclusion is that the study groups were beneficial, as collaboration is good."
Analysis of Influence Factors on the Quality of International Collaboration Research in the Field of Social Sciences and Humanities: The Case of Chinese World Class Universities (2015-2019) First of all, what contributes most to high-quality international collaboration in scientific research is not about conducting cross-international collaboration, but about choosing the right partner. Therefore, to carry out international collaboration in scientific research, it is necessary to judge the scientific research environment of the institutions where the collaborators are located from the macro level, instead of blindly expanding the scale of international collaboration. In future research, it is necessary to further explore the factors affecting the quality of international collaboration in scientific research in a wider range.
Gender differences in the aims and impacts of research Our findings have implications for evaluation and funding policies and practices. Male researchers are overrepresented as 1st authors of publications with high citation impact because they more often value and engage in research mainly aimed at scientific progress. Female researchers are overrepresented as 1st authors of publications with high usage because they more often value and engage in research mainly aimed at societal pro-gress. Nevertheless, a critical discussion of how dominating evaluation criteria treat societal engagement and reflect gender differences is warranted.
Identifying and characterizing social media communities: a socio-semantic network approach to altmetrics Our proposed methodology allows us to identify communities of users in an inclusive way, reflecting a complex reality in which actors may be interested in different aspects of a research field.
Plagiarism in Non-Anglophone Countries: a Cross-sectional Survey of Researchers and Journal Editors Great variation exists in the understanding of plagiarism, potentially contributing to unethical publications and even retractions. Bridging the knowledge gap by arranging topical education and widely employing advanced anti-plagiarism software address this unmet need.
Academic Publication of Anesthesiology From a Bibliographic Perspective From 1999 to 2018: Comparative Analysis Using Subject-Field Dataset and Department Dataset This study showed that articles published in anesthesiology-focused and non-specialty journals demonstrate fundamentally different trends.
Comparison of attention for malnutrition research on social media versus academia: Altmetric score analysis We think that evaluating the academic publications by altmeric analysis in addition to traditional bibliometric analysis will be beneficial because AAS can give us information especially about what the population wants to know about the malnutrition and by this way we can develop appropriate policies.
Disruption indices and their calculation using web-of-science data: Indicators of historical developments or evolutionary dynamics? We suggest that "critical transitions" can be used to indicate disruption at the regime level, whereas disruption is developed at the trajectory level.
Quantifying the impact of a teamwork publication Our work focuses on estimating the impact of the scientific team and understanding scientific credit in teamwork.
Trade-off between urgency and reduced editorial capacity affect publication speed in ecological and medical journals during 2020 Female scientists, especially when they are providing maternity and other primary care, need more support for their careers, such as relief from teaching duties and adjustments on assessment criteria to access research funding.
(E-) Valuative Metrics as a Contested Field: A Comparative Analysis of the Altmetrics- and the Leiden Manifesto This article analyzed two manifestos in the field of metric science (e-) valuation. The two manifestos could be reconstructed along four motifs of critique and justification. These motifs are organized diametrically. One future task is to study both the reception of the two positions and reactions to their respective arguments.
Slowed canonical progress in large fields of science These findings suggest that the progress of large scientific fields may be slowed, trapped in existing canon.
What Are the Drivers of Citations?: Application in Tourism and Hospitality Journals Our findings on the predominant research topics in tourism and hospitality research demonstrate the areas of research that many researchers are interested in. This study also investigated the effects of the journal, article, author, reference, and topic attributes on citation counts. The findings of this study can be used to alert academia stakeholders by simply reminding them that citation counts can be affected by mere formatting issues or the underlying power dynamics of the tourism and hospitality field.
Reducing publication delay to improve the efficiency and impact of conservation science Our results show that conservation decision-makers must typically wait over three years after data collection has finished for the latest evidence on the effectiveness of conservation interventions to be published.
Update on the COVID-19 Vaccine Research Trends: A Bibliometric Analysis This novel comprehensive bibliometric analysis can help researchers and non-researchers to rapidly identify the potential partners, landmark studies and research topics within their domains of interest.
Selective world-building: Collaboration and regional specificities in the marine biodiversity field The current paper shows that marine biodiversity has both the characteristics of a homogeneous research field and several specificities that are distributed in both spatial and temporal dimensions.
Collaboration in the time of COVID: a scientometric analysis of multidisciplinary SARS-CoV-2 research This research can help us to better understand the nature of the research that has been conducted under pandemic conditions, which may be useful when it comes to coordinating similar large-scale initiatives in the future.
The Impact of False Investigators on Grant Funding It is difficult to characterize these results as suggesting anything other than the use of false investigators leads to resource misallocation and research misattribution; money is wasted and individuals get credit where none is due.
How do policy instruments generate new ones? Analysing policy instruments feedback and interaction in educational research in England, 1986-2014 Based on the policy feedback theory and policy instruments interaction studies, this paper analysed the institutionalization of the UK's performance-based research funding instrument and its effects on the policy-making process on the UK's funding arrangements for the field of educational research in England, not only illustrating the effects of the RAE in the creation of a new policy instrument (the TLRP), but also the wider effects for the field as a result of the interaction between the two policy instruments.
Participation and communication behaviour at academic conferences-An empirical gender study at the German Congress of Geography 2019 The results of our study provide only a snapshot, and the question therefore arises as to whether the findings should be interpreted pri-marily as an expression of persistent structural gender inequalities in our discipline or also as a sign of a change to more equality.
A Grant-Based Experiment to Train Clinical Investigators: The AACR/ASCO Methods in Clinical Cancer Research Workshop In summary, this one-week, focused, and intensive training workshop has been shown to increase students' knowledge base, competence in clinical cancer research methods, and productivity in the clinical cancer research enterprise.
Evaluation of economics journals based on structural equation dimension reduction method The use of the indicator system to evaluate economic journals can be analyzed from many perspectives, avoiding the lack of information when the evaluation indicators such as Journal Impact Factor and h index are used for evaluation. The evaluation results are conducive to the analysis of the various economic journals, so as to further improve the quality of the journals, and also provide reference for scholars when they choose journals to submit their articles. It should be noted that the stability of the structural equation has a significant impact on evaluation, which is generally suitable for a relatively mature academic evaluation.
The use of the term 'limnology' and its scientometrics consequences for limnologists Papers that used the jargonish term 'limnology' had a limited impact in the scientific literature: the use of a term like 'lake ecology', which has a similar meaning but is easier to understand, correlates with more papers and more citations.
Academic in-group bias in the top five economics journals The results confirm our hypothesis that academic in-group bias exists in at least one economics journal, specifically the QJE.
Citation analysis of Ph.D. theses with data from Scopus and Google Books In this study we have demonstrated the utility of the combination of citation data from two distinct sources, Scopus and Google Books, for citation analysis of Ph.D. theses in the context of research evaluation of university departments.
Evolution and structure of research fields driven by crises and environmental threats: the COVID-19 research Findings are generalized in properties that clarify the evolution and structure of new research fields and their research behavior in a period of crisis for guiding decisions of policymakers to support scientific and technological progress in human society in the presence of environmental threats.
Finding citations for PubMed: a large-scale comparison between five freely available bibliographic data sources To conclude, this study aims to help researchers to select appropriate free bibliographic data sources for citation-based studies on PubMed.
Usage, content and citation in open access publication: any interaction effects? Our results provided empirical support for the model introduced in this study: the social content (rather than the cognitive one) is the driver of a mediated process that predicts the download and usage of open access publications, and their later citation in Scopus. Our evidence suggests that scientific publication promotion campaigns should reinforce the widespread adoption of easy-to-use social media because, besides the velocity and variety of diffusion channels, the extended use guarantees that journal's papers will reach increasing audiences. Our results provide compelling evidence on the mediation model robustness; however, to get a sound empirical framework, future studies must work in the model fit by incorporating more indicator variables to the constructs choice and research use.
Mapping education research in post-Soviet countries: A bibliometric analysis Overall, the findings of the study revealed that post-Soviet countries make a marginal contribution to the international literature on education research. On a more positive note, post-Soviet education research covers a variety of subfields and topics that have evolved over the years. Moreover, these topics align with those that interest researchers in other global regions, which demonstrate the potential of post-Soviet scholars to contribute to the international research literature.
Research productivity of radiation therapy physics faculty in the United States This manuscript provides objective benchmark data regarding research productivity of academic RTP.
Descriptive bibliometric analysis of global publications in lifestyle-based preventive cardiology The current growth trends predict a large increase in the number of global publications on lifestyle-based preventive cardiology. Further research could focus on smoking cessation, which at present is under-represented in lifestyle-based preventive cardiology output. The findings provide an insight for researchers and public health policy-makers in making decisions, agree-ing future research priorities and contributing to continuing development in this dynamic field.
Trend topics in animal science: a bibliometric analysis using CiteSpace The evidence revealed in this study suggests that 'genomic prediction' is the most effective topic of study in the animal science field and will be still an active topic in the future.
The influence of opening up peer review on the citations of journal articles We concluded that opening peer review reports did not benefit papers in Nature Communications in terms of citations. We conclude that we find no evidence that disclosing peer review documents benefits papers in Nature Communications in terms of citations. Our results show that the number of rounds is not associated with citations, whereas comment length is only associated with citations with neglectable main effect.
How human capital, universities of excellence, third party funding, mobility and gender explain productivity in German political science Apart from generally showing why political scientists publish more or less, we specifically identify accumulative advantage as the principal reason why women increasingly fall behind men over the course of their careers.
Academic Productivity in Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgeons: Identifying Benchmarks Associated With Rank in North America Academic productivity metrics including h-index and NIH funding are associated with promotion to the next academic rank.
The Influence of Author Degree Centrality and L-Index on Scientific Performance of Physical Education and Training Papers in China Based on the Perspective of Social Network Analysis In this study, the correlation between the degree centrality and L-index of authors and scientific performance (number of papers, average citations per paper, and H-index) was analyzed in 16 core journals of Physical Education and Training, a second category discipline under the first category Sports, and the specific findings are as follows: (1) degree centrality is positively correlated with the number of papers, average citation per paper, and H-index and (2) L-index is positively correlated with the number of papers, average citations per paper, and H-index. From the results of this study, it can be seen that if the authors seek to cooperate with more authors extensively, especially with more influential authors, their research performance will be improved. This article analyzes the correlation between degree centrality, L-index of the authors in Physical Education and Training, and scientific performance. It lays a theoretical foundation for subsequent researches on the effectiveness of scientific cooperation, provides a theoretical reference for predicting the scientific performance of scholars in a more scientific and comprehensive way in the future, and also provides a reference for the evaluation of the scientific performance of scholars in other disciplines.
Does It Pay to Do Novel Science? The Selectivity Patterns in Science Funding Using extensive data on all applicants for a Swiss grant, our study confirms a bias against novel researchers in funding.
The impact of a national research assessment on the publications of sociologists in Italy Our findings suggest that ANVUR and specifically the VQR 2004-10 research assessment possibly stimulated strategic behaviour among Italian sociologists towards publishing more in 'Fascia' journals.
Democracy, Complexity, and Science: Exploring Structural Sources of National Scientific Performance The findings show the significance of democratic governance and complex systems in national scientific performance.
Gathering evidence of impact from research support services: Examining impact in the context of the Centre for Environmental Data Analysis Despite these issues, the results suggest that the majority of users (61%, n = 312), who participated in the survey, were willing to provide impact information to CEDA.
Proposed methodology for measuring the effectiveness of policies designed to further research The increase in all indicators since the post-bonus seems to be a clear indication that the incentives had the desired effect. Such data indicate that this policy encourages researchers to publish, especially in journals with higher visibility, having an effect on the quality of the publications. The findings suggest that financial incentives changed Carlos III University of Madrid researchers' habits substantially, particularly as regards research quality (publication in Q1 journals) and internationalization (No. of papers involving international partnering), with beneficial results.
Face-to-face panel meetings versus remote evaluation of fellowship applications: simulation study at the Swiss National Science Foundation In conclusion, we simulated an ERB approach in the eval-uation of the junior Postdoc.Mobility funding scheme at the SNSF and compared the funding outcome to the standard TPM format, which has been in use for many years.
The unbearable lightness of scientometric indices This paper tries to advance the debate on scholarly publishing and the impact of bibliometric indices on the evaluation of research and its authors.
Application of a feature extraction and normalization method to improve research evaluation across clinical disciplines The new evaluation indicator and normalized process measure different features of disciplines, providing a basis for the further balancing of evaluations, and considering differences across disciplines.
Towards Potential Content-Based Features Evaluation to Tackle Meaningful Citations This paper has presented a comprehensive list of content-based features identified by critically analyzing the current state-of-the-art. The outcomes yielded a precision of 0.80 and 0.88 for two different data sets. We claim that the proposed methodology has significant potential to tackle important citations.
The effect of facilitating interdisciplinary cooperation on the research productivity of university research teams: The moderating role of government assistance Overall, our study has important implications for governments and universities seeking to facilitate interdisciplinary cooperation. We find that management, operations, evaluation, university research team building, and collaborating with industry for facilitating interdisciplinary cooperation are directly related to the research productivity of university research teams. This study presents some managerial implications for both university and government.
Transdisciplinary research outcomes based on the Transdisciplinary Research on Energetics and Cancer II initiative experience This work identifies and characterizes nine complementary TD outcomes that can be used to evaluate progress toward impact on complex public health problems. Strategic investment in infrastructure that supports team development and collaboration, such as a coordination center, cross-center working groups, annual funded developmental projects, and face-to-face meetings, may foster the achievement of these outcomes. This exploratory work provides a basis for the future investigation and development of quantitative measurement tools to assess the achievement of TD outcomes that are relevant to solving multifactorial public health problems.
Quantifying the contributions technicians make to research Technicians are a vital, but largely invisible part of institutional research.
Mirror, mirror on the wall: is economics the fairest of them all? An investigation into the social sciences and humanities in Vietnam By glimpsing the working life of more than 1,500 Vietnamese researchers in SSH, this study is one of the earliest efforts that has sought to bring useful empirical evidence on the status of different disciplines after the introduction of new research policies. Future policies should aim to provide an enabling environment for female and early career researchers in every SSH field in Vietnam. The study calls for responsible usage of cross-discipline publication data to maintain a transparent source of information.
Science rules! A qualitative study of scientists' approaches to grant lottery "They rather favor a combination of grant lottery and peer review processes, assuming that only under these conditions could randomly allocated funding be an integral and legitimate part of science."
The role of metrics in peer assessments Insofar as this attempt to conclude on whether metrics are consid-ered a legitimate and integral part of assessments of research, the results indicate conflicting views as well as differences between re-view contexts and the type of metrics. This implies that in order to provide fair and well-grounded review proc-esses, there is a need for insight into how panels use metrics in their assessments and to encourage explicit discussions about the use of metrics.
Interdisciplinary knowledge combinations and emerging technological topics: Implications for reducing uncertainties in research evaluation This article puts forth a new indicator of emerging technological topics as a tool for addressing challenges inherent in the evaluation of interdisciplinary research.
The top 100 cited articles in pediatric urology: A bibliometric analysis The list of top 100 most cited articles in pediatric urology is an important resource for clinicians and trainees to understand the body of knowledge and trajectory of this field.
The Altmetric Score Has a Stronger Relationship With Article Citations Than Journal Impact Factor and Open Access Status: A Cross-sectional Analysis of 4022 Sport Sciences Articles Altmetric scores in sport sciences journals have a stronger relationship with number of citations than Journal Impact Factor and open access status do.
Self-Citation Patterns of Journals Indexed in the Journal Citation Reports What we show in this study is that there is also a need to fine tune the parameters related to measuring self-citation 'excessiveness' (Opthof 2013, p. 165). Our findings also emphasize the fact that journals are different in size. More consideration at this point needs to be given to the characteristics of local journals in a research evaluation.
x-index: Identifying core competency and thematic research strengths of institutions using an NLP and network based ranking framework The framework can be useful for institutions and the scientometrics research community as a system providing a detailed assessment of the core competency and the research strengths of institutions in different thematic areas.
Finding leading scholars in mobile phone behavior: a mixed-method analysis of an emerging interdisciplinary field The study generates multiple insights into how to identify leading scholars in emerging and established fields in general. These insights include: (1) the importance and urgency of finding leading scholars in addition to identify important studies, (2) the complexity and challenges in identifying and verifying leading scholars across various fields in the real-life context, and (3) the methodological diversity and intellectual creativity that are always needed to tackle the complexity and meet the challenges. Moving forward, while a series of case studies in diverse fields are needed to replicate and expand the present study to build research in a bottom-up approach, theory-driven hypothesis-initiated systematical investigations of how to find leading scholars can further advance the science of science in a top-down approach.
De-Westernization in journalism research: a content and network analysis of the BRICS journals Generally speaking, journalism knowledge productions across the five BRICS nations are basically different degrees of the hybridity of domestic scholarship and Western scholar- ships. Furthermore, inter-regional referencing and international cooperation are suggested as potential directions to promote the process of de-Westernization and to deepen globalization in the field of journalism research.
Mapping 30 Years of Sustainability of Solar Energy Research in Developing Countries: Indonesia Case The total publication of 1886 documents obtained for three decades (1989–2020) has been mapped. The future agenda for PV research could focus on increasing the domestic component and proposing various multidisciplinary approaches to make PV utilization more feasible. The cooperation of all parties, universities, research institutes, industries, and the government is inevitable and necessary for the sustainability of solar energy research.
What Can "Marriage Announcements" Tell Us? A Content Analysis of News Articles on Library-Press Collaboration The findings would work as a prerequisite to further investigation of the academic community's perception and reaction to library-press collaboration, which would in turn impact the success of such collaboration, and we plan to further explore the actual effect of those news articles on the academic community's response of library-press collaboration through interviews with stakeholders, including librarians, press staff, and researchers.
Highly cited papers in dental medicine based on Essential Science Indicators Results obtained from this study can provide valuable information for researchers to better identify present and future hotspots in dental research. The present study outlines the main characteristics of the most recent 185 ESI HCPs in the field of DOSM published in the last decade. To provide more comprehensive insight into this research system, it would be valuable to conduct further analysis of existing co-citation and bibliographic coupling networks.
Influence of Research Continuity on Physician-Scientists' Career Success This study highlights research continuity as an important and modifiable variable during the training period of physician-scientists and one that may improve their career success and promote greater retention within the workforce.
Bibliometric Analysis of Cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) Research Publications from Horticulture Category Based on the Web of Science This study analyzed 2030 articles and review articles of cucumber research from the horticulture category of the WoS. These articles were mainly written in English (92.81%) and were from 5630 authors, 80 countries/territories, and 1094 organizations, and they were published in 46 journals and book series. The top five core journals were ranked as Scientia Horticulturae, HortScience, Journal of the American Society for Horticultural Science, European Journal of Plant Pathology, and Horticulture Journal (Journal of the Japanese Society for Horticultural Science).
When Cognitive Proximity Leads to Higher Evaluation Decision Quality: A Study of Public Funding Allocation Our finding suggests that decision-makers are more confident of their decision with intermediate levels of cognitive proximity. The funding agency should consider the cognitive proximity between the evaluators and the proposals to improve decision consistency and the quality of review decisions. We also contribute to the decision-making field by exploring the consequences for evaluators to be exposed to experiences and effort.
Open Access Publications with Article Processing Charge (APC) Payment: a Brazilian Scenario Analysis Our results indicate that over the years the Brazilian scientific community has been increasingly publishing in OA journals with APCs.
Comparative analysis of the recent publication trends in 4 representative journals in the spine field We believe that periodic analyses and comparisons of the characteristics of representative spine journals will help to shape the direction of future improvements. The authors believe that periodically analyzing and comparing the publication characteristics of these representative spine journals will help to shape the direction of future advancements in this field by providing insights into possible trends and biases in the types of studies that are being accepted.
Innovations are disproportionately likely in the periphery of a scientific network This study proposes a framework for identifying innovation within a scientific field.
Declining citation accuracy in polar research Citation practices are unlikely to improve unless journals provide incentives for scholars to be more meticulous, and we recommend active monitoring of citation accuracy and citation appropriateness by reviewers and editorial staff.
Comprehensive Study of Evolution of Global Environmental Quality Research Using Informetric Co-Word Network This paper develops a novel informetric dynamic co-word network method to analyze the evolution of GEQR's KS.
The local structure of citation networks uncovers expert-selected milestone papers Our findings could help to better understand the nature of groundbreaking research from citation network analysis and find practical applications in large-scale data.
PROPOSAL FOR THE EVALUATION OF BOOKS AND BOOK CHAPTERS FOR CAPES AREA 21
Visibility, collaboration and impact of the Cuban scientific output on COVID-19 in Scopus "The greater the leadership in Cuban research, the lower its impact, and the lower the indexes of international collaboration."
Academic Publication of Neurodegenerative Diseases From a Bibliographic Perspective: A Comparative Scientometric Analysis Their main outcomes were as follows: First, the pathology and diagnostic researches took a major role in 100 top-cited articles while the therapy articles are relatively less. Second, the United States confirmed the tremendous impact on the field of neurodegenerative diseases. Third, researchers also submitted their researches to general journals, not just focused on specialty journals.
The Morphology and Differentiation of the Content of International Debate on Renewable Energy. A Bibliometric Analysis of Web of Science, Scopus, and Twitter The study presented in this paper has its limitations.
Climate change/global warming/climate emergency versus general climate research: comparative bibliometric trends of publications It was discovered that research output related to the Earth's current changing climate surpassed that of general climate research in 2010, and the publication ratio (CC/GW/CE)/(CL) has been increasing over the last decade.
Geographic diversity in academic finance editorial boards-A discussion As has been found before in economics, so we find that there is a very significant dominance of US affiliations in the editorial board memberships of academic finance journals.
Procedures and Principles of Disposal of Research Misconduct in Japan From the Perspective of Case Analysis The results of this analysis will help to determine improved methods for processing and making decisions, and conducting assessments while examining cases of research misconduct.
Earth, wind, (water), and fire: Measuring epistemic boundaries in climate change research We conclude that interdisciplinarity does not erode boundaries, but instead operates within a highly structured and constrained space of probables.
Self-promotion and the need to be first in science The practices not only catalyze their users' apparent impact and reputation, they auto-catalyze self-deceptive importance and influence. Neither best serves the interests of science.
RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED TRIALS IN DENTAL JOURNALS ON CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS: A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS A wide range of dental topics were covered in the included RCTs conducted among children and adolescents.
Open Access and Article Processing Charges in Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery Journals: a Cross-Sectional Analysis OA publishing is common in cardiology and cardiac surgery with substantial APCs.
A survey of biomedical journals to detect editorial bias and nepotistic behavior In this comprehensive survey of 5,468 biomedical journals, we describe several features of edi-tor-author relationships among which were the following: (i) an article output was sometimes dominated by the prolific contribution of one author or a group of authors; (ii) with time lags to publication that were in some instances shorter for these prolific authors (when this infor-mation was available); and (iii) more than half of those prolific authors were typically members of the journal's editorial board.
The impact of the German 'DEAL' on competition in the academic publishing market Overall, two competition concerns arise, as the DEAL consortium has only engaged in negotiations with the large commercial publishers, namely, Elsevier, Springer Nature, and Wiley, while it does not appear to be willing to engage in similar negotiations with smaller publishers. Hence, research institutions and academic libraries should rapidly also start negotiations with smaller academic publishing houses. Given the two-sided market logic that good authors and papers attract readers which in turn attract authors, the competitive advantage of the DEAL agreements may even be underestimated in the short run.
Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on publication dynamics and non-COVID-19 research production In this meta-research gathering publications from high-impact medical journals, we have shown that the dramatic rise in COVID-19 publications was accompanied by a substantial decrease of non-COVID-19 research.
Bibliometric analysis of orthopedic theses in Turkey The orthopedic research trends were differentiated over the years in our country.
National Institutes of Health R01 Grant Funding Is Associated With Enhanced Research Productivity and Career Advancement Among Academic Cardiothoracic Surgeons Cardiothoracic surgeons who obtain R01 funding exhibit greater research productivity and faster career advancement.
Subspecialty Variation in Academic Citations of Orthopedic Surgery Publications We have demonstrated that there is significant and substantial baseline variation in the citation of orthopedic publications among various subspecialties.
A large National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre facilitates impactful cross-disciplinary and collaborative translational research publications and research collaboration networks: a bibliometric evaluation study The substantial output of researchers supported by the NIHR Oxford BRC during its second 5-year funding period produced substantial number of research publications, which were generated by a large and complex network of translational researchers working in complex structures and consortia, which shows success across the BRC during the period of analysis. Further research involving continued improvements in and uptake of PIDs, open data and the tracking of more other research outputs such as clinical innovations and patents should give a better understanding of large research enterprises such as NIHR BRCs in the UK.
The COVID problem reflected by economics - A bibliometric analysis Our research took a snapshot of the first 15 months of COVID-related B&E research. Bibliometrics and social network methods were used to demonstrate the main structural and behavioural trends. Our subsample from the CEE countries shows some bias towards business related topics.
Effects and Interactions of Researcher's Motivation and Personality in Promoting Interdisciplinary and Transdisciplinary Research First, intrinsic and extrinsic motivations have significant positive relationships with all four IDR/TDR collaborations, except the relationship between regional/societal collaboration and extrinsic motivation.
Root Canal Disinfection Articles with the Highest Relative Citation Ratios. A Bibliometric Analysis from 1990 to 2019 Using the RCR metric allowed us to identify influential articles in root canal disinfection, a research field with topics of significance that fluctuate over time. Compared to citations, RCR reduces the time from publication to detection of its importance for the readership and could be a valid alternative to citation counts.
Requirements for Becoming an Adjunct Professor in Medicine: A Comparative Analysis of the Regulations of German Medical Faculties The regulations show clear differences among individual requirements for adjunct professorship. Standardization would be desirable and would lead to comparable conditions and therefore also to a fair recognition of scientific achievements.
RESEARCH TREND AND STATUS OF FORESTRY BASED ON ESSENTIAL SCIENCE INDICATORS DURING 2010-2020: A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS This study analyzed 302 top papers in the subject category of Forestry from 2010 to 2020, which included 300 highly cited papers and 3 hot papers in the field. This work is also useful for student identifying graduate schools and researchers selecting journals.
Facets of Specialization and Its Relation to Career Success: An Analysis of US Sociology, 1980 to 2015 Our results show across a number of robustness checks that it is not topical focus of a thesis that provides career advantages, but targeted specialization and novel combinations. Last, and most important, we find that students whose ensuing publications echo and elaborate their dissertations exhibit a consistent research identity and have a considerably higher chance of becoming an advisor. Whereas there are diminishing returns to consistency for highly productive scholars, a relatively small number of consistent publications significantly improves the likelihood of achieving an advisor position, adding important nuance to the publish or perish imperative.
Time to publish? Turnaround times, acceptance rates, and impact factors of journals in fisheries science There are clearly intrinsic differences in turnaround time among journals that publish in fisheries science (Fig 3).
Exploring Emerging Technologies with Analysis of Bibliographic Data Focused on Plasma Surface Treatment It is expected that the new technology fields derived from this paper can contribute to establishing a preemptive R&D strategy. This paper analyzes the research trends of plasma surface treatment technology, which is widely used throughout the industry, and proposes new indicators of novelty, fast growth and impact in order to discover areas that should be focused on as emerging technologies in the future. Therefore, it is expected that these keywords can serve as a starting point in the process of exploring new research topics and technical fields related to plasma surface treatment in the future.
Information and Scientific Impact of Advanced Therapies in the Age of Mass Media: Altmetrics-Based Analysis of Tissue Engineering Scientific information related to the construction of bioartificial tissues increasingly reaches society through different online media.
The effect of interdisciplinary components' citation intensity on scientific impact This study shows that, in addition to interdisciplinarity, the scientific impact of interdisciplinary research is also affected by the citation characteristics of interdisciplinary components, namely ICCI.
Where are the sleeping beauties and princes in educational technology journals? A systematic analysis of five well-known journals in the field of educational technology confirms the existence of “sleeping beauties” – scholarly articles which are largely ignored at the time of publication only to later be "awakened” by citations in subsequent research.
Better, Faster, Stronger: The Evolution of Co-authorship in International Management Research Between 1990 and 2016 In our paper, we investigated how collaboration patterns in the field of international management research evolved over time and how these patterns distributed among scholars, universities, and nations. Despite these limitations, our study highlights that isomorphic pressures and central scholars, institutions and nations drive the development of scientific disciplines. The intellectual dominance will continue to spread throughout the international management community, effec- tively shaping the intellectual content of the newcomers to the research community.
A Novel Deep Neural Network-Based Approach to Measure Scholarly Research Dissemination Using Citations Network In this article, we proposed a novel deep neural network-based technique to measure scientific research dissemination by analyzing the ACL ARC citations network.
An Evaluation Index System for Research Efficiency of Research-Oriented Hospitals in China The evaluation system for research-oriented hospitals that we established had high specificity, credibility, and rationality.
Supply Chain Management Research Productivity and Growth: 2017-2019 The results depict a relatively stable core set of productive schools, while relative research productivity remains mostly fluid outside this core set.
ON THE SOCIAL AND COGNITIVE DIMENSIONS OF WICKED ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS CHARACTERIZED BY CONCEPTUAL AND SOLUTION UNCERTAINTY We analyzed the social and cognitive dimensions of knowledge trajectories emerging around three environmental problems - Deforestation, Invasive Species, and Wildlife Trade.
GLOBAL CITIES IN INTERNATIONAL NETWORKS OF INNOVATORS To sum up, we find that US cities play a pivotal role in international networks of inventors.
Contribution of Countries to Main Neurosurgical Journals with Particular Emphasis on Turkey This bibliometric assessment of neurosurgical journals allows countries to perceive their neurosurgical research productivity. It can function as a benchmark for academic productivity and the methodology can be a model for particular analysis of other countries.
Correlation Between Social Media Postings and Academic Citations of Hand Surgery Research Publications In the early adoption of social media for the dissemination of hand surgery research, there is a weak correlation between social media posting of hand surgery research and academic citation.
The Impact of Open Access Mandates on Invention We show that open access causes patents to cite academic knowledge much more frequently.
Publication Performance and Trends in Mangrove Forests: A Bibliometric Analysis Mangroves are increasingly recognized for their diverse social, environmental, and economic benefits. They also provide essential ecosystem services, so significant losses of mangrove forests will have important consequences.
Altmetric Attention Score: Evaluating the Social Media Impact of Burn Research Overall, our findings support using both AAS and traditional bibliometrics to assess article impact.
Does government support of a few leading universities have a broader impact on the higher education system? Evaluation of the Russian University Excellence Initiative Judging from the broader research policy\research evaluation perspective, our study sheds light on the systemic effects of excellence initiatives, which are often neglected.
On the relationship between interdisciplinarity and impact: Distinct effects on academic and broader impact Our results show that interdisciplinarity positively affects both citation impact and usage impact represented by PLoS usage data. Compared to citations, which need a more extended period to accumulate, the advantage of measuring impact with broader data is its immediacy. In future research, we will seek to further conceptual and methodological improvements to overcome the above limitations.
SSH researchers make an impact differently. Looking at public research from the perspective of users The findings offer elements for addressing a number of open issues in the field of impact assessment. We therefore call the attention on the need to develop models of impact that take into account structural differences between SSH and STEM. We believe that the Text mining approach has value to address a more general methodological issue in impact assessment, that is, how to define and measure contribution.
Does reviewing experience reduce disagreement in proposals evaluation? Insights from Marie Sklodowska-Curie and COST Actions The empirical analysis shows that past scheme experience reduces disagreement in all MSCA schemes. The results provide support for studies, which have argued that a major factor explaining low IRR in grant evaluation are reviewers who only score one or a few submissions (Jayasinghe et al. 2006; Marsh et al. 2008). Our results show that scheme reviewing experience decreases disagreement; at the same time, exactly how many proposals are advisable to evaluate may vary across funding schemes, as well as reviewers, for example, in relation to the complexity of the proposal, existing incentives, etc.
'Scaling' the academia: Perspectives of academics on the impact of their practices All in all, the results of the study indicated that despite the thirst of some HEIs in Turkey for better standing in the international rankings as well as resulting gains, they seem to hamper this process by holding unattainable expectations, setting non-inclusive criteria, and creating unsupportive working conditions for academics.
Say my name, say my name: Academic authorship conventions between editorial policies and disciplinary practices We conclude that the regulatory ambitions of authorship policies mostly focus on the prevention and elimination of deficits in the quality and integrity of scientific publica-tions.
Journal citation reports and the definition of a predatory journal: The case of the Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute (MDPI) (Publication with Expression of Concern) The formal criteria together with the analysis of the citation patterns of the 53 journals under analysis all suggest they may be predatory journals.
Woman authorship in pre-print versus peer-reviewed oral health-related publications: A two-year observational study For the first time in oral health science, it was found that women show higher representation as first and last author positions in peer reviewed publications versus pre-prints.
Interdisciplinary researchers attain better long-term funding performance These findings suggest that pursuing an interdisciplinary career may require perseverance to overcome extra challenges, but can pave the way for a more successful endeavor.
A fairer way to compare researchers at any career stage and in any discipline using open-access citation data We advocate the use of the ε'-index whenever assessors must compare research performance among researchers of different backgrounds, but emphasize that no single index should be used exclusively to rank researcher capability.
Europe 2020 and the European Research Area: the response by three small European countries "Generally, our findings provide mixed results as to the benefits of international collabor-ations on citation impact for the three smallest EU nation-states. This suggests that while a small country can expand its research through collaborations, that moving too far from its own research base might not be beneficial in attracting more citations. While it is probably premature and further analysis is required, it appears from our find-ings that policies emanating from Europe 2020 and the European Research Area are having some of the desired effects."
Gender Difference in Research Productivity and its Associated factors in Addis Ababa University: a Cross-Sectional study Female faculty were less likely to be involved in research than men counterparts. The University needs to narrow the gender gap in research by designing and implementing an appropriate intervention strategy. Our findings indicated that Addis Ababa University has to go to a great length to narrow the publication gap of peer-reviewed articles and the gap in grant writings for application between male and female faculty.
Specialization, field distance, and quality in economists' collaborations We analyze North American economics PhDs' collaborations in peer-reviewed economics journals from 1990 to 2014 and observe three stylized facts: (i) Co-authors have become geographically more distant but much closer in terms of their research fields over the last couple of decades; (ii) co-authors whose collaboration reveals better quality have a significantly smaller field distance; (iii) co-authors' specialization levels are little or not related to the overall quality of the collaboration. High quality research is more likely to emerge as a result of an interaction between specialists and generalists, yet, they should preferably have a close field distance. Our findings suggest that cross-field collaboration among economists takes place and is successful if each author's research expertise is already interdisciplinary.
Stochastic modeling of scientific impact The model that uses no talent parameter can produce high-impact scientists. It also reproduces qualitatively some intricate properties of the actual citation distribution.
Bibliometric analysis of strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa Duch.) research publications from horticulture category based on Web of Science This study analyzed 2,640 article and review type papers of strawberry research from horticulture category based on the Web of Science, papers mainly written in English (91.894 %), were from 6,807 authors, 77 countries/territories, 1,504 organizations and published in 57 Journals and book series. This work is useful for student identifying graduate schools and researchers selecting journals.
Science, social networks, and collaboration: an analysis of publications in fisheries science from 1990 to 2018 Our concern has been to explore interdisciplinary collaborative networks in fisheries science, looking directly at which disciplines collaborate, whether and how such collaborations have changed over time, and specifically consider the trajectories of emerging topics like climate change and EBFM.
Synergistic networks of COVID-19's top papers The present paper, in addition to discussing the concept, model and method of calculating the synergy indicator in scientific collaboration networks, this indicator has been calculated in the triplets of authors, journals and countries publishing the COVID-19's top papers. Accordingly, analyzing the results of international collaboration and the synergy of researchers' social networks will pave the way for better collaboration and better opportunities for researchers. It is suggested that in other studies, the synergy of scientific collaboration networks be studied based on Scopus or PubMed data, and the results obtained to be compared with the results of the present article.
The Use of Questionable Research Practices to Survive in Academia Examined With Expert Elicitation, Prior-Data Conflicts, Bayes Factors for Replication Effects, and the Bayes Truth Serum Academic leaders have to keep in mind that Ph.D. candidates can be under more pressure than they realize and might be susceptible to using QRPs. All in all, the pressure to conduct QRPs or even commit fraud remains a significant problem for early-career scientists. More and more scientists have started to use Bayesian methods, and we encourage researchers to use the full potential of Bayesian methods.
Bibliometrics of Latin American research on COVID-19 in the first year of the pandemic: the main trends In 2020, a total of 3 056 COVID-19 documents in SCI-EXPANDED were published by Latin Americans mainly in the Web of Science categories of 'general and internal medicine' and 'public, environmental and occupational health'. More letters and editorial materials and fewer articles were published in the first year of its outbreak. Health and infection were the main research focuses.
RESEARCH AND GOOGLE TREND FOR HUMAN NEUROPSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS AND MACHINE LEARNING: A BRIEF REPORT It is observed that the researchers from the US (32.4%), UK (9.2%) and China (7.4%) are the prime contributors as far as mining and management of the neuropsychiatric disorders using machine learning is concerned.
Co-word analysis and academic performance from the Australasian Journal of Educational Technology in Web of Science This research entailed an analysis of the scientific production of AJET to increase the scientific literature in the field of educational technology. From the manuscripts collected within the WoS database, we found that AJET compiles studies and research with similar content, with an intense thematic correlation force, with the concept of “knowledge” being the common thread from 2007 to 2020. At the same time, we noted a progressive evolution of studies published in the journal: the first phase focused on settlement in the design and implementation of educational technology in learning environments, the second phase focused on greater predominance of the enrichment of technology and its acceptance within the teaching and learning processes, and the final stage focused on the perception of the protagonists of the training process during the implementation of learning contexts featuring technology.
Mapping Knowledge Domain Analysis in Smart Education Research This study used bibliometric analysis and systematically analyzed and summarized the emerging systematic literature in the smart education field.
Research Production and International Visibility in Higher Education: The Evolution of Romanian Universities from 2011 to 2019 Although the higher education reforms in Romania initiated by the 2011 Education Law were highly ambitious in scope, the overall international visibility of Romanian universities has not improved following the reforms.
Scientometric Analysis of Global Scientific Literature on Aging in Place This study aimed at presenting a bibliometric analysis of the current status of the aging in place research themes. The study identified housing, dementia, long-term care, and technology as emerging research focuses within the subject area. Thus, this study has successfully achieved the primary objectives in recognizing the current context and future research trends in improving aging in place subject area.
Evolutionary Analysis of International Scientific Output in Occupational Therapy from 1917 to 2020 More randomized controlled trials are necessary to increase the quality of the evidence base. Moreover, a greater collaboration between authors is needed for the professionalization of this research field.
Detecting fabrication in large-scale molecular omics data We present here a proof of concept method for detecting fabrication in biomedical data. Just as has been previously shown in the financial sector, digit frequencies are a powerful data representation when used in combination with machine learning to predict the authenticity of data. Although the data used herein is copy number variation from a cancer cohort, we believe that the Benford-like digit frequency method can be generalized to any tabular numeric data.
Does the inclusion of non-academic reviewers make any difference for grant impact panels? Our empirical findings suggest that they do; we discuss three particular ways in which they do so. The first is that they bring their perspectives and experiences to broaden and enrich the panel discussions, especially on the topics of national and local beneficiaries and contextual pathways of impact: what Watermeyer and Hedgecoe (2016, 661) call 'folk impact'. We conclude by recommending that funding agencies further categorise their targeted impact types of the funding programme, especially for large and complex programmes that fund various research fields and orientations.
INTERNATIONALISATION IN SCHOLARLY PUBLISHING IN CROATIA THROUGH THE LENS OF BIBLIOMETRIC OVERVIEW OF THE JOURNAL DRUSTVENA ISTRAZIVANJA This research reveals that international orientations in Cro-atian scholarly publishing in the social sciences is insubstan-tial.
Research challenges and opportunities in the Caribbean area: first bibliometric study in the French West Indies, from 1989 to 2018 This quantitative analysis shows the development of medical and scientific research in Martinique and Guadeloupe over the last three decades, as well as the extent of their collaborative partnerships at the national and international levels. Our findings shed light on some shortfalls, namely the need to implement more joint cooperative projects in order to join forces in facing up to the growing burden of chronic and emerging diseases, whose prevalence is high in the Caribbean. Future investigations in this area could focus on analysis of clinical trials reported at the national and international level, to assess the level of involvement of the FWI and help to better define objectives for future collaborations and publications.
Novel World University Rankings Combining Academic, Environmental and Resource Indicators In short, the new ranking approach is not proposed to replace the current rankings that focus on academic indicators.
Global Trends in Atherosclerosis Research in the Epigenetics Field: Bibliometric and Visualization Studies The results of this study summarized the research status of epigenetic modifications in atherosclerosis, and predicted the future research trends in this field.
Modeling the dynamics of firms' technological impact* Our results shed light on modeling the differences behind the impact dynamics of researchers and firms.
Expanding Family Medicine Scholarship to All Faculty: The Minnesota Model for Harmonizing Clinical Care, Education, and Research Missions
Citation Advantage of Promoted Articles in a Cross-Publisher Distribution Platform: 36-Month Follow-up to a Randomized Controlled Trial To our knowledge, this is the first randomized controlled trial to demonstrate how a postpublication article promotion intervention can be used to persistently augment citations of peer-reviewed articles.
Expectations of Health Researchers From Academic Social Network Sites: Qualitative Study This study aimed to identify the expectations of health researchers from ASNSs. These expectations were divided into functional and technical characteristics. Health researchers emphasized 2 functional and technical characteristics required to meet academic social network sites' expectations.
Reaping the benefits of open science in scholarly communication Amid the current global search for new and effective ways to approach scientific research, higher education and service to society "in a context of digitalization and openness" [48], this study provides a succinct vademecum for the uptake of the main open science practices when dealing with scholarly communication.
The cautious faculty: Malaysian university researchers' awareness, experiences, and attitudes towards Open Peer Review As a conclusion, the findings had addressed the main research aim to investigate the awareness, experiences, and attitudes of researchers in a non-western country towards OPR. Their attitude towards OPR is intermingled between positive and negative, that could either encourage or discourage their intention in practising OPR as a reviewer or author. The study concludes that OPR is not yet taking root among researchers from this emerging nation.
How the scientific community responded to the COVID-19 pandemic: A subject-level time-trend bibliometric analysis The association between the COVID-19 incidence and publication count indicated the scientific community's interest in the ongoing situation and timely response to it.
The Top 100 Most-Cited Articles on Ankle Arthroscopy: Bibliometric Analysis Ankle arthroscopy is a technique that is still open to development and is a current topic that should be studied.
The different responses of universities to introduction of performance-based research funding The methodology, and results, should be of use to university management and policy-makers. We find that before introduction of PBRFS the universities of the south were much less productive than those of the north. Our study also observes the convergence of performance by the universities: between 2007-11 and 2013-7, the distances diminished between Italy's most and least productive.
Evidence of research mastery: How applicants argue the feasibility of their research projects Our results show that even a short proposal can be formulated to portray oneself as a skilled scientist and demonstrate one’s practical mastery at designing experimental setups. The three kinds of evidence of research mastery serve to signal that the project meets the scientific field’s expectations of how a scientist should conduct a research project. A helpful contribution for future research would be a study of whether long proposals harbor additional kinds of evidence of research mastery.
Aesthetic Surgery Research Funding: Where Does It Come From and to Whom Does It Go? Lack of diversity in research funding among private practice surgeons may explain the reported discrepancies that currently exist between aesthetic and reconstructive surgery research. Despite reported disparities in plastic surgery research, overall 10-year trends within ASJ reveal that aesthetic surgery research continues to thrive.
Global Research Talents: Analysis of Their Behavior and Publication/Citation Patterns This paper contributes to an understanding of publication/citation (P/C) patterns of the globally most productive researchers (MPRs).
Associations of motor neuron disease research productivity and socioeconomic factors in Southeast Asia: a bibliometric analysis This study highlights that although the scientific productivity of MND research in SEA has been low, it is continuously growing.
Attitudes toward open peer review among stakeholders of a scholar-led journal in Brazil Stakeholders of RBMFC, a medical journal in Brazil, were generally as supportive to open peer review as participants of a large-scale survey with an over-representation of researchers from the Global North and the natural sciences.
Document type assignment by Web of Science, Scopus, PubMed, and publishers to "Top 100" papers In conclusion, there was no general consensus or consistent pattern for labeling T100 papers.
A 30-year analysis of National Institutes of Health funded cardiac transplantation research: Surgeons lead the way Surgeon-scientists are equally productive and impactful compared with nonsurgeons despite decreasing funding rates at the National Institutes of Health and greater pressure from administrators to increase clinical productivity. The NIH's funding of cardiac transplantation research is an excellent investment with a high number of publications and citations in reputable journals. The NIH should continue to fund surgeon-scientists and physician-scientists despite their busy clinical practices because of their high level of impact and productivity.
Generational differences in international research collaboration: A bibliometric study of Norwegian University staff The main finding of this study is that there are age differences in international collaboration, with the youngest researchers being more international compared to older researchers, but that these differences are not consistent across fields. Although age differences do not systematically support our main hypothesis, we do not find any evidence supporting the alternative hypothesis (that older researchers are more international).
Transparency in peer review: Exploring the content and tone of reviewers' confidential comments to editors Findings indicate variability in how reviewers use the confidential comments to editor section in online peer-review systems, though generally the way they use them suggests integrity and transparency to authors.
RETRACTED: Text Mining in Management Research: A Bibliometric Analysis (Retracted Article) This study will help scholars and management practitioners interested in the intersection of text mining and management to quickly understand the latest advances in research. Future studies could be conducted by expanding the literature pool in order to obtain more comprehensive findings.
Avoiding predatory publishing for early-career ophthalmologists Predatory publishing has grown exponentially over the years and is a growing problem across the globe.
Participation, academic influences and interactions: A comparison of Chinese and US research universities on ResearchGate The comparisons of participation, interactions, and academic influences using RG metrics of users affiliated with a sample of research universities in the U.S. and China revealed that in the ASN site RG, the participation of top Chinese universities and their overall performance as measured by RG score and publications are largely in line with U.S. research universities. However, the academic influence and popularity of top Chinese universities—as measured by citations per publication, profile views, and followers are basically at the same level with those in moderate research activity level (R3) universities in the U.S. Finally, this study supports the notion that RG metrics can effectively serve as both institutional and national evaluation tools.
Scientometric Analysis of Pharmacognosy Magazine: A Decade of Quality Publishing These results indicate that Pharmacogn Mag is one of the leading journals in where the journal is indexed, with publications from a wide range of authors, institutions, and countries around the world. The study summarizes using various scientometric techniques and analyzing the journal impact, prominent topics, most prolific authors and their affiliations, collaborative countries output, and most used keywords. However, more article types are recommended for the improvement of citations in Pharmacogn Mag.
How faculty define quality, prestige, and impact of academic journals Overall, our research points to the need for additional cultural and environmental factors that determine faculty thinking that cut across age, gender, institution types, and disciplines. Given the impossibility of universal definitions, it is understandable that many faculty fall back on measures that are comparable, but that, in reality, cannot capture the diversity of interpretations that exist within each context. As such, the findings of this study invite us to reconsider how, if at all, we want quality, prestige, and impact to be critical components of research assessment.
Cuba Publications in the Science Citation Index Expanded: publication characteristics, institutions and journals Our conclussions only apply to the fraction of Cuban science covered by the Science Citation Index Expanded (under 22%). We recommend three main improvements: to increase collaboration among Cuban scientists; to expand research areas beyond medical subjects; and to improve the quality of Cuban journals.
Inconsistent and incomplete retraction of published research: A cross-sectional study on Covid-19 retractions and recommendations to mitigate risks for research, policy and practice The retraction process is inconsistent and often ambiguous, with more than half of retracted Covid-19 research articles remaining available, unmarked, from a wide range of online sources.
Spatial proximity matters: A study on collaboration This paper provides strong empirical evidence to explain the relationship between physical co-location and the likelihood of scholarly collaboration—which is fundamental to successful scientific collaboration today.
Top ten strategies to enhance grant-writing success In conclusion, obtaining grant funding is challenging for any physician-scientist, and surgeons and other procedural specialists face particularly daunting challenges. To overcome these challenges, surgeons need to do everything possible to maximize their odds of success. We believe academic surgeons can increase their research funding by adhering to the grant writing principles suggested here.
UK paediatric surgical academic output (2005-2020): A cause for concern? This study highlights current paediatric surgery publication output metrics in UK centres.
Impact of Conventional and Open Access Publications in Orthopaedic Surgery Our findings support a citation advantage to conventional publication. Publications in open access journals are cited less frequently and less rapidly compared with those in conventional journals. The use of social media for orthopaedic research is effectively equivalent between conventional and open access journals and continues to grow.
Mapping the Evolution of Intellectual Structure in Information Management Using Author Co-citation Analysis This paper has provided an extensive analysis and visualization of the IM field over time. The most representative fragmentation visualized in the socio-intellectual structure has taken place between the managerial and medical areas. Additionally, the combination of ACA with other bibliometric techniques will serve to deepen on the evolution of IM.
Top 100 Cited Articles in One Year of COVID-19 Research - A Bibliometric Analysis Clinical course and epidemiology have been the predominant areas of research interest in COVID-19 in 2020. Citation analysis of COVID-19 literature helps us to map out the most important focus for research in this pandemic and to identify gaps in knowledge which would guide further research. The current bibliometric analysis highlights the most relevant articles on COVID-19 that have created maximum interest among researchers and healthcare professionals.
Association Between Immediacy of Citations and Altmetrics in COVID-19 Research by Artificial Neural Networks The effects of news, blogs, Twitter, Facebook, video, and Mendeley on SCI citations are similar to that of the journal impact factor.
Science maps for exploration, navigation, and reflection-A graphic approach to strategic thinking The results presented in this study, show that it is possible to extract keyword-based information from a corpus of papers using a standardized and almost automatic procedure to produce a two-dimensional reference map that presents a scientific landscape in a meaningful and recognizable way.
Evolution of the scholar community in the area of informetrics in Mexico: 1971-2018 The present analysis of the research production in informetrics in Mexico finds a young community of scholars with about 40 years of activity. Our findings indicate a positive trend in this research production just in the period 2000-2018 in both in published documents and the respective number of generated citations. Finally, we hope that the present study will be continued in future work by taking into account the following pints: analysis of the performance of new researchers coming out from the seven graduate programs identified in the present work; and the age distribution of the members of this community in order to determine the perspective of new research groups located outside the Mexico City metropolitan area.
Altmetric attention and access type in Peruvian ar- ticles of Social Sciences In conclusion, Peruvian Psychology authors publish mostly in some open access route and publications obtain greater visibility in Mendeley and Dimensions when they are published through green route.
The Columbia Labor Workshop - The Rise and Decline of an Intellectual Community The CLW played a major role in attracting and supporting the early gen- erations of researchers interested in human capital topics and also in devel- oping a more neoclassical-oriented type of labour economics, which was sustained by the institutional networks nurtured by Becker and Mincer in association with the CLW, namely through the NBER.
Contribution of Indian researchers in high impact periodontal journals: a bibliometric analysis of last three years When analysed, although less as compared to the western counterparts, an increasing trend in the publications is seen in case of India.
Bibliometric Analysis on Geriatric Nursing Research in Web of Science (1900-2020) Geriatric nursing is a rooted field and has received special attention in the last decade.
Publishing patterns and citation performance of manuscripts relating to paediatric cardiology and congenital heart disease: comparison of paediatric and adult cardiology journals Approximately one-twentieth of the work relating to paediatric cardiology and CHD is published in journals that focus predominantly on adult cardiology. The median number of citations is greater when manuscripts concerning paediatric cardiology and CHD are published in these journals focused on adult cardiology. The h-index, however, is higher when the manuscripts are published in journals dedicated to paediatric cardiology.
Flow of ideas in the study of communication channels and references in publications on nanotechnology applied to food and agriculture in Mexico Our findings indicate that, whereas Nanotechnology is a well-established science and technology field in developed countries, in Mexico, NT applied to the area of A&F is just beginning. Seminal works in the intersection nano-agro-food are not clearly defined and the titles of communication channels reflect the authors' ties to their original discipline.
Machine learning misclassification of academic publications reveals non-trivial interdependencies of scientific disciplines Here we have applied machine learning tools to problems in scientometrics.
One year of unsolicited e-mails: The modus operandi of predatory journals and publishers The email campaign from PJ was high and recurrent. Researchers should be well informed about PJ' modus operandi to protect their own reputation as authors and that of science. Predatory journals constitute a threat to peer review and scientific etiquette and, as such, may hinder scientific progress and public health.
Global Research Trends in Pediatric Trauma From 1968 to 2021: A Bibliometric Analysis This study provides a comprehensive overview of research output in pediatric trauma.
Indexing of Colombian psychology journals in Spanish scientific databases: an exploratory study In addition, it can be considered that CIRC data matrix underestimates this type of publications in comparison with the other three meters and therefore we would not recommend the use of this last Spanish database to Colombian psychologists.
Knowledge and Perceptions of Honorary Authorship among Health Care Researchers: Online Cross-sectional Survey Data from the Middle East The findings of the current study emphasize the need for national academic and research institutions to address the issue of authorship in their educational programs and internal policies.
Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin as highly cited researchers? Historical bibliometrics study Our findings showed that the ritual practice of citing the 'classics' is extremely rare (just 64 occurrences in the analysed sample) and faded almost completely in the 1980s.
Weighted citation based on ranking-related contribution: a new index for evaluating article impact This article has a positive role in identifying important publications and under-cited publications.
Team size and retracted citations reveal the patterns of retractions from 1981 to 2020 The study found that the teams smaller in size are more prone to retractions.
A big picture: bibliometric study of academic publications from post-Soviet countries The former Soviet countries are not key players on the global research scene, as they cumulatively produce about three percent of the global output included in the WoS database.
Analysis of scientific collaboration network of Italian Institute of Technology Our research shows that there is a relationship between the centrality measures of each author and their research performance, but there is not a perfect correlation.
A credit-like rating system to determine the legitimacy of scientific journals and publishers This paper is a blue-print. It is not a definitive concept and may, and will likely, suffer alterations over time, either by us or by other groups that might adopt our ideas. The system is designed to evaluate the risk associated with publishing in a specific journal or with a certain publisher, and does not provide any insight at all into the quality of research published in, or with, them. Ultimately, it may become one such tool among many CRS-like systems, not unlike those found in the financial world.
Bibliometric and Altmetric Analyses of Publication Activity in the Field of Behcet's Disease in 2010-2019 In conclusion, global productivity increased in BD articles from 2010 to 2019, and there was determined to be consistency between the article productions of the countries and the ancient Silk Road routes. The relationship between altmetric data and standard bibliometric analysis was not completely consistent. Therefore, it can be suggested that bibliometric and altmetric analyses be considered as complementary to each other.
Intricate scientometric analysis and citation trend of COVID-19-related publications in Indian Journal of Ophthalmology during COVID-19 pandemic The IJO showed a trough and crest pattern of COVID-19 publications month wise.
Research on Enterprise Competitive Information Management Based on Co-Occurrence Analysis Based on the new method of URL co-occurrence analysis, this paper takes the representative banks of China as the research object and uses a variety of methods to carry out the innovative research of enterprise competitive information from multiple perspectives, which effectively makes up for the deficiency caused by the lack of linked data sources and opens up a new space for the research of enterprise competitive information.
Impact of an institutional grant award on early career investigator applicants and peer reviewers This single-institution ECR award program had a positive impact on ECI's professional development and grant-writing skills and may lead to further extramural funding opportunities.
Hot topics in anaesthesia: a bibliometric analysis of five high-impact journals from 2010-2019 Studies in obstetric and paediatric anaesthesia are less well-represented in anaesthesia literature and researchers may experience greater difficulty publishing these topics and obtaining funding accordingly.
Measuring the relative intensity of collaboration within a network We recall the two most important properties of RIC, namely that it is an asymmetric indicator as in general RIC(X,Y)≠RIC(Y,X), and that increased collaboration between two countries leads to an increase in the value of RIC.
Symbolic capital and the basket of 8: What changed after the creation of the basket? We found a bifurcated response to the SSB signal by the IS research community.
Is Peer Review a Good Idea? Adopting the perspective of epistemic consequentialism and reviewing the literature on the philosophy, sociology, and social epistemology of science, we have argued that we can be confident that there would be benefits from eliminating this system, but have no strong reasons to think there will be disadvantages. There is hence a kind of weak dominance or Pareto argument in favour of our proposal. The best guarantor of the long run epistemic health of science is science: the organic engagement with each others' ideas and work that arises from scientists deciding for themselves how to allocate their cognitive labour, and doing the hard work of replicating and considering from new angles those ideas that have been opened up to the scrutiny of the community.
Long-term effects from early exposure to research: Evidence from the NIH "Yellow Berets" The NIH ATP had a large impact on attendees' careers on both the intensive and extensive margins.
A model of the editorial process in academic journals It is well known that editors of academic journals make their acceptance or rejection decisions about submitted papers based on their own prior assessment of the quality of these papers augmented by the information provided by reviewer recommendations.
One big science project or 1000 smaller ones? Using the budget of one big science project for 1000 small science projects, we may come up with more scientific discoveries or more benefits to the public at large. For effectively balancing scientific cognition and socio-economic development, three policy effects may be considered. In a word, big science entails not only a scientific issue, but also a socio-economic problem, and more than that.
Mapping the scientific research on radiology departments: Global trends in publication, collaboration and trending topics The number of articles from radiology departments has increased during the decade under review. Most influential topics included a broad spectrum of technical innovations and imaging modalities. MRI replaced conventional radiography and CT as the imaging technique of choice in imaging research.
Predictors of Citations in Neurosurgical Research: A 5-Year Follow-Up In the most thorough analysis of citation predictors in the neurosurgical literature, search engine, LOE, number of centers, number of authors, number of countries, journal impact factor, and month of publication influenced citations 5 years after publication.
h-Index Five Years On: Academic Impact Rankings of Neurosurgical Units in the United Kingdom and Ireland The h-index for neurosurgical units is the most reliable bibliometric, which shows the academic standing and correlates well with amount of research grant obtained and size of department. It is particularly useful when calculated for the most recent 10-year and 5-year periods. Neurosurgical units change their rankings over time and, therefore, it is important to update the tables periodically.
Do authors of research funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research comply with its open access mandate?: A meta-epidemiologic study Overall, we found that there was a significant decrease in the proportion of CIHR funded studies published as OA from 2014 compared to 2017, though this difference did not persist when comparing both 2014-2015 to 2016-2017.
Academic engagement with industry: the role of research quality and experience The findings of this work are highly relevant for policy makers and university managers and contribute to the innovation literature focused on the investigation of the determinants of valuable knowledge transfer practices in academia.
Mapping research topics at multiple levels of detail Our research has immediate benefits for ERI as they prepare for their external review. It facilitates ERI's efforts to identify research trends and areas of expertise, determine the impact of various investments on ERI's productivity, and differentiate scholars' unique areas of contribution. The maps we have produced give an impression of the underlying thematic structure of the research in the form of research regions that are meaningful within, and possibly across, institutions.
Publication outcome of research presented at the European Congress of Endocrinology: a web scraping-based analysis and critical appraisal This first study evaluating the publication outcome of an international endocrinology congress suggests a 28.3% publication ratio with low discrepancy and 3.18 IF for ECE 2014. Overall, 95% reported that presenting at the congress was valuable for preparation of their paper and 85% noted that interaction and visibility at the congress has contributed to the publication of their paper. In conclusion, our results suggest that a substantial rate of ECE abstracts turn into full publications with low dis-crepancy in a median of 12 months with an impact factor of 3.18 for ECE 2014.
Internationalisation, innovation, and academic–corporate co-publications This study highlights the need to consider the numbers of co-authors and the high share of international co-publications when analyses are based on academic-corporate co-publications.
Factors predictive of an academic otolaryngologist's scholarly impact H index is a bibliometric that can be used to assess scholarly impact. Otology and head and neck are the most scholarly subspecialists within otolaryngology. NIH funding to an individual's medical school, residency, or fellowship of origin is not correlative with one's scholarly impact, but current institutional affiliation and choice of subspecialty are.
Peruvian Scientific Production Affected by Predatory Journals This research is the first study to show the output of predatory journals in Peruvian universities.
An empirical review of the different variants of the probabilistic affinity index as applied to scientific collaboration As with any indicator, the selection of a particular variant is dependent on the research question. To facilitate appropriate use, we provide recommendations for the use of the indicator given specific contexts. Therefore, we argue that researchers should determine the most appropriate indicator based upon their current situations.
Dataset on researcher's mobility by utilising bibliometric data: Case of Finland-based scholars for the duration of 2008-2018 If combined with funding information and mission-oriented policies, the dataset can evaluate the long-lasting effect of instruments in mobilising researchers, steering research agendas, and consequently the resulting impacts. This dataset if combined with funding data, will allow researchers and policymakers to obfuscate the motivations of individual researcher mobility, ultimately clarifying the impacts of mobility to individual researchers and the research system. The computational procedure for compiling the data presented in this paper can be used as a guide for conducting similar studies around the globe.
Funding of nuclear medicine research and association with citation impact More than half of research in major nuclear medicine journals declared funding.
Charting the terrain of global research on graduate education: a bibliometric approach This study has provided the first map of global research on graduate education using bibliographic data from the Web of Science.
Exploring network dynamics in science: the formation of ties to knowledge translators in clinical research Our descriptive analysis of phase 2 cancer trials starting between 2002 and 2012 indicates that conducting these trials is increasingly a team activity.
The i100-index, i1000-index and i10,000-index: expansion and fortification of the Google Scholar h-index for finer-scale citation descriptions and researcher classification As the number of HCRs increases, especially those with very high total citation counts and h-indexes, such as the sample in Table 1, values that will generally only increase over time, the three proposed “new” or expanded versions of the h-index (i100-index, i1000-index, and i10,000-index) might allow for their more fine-scale separation and ranking, if needed. There are thus promising, exciting, and powerful future possibilities for the application of these three new derivatives of the h-index, but academics who decide to use them need to continually assess the value of metrics, and appreciate the weaknesses and limitations of their uses and applications.
The imaginary carrot: no correlation between raising funds and research productivity in geosciences These results imply that researchers successful in raising funds are not necessarily in a position to be more productive or produce more impactful publications. Those results should be considered for deciding whether to use grant funding as a criterion for career advancement procedures. We recommend that funding bodies transparently position themselves as either project-based or career-based, and clearly communicate in those terms. A lack of clarity in the philosophy adopted may lead to possible unintended and undesirable consequences, such as career advancement based on lottery outcomes.
Analysis of the journal impact factor and related bibliometric indicators in education and educational research category The journal impact facto factor and related bibliometric indicators (quartiles) has been used as the main indicators to measure the impact of a scholarly journal and the papers published ir. it.
833 A bibliometric analysis of obstetrics and gynecology articles with the highest relative citation ratios, 1980-2019 Nearly half of the 100 articles with highest RCR would not have been recognized as citation classics by conventional bibliometric analysis. The RCR is a novel bibliometric tool that does not rely on absolute citation rates and provides important insights into research in OBGYN.
Productivity spillovers in two overlapping networks Our results show that co-authors rather than colleagues generate positive spillovers in the production of knowledge.
Quantitative Index Construction of Website Influence: Taking China Private Universities as Example It finds that there is a significant correlation between the values of several indicators, which confirms the following things: first, the website stay time can be widely used as a reference index to evaluate the influence of the website on visitors; second, the total number of pages of the website can be increased Third, the number of pages visited per capita is not affected by the total number of pages and anti-chain value, and has no significant correlation with the average stay time.
Gender trends in computer science authorship Our analysis of the Computer Science literature reveals the persistent patterns of inequality in gender and aca-demic authorship.
Mapping of water research in Morocco: A scientometric analysis Our analysishas proven the domination of European countries, particularly France and Spain, on the international collaborations related to water research, the dependency of Moroccan water research outputs on international collaborations and research funding to progress although they are still managed by local research scientists and institutions, and the better representation of novel Moroccan research findings in local journals rather than in the research out-puts indexed by major bibliographic databases.
An exploratory full-text analysis of Science Careers in a changing academic job market The apparent disinclination for strongly prescriptive advice may indicate a growing sense, even within an academic-oriented venue, that career-pathways for researchers have become less predictable, making dispensing broadly applicable advice more challenging. The results suggest that a turn away from explicit advice, and in strongly presented advice has been occurring, and the gradual increase in the use of hedging and in the more frequent use of first person narrative may indicate the presence of some techniques for softening or even implicit guidance or indicating greater uncertainty. The presentation of career guidance through personal narrative may speak to the idea that as career paths are more varied and unique, the only guidance to be given is an increase in the number and diversity of perspectives.
Impact of country self citation on the ranking of the top 50 countries in clinical neurology Self-citation can be appropriate and reflect an expansion on earlier research. Highly cited productive countries tend to have high country SCR. Excluding self-citations had minimal impact on the ranking of the top 50 countries. Our findings indicate that self-citation is unlikely to influence country standing amongst the top 50 and does not support the argument for eliminating self-citations from citation-based metrics.
Where you search determines what you find: the effects of bibliographic databases on systematic reviews The findings caution against the use of single databases and claiming comprehensiveness.
Evaluating obesity publications: from bibliometrics to altmetrics With increased data sharing by altmetrics tools, the number of citations counts on the web has been increased and we concluded that there is a relationship between them. Our findings can help international communications for scientific collaboration at the level of business and health care industry, and emergency managers gain a comprehensive understanding of the research area. If altmetrics correlated with citation, it concluded that these indices are not random and are somehow related to the field of scientific communication.
The fall of the innovation empire and its possible rise through open science Studies deploying different methods, measuring innovation through different means and over different time periods, collectively provide consistent and persuasive evidence that the current innovation system is becoming increasingly inefficient and unproductive.
Human and social capital accumulation within research infrastructures: The case of CERN Such human capital effect seems more important than a pure networking and reputational effect.
Same journal but different numbers of published records indexed in Scopus and Web of Science Core Collection: causes, consequences, and solutions However, the discrepancies between these two authoritative databases may get many users into the dilemma of Segal's law. Besides, the serious document omission and duplicate entry problems will affect the reliability of various metrics derived from these two databases and also provide an additional possibility when applying the databases in scenarios such as bibliometric studies (Leydesdorff 2008; MacRoberts & MacRoberts, 1996), research evaluation (Calver et al., 2013), and even CV fraud identification (Kuo et al. 2008). We emphasize again that they should pay more attention to data quality and respond to the scholars' questions in a timely manner. We hope that the findings of this article will be resolved in the near future.
What Can Influence the Quality of International Collaborative Publications: A Case Study of Humanities and Social Sciences International Collaboration in China’s Double First-Class Project Universities Firstly, the key to enhance the impact of international research collaboration papers lies not in the scale of international collaboration, but in whether high-quality collaborators are selected.
The Pioneering Role of Sci in Post Publication Public Peer Review (P4R) Public post-publication peer review (P4R) in journals provides a valuable alternative, yet also faces its own problems of registering volunteer reviewers, sluggish reviews, animosities between authors and reviewers, slow processes and logistic issues related to rejections, retractions, archiving and inflated DOIs.
Engaging the next generation of editorial talent through a hands‐on fellowship model In this essay, we described a novel early career editorial fellowship that succeeds through a collaborative, two-way interaction model. We highlighted the potential for editorial fellowships to benefit the scientific community at multiple levels. We advocated for wider implementation of such editorial fellowships to provide key training for ECRs while simultaneously addressing the systemic lack of ECR voices in scientific publishing.
Bibliometric analysis of literature on narrative discourse in corporate annual reports (1990–2019) Following the bibliometric analysis, we arrive at the following conclusions about the literature on narratives in CARs: Generally, prior studies show an ascending trend with a steady growth of publications since 2014.
Scientific writing: an analysis of <scp>Pune</scp>‐based climate scientists’ perceptions and training needs Overall, I observe that most of the respond-ents consider peer-to-peer communication as most important, and peer-to-public communication as least important for their successful career as a scientist. This warrants appropriate training initia-tives for manuscript writing to address the communication 'miseries' of scientists, espe-cially NNES. Therefore, further research and larger surveys on dif-ferent aspects of scientific writing, assessing or evaluating the capabilities of scientists, and how training interventions can improve scientists' linguistic abilities are highly rec-ommended.
STEAM in environment and science education: Analysis and bibliometric mapping of the research literature (2013-2020) This bibliometric analysis provides a worldwide overview of research publications on STEAM in science education.
Cross-border mobility of scientists The conclusion is made about the change in the migration pattern – the transition from brain drain to brain sharing. The second aspect, in our opinion, is some evidence of the change in the nature of migration: its transition from brain drain to drain sharing, that is, from irrevocable migration and loss of intellectual capital to its sharing.
Developing a mathematical model of the co-author recommender system using graph mining techniques and big data applications It was concluded that using content-based features and expert opinions have high potentials in recommending the most appropriate co-authors.
A New Way to Distribute Research Seed Funding: Peer Review Without Formal Review The benefits of the program include a healthy return on investment, lowered risk through distributed investment, and nimble response to emerging societal issues.
Scientific Productivity, Lotka’s Law, and STEM Librarianship Our findings suggest that the distribution patterns of STEM librarianship research do not comply with Lotka's law, with fewer authors writing more than one research article than expected. When STEM publications are considered on a journal-by-journal basis, Lotka's law still does not fit. This study should be repeated with an extended span of time coverage in the future.
RETRACTED: Comparative analysis of Iranian medical academic libraries websites the base Google SEO component Library administrators can achieve worth information about their organizations via a good managed SEO program that ensures websites and digital object meta-data are comprehensible and usable by search engine crawlers. And all of this highlights the importance of the role of SEO in the success of digital libraries and library websites, especially about aca-demic libraries whose mission is to make more accessible to information resources for the scientific community in the shortest time and with the most relevance and quality.
Research on Innovation in China and Latin America: Bibliometric Insights in the Field of Business, Management, and Decision Sciences The Global South is gaining a place in global knowledge production. The findings highlighted the relevance of increasing co-authorship for publishing in highly reputed journals. Further studies may consider other regions from the Global South (i.e., Africa and Asian countries), additional techno- logical innovation-related fields (i.e., STEM), complementary bibliographic databases/search engines (e.g., Google Scholar, Dimensions, Microsoft Academic), and nonredundant bibliometrics techniques (e.g., bibliographic coupling, main path analysis, and more detailed network-structure measurements).
Public–private research collaborations: Longitudinal field‐level analysis of determinants, frequency, and impact In this study, we show that the share of Italian professors collaborating with industry rose from 17.2% in 2010–2013 to 25.5% in 2014–2017. In formulating and targeting such incentive systems, it is critical to understand the drivers underlying the academics' propensity to engage in collaboration with industry. A useful follow-on to the current research could be to extend the analysis to previous periods, using panel data.
Readership and citations as alternative measures of impact This study has argued that readership and citations are distinct measures of an article's influence and that both are worthy of attention. It has also provided some statistical evidence in support of these two hypotheses. Overall, our arguments and results suggest that downloads and citations of papers are largely sui generis.
The relationship between the corresponding author and its byline position: An investigation based on the academic big data In conclusion, whatever the counting methods, it is better to take countries and research fields into consideration when allocating authorship to a paper. Our findings can provide insights to scientific research evaluation. However, how to objectively establish the relevant evaluation criteria through the corresponding author needs further studies.
Excellence seekers, pragmatists, or sceptics: Ways of applying performance‐based research funding systems at new universities and university colleges in Sweden The institution level management of Swedish higher education seems to overcommit to governmental signals (or did so at first, at least on a rhetorical level). The internal PRFS were talked about rhetorically (in line with ritual conformity) but were used modestly. Thus, the impact of performance models on lower levels of universities was often low.
Towards Developing a Framework to Analyze the Qualities of the University Websites This paper presents an extensive study on quality analysis of the websites of the universities of Bangladesh.
Bibliometric Analysis based on Highly Cited Papers in Computer Science This article explores the high-level output of scientific research in the field of computer science from the perspective of bibliometric: the leading countries/regions in scientific research are China Mainland, the USA, and England.
Explosion or much ado about little?: a quantitative examination of qualitative publications from 1995-2017 The results of this study indicate that first, Kazak's (2018) report of a 15-fold increase in qualitative work (1995–2016) was both accurate and replicable. The more complete methodological story appears to have two aspects: (1) an increase in quantity and (2) a possible decrease in quality for published qualitative work in the social sciences. We invite scholars to continue this conversation with additional recommendations and suggestions for improving the quality and station of qualitative research.
Predatory Conferences: What Are the Signs? The implications for positive ethics, in terms of making decisions about conference attendance, are discussed.
Prestigious European grants might be biased, study suggests One limitation of the authors' method, Abramo notes, is that they lumped applicants from broad disciplines together, even though factors such as number of publications can vary drastically depending on subfield.
The right to refuse unwanted citations: rethinking the culture of science around the citation This paper highlights several troubling concerns about current citing practices: being cited in a low-quality or predatory journal, being cited by fake authors or being cited inaccurately.
Factors to Improve Publication Productivity in Russian Universities In modern conditions, the priority areas of the model for managing the publication activity of universities in Russia should be a change from the extensive nature of the development of publication activity to an intensive one, based on creating conditions for improving the qualitative characteristics of scientific research and their importance in the world scientific community. In the management process, the structural difference between the management fac- tors of young and senior researchers' publication productivity should be considered. In current conditions, an effective method of publication productivity management in Russian universities is needed to improve staff quality.
Semantic views — Interactive hierarchical exploration for patent landscaping We set out to present a novel approach for the hierarchical exploration of large document collections combining semantics and additional metadata.
Conference Accreditation and Need of a Bibliometric Measure to Distinguish Predatory Conferences The present letter proposed a bibliometric measure that enables all academicians to evaluate conference quality before attending. Nevertheless, this present letter will help researchers identify and avoid participating in predatory conferences. Therefore, our proposed bibliometric measurement has its pros and cons.
Increasing scholarly productivity: Developing an in-house academic librarian support network The committee was able to fulfill its mission through the creation of tools and supportive documents, the use of workshops, writing groups, and providing accountability via writing partnerships.
The academic wanderer: structure of collaboration network and relation with research performance Our results show that increasing productivity and impact of a researcher correlate with larger ego network layers, but, while the outermost layers can be easily grown, the innermost ones are much less sensitive to the measured academic performance.
<i>Science &amp; Technology Libraries</i>: A Bibliometric Analysis from 1980 to 2020 Although the number of documents has been declined, the quality has improved as reflected in the citation analysis.
Assessing Factors Associated With Altmetric Attention Score: A Preliminary Study of 3 Hand Surgery Journals Publication in HAND and JHS-E were associated with lower manuscript AAS when using JHS-A as the reference group, suggesting that HAND and JHS-E have room for improvement in using social media to share their high-quality hand surgery scientific articles.
Incentive or disincentive for research data disclosure? A large-scale empirical analysis and implications for open science policy "The present study contributes to the on-going policy discussion about the need for institutional measures to promote disclosure of research data by scientists."
The International Development of Open Access Publishing: A Comparative Empirical Analysis Over Seven World Regions and Nine Academic Disciplines In line with the relevant literature, our research found that the proportion of open access journals has shown a significant increase since the early 2000s [25, 38], and we found that this phenomenon appeared across all disciplines and world regions.
A new comparative citation analysis: Google Scholar, Microsoft Academic, Scopus, and Web of Science This limited study has shown that GS still has more average citations per article (157.28) than the other three, although MA is not that far behind (153.81). The best method for analyzing citations is to use the resources avail-able to you, and at most libraries that will mean making use of either Scopus or WoS in addition to GS and MA. Understanding these differences will help librarians and researchers choose the right tools for particular research needs.
Online navigation to journal articles: How are journal articles retrieved by researchers and students at an academic institution; a quantitative examination of HTTP referer [sic] data One of the notable observations in this study is that library tools such as the OPAC, discovery services and most A&I services and OpenURL linking represent a small portion of the referrer data for journal article literature. These findings present libraries with an opportunity to reconsider many of their practices in terms of providing tools to access the academic journal literature.
Everyone onboard? Participation ratios as a metric for research activity assessments within young universities Ratios of active researchers in terms of publications has been proposed as a simple research activity metric for young universities that are building up their research activity.
Quantifying Publisher’s Competence Through Scholarly Engagement Our findings have demonstrated consistency in publisher CVR regardless of time, access type, and number of evaluated journals.
Russian University Teachers’ Perceptions of Scientometrics The research conducted has shown that among the teachers of the leading Russian universities, the vast majority have more or less clear ideas about scientometrics.
The relationship between contributions of authors and author order With regard to the value of author order in papers in Japan, first and second authors are at a higher level than the last author, which differs from the usual way of thinking in France. This may be because, in Japan, regardless of the degree of practical involvement in research, the supervisor of the study, who often plays a key role in securing funding and as the public "face" of the research, tends to be listed as the last author. In this study, we investigated the relationship between the contributions of authors and author order only in France and Japan. We next plan to collect and evaluate similar data from other countries as well.
Research on the Relationship Between H Index Ranking Evaluation Method and Comprehensive Ranking Based on Big Data Statistics This paper studies the relationship between the h index of my country's "985" universities and the comprehensive university rankings from the perspective of bibliometrics, and finds that the h index is simple and easy to obtain, and is suitable for the comprehensive evaluation of university research output and influence; h index ranking and the comprehensive university rankings are correlated and are a useful reference index for university rankings.
Bibliometric Analysis on Governance Index Topics Using Scopus Database and Vosviewer Trend increased interest in the analysis of governance measurement is significantly from 2005 to 2020 where the development is in line with the development of discussion and research on good governance, corporate governance and the form of the sexing application.
Science needs more external evaluation, not less The current external evaluation of science is oversimplified, as a result of both quantifica-tion and economization.
Author-Suggested, Weighted Citation Index: A Novel Approach for Determining the Contribution of Individual Researchers To quantify the scientific contribution of any individual researcher, a new scientometric index, named Aw-index, is proposed.
Collaboration and term usage dynamics in agricultural buffer strip research: A research weaving protocol One goal of this work is to illustrate the types of questions that can be addressed by bibliometrics and network analysis techniques in an evi-dence map context, providing insights beyond those of standard analyt-ical practices.
A novel method for measuring the timing website reconstructions This paper introduced the steps to be followed use TWR method for ant web-based research studies. TWR method helps to commensurably determine the changes in website hierarchies of the studied firms which benefits anyone interested in conducting a research regardless the adopted methodology.
Why science needs a new reward and recognition system The consequences of the pandemic, and the difficulties that it has caused for many scientists, call for accelerating the develop- ment of new ways to recognize and reward academic researchers.
Distinct clusters of CiteScore and percentiles in top 1000 journals in Scopus The mean CiteScore and percentiles of the top 1000 journals in Scopus increased steadily from 2015 to 2019.
Research output of the top 10 African countries : An analytical study This paper compared the top 10 countries in Africa which have the most publications (SOUTH AFRICA, Egypt, TUNISIA, NIGERIA, ALGERIA, KENYA, MOROCCO, ETHIOPIA, GHANA, UGANDA ), the indicators selected were (Web of Science Documents, Times Cited, % Docs Cited, Category Normalized Citation Impact (CNCI), Research Areas, Indexed Journals in JCR, Organizations (Universities), Funding Agencies). the paper proved that South Africa ranked as number 1 in research productivity followed by Egypt. In expectation of the future, the average increase in publishing percentage for the ten countries was calculated from 2015 to 2019, and the average annual increase in publications was 6%, which means that the number of publications for the ten countries in 2024 is supposed to reach about 475,797.
Applied artificial intelligence : A bibliometric study of an International Journal “Applied Artificial Intelligence: An International Journal" contributes a good number of papers to the artificial intelligence knowledge literature annually.
Satisfying Information Needs of Food Science Research by Analyzing the Citation Patterns of Faculty and Graduate Students Research Our study found that the average number of citations in dissertations were 249, 147 for theses, and 40 for faculty publications. In addition to providing information on the types of material and the top journals that food science researchers cite and use, the findings from this study also provide data for evidenced-based collection development.
COLLNET Journal of Scientometrics and information Management : A bibliometric study CJSIM has gained a reputation among the scholars working in the area of Scientometrics in India as well abroad as reflected by the geographical distribution of papers published in the journal during the study period. The study indicates that a significant number of papers were published in domestic (79) and international collaboration (48). It is hoped that the present study will be of great interest to professionals working in the area of scientometrics/bibliometrics in India and abroad.
International articles and finance journal rankings The results clearly indicate that journal rankings are biased in favor of U.S. topics and that this bias is more evident in AJG and ABDC classifications than in citation-based methodologies.
Research productivity of library and information science faculty in India and the United States : A comparison based on publications, citations and <i>h</i>-index The findings of this study indicate that, for LIS faculty in both a developing and developed country, h-index is related to number of publications and citations per publication, while mitigating the impact of a highly-cited publication. For the evaluation of LIS researchers for tenure and promotion decisions, this finding in regard to h-index suggests that it may provide more equitable valuation of research productivity than looking at raw number of citation counts, while providing more information about quality of publications than just the raw number of publications alone. This is an unfortunate consequence of inequities in scholarly publishing (topics of interest, publication venues, language differences) which impact all disciplines, but is particularly problematic in an inclusive discipline like library and information science.
Webometric analysis of open access digital repository of agricultural sciences in Asia The results showed that the Ministry of Education of the Republic of China ranked first in terms of the general link web Impact factor, followed by the Repository of Medan Area University and Institutional Repositories of the Sri Lanka University ranked second and third. Although the number of web pages in all agricultural repositories is high, but their effects have changed due to structural problems of repository websites or limitations on access to scientific resources, and low indexing of repository websites in web directories. Therefore it can be said that the administrators or webmasters of this repositories need regular monitoring to increase the presence of repositories on the web.
Identifying Researchers’ Publication Strategies by Clustering Publication and Impact Data We presented a new methodology to analyze the publication behavior of research-ers.
On published research: a BOGSAT perspective Medical journal requirements to include Strengths and Weaknesses for research studies are unnecessary. Using the new DORF and BRINTT rubrics will give the reader a more accurate behind-the-scenes picture of modern-day published medical research. It is time to expect published findings to be valid or at least probable.
Editor Fatigue: Can Political Science Journals Increase Review Invitation-Acceptance Rates? We conclude by discussing the practical implications of our findings for editorial-team design and the editorial process.
Efficiency of “Publish or Perish” Policy—Some Considerations Based on the Uzbekistan Experience The root cause of the problem originates from the imposition of annual publication requirements unsustainable for most researchers by the Supreme Attestation Commission of the Republic of Uzbekistan for Ph.D. and D.Sc. candidates.
Questions to the article: Generating clustered journal maps: an automated system for hierarchical classification We demonstrated the diagram of generating clustered journal maps on a dashboard to display an automated system for hierarchical classification and make the data clearer and easier to understand.
Chasing two hares at once? Effect of joint institutional change for promoting commercial use of university knowledge and scientific research Our first two findings imply that encouraged commercial use of university knowledge could improve scientists' research productivity while helping them pursue research that has commercial value when an institutional device for promoting their research activities is supplemented.
Authorship Trends of Research Articles Published in Seven Scientific, Technical, Engineering, and Medical (STEM) Library Journals: Analysis of STEM Library Research from 2016 to 2019 Update Over the 590 research articles analyzed, Tony Stankus was the most prolific author in publishing papers in STEM librarianship.
Titling Practices and Their Implications in Communication Research 1970-2010: Cutesy Cues Carry Citation Consequences "Taken together, the results highlight a tension between authors' attempts to distinguish their work in an increasingly crowded marketplace and readers' general reluctance to cite scholarship containing stylistic title cues."
On contexts and cores: is there a core body of knowledge taught in social context of education courses? Overall, our findings suggest that social context of education-related courses are structured more by shared themes than shared references or authors.
Extracting scientific trends by mining topics from Call for Papers Overall, the analyses presented in this research are vital for the scientific community and research administrators to study research trends and better data management of digital libraries pertaining to scientific literature.
Can usage be used for scholars' evaluation in the construction of smart libraries? Both "citation indicators” and “usage indictors” have scientific significance and index value.
Who engages in explicit knowledge creation after graduation? Evidence from the alumni impact survey of a large Canadian public university "The overall results suggest that knowledge creation is not a task exclusive to research professionals."
Examining correlation of altmetric score and citation number in dermatology journal articles The results indicate that an article's impact as measured through online dissemination does not necessarily correspond with citations used by researchers, and articles do not need to be open access to receive online attention.
Knowledge mapping of platform research: a visual analysis using VOSviewer and CiteSpace This study combines VOSviewer and CiteSpace to conduct a bibliometric analysis on platform research. We clearly and holistically show the structure, evolution of the platform research, when compared with literature reviews method. The results conjunctively achieved by VOSviewer and CiteSpace will enhance understanding of platform research and enable future developments for both theorists and practitioners.
Bibliometric analysis for talent identification by the subject-author-citation three-dimensional evaluation model in the discipline of physical education This paper inherits the idea of z index and proposes a ZAS index of talent evaluation index based on the three-dimensional relationship of subject-author cited, which provides a unique reference perspective for the existing quantitative evaluation method of talents, and it is expected to be further improved in application.
The performance of researchers in multidisciplinary research groups: does social capital matter? The article finds that the relationship between multidisciplinarity and the performance of researchers is non-linear.
Academic networks of critical social psychology in Brazil. An analysis of the impact and the intellectual roots We conclude that critical social psychology has been influenced by Silvia Lane, specifically her book “O homen em movimento", which was born in the middle of cultural and political activities that definitively marked the future of Brazil. Brazilian social psychology claims the tradition of critical thinking that has gained strength since the 1980s from a constant reading by Latin American authors such as Ignacio Martín-Baró, Bader Sawaia, Raquel Ruzzo and Maria Helena Souza Patto. This article is the product of schools of thought in universities such as the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul and the University of São Paulo that enjoy an outstanding number of articles dedicated to critical social psychology.
Bioenergy from bio-waste: a bibliometric analysis of the trend in scientific research from 1998-2018 Bioenergy from the bio-waste-related research field is a very important one as it involves renewable energy, which is the solution to the current energy crisis globally.
The role of bibliometric research assessment in a global order of epistemic injustice: a case study of humanities research in Denmark Our case study in one Danish university department of the implications of the BFI for HASS research identified a number of specific effects of a research assessment system that rewards English-language publications in high status international publication outlets at the expense of others.
The Role of Academic Inbreeding in Building Institutional and Research Habitus: A Case Study from Turkey As displayed in Figure 1, our findings indicated that a three-tier approach is to be traced as to the inbreeding policies and practices: institutional habitus, research habitus, and recognition gaps.
How do academia and society react to erroneous or deceitful claims? The case of retracted articles' recognition Overall, according to the obsolescence trend that continues at a faster pace after retraction for the retracted papers, one may conclude that the scientific community starts to reduce recognising the papers after the public announcement of the fallibility of the claims. In other words, the retraction mechanism relatively succeeds in preventing the spread of the fallible information.
The sociological determinants of scientific bias These biases can undermine the morality of the scientific community to the extent that they impede the mission of pursuing of accurate knowledge about the natural world. While scientific bias (and confirmation biases generally) cannot be eliminated entirely, a concerted effort to educate the scientific community on these threats and changes in the system of rewards can help mitigate the most harmful effects. The long-term trend involves a shift from a more isolated, self-serving set of scientific practices toward a genuinely more integrative and conciliatory approach to knowledge-building.
Social Networking Sites and Researcher's Success Basing on the literature reviewed and on the identified research gap, we have stated four hypothesis, which all have been empirically supported, thus, allowing us to claim the following: ... Despite the fact, that fathomable SNS that were taken into consideration (ResearchGate, LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter) are used in different purposes, researcher's social media presence in all analyzed platforms is associated with the level of citations and, consequently, their academic success. Researchers may achieve increased number of citations success due to the power of social media, communication, and discovering tool.
The Highs in Communication Research: Research Topics With High Supply, High Popularity, and High Prestige in High-Impact Journals By employing this cocktail approach of combining supply, popularity, and prestige, the contribution of our work is manifold. By complementing these insights with our results on the most popular and most prestigious topics in communication research, we can map the intellectual architecture of our discipline as represented by its top high-impact journals. In sum, we have identified only two topics that rank in the top 10 in the three dimensions: persuasion and social media.
The distinctiveness of author interdisciplinarity: A long-neglected issue in research on interdisciplinarity The main contribution of this study is to reveal the distinctiveness of the author interdisciplinarity that differs from other types of interdisciplinarity and propose a rational and effective extended Rao-Stirling measure to specially evaluate the author interdisciplinarity.
Does the mobility of scientists disrupt their collaboration stability? Making one of the earliest attempts to explore the extent to which mobility affects research collaboration, we found that, on average, the probability of collaborating with old partners after scientists' move is as high as 31.4%.
The Production and Dissemination of Australian Social Work Scholarship: A Citation Analysis Based on the present study, a citation benchmark for social work would be in the range of h-index 3.2 for early-career researchers to 15.8 for research-focused positions (using Scopus) or h-index 6.1 to 25.0 (using Google Scholar).
On the measurement of scientific leadership Scientific leadership is an important dimension to complement the evaluation of performance, allowing a more detailed perception of the scientific profile of an author. The ha index recently proposed is an interesting contribution but, as discussed at length in this paper, it suffers from important shortcomings, precluding its effective application. We believe that an interesting way forward involves a more comprehensive evaluation and characterization of the scientific profile of each author.
Exploring research trends in big data across disciplines: A text mining analysis This article responds to a gap in the literature about the vagueness in the structure of big data as a domain [58]. Findings provide a holistic perspective on the status of big data literature by identifying research themes. Findings of this project may help researchers, science funders and science policy makers to understand the scope and structure of big data and how this trendy area can influence different academic fields beyond computer science.
A Bibliometric Analysis and Visualization of Current Research Trends in Chinese Medicine for Osteosarcoma Compared with other fields, the field of CM treatment for osteosarcoma is still in infancy.
Exploring the determinants of scientific productivity: a proposed typology of researchers Based on these preliminary findings, we present conclusions about the functioning and productivity of academic researchers.
Factors influencing researchers' journal selection decisions In conclusion, journal choice is becoming an increasingly important and complex decision.
Analysis of direct citation, co-citation and bibliographic coupling in scientific topic identification We conclude that not only are alternatives to direct citation suitable for retrieving scientific topics, but that they are preferable in certain setups. As the overlap calculations show, a fair portion of topics present in results achieved with bibliographic coupling structure was not present in other results. For this reason, we can conclude that the value of using both of these structures in a single task is limited. It is advisable to decide on using only one of these structures and complementing it with bibliographic coupling.
Emerging industrial root technologies: a structural topic model- and topic matrix analysis-based approach These results are significant because journal articles were used to determine emerging technologies according to the differences between the research published in Korean and international journals.
Exploring the organisational context of research misconduct in higher learning institutions in Malaysia If universities and research institutions are serious about equip-ping their researchers with knowledge and making them aware about the importance of integrity when conducting research, senior management needs to take proactive steps.
Top to bottom: an expanded ranking of economics journals There is little doubt that the ranking of academic departments and academic journals is important to higher education professionals. In doing so, we provide what we believe is the largest ranking of its kind in economics. An expanded ranking such as that provided in this study is likely a useful tool for researchers, particularly the new ones, in navigating the field of economics.
Are half of the published papers in top-management-journals never cited? Refuting the myth and examining the reason for its creation Our results refute the myth that half or more of all published papers in management studies – both those published in top journals and in less-reputable journals – have never been cited. This offers a positive message to the field, as it indicates that knowledge is not merely being produced by scho-lars but is also being used to facilitate further production of knowledge. The implications discussed suggest a need for reflection regarding the relevance of the factors that predict future citations.
Communicating Scientific Uncertainty in an Age of COVID-19: An Investigation into the Use of Preprints by Digital Media Outlets "This work has significant implications for public health communication within the changing media landscape."
Research front and evolution of technology education in Taiwan and abroad: bibliometric co-citation analysis and maps First, the development and co-citation of TE research has been rapidly evolving in countries other than Taiwan, where research has progressed comparitively slowly. Based on clusters obtained from the WoS and AL databases, both domestic and interna- tional TE research paid little attention to the dimension of “assessment,” with no clusters formed with high citation frequency in WoS. First, further studies can be expanded to different databases, such as Scopus, EBSCO- host, ERIC, AL, Index to Taiwan Periodical Literature System (PerioPath) and CNKI, to explore the differences in TE research topics between the East and the West.
Assessing the Origins, Evolution and Prospects of National Innovation Systems The topics addressed by recent studies in each contemporary cluster and the most common keywords with the most recent average year of publication can be used to propose a research agenda for the future development of the NIS literature: (1) The first item on the agenda is the adaptation of innovation systems to the context of the current global economic crisis and the application of the Quintuple Helix model to cope with this new scenario (Carayannis et al. 2012; Campbell et al. 2015). (3) The third item on the agenda is the fit of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial innovations in NIS research (Acs et al. 2014; Autio et al. 2014).
Reference Accuracy in Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport: A 30-Year Follow-Up to Stull et al. (1991) In the author’s opinion, an overall error rate of 40% across the three years for RQES is simply too high. Ultimately, it is authors’ responsibility to ensure reference accuracy. Reference accuracy is an important issue for authors, editorial offices of journals, and the scientific community.
The scientific productions in Iranian biomedical ethics: A combined study of bibliometrics and social network analysis This study is the first to evaluate some of the scientific productions of IBE by combining bibliometrics and social network analysis.
Machine learning for rediscovering revolutionary ideas of the past We offer this example, which yielded the suggestion that heritability of testosterone be studied using the CPP database from the mid-20th century, as proof of concept.
The Sci-Hub effect on papers' citations The results suggest that limited access to publications may limit some scientific research from achieving its full impact.
Citation of retracted publications: A challenging problem In summary, many articles cite retracted publications, with the majority of these references occurring before the retraction.
Trends, patterns and determinants of research productivity at the Technical University of Kenya Based on the study findings, the study concludes that research visibility and impact at the TU-K is on the growth. The study also concludes that research productivity among lecturers at the TU-K is affected by factors like insufficient funds, lack of mentorship, insufficient time, inadequate motivation and equipment. The university should also create mechanisms for building intrinsic motivation and address the extrinsic factors in order to catapult research productivity.
The impact of Ibero-American science on global bioethical thinking Our study suggests that if researchers from Ibero-American institutions want to influence global bioethical thinking, they must make the required leap in quality to be able to publish in high-quality bioethics and mainstream journals. All of the above seems to suggest that the Ibero-American bioethical heritage has, at present, little impact on global bioethical thinking. However, if authors want to influence global bioethical thinking, researchers in Ibero-American institutions will have to make the necessary leap in quality to be able to publish in English-language bioethical journals, especially high-quality ones.
Psychology and Wikipedia: Measuring Psychology Journals' Impact by Wikipedia Citations We propose that the citation rate on Wikipedia, next to the traditional citation index, may be a good indicator of the work's impact. We propose that future research directions may include studying different disciplines' citations on Wikipedia, so as to determine the interdisciplinary variance. Additionally, we believe it would be useful to distinguish positive and negative citations when it is technologically viable, to increase the granularity of the results.
NIH Funding, Research Productivity, and Scientific Impact: a 20-Year Study Numbers of publications, citations, and h-indices vary greatly among funded R01 grants. When used together, these metrics provide a more complete picture of the productivity and long-term impact of a funded grant.
The contents and methods of knowledge network from the perspective of bibliometrics The literature is a carrier that contains the information of scientific research achievements and scien-tific research activities.
Security as a key contributor to organisational resilience: a bibliometric analysis of enterprise security risk management A first bibliometric and scientific production-mapping analysis was carried out in the field of ESRM research, which allowed the visualisation of how the different thematic areas detected have evolved. Therefore, this study serves as a base for future research on the actual contribution to organisational resilience of an ESRM-based security management system. It also seems relevant to identify and analyse the managerial implications of corporate security leadership and its ability to promote organisational resilience through ESRM.
Dynamical entropic analysis of scientific concepts We believe that the suggested classification method based on dynamical entropic analysis provides a prospective route for analysis of evolving in time ontologies in various fields of science.
Measuring visibility of disciplines on Chinese academic web The statistical data show that (1) the characteristics of the institutional communities identified from the web are highly consistent with their real disciplinary attributes offline and (2) the hyperlinked relationships perform better over these of citations and collaborations in terms of DC.
An exploratory study of the all-author bibliographic coupling analysis: Taking scientometrics for example With the help of AABCA, we can visualise the intellectual structure and evolution of scientometrics from 2010 to 2019.
A spike in the scientific output on social sciences in Vietnam for recent three years: Evidence from bibliometric analysis in Scopus database (2000-2019) To summarise, this study used bibliographic data from the Scopus database to investigate the growth trend of social science publications in Vietnam over the last two decades. We recommend that government, universities and research institutions need to provide supporting policies, plans and funding to help Vietnamese scholars boost their scientific productivity in the future.
On the relationship between supervisor-supervisee gender difference and scientific impact of doctoral dissertations: Evidence from Humanities and Social Sciences in China We conclude that gender difference between doctoral students and supervisors related to better performance of doctoral dissertations in terms of citations, based on 8896 doctoral dissertations retrieved from the CDFD by limiting time period to 2005-2014 and disciplines to HSS.
Academic research evaluation in artistic disciplines: the case of Poland Most importantly, our analysis showed that national research evaluation systems may affect publishing practices in artistic disciplines.
Rising stars prediction in reviewer network The proposed framework for rising stars is evaluated using various experiments, such as impact of individual feature, category-wise and model-wise performance. Thus, we concluded that our two performance evaluator metrics are robust for rising stars' prediction. As the prediction of rising stars in the reviewers' domain is quite useful and effective to use their capabilities in the future, similar approach can be adopted for the prediction of rising stars in various domains.
Quo vadis OSCM? An analysis of past and future trends in operations and supply chain management research Our analysis quantifies trends and identifies subtopics that are growing in prominence.
Publication Quality Following Short Summer Cancer Research Internships Research conducted during short-term cancer research programs can be scientifically meaningful and of comparable quality to publications by program alumni who engage in cancer research careers. Publications from interns and alumni of a short-term cancer research training program have a high impact in the scientific community.
The Structure of Scholarly Publishing: a Case of Economics Research in India "By empirically testing the degree of author concentration in scholarly work, this article provides ample evidence of the uneven distribution in scholarly publications and collaborations."
Open access journal publishing in the business disciplines: A closer look at the low uptake and discipline-specific considerations The results suggest that the low adoption rate of Open Access journals in the business fields is a side-effect of evaluation practices emphasizing publishing in journals included, in particular, ranking lists, creating disincentives for business model innovation, and barriers for new entrants among journals.
Mapping the structure of interpreting studies in China (1996-2019) through co-word analysis Through cluster and strategic analyses, this paper addressed the three questions put forward in 3.1, and it yielded the following conclusions.
Identifying Predatory Journals in Plastic Surgery: A Prospective Study Of the journals that sent unsolicited emails, 98% met 2 or more criteria and were deemed to be predatory. If a journal contains grammatical mistakes and is not listed on Scopus, DOAJ, and/or Web of Science, authors should be cautious. Spelling and grammar mis- takes as well as failure to be listed on Scopus, DOAJ, and/or Web of Science are key indicators of potentially predatory journals.
Top 100 most-cited oral health-related quality of life papers: Bibliometric analysis This bibliometric analysis highlighted the characteristics of the 100 most-cited OHRQOL papers, demonstrating that this field is far from saturated. This list of the most-cited articles can provide a reference point to guide oral health research, education and services.
Who shuns entrepreneurship journals? Why? And what should we do about it? The conclusion argues that SBEJ can help the field's legitimacy, but that other journals should not imitate analytical paradigms.
Toward the development of a perceived IRB violation scale This study assessed the perceived prevalence and seriousness of IRB violations among faculty employed at research-intensive universities in the United States.
Timeliness and content of retraction notices for publications by a single research group Thus, assessment of concerns about publication integrity was delayed and incomplete. Adherence to recommended content of retraction notices was moderate at best. Strategies are needed to improve the efficiency, accuracy and transparency of processes for resolving concerns about publication integrity.
Are Academics Willing to Forgo Citations to Publish in High-Status Journals? Examining Preferences for 4*and 4-Rated Journal Publication Among UK Business and Management Academics Our findings indicate that while some scholars will seek opportunities to reinforce their status on the basis of the journals in which they publish (e.g. Willmott, 2011), others place less value on publications in high-rank journals than on the potential to generate scholarly impact on the academic community, as captured by citations. The study also helps to advance understanding of how scholarly norms are redefined by rankings and aspiration for status. To conclude, despite these limitations, we hope that our findings may stimulate further research on the factors informing academics’ preferences for status and scholarly impact, and on how assessment and incentive systems should be designed to align with such varied preferences.
The modified lottery: Formalizing the intrinsic randomness of research funding This may be the time to admit that the current grant allocation system may have been performant when it was installed, but it doesn't fit the current highly competitive research arena. Introducing “organized randomness" into the allocation of research funds could be a way to overcome some of the problems of the current grant peer review system. It seems only fair to conclude that, regardless of the practical details, a modified lottery is fairer, closer to the reality of the allocation process, and potentially cheaper than peer review.
Institutional repositories in Africa: Regaining direction African institutional repositories are in dire need of reform.
Academicians' awareness, attitude, and use of open access during the COVID-19 pandemic This research aims to reveal academics' awareness, attitudes, and use of open access. The research results show that 75% of the participants have open access awareness. Furthermore, not only could open access be further examined, but also academics' awareness, attitudes, and use in other dimensions of open science, such as open educational resources, open peer-review, open book, open source software, and open data applications, could be looked at.
Author placement in Computer Science: a study based on the careers of ACM Fellows The results confirm our hypothesis that CS authors tend to have their names more often placed at the leftmost positions on the bylines during the begin-ning of their careers and at the rightmost part at the end. Thus, the API metric and associ-ated aggregation measures can be used as a reliable proxy for determining the level of seniority of CS researchers based on their publication record. In future work, we intend to approach bibliometric data related with researchers from other scientific fields, to check if similar findings can be found.
Factors Affecting the Time to Publication in Ophthalmology Journals: A Comprehensive Bibliometric Analysis There is a wide variation in the time to acceptance and publication in ophthalmology journals. Authors can expect a shorter time to publication when publishing in high-impact journals. Overall, we hope that our article is used by authors to make informed decisions when preparing manuscripts and by journals to identify areas for improvement in their publication process.
How are academic libraries in Spanish-speaking Latin America responding to new models of scholarly communication and predatory publishing? The questionnaire and interviews reveal that, in general, predatory publishing does not yet have high visibility in academic libraries in Spanish-speaking Latin America; however, there appears to be growing awareness of and concern about this issue.
'All things are in flux': China in global science The rise of China in science rests on high and sustained investment by the nation-state over more than two decades, focused national system building, the targeted deployment of international connections, resources and standards; and at the foundations of all, the Confucian ethic of self-cultivation and continuous self-improvement, as deeply felt on an individual basis as it is on a collective basis (Marginson & Yang, 2020).
A novel bibliometric and visual analysis of global geoscience research using landscape indices This study is expected to help readers to understand global trends of geoscience research in the past 25 years, and to promote the development of bibliometric analysis towards the directions of spatialization and visualization.
Which regions produce the most innovation policy research? The Sextuple Helix may have massive potential for academic innovation policy research in the current economic context. It also provides an analytical framework where innovation and entrepreneurship coalesce. Despite these limitations, this study nonetheless successfully provides key findings regarding leading regions and trending topics in academic innovation policy research.
Heterogeneous academic network embedding based multivariate random-walk model for predicting scientific impact In this paper, a new ranking method ESMR was proposed to predict the future scientific influence of papers and authors.
Interdisciplinary Collaboration in Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure Criteria: Does It Matter? Study findings indicate that while changes in ARPT criteria around interdisciplinary activities have occurred over time, many disciplines have not evolved alongside the changing nature of academic work as one might expect. This study uncovered two key barriers with regard to ARPT criteria and interdisciplinary faculty efforts. While the value and emphasis placed on interdisciplinary work has improved in some disciplines over time, the ARPT criteria that address this type of work are typically too imprecise to be of practical use to faculty members.
Global ranking of knowledge management and intellectual capital academic journals: a 2021 update KM/IC discipline stakeholders may consult and use the ranking list for various purposes, but they should do so with caution. Interdisciplinarity is the natural state of the KM and IC research domains, and it should be embraced by the research community. It was also found that all A+ and A journals received a Clarivate's JIF or were included in a Clarivate's Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI).
What drives global science? The four competing narratives The way forward in explaining global science is to acknowledge the (partial) autonomy of the global system and within that, its horizontal and vertical dimensions – to combine network theory with a theorisation of the hegemonic power that stratifies and excludes – while keeping open the potentials of multipolarity.
Rethinking Science as a Vocation: One Hundred Years of Bureaucratization of Academic Science There are long-standing concerns, and growing evidence, that the work of science is becoming increasingly bureaucratized: characterized by division of labor, hierarchy, and standardization, undermining science as a vocation. These changes to the organization of work can provide an opportunity for rethinking science policy and the sociology of science and suggest a variety of additional implications for training, motivation, alienation, and performance.
Proximity-aware research leadership recommendation in research collaboration via deep neural networks Research leadership is essential to research collaboration.
Disagreement and Agonistic Chance in Peer Review One important piece of the puzzle in understanding the impact of chance in peer review can be found in the question of how members of the panel group manage disagreement.
Impact measures: What are they? "In this article, I defined natural properties for a measure m to be considered an impact measure."
A network approach to expertise retrieval based on path similarity and credit allocation In this work, we have proposed a new method based on path similarity and a number of subset selection strategies to identify authors' expertise. Our method has a number of important implications for research and practice. Finally, the identification of special expertise can help scientists in identifying potential collaborators and shaping successful research groups.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Overall and Top 100 Most-Cited Studies About Robotic Surgery Versus Open Surgery The lack of close cooperation among scientific research institutions may have affected the industrialization process of surgical robots.
Implications of Cross-disciplinarity: Estimating the "Paper Drain" in Development Studies We offer some recommendations in order to rise the scientific impact (and influence) of development studies, such as increasing the number of journals covered by the impact indicators.
Measuring research excellence amongst economics lecturers in the UK We find that only one-in-two (54%) of these lecturers were submitted to REF2014; 57% of men and 46% of women.
Transform DOI system into a science hub A unique and general DOI library will be complementary to other existing bibliography databases, such as PubMed, but it will certainly be larger than PubMed as PubMed is mainly dedicated on biomedical literature while a DOI hub will be a huge multidisciplinary and multilingual bibliography database with a proven utility than to merely linking publications to external publishers’ webpages as is currently the case with DOI system.
Jourchain: using blockchain to avoid questionable journals We have suggested that the use of blockchain can patch current bugs in scholarly publishing, preventing them from fraud and diminishment of scientific integrity.
Toward transparency of hybrid open access through publisher-provided metadata: An article-level study of Elsevier Our results further demonstrate the value of publisher-provided metadata to improve the transparency in scholarly publishing.
A cross-disciplinary and severity-based study of author-related reasons for retraction Drawing on a large dataset of retraction notices, this study identified authors' retraction-engendering behaviors by type, classified them by severity, and found several disciplinary differences in the types and severity of reasons for retraction. Thus, the study has generated a detailed and comprehensive inventory of reasons, as disclosed in retraction notices, for retraction of publications in journals indexed by the WoS Core Collection. This scale can be a useful tool in future research to address important questions such as how the relative severity of reasons for retraction may influence retraction stakeholders' perceptions of retraction stigma and discoursal features of retraction notices.
Academia in the Grip of the Wolf and Its Utopia Any efficient resistance to the Wolf requires grass-roots work on the part of academics. By reconsidering the nature of research and education as well as their role in society, academics might be able to develop viable alternatives to the “productivist university.” This requires cooperation with broader society. The alternative of either remaining in the ivory tower or submitting to the Wolf is a false dilemma.
What difference might retractions make? An estimate of the potential epistemic cost of retractions on meta-analyses We conclude that meta-analyses have a problematically high probability of citing retracted articles and of including them in their pooled summaries, but the overall epistemic cost is contained. In conclusion, our findings support concerns that the retracted status of articles is too often overlooked by researchers, and yet suggest that the epistemic cost of retractions on meta-analyses is relatively contained and very context-dependent. The cumulative nature of knowledge produced by meta-analyses makes them relatively robust to the impact of retractions.
LIS research across 50 years: content analysis of journal articles Consequently, LIS may have become more versatile in the analysis of its research objects during the years analyzed. Research in LIS has experienced structural changes during 1965–2015. In all, our results suggest, that although research in LIS has accumulated in major research areas, versatile use of research methods has increased in these areas. As a consequence, the account of research objects may have become more comprehensive. The findings in this study help planning teaching in LIS by indicating continuously active and currently hot topics of research and ways of approaching them methodologically.
Accumulation and obsolescence of research knowledge One main result of our 'variant' of McDowell's life cycle model is that his results remain valid for a correct use of the human capital stock in Ben-Porath's style. In particular, we were able to show that the optimal production of human capital depends negatively on the obsolescence rate and that this reduction is largest at earlier ages.
The Relative Citation Ratio: Examining a Novel Measure of Research Productivity among Southern Academic Ophthalmologists Academic rank and attainment of a PhD degree were correlated with increased research productivity. When analyses focused exclusively on faculty not in the "other" subgroup, male gender, and lengthier career were associated with increased mean and weighted RCR, the former of which potentially highlights differences in professional advancement between genders. Overall, the RCR is a useful tool for comparisons of research impact and productivity, curtailing the limitations present in other measures such as the h-index.
The 100 top-cited articles in macular edema from 1950 to 2020 This study analyzed the research trends and progress of macular edema in the past 70 years, emphasizing the treatment of diabetic macular edema and the contribution of USA in the study of macular edema.
Meritocracy in Academic Labor Markets: A Comparison of Three Fields We find that the h-index is a strong predictor of salary and that, surprisingly, all coauthors of joint work receive the full benefit of a publication – there is little or no discounting of joint work in these three fields.
Publications about Women, Science, and Engineering: Use of Sex and Gender in Titles over a Forty-six-year Period The comparison of sex and gender titles about women, science, and engineering reveals patterns in their (1) growth, (2) locations (fields, journals), (3) topic areas/themes, and (4) impact in an important forty-six-year period.
Reviewer acknowledgment lists as data: Low-hanging fruit for analysis More fundamentally, analysis of reviewer acknowledgement lists could provoke useful debate about what constitutes an appropriate level of reviewer turnover and dis-tribution of reviewer backgrounds for optimal scientific advancement.
Using context-dependent DEA to analyze the efficiency of highly funded scientists in China We believed that these results would be beneficial for authorities to make policies that had a significant impact on the R&D.
Emergency medicine faculty serving on standing NIH and AHRQ study sections from 2019 to 2020 Our data show that 20 emergency medicine faculty comprised 0.3% of National Institutes of Health standing study section members and four emergency medicine faculty comprised 3% of Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality standing study section members from 2019 to 2020 and that these members were clustered at a few institutions. These data indicate an opportunity exists to increase National Institutes of Health and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality study section participation by the specialty of emergency medicine.
Classifying top economists using archetypoid analysis In this paper we applied archetypoid analysis to the evaluation of top economists.
A comprehensive analysis of self-corrected publications in the imaging literature In conclusion, self-corrected publications in the imaging literature have been increased exponentially over the period 1999-2018 and author information was the most common location of error correction.
Scattering of journals cited in legal theses and dissertations Based on the results of this study, it can be concluded that jour- nals are the most popular document types cited by law stu- dents in the three South African law schools studied followed by books and case law.
Originality: The Holy Grail of Tourism Research From a managerial perspective, this suggests that it is easier to remove barriers than to positively facilitate original research.
Underrepresentation of developing country researchers in development research It is not encouraging to find that the bulk of research on the South is conducted by researchers from the North. Practices and paradigms that exclude Southern researchers from academic dialogues about development in the South inhibit the plurality and richness of such dialogues. Our findings suggest that South-North collaborations could be an avenue for change.
Is there an imbalance in the supply and demand for universal accessibility knowledge? Twenty years of UAIS papers viewed through the lens of WCAG The results support the claim that there is a gap between published research and knowledge needs. Based on the findings reported herein, the following recommendations are proposed to the UAIS editorial board: 1. Introduce more stringent scope checks for submitted papers and special issue proposals; 2. Initiate special issues dedicated to universal accessibility research in low-GDP-per-capita regions, to stimulate and support activity in these regions, and to help document the global accessibility situation (especially Africa); 3. Initiate special issues on the theme understandable to meet the knowledge needs; 4. Introduce a terminology policy, systematic checks, and a glossary to help authors from non-English speaking countries use inclusive, non-stigmatizing, and respectful language; 5. Invite more editorial board members from Japan to strengthen the quality of contributions from Southeast Asia.
Bibliometric Analysis of Potato Research Publications from Agronomy Category Based on Web of Science from 2000 to 2021 Visualizations offer exploratory information on the current state in a scientific field or discipline as well as indicate possible developments in the future. This work is useful for students identifying graduate schools and for researchers selecting journals.
Characteristics of the least-cited and most-cited articles in ophthalmology journals: A pilot study Considering a small number of articles were uncited at least a decade after publication, it appears most research is useful for future investigations.
Highly cited papers in Takayasu arteritis on Web of Science and Scopus: cross-sectional analysis Both traditional and alternative metrics associate with higher citations in TAK.
The period of insect research in the tropics: a bibliometric analysis We conclude that there is an increasing trend for collaboration among different countries on the general topic of insect science. This study will help researchers, journal editors, science policy makers managers, and others working in the biodiversity space and potential research gaps needing for further studies. We recommend that future studies investigate the invasion from insects, particularly on the African continent, because of the projected influx and increase of invasive arthropods (Seebens et al. 2020).
Higher Author Fees in Gastroenterology Journals Are Not Associated with Faster Processing Times or Higher Impact Publication-related fees may preclude authors from smaller or socioeconomically disadvantaged institutions and countries from publishing and disseminating their work.
Various aspects of interdisciplinarity in research and how to quantify and measure those Concluding from the above observations, we can state that the variety-disparity-citation impact indicator-triplet has the potential to provide a publications set's unique interdisciplinarity profile. Notwithstanding those critical reflections and considerations, the indicators developed and validated in this paper show that robust approaches can be devised to unravel and to measure interdisciplinarity from a bibliometric perspective, on condition the right level of granularity is applied to the bibliometric data. Relevant examples based on the literature and recent results from research conducted at the Leuven bibliometrics group of ECOOM (e.g., Glänzel et al., Proceedings of the 18th International Conference of the International Society of Scientometrics and Informetrics, 453–464, 2021; Huang et al., Proceedings of the 18th International Conference of the International Society of Scientometrics and Informetrics, 533–538, 2021) are given, and concrete proposals for future research are articulated.
Wetlands of the South American pacific coast: a bibliometric analysis This article provides tools to identify trends and information gaps related to the coastal wetlands of Ecuador, Peru, and Chile, accompanied by a database that contains scientific production for the period 2000-2019.
Software engineering and 12 prominent sub-areas: Comprehensive bibliometric assessment on 13 years (2007-2019) Our research study provides a structured and detailed bibliometric assessment of the SE domain over a period of 13 years.
Visualization analysis of seabream and seabass aquaculture research using CiteSpace Regarding seabream and seabass aquaculture research, it is important to highlight the existence of a large disparity between the number of papers found in the SSCI database (39), in comparison with those found in the SCIE database (2199).
Research outputs in ergonomics and human factors engineering: a bibliometric and co-word analysis of content and contributions Analysis of research outputs and identifying the intellectual structure of EHFE give us insight into the publication pattern, research hotspots, core and emerging clusters.
The changing intellectual structures of HRD in South Korea: author profiling analysis First, research of the HRD field in Korea has been influenced by neighboring studies. Second, as the period changed, major researchers and research areas in the Korean HRD field changed. This study confirmed that the meaning and research areas of HRD are constantly changing.
The Rise, Demise, and Reprise of the Increasingly Protracted APA Journal Article? Overall, our findings suggest that the diminishing growth over time in APA journal article length observed in prior research (Webster, 2007) has indeed reversed—articles are once again getting longer.
Trust in the academy: a conceptual framework for understanding trust on academic web profiles The conceptual framework proposed in this article draws on available research of academic web profiles and on theories of trust and credibility from a social epistemological perspective, which emphasizes the dimensions of competence and trustworthiness in attributions of trust.
Governing by narratives: REF impact case studies and restrictive storytelling in performance measurement This paper explores impact case studies as technologies of governance that – akin to any calculative instruments – achieve specific governing effects.
Analysis of the Southern women network using fractional approach In the paper, we presented a new approach to blockmodeling of affiliation/two-mode networks (Persons, Events) based on the fractional approach from bibliometrics.
Managing publication change at Al-Farabi Kazakh National University: a case study In our study, we found that a university's policy of increasing publication activity can have a positive impact on the behavior and publication strategy of researchers if the assessment of productivity is based not only on quantitative but also qualitative indicators. Using the example of Kazakhstan, we have shown that the absence of clear criteria for assessing the quality of publications and publication channels at the national level can lead to the proliferation of journals with dubious reputation and the development of dishonest practices among faculty members. The results of this study can be used by decision-makers when developing strategies for increasing publication activity in universities or research organizations.
Understanding middle graders' language borrowing: how lexical and demographic characteristics predict similarity Using a unique combination of methodological approaches, we provide information about patterns of borrowing and point toward considerations of how students integrate instructional text into writing.
Multivariate and Longitudinal Profile of Brazilian Journals on Science Education from 2013 to 2019 What Is the Role of Physics Education? Such longitudinal multivariate analysis is able to detect patterns and be used as a management tool for driving journals to the desired position in the scientific scenario.
The unintended consequences of the pandemic on non-pandemic research activities In line with status theory, (Merton, 1968; Podolny, 1993; Sauder et al., 2012, Brankovic, 2018), researchers who have been directly affected by the impact agenda, either through publicly funded grants or impact case studies, are more likely than other participants to believe that the pandemic was crowding out their 'own' areas of interest.
Exploring, browsing and interacting with multi-level and multi-scale dynamics of knowledge The originality of our contribution has been to propose a visualization system that translates in graphical and interactive ways the multi-level and multi-scale properties of a phylomemy (see 3).
Shared burden is always lighter - Peer-review performance in an ophthalmological journal 2010-2020 The study revealed an increase in submitted manuscripts to an ophthalmological journal over the last decade, with a further increase during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Global science and national comparisons: beyond bibliometrics and scientometrics "Despite the fecund materiality of global networks and the dynamism of science growth, the global scale in science is not well understood."
Expanding Nature: Product line and brand extensions of a scientific journal Under the ownership of MacMillan, then Holtzbrink, and since its merger with the Springer group in 2015, the journal Nature has been branded following two strategies. The continuous extension of Springer Nature's products and services into all the phases of scientific production...amounts to a spectacular intrusion of a for-profit firm into what was until recently a series of activities essentially controlled by the scientific communities themselves... The dynamic of competition in the scientific field is now responding more to the logic of a market than to that of a community, as if scientists accepted to subcontract more and more elements of their activities to external sources and pay for products and services that they used to provide for free to their community in the tradition of the guilds that trained new apprentices in their trade.
KiÆr and the rebirth of the representative method: A case-study in controversy management at the International Statistical Institute (1895-1903) This interpretive essay has attempted to identify elements that made it possible for the representative method to progress through the meetings of the ISI from a shaky start (a "very dangerous" idea, 1895) to being embraced (1903) in <10 years. In the end (1903), the ISI was able to reach what one researcher would call an "epistemological pluralism" that allowed different methodologies (i.e., the census, monography, and the representative method) to coexist in harmony (Smolka, 2021, p. 20). The rise of the welfare state with informational needs the census could not fulfill would become in time a catalyst for the wide adoption of the representative method.
The Online Attention to Cleft Lip and Palate Research: An Altmetric Analysis Researchers should consider use of social platforms to disseminate their work among scholars and nonscholars.
Prediction of UK research excellence framework assessment by the departmental h-index the results show that this approach can be successfully applied.
Investigating the citation advantage of author-pays charges model in computer science research: a case study of Elsevier and Springer These results support the effectiveness of double-blind review in reducing biases, while opening new research directions on the impact of peer-review formats. Besides providing supportive evidence for the benefit of double-blinding, our work also suggests several new research directions. To improve evaluation in science, it will be important to assess the effectiveness and fairness of all these additional peer-review formats.
Impact of COVID-19 on Otolaryngology Literature COVID-19 was associated with an increase in volume, citations, and attention for both COVID and non-COVID articles compared to pre-COVID articles. However, COVID articles were associated with lower evidence levels than non-COVID and pre-COVID articles. COVID-19 resulted in dramatic changes in otolaryngology research.
A contextualization of editorial misconduct in the library and information science academic information ecosystem Consequently, though LIS educators may cover the misconduct issues student researchers face during the submission and peer review process, this study's findings suggest LIS researchers are not equipped to respond to editorial misconduct events that happen after acceptance, specifically during the copyediting and typesetting part of the academic publishing workflow.
Evolution of research in finance over the last two decades-A topographical view Overall, our work demonstrates the historical evolution of the entire finance literature; and identifies fertile areas for future research.
Topics emerged in the biomedical field and their characteristics In general, topics that are more relevant to the mission of the biomedical domain are more likely to become popular. This study advocates for more attention to the topic and domain character-istics when studying emerging topics, as well as considering economic, social, and environmental impact.
Collaborations, concepts, and citations in educational technology: A trend study via bibliographic mapping In this study, 1690 articles published between 2014 and 2018 in six internationally recognized journals from the field of educational technology were examined via bibliographic mapping analysis in the context of collaborations, common concepts, and cited references.
A Case Study for the Interrater Reliability of Journal Referees Based on the synthesis of the review of literature and our case study, eight recommendations are offered to improve the anonymous review process for academic journals. We conclude that the quality of scientific publications will be enhanced and improved by compliance with these standards. If such standards are em-ployed by rank and tenure committees, we will see a decrease of predatory journals.
Research productivity of management faculty: job demands-resources approach This paper can help management faculty and business school leaders understand what resources are most appropriate given the teaching demands associated with the specific institution, and by further helping these institutions attract and retain the best possible faculty.
Evaluating scientific impact of publications: combining citation polarity and purpose The idea presented in this paper is to combine citation purpose with polarity to provide more details of the scientific impact of highly-cited papers, especially when the citation counts of papers are close. Primary purpose and polarity, as well as the distribution of purpose and polarity both proved to be useful for finding the most influential papers. Secondly, we further found that frequently cited terms or phrases in the citation content were able to reveal what specific knowledge in a paper was cited and explain the actual scientific impact of the papers.
Conservatism Gets Funded? A Field Experiment on the Role of Negative Information in Novel Project Evaluation First, and most importantly, our findings show that evaluators place more weight on negative information and suggest that information sharing may promote, possibly unintentionally, proposals with the fewest weaknesses over those with the best balance of strengths and weaknesses.
Sensing and imaging of plant disease through the lens of science mapping Our findings illuminate research habits, publication trends, and collaboration patterns and provide a baseline for future research on scientific networks in this interdisciplinary domain. Results of this study demonstrated that science mapping can uncover trends and reveal insights in the domain of sensing and imaging of plant disease. Disciplinary plant pathology journals will need to broaden their scope and the expertise of their editorials boards if they want to attract more article submissions in the area of digital farming technologies as they relate to plant pathology and disease management.
China's new research evaluation policy: Evidence from economics faculty of Elite Chinese universities We conclude that China's government and universities should continue prioritizing the employment of Returnee scholars, as we find that Returnees tend to publish in Chinese indigenous journals with a higher impact factor than Domestics and the density of Returnees within a department has a positive spillover effect on the publication quality of papers published in Chinese indigenous journals by both Domestics and Returnees.
Normative versus strategic accounts of acknowledgment data: The case of the top-five journals of economics In the light of these results, we propose to stop considering the normative and the strategic account as mutually excluding alternatives. They should be conceived as partial accounts of the various motivations behind the acknowledging behavior of research-ers. Therefore, the normative and the strategic account should be intended as valid but partial explanations of acknowledgments data.
The long-term effect of research grants on the scientific output of university professors This paper presents an investigation of the main research grant programme for individual researchers in Luxembourg.
Understanding Co-authorship: Phenomenological Investigation of Faculty Members' Experience in Iran Universities The present study suggests that in order to promote co-authorship, cooperation in the university should be developed and the quality criteria in the research should be considered. Finally, it can be concluded that the co-authorship experience of faculty members may result in the production of social capital among faculty members, and this may result in the development of the university.
Citation based journal-to-journal associations in the microcosm of an academic libraries consortium We report on the current stage of our research effort to exploit journal-to-journal associations as they are shaped by the works of the Greek academics and researchers who (co-)author scholarly publications. The current version of the J2J-GR service is publicly available on the Internet. Our next goal is to elaborate further and conduct data mining operations on the HEAL-Link TAG bibliographic dataset.
Ranking NIH Funding of Surgical Departments Based Upon a Modified Index Exclusion of this funding resulted in no significant change within surgical department quartile rankings. This suggests the BRIMR measure of research productivity does not need modification. Although our modified index resulted in significant movement within rankings, only four departments moved up or down one quartile and none moved two or more, suggesting that the BRIMR ranking system is currently an effective measure of surgical departmental research funding.
Introducing a bibliometric index based on factor analysis In conclusion, the indicator introduced in this article, called Weighed Factor Index, allows the information from various metrics to be aggregated through terms that are not correlated with each other in a single indicator, so that such information does not overlap.
Social Indicators Research: A Retrospective Using Bibliometric Analysis The goals of this study were four-fold, which involves the exploration of major trends in the publication and citation structure (RO1), the identification of research constituents (i.e., authors, institutions, countries, sources) (RO2), the unpacking of the intellectual structure in terms of its thematic clusters and temporal evolution of topics (RO3), and the factors that influence the citations (impact) of SIR (RO4). In this regard, prospective authors are strongly encouraged to design novel and rigorous studies in line with the aims and scope of the journal in order to increase their chances of getting published in the journal. It is hoped that the insights herein serve as a good reference of a retrospective and prospective of social indicators in research relating to quality of life and sustainable development.
The Fiction of Double-Blind Reviewing: Evidence From the Social Science Research Network In summary, our results empirically confirm that double-blind peer review, in which both authors and referees are anonymous, is apparently unfeasible with the widespread diffusion of social network platforms. Our results suggest that well-known authors or authors at top-tier universities prefer to disseminate their working papers before or during the double-blind review process, in which case their identities will be visible for reviewers. We conclude that these results further illustrate that it is time to design new peer review mechanisms to avoid reviewers' biases about authors' previous work, their gender, their nationality, or years established in an area of research.
Fine-grained citation count prediction via a transformer-based model with among-attention mechanism First, we proposed FGCCP, which predicts not only citation frequency but also citation location.
Democratising Monograph Publishing or Preying on Researchers? Scholarly Recognition and Global 'Credibility Economies' If models of the academic credibility economy fail to fully account for the publishing strategies of researchers and companies working on the peripheries of knowledge ecosystems, they do help explain the academic backlash these presses encounter.
The simplex simulation as a tool to reveal publication strategies and citation factors In this paper, we presented a new computational approach based on simplex rule helping to highlight functional analysis and qualitative evaluations of scientists and their published papers at population scale.
The state of social science research on COVID-19 The results are useful for finding potential collaborators and for identifying the frontier and gaps in social science research on COVID-19 to shape future studies.
Global production of nursing research: A 10-year survey of subspecialty nursing journals The United States is the leader in nursing research productivity. Countries with large economies tend to make greater contributions to global nursing research. The research will function as baseline information for further studies to analyze future changes in global research productivity.
Draw me Science Multi-level and multi-scale reconstruction of knowledge dynamics with phylomemies In this paper, we have set a general framework for a phenomenological reconstruction of science and knowledge dynamics from large digitized data sets
Main Path Analysis to Filter Unbiased Literature In this paper, we implemented MPA in the Remote Sensing sub-domain under the DL domain.
Global scientific production on LADM-based research: A bibliometric analysis from 2012 to 2020 At a crucial time for the LADM, during its revision process and several scientific publications since its vote as ISO standard, this bibliometric analysis provides an interesting background for the research carried out so far.
Editing a higher education journal: Gatekeeping or development? Changing publication accessibility through dissemination in languages other than English is one of many critical steps needed to create a more diverse and inclusive publication process.
Study on Horizon Scanning with a Focus on the Development of AI-Based Medical Products: Citation Network Analysis This study showed that citation network analysis and text mining for bibliographic information analysis of the rapidly developing field of AI-based medicine can be used for horizon scanning for medical products that require new assessment approaches.
Small world: Narrow, wide, and long replication of Goyal, van der Leij and Moraga-Gonzelez (JPE 2006) and a comparison of EconLit and Scopus I replicate all main results of Goyal et al. (2006) thrice: using their data and their network definition, using a recent version of their data and their network definition, and using another dataset and a different network definition.
Versioning boundary objects: the citation profile of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders (DSM) Based on these results, the authors argue that all DSM versions should be treated as a series of connected but distinct citable objects.
Domain-topic models with chained dimensions: Charting an emergent domain of a major oncology conference We have shown how domain-topic models and domain-chained models, allied with measures, tables, and maps tailored to render model states associated with data accessible to human researchers, afford a fine-grained and multifaceted view over the scientific dynamics of the ASCO Annual Meeting.
Global optometrist research ranking derived from a science-wide author database of standardised citation indicators Presented here is a rank-order list, derived from the S-W, of the 58 most impactful optometrists in the world, determined to be publishing in the subfield of 'Ophthalmology & Optometry'.
The impact of geographical bias when judging scientific studies Our findings indicate that geographical biases affect public perception of research and influence the results of grant competitions. In conclusion, we want to emphasize that geographical biases should not be underestimated. Thus, we believe that more studies are needed to evaluate the impact of geographical biases in the scientific world.
What do biomarkers add: Mapping quantitative imaging biomarkers research Adding biomarkers to quantitative imaging suggests that medical imaging is rapidly evolving, driven by the efforts to translate quantitative imaging research into clinical practice.
ITGInsight-discovering and visualizing research fronts in the scientific literature The tool proves to be powerful font of insightful information that would be difficult and time-consuming for researchers and policy makers to gather on their own.
Integrating digital scholarship in dental education: Why, what, and how? Although academic research in general practice has been developing vigorously in recent years, there is much room for improvement in the internationalisation of general practice journals in the SCI database. There are wide disparities in internationalisation among different countries and journals. Further studies on the internationalisation of general practice journals may be needed.
I, we and they: A linguistic and narrative exploration of the authorship process The participants in this study narrate three broad types of authorship agency--distributed, individual, and collaborative--with four possible subtypes: supported, contested, task-based, and negotiated. These results suggest that authorship is a nuanced set of practices with a variety of distinct approaches and understandings. Distributed, individual, and collaborative narrative types offer another starting point not just for our conversations about authorship, but for our conversations about those conversations: how do we want to talk about the work we do and the relationships we form as we do them?
The literature/science boundary in sociological articles: Using fiction to discover patterns in co-authorship, author gender, and citation rank The symbolic boundaries that delimit sociological writing are porous.
Amateur hour: Improving knowledge diversity in psychological and behavioral science by harnessing contributions from amateurs Overall, we argue that increasing knowledge diversity in PBS does not necessarily require a large-scale transformation of the field.
Prolific authorship in orthodontic scientific publishing This bibliometric analysis of the most prolific authors publishing in the field of orthodontics between 2011 and 2020 indicated that many have high quantitative output.
Rapid exponential increase in neurosurgery departmental scholarly output following an intensive research initiative Our neurosurgery department’s IRI achieved the primary goal of rapid (2 years) exponential departmental increase in scholarly productivity.
Journals in Beall's list perform as a group less well than other open access journals indexed in Scopus but reveal large differences among publishers The observed removal from Scopus of about 100 Beall journals in peak year 2016, and the finding that one-quarter of Beall journals not indexed in Scopus shows a decline in the annual number of published articles during 2012-2020, reveals (for journals in the study set) that a declining trend and being included in Beall's list are statistically associated.
Development Studies in the World System of Global Knowledge Production: A Critical Empirical Analysis To conclude, I consider the policy implications of my findings for efforts to improve the diversity of GAK production and the diversity of accepted academic capital within development studies.
'Give the Money Where it's Due': The Impact of Knowledge-Sharing via Social Media on the Reproduction of the Academic Labourer This growing involvement of science labourers in outreach activities demand from them an additional expense of their working capacity, since: a) their labour-power must grow in complexity – labourers must now bear concrete material productive attributes to acquire mastery in science communication via social media; and, b) this novel duty adds to the core of tasks that academics have to perform on a daily basis, so does the average quantity of work augment, either in absolute or in relative terms the productive consumption of the academic labour accelerates.
Forty-year Tunisian bibliometrics of general surgery theses in the four national faculties of medicine (1980-2019) Despite the plethora of themes of Tunisian theses in 'general surgery', their basic methodology and their editorial non conformity require the educational reform of the dissertations, both doctoral students and supervisors, by strengthening their skills in research methodology and scientific communication written.
Internationalisation of general practice journals: a bibliometric analysis of the Science Citation Index database There are wide disparities in internationalisation among different countries and general practice journals.
Robustness, replicability and scalability in topic modelling Up until this point, we have provided evidence that neural-network-based topic models, in particular Doc2Vec, provide a more reliable—replicable—characterisation of documents.
Trends in Academic Achievement Within Otolaryngology: Does Fellowship Training Impact Research Productivity? In this study, fellowship-trained faculty had a greater but not significant scholarly impact than nonfellowship faculty.
Top 100 most cited journal articles in anatomy Our study identified the top 100 journal articles in anatomy with a clinical and surgical focus. This compilation of articles could help anatomists and clinicians familiarize themselves with impactful research included in terms of study type and field of anatomy, journal of publication, and recurring authors. While this is not a flawless method for determining the impact of a researcher or publication quality, it allowed us to perform a meaningful bibliometric analysis of published data and thus help anatomists and clinicians to familiarize themselves with pioneering research in anatomy.
Disclosing the relationship between citation structure and future impact of a publication In this study, we employed the ridge regression model to quantitatively reveal the relationship between citation structure and future impact of a publication.
The effect of citation behaviour on knowledge diffusion and intellectual structure We found that the high citation behaviour trend had the strongest diffusion power and improved the knowledge diffusion speed for papers with a short span of citation history, whereas the low citation behaviour trend might make the citation counts take off for papers with a long span of citation history; the high citation behaviour trend has stronger influence and control power on intellectual structure, but this relationship is true only for papers with a short or normal span of citation history. These findings could play important roles in scientific research evaluation and impact prediction. The findings for this paper extended the quality evaluation of publications from the author citation behaviour perspective and provided guiding suggestions for authors of academic papers.
Utilizing citation network structure to predict paper citation counts: A Deep learning approach In this paper, we propose an end-to-end deep learning framework for paper citation counts prediction: DeepCCP. It combines the information cascade effect to dynamically model the information cascade citation network formed in the early stage of the paper, and then predict the future paper citations.
Similarity network fusion for scholarly journals This result suggests that the role of editors as gatekeepers of journals is the most relevant in defining the boundaries of scholarly communities.
How do scholars and non-scholars participate in dataset dissemination on Twitter From a macro perspective, most datasets were diffused by structure II – viral dissemination and structure III – mixed dissemination.
A note on performance indicators for agricultural economic journals We show that for the discipline at large the turn-around times decreased, and impact factors increased substantially.
Trespassing the gates of research: identifying algorithmic mechanisms that can cause distortions and biases in academic social media This study presented a socio-technical analysis of recommendations in the platform ResearchGate using the walkthrough method.
Questionable Research Practices and Misconduct Among Norwegian Researchers The RINO study delivered robust numbers on FFP and QRPs among Norwegian researchers. When 40% of our respondents report having engaged in one or more forms of QRP during the last three years, in spite of increased institutional measures to raise awareness of research ethics in the Norwegian scientific community and to address allegations of misconduct, the conclusion must be that we have not reached the end of the discussion. The problem may be deeply entrenched in scientific culture and its institutions.
Why does library holding format really matter for book impact assessment?: Modelling the relationship between citations and altmetrics with print and electronic holdings The present study confirmed correlation levels observed for total library holdings in previous studies and contributed additional evidence that print holdings can moderately reflect research, educational and even online impact of books at higher level than total library holdings. It was also suggested that ebook holdings indicate only weak relationships, below that of total library holdings. This presumably suggests that print book acquisition is often in demand and effective, but current rate of library eholdings does not statistically imply significant levels of impact or use.
Pandemics are catalysts of scientific novelty: Evidence from COVID-19 Our results show that in the initial period following a coronavirus outbreak, scientific novelty dramatically increased, which suggests scientists' efforts to try novel recombinations of existing knowledge to combat this global pandemic.
Can I afford to publish? A dilemma for African scholars We encourage funders and publishers to facilitate an equitable publishing model that allows African scholars to make their research available through open-access publishing.
A novel emerging topic detection method: A knowledge ecology perspective This paper proposed a novel emerging topic detection method based on ecological niches from the perspective of knowledge ecology. This study has significant theoretical and practical implications. In theoretical terms, this study extends the idea of emerging topic detection by providing two dimensions for classifying bibliometric indicators based on the "ecostate" and "ecorole" attributes of ecological niches.
OCLC library holdings: assessing availability of academic books in libraries in print and electronic compared to citations and altmetrics In sum, the differences between print and electronic holding data are broad making them distinct metrics, suggesting that further research is needed for understanding their implications for book impact assessment.
Can a paid model for peer review be sustainable when the author can decide whether to pay or not? Our paper contributes to the literature on peer review by being the first to examine a hybrid mode of compensated peer review where the author can decide whether to pay or not.
Can differences in publisher size account for the relatively low prices of the journals available to master's universities through commercial publishers' databases? The importance of price discrimination and substitution effects These findings, along with the results of previous research, suggest that resource providers may have incentives to keep prices low due to the collection development strategies adopted by many teaching-oriented colleges and universities.
The top-100 most cited articles of biomarkers in congenital heart disease: a bibliometric analysis According to this bibliometric study, research of biomarkers in CHD field had increased interest in these years and we also highlighted the global research trends, research subjects, and collaboration network between countries. The future research hotspots in this field were listed as follows: (I) the application of natriuretic peptide, (II) the diagnostic and prognostic value of genes and their related transcriptional translation agents, (III) the use of biomarkers to evaluate and predict the postoperative injury caused by extracorporeal circulation, (IV) and the application of other biomarkers (such as oxidative stress, homocysteine, and thrombosis) to assess and predict damage circumstance.
World-level ecologists in Chile: Oldtimers, newcomers, and the bypassed The 14 ecologists identified with the scientometric algorithm proposed by Ioannidis and coworkers include, but are not restricted, to the most cited ecologists in Chile.
Structure, trend and prospect of operational research: a scientific analysis for publications from 1952 to 2020 included in Web of Science database This work explored OR-related publications from 1952 to 2020 included in the WoS by conducting a bibliometric analysis.
Characteristics of retracted editorial articles in the biomedical literature This short study examines the retracted editorials in the field of biomedicine.
Desired Affordances of Scholarly E-Articles: Views from Scholars Based on Open-Ended Answers Our quantitative results showed that scholars perceive ability to share publications, enhanced navigation and note-taking, and highlighting capabilities as the most important features of scholarly e-articles.
Identifying the dissension in management and business research in Latin America and the Caribbean via co-word analysis "This study presented and discussed evidence of MBR dissension in LAC, identified intellectual/methodological bridges, and proposed grounds for cumulative knowledge development in a regional context."
Exploring funding patterns with word embedding-enhanced organization-topic networks: a case study on big data The result shows a comprehensive picture of the topics that governments, academic institutions, and industrial funding organizations prefer to fund, which provide potential decision support for agencies and organizations who are exploring funding patterns, estimating funding trends, and updating their funding strategies. The proposed methodology is effective in summarizing funding characteristics and revealing the role that key organizations are playing in supporting innovation. These findings can assist these agencies to upgrade their funding strategies and benchmark with other key players.
How scientific research incorporates policy: an examination using the case of China's science and technology evaluation system This paper explores the utilization patterns of policies in scientific research using the clues of policy mentions in the scientific papers. First, our analysis shows that, over the last three decades, the strength of mentions continues to increase and the time lapse between a policy's release and its coverage in the research keeps decreasing. Overall, the diversified use of policies in scientific papers demonstrates that policy development gives inspiration to scientific research by acting as all of the background information, support material, and the research target itself.
Editorial Work and the Peer Review Economy of STS Journals The tensions arising within the peer review economy of STS journals in recent years are reminiscent of accounts of gift economies that are gradually reconfigured through commodification layered on top of them (Gregory 1982; Tsing 2013).
The production of social science research in Nigeria: status and systemic determinants The production of knowledge in Africa has been the subject of much enquiry particularly in the field of scientometrics. We propose two broad explanations for this: (1) research inputs are low, mainly because research is poorly funded and researchers devote too little time to research as a result of poor organisational climate. (2) The research support system is weak. Therefore, improving research productivity in the country would require much stronger research coordination and wide-ranging improvements in the research climate.
Analysis of international publication trends in artificial intelligence in ophthalmology This study provides a broad view of the current status and trends in AI in ophthalmology research and shows that AI in ophthalmology research is an attractive topic focusing on retinal diseases and glaucoma.
Social Impact Indicators in the Context of the Roma Community: Contributions to the Debate on Methodological Implications The community's incorporation from the beginning of the research to selecting social impact indicators, allows a deeper knowledge of the problem.
A study of 25 years of publication outputs in the German academic profession Summarizing the empirical results, we can see a trend of changing publication behavior within the German academic profession.
Formation of social scientific fields in Indonesian universities This study elucidated the dynamics of the current formation of social scientific fields in Indonesian universities.
Toward scientific dissemination of undergraduate thesis in physical therapy programs - a cross-sectional study "Scientific knowledge seems to be a determining factor for the good development of undergraduate theses."
Critical citations in knowledge construction and citation analysis: from paradox to definition In this study, we start from the observation that there was a lack of definition for critical citation in relation to the numerous works on knowledge construction and citation analysis, whereas research on these topics seems to provide a fully relevant theoretical framework, making criticism an essential phenomenon for the progress of science. This work is not only a literature review, it provides a hitherto non-existent synthesis of the phenomenon and also a definition based on three functions that can serve as a basis for future research. Indeed, we believe that it can contribute to the current studies on the automatic retrieval of critical citations.
First-author gender differentials in business journal publishing: top journals versus the rest Overall, the research demonstrates that the gender gap is closing for female authors in business academics, but there still is some distance to go before parity is reached.
Reflections on the institutionalization process of scientific research in Latin America: the case of Cinvestav The informatics methodology was able to measure not only the production, number of papers, but also the actual impact of the PD–C research in terms of the number of citations. The network analysis helped to appreciate the intensity of the research collaborations of the PD–C faculty. The most relevant feature in our findings is that the key factor for this consolidation trend lies in the opening of new research lines with a high international visibility.
Can emerging economies take advantage of their population size to gain international academic recognition? Evidence from key universities in China Through the above empirical analysis and robustness test, we find that there is a negative relationship between the S&T human scale and international academic recognition.
Internationalizing AI: evolution and impact of distance factors "This study provides a comprehensive understanding of internationalizing AI research in geographic, economic, cultural, academic, and industrial aspects."
Author-level altmetrics for the evaluation of Chinese scholars Based on literature review and investigation of platforms, this paper classifies the platforms where the commonly used altmetrics indicators are drawn, summarizes similar and repre- sentative platforms that are popular among Chinese scholars, and builds an altmetrics sys- tem suitable for evaluating Chinese scholars. The findings suggest that there is no evidence that the altmetrics scores are specific to the Natu- ral Sciences and the Social Sciences. Hence, the results give evidence that the constructed altmetrics system is suitable to evaluate the social influence of Chinese scholars, but not appropriate to be used alone to evaluate their impacts.
Homophily in higher education research: a perspective based on co-authorships The findings indicate the need for further co-authorship homophily analyses around a broader set of acquired attributes and the trajectories that lead to them.
Gender differences among active reviewers: an investigation based on publons What clearly emerges from our results is the need for more concern over gender rep-resentation in the quality assurance and gatekeeping functions of scholarly publishing. The results of this study provide a more detailed understanding of the vicious cycle for females in academia. Increasing gender balance among scientific gatekeepers will have implications for scholarly publishing and may improve fairness, equity, and diversity in peer review outcomes and promote scientific progress.
t-index: entropy based random document and citation analysis using average h-index "This paper introduced a method for time-based (temporal) research impact analysis using entropy called as t-index with within O(n· Y) time complexity where n represents total number of publications and Y represents total number of academic years."
Deepening the Effects of the Academic Inbreeding: Its Impact on Individual and Institutional Research Productivity Given these results, it can be stated that academic inbreeding has a detrimental effect on higher education.
Automatic Generation of a Metric Report: A Case Study of Scientometric Analytics The overall approach of this paper was to take creative work from human experts and multiply its usefulness and impact by using automation.
Towards employing native information in citation function classification In this paper, we proposed to integrate various native information with the state-of-the-art text representation models in the citation function classification task.
Discovering temporal scientometric knowledge in COVID-19 scholarly production From the proposed approach, it was possible to analyze, characterize and understand, descriptively and temporally, the behavior of scientific productions linked to SARS- CoV-2, based on scientometric indexes and other related metrics.
Identification of human gene research articles with wrongly identified nucleotide sequences Wrongly identified nucleotide sequence reagents represent a threat to the continuum of genetics research, from population-based genomic sequencing to pre-clinical analyses, and the translation of these results to patients.
Fraud, specialization, and efficiency in peer review In our model, we have found conditions under which efficient equilibria, specialization equilibria, and equilibria involving fraud exist in peer review.
A Research Pathway Model for evaluating the implementation of practice-based research: The case of self-management health innovations The insights provided in this article form a first attempt to understand how a process model provides insights into the evaluation of implementation success of health self-management innovations developed in PBR projects and what the requirements are for such a process model. Through a process-based approach, we were able to recognize three requirements for a process model to evaluate the implementa- tion success of self-management health innovations developed in PBR projects. The Research Pathway Model aims to understand such continuous implementation process of PBR.
Using the catastrophe theory to discover transformative research topics "The method developed in this article is able to identify and predict the future transformative potential of ERTS and provides reference information for scientific and technological planning, industrial policy and scientific research management."
Do peers share the same criteria for assessing grant applications? These results provide empirical evidence against the basic assumption of peer review, that there is a consensus on evaluation criteria, which has two main implications. First, the results offer an explanation for the disagreement effect. Second, the results predict conservatism in peer review.
Capabilities for transdisciplinary research "This article has proposed a novel framework for evaluating how researchers value capabilities for TD research."
Documenting development of interdisciplinary collaboration among researchers by visualizing connections We have presented what we believe is a novel approach to developmental evaluation of a research-focused interdisciplinary team.
Towards transdisciplinary impact of scientific publications: A longitudinal, comprehensive, and large-scale analysis on Microsoft Academic Graph This paper proposes a new direction of quantifying the degree of transdisciplinarity of a certain publication from the perspective of transdisciplinary impact.
A methodology for identifying breakthrough topics using structural entropy A structural entropy measurement index for knowledge-network assessment that is based on network structures and their nonadditive characteristics, was constructed from the perspective of changing knowledge networks.
Important citations identification with semi-supervised classification model Effectively identifying important citations has great practical significance in the bibliomet- rics, which can contribute to fair distribution of academic resources and fair evaluation of talents. This demonstrates the effectiveness of our semi-supervised self- training strategy for important citation identification. In our next work, the potential of deep learning models with semi-supervised strategy should be exploited for identifying important citations.
Researcher dynamics in the generation of emerging topics in life sciences and medicine Our results illustrate a dynamic aspect of researcher creativity in the generation and development of ETs (Fig. 5). It is likely that, although the necessity of manpower to publish articles has been increasing for the past half-century (especially in the post-genomic era), less manpower is actually required to generate ETs while pre-participation in certain research topics has been more important to generate ETs, albeit ETs of lesser success. These trends are demonstrative to funding agencies that it is important to evaluate the past studies of researchers for the efficient funding of ETs.
What shapes the delay in the Nobel Prize discoveries? A research note This study identifies the determinants of the Nobel delay in science across three scientific fields (Physics, Chemistry, and Medicine). By using econometric tools, the relevant study argues that at least part of the delay is associated with Laureate's age by the time of their prize-winning discovery. Based on the above, this study is not free from limitations, while it provides avenues for further research.
Research trend prediction in computer science publications: a deep neural network approach This paper proposed a novel approach for predicting the number of published papers and the top trending research areas in computer science research to predict its future directions. These investigations can provide a better outlook from the future of CS studies to the active research community, and the top trending areas can be considered for more successful budgeting. As future works of this research, more studies can be done on the relationships and the distance between these fields of study and how they affect one another to result in emerging trends.
Latin American and Caribbean journals indexed in Google Scholar Metrics The GSM broad coverage allows impact analysis of a larger number of journals, especially those of academic origin, in the areas of arts, humanities, and social sciences, including those published exclusively in Portuguese and Spanish.
ALTMETRIC ANALYSIS OF THE MOST-CITED 100 ARTICLES ON THE RETINA PUBLISHED BETWEEN 2010 AND 2020 Altmetrics is not sufficient to determine the scientific value of articles and can be affected by many factors, unlike traditional bibliometrics. However, being a good communicator in social media can support scientific productivity and create social impact. The AS can be used as a supporting metric, and its importance may increase over time.
A "Chillier" Climate for Multiply Marginalized STEM Faculty Impedes Research Collaboration These data suggest that multiply marginalized faculty, across different identity groups, share some common experiences of a "chilly" department climate relative to their peers from majority groups that impede opportunities for scientific collaboration, a key ingredient for faculty success.
Trends in scientific editing and good research practices: what do researchers-nurses know? In our study, researcher-nurses, regardless of their level of education (master's or doctoral degrees), had low knowledge on issues related to the recognition and use of information on good practices in research and scientific publishing. Our findings point to the need for strategies that identify weaknesses, streng-then gaps and expand knowledge, allowing the enrichment of researchers-nurses' scientific training in topics related to good practices in research and scientific editing to qualify nursing production.
Scholarly journal publishing in Australia The study identified 651 active Australian journals published mostly by non-profit organizations and the education sector. The journals are distributed in all fields of research and there is a rela-tively good representation of fields of research related to arts, humanities and social sciences. Our future research will aim to better understand the strengths, challenges and risks of journal publishing in Australia and help increase its sustainability.
Bibliometric study on the literature related to dental research and education published in Journal of Pakistan Medical Association The contribution of scientific papers related to dentistry and dental education in the Journal of Pakistan Medical Association was significant. With growth of dentistry as a discipline along with a parallel increase in the publication of dental research papers, it is imperative that a dedicated indexed journal for dental research be commenced. Considering the significant number of research publications hailing from dentistry, perhaps deliberation could be made to develop a journal exclusively publishing scientific literature from various sub-specialties of dentistry.
Progress on Pharmaceutical Sciences/Pharmacy Postgraduate Education: a Bibliometric Perspective Through the analysis of the studies, it was found that encouraging relevant research programs, establishing financial supports, and launching specified publication sources could be helpful to boost the development of pharmaceutical sciences/pharmacy postgraduate education. Besides, the results suggested that this was a less discussed topic and was worthy for the investigators to pay more attention to such an issue.
Papers perpetually in press: intellect left to rot Editors and publishers should endeavor to publish all “in press" papers within a reasonable amount of time.
Non-author entities accountable for retractions: A diachronic and cross-disciplinary exploration of reasons for retraction Drawing on a dataset of 457 unique retraction notices published before 2020 and indexed in the WoS Core Collection, this study identified four types of accountable non-author entities and 13 associated reasons for retraction.
Bibliometric Analysis of Highly Cited Papers on Resources and the Environment in China This paper introduces the state-of-the-art research hotspots of Chinese resources and environmental sciences to international academic circles and provides a basis for the research practice of resources and environmental sciences worldwide.
Long-term scientific impact revisited We conclude that even if one accepts that citation counts are good proxies for the quality of papers, they are not useful evaluative tools since the short-term counts are not informative about the long-term counts in the case of highly-cited papers.
A scientometric study on quantitative microbial risk assessment in water quality analysis across 6 years (2016-2021) The study highlighted the need to extend research inputs to developing countries of Africa and Asia to improve their research and development capacity, productivity and share knowledge on QMRA in water quality assessment.
Intelligent Educational Evaluation of Research Performance between Digital Library and Open Government Data A meaningful research evaluation could benefit decision-makers regarding the world university ranking.
Academic social networks metrics: an effective indicator for university performance? The research results show that the metrics provided by specialized social networks can be used for the assessment of universities, however, an in-depth evaluation requires a more advanced procedure and indicators to measure many areas of scholarly activity like research, integration, application, teaching, and co-creation.
Impact of Covid-19 on research output by gender across countries The human impacts of COVID-19 infections, and pandemic-related limitations and impediments are vast. These include disruptions to researchers that, as we showed, differ by nation and gender.
International scientific collaboration of post-Soviet countries: a bibliometric analysis Our analysis shows that after the collapse of the Soviet Union, post-Soviet countries significantly changed the patterns of international collaboration, and these changes were country-specific.
Subject specialties as interdisciplinary trading grounds: the case of the social sciences and humanities The results presented in this study show that all identified subject specialties are interdisciplinary to some extent, with important variations between them. By contrasting two different disciplinary classification schemes, additional insights have been gained about the different ways these two systems co-exists within subject specialties in the social sciences and humanities in particular. By studying this question, we have shown the importance of subject specialties in this regard; they can be thought of as interdisciplinary trading grounds for traditional disciplines.
Network analysis of econometric society fellows Although there are more than eighty years between the founding members and the last elected Fellow, we have found that the Fellows are well-connected.
An article-based cross-disciplinary study of reference literature for indicator improvement This study, which was based on selected research areas and the four broad categories according to Clarivate Analytics Web of Science Core Collection, has brought three important answers to the questions addressed in the introduction.
Comments are welcome My results provide suggestive evidence that peers' individual and collective com-ments have a large positive effect on the quality of research projects, especially when they come from top scholars or are received when presenting a paper at a top economics institution.
The practical implementation of open access policies and mandates in Spanish public universities Overall, the bibliometric data seem to be congruent with existing laws and regulations, although the specific paths that lead from official rules to specific, observable bibliometric phenomena are not completely clear. Further research might focus on such specific links between theory and praxis with the aim of identifying university types. Among the next steps planned within the research in this line, we intend to advance in the diagnosis of the situation of Spanish universities and propose a classification that will allow us to know the different types of institutions that coexist in the universe of R&D&I in Spain and to advance in the proposal of a roadmap to promote a much broader and more generalized development of open access.
National and organizational patterns of Nobel laureate careers in physiology/medicine, physics, and chemistry Taken together, our results suggest that analyzing longitudinal specialization patterns with regard to the careers of Nobel laureates yields several important insights complementing those obtained from cross-country comparisons. Interestingly, national career specialization patterns cannot be found directly on the organizational level. Perhaps the most important finding is the existence of the organizational ultra-elite, a group of (mostly private) universities and research institutes that show continuously above-average contributions in the education and employment of future laureates.
ResearchGate and Google Scholar: how much do they differ in publications, citations and different metrics and why? It has been found that Google Scholar indexes more publications and captures more citations as compared to ResearchGate for a vast majority of authors.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Fintech Trends and Digital Finance This article aims to explain digital finance and financial technology (Fintech), two distinct trends imposed in these areas.
Misreferencing Practice of Scientists: Inside Researchers' Sociological and Bibliometric Profiles In conclusion, the present case study showed that nearly all the researchers examined misreferenced work based on fMRI data obtained from a dead salmon.
An Evaluation Framework of a Transdisciplinary Collaborative Center for Health Equity Research This report offers an evaluation framework used to measure the FCHES' progress on its overall mission and goals.
What's integrity got to do with it? Second-year experiences of the Path2Integrity e-learning programme As our analyses have shown the PMT predicts in sum a positive practice characteristic for the revised P2ILC programme.
Facing the volatility of tweets in altmetric research Our findings highlight the importance of noting this dynamic nature of Twitter data in altmetric research and testify to the challenges that this poses for the retrieval, processing, and interpretation of Twitter data about scientific papers.
The 2010-2020 National Natural Science Foundation of China: Radiation Therapy The number of applications for funding increases every year. Although the total number of funded projects has also increased every year, the funding rate has decreased year by year. Projects on radiotherapy and immunization have been at the forefront in recent years, and the funding rate for these projects increases yearly.
Attention to values helps shape convergence research Here we apply our own backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences to interpret and translate the findings of this study into actionable ideas. Our goal is an incremental expansion of existing understanding of best practices for the design and facilitation of convergence research projects.
The effects of the challenges in the transliteration of Persian names into English on the recall of retrieved results in the web of science According to the obtained results, it can be concluded that the inconsistent transliteration of Persian names into English and the existence of different spellings for the names can lead to a decrease in recall.
An evolving international research collaboration network: spatial and thematic developments in co-authored higher education research, 1998-2018 With respect to international co-authorships, we find clear divisions between the countries we identify as dominant producers and those who have only more recently joined the global HE knowledge network.
Strategies to Increase the Number of Open Access Journals: The Cases of Elsevier and Springer Nature Although both publishers increased their portfolios of gold open access journals by collaborating with research institutes, they adopted different strategies for doing so.
Publication History: A Double-DOI-Based Method for Storing and/or Monitoring Information about Published and Corrected Academic Literature The academic literature is currently in a very fluid and dynamic state of flux, whether this be a constructive and developmental process (for example preprints to peer-reviewed papers), or a deconstructive process such as retractions. There are several dominant players in the publishing ecosystem that have ample infrastructure and resources to implement DDPH, but this would require an appreciation of its strengths and weaknesses, participation by all stakeholders, testing, and implementation with an appropriate verification protocol to ensure accountability and transparency. Thus, it is scholars who must initiate the process of integrating the "history of publications" into current publishing models, without waiting for a commercial player to offer their vision for solving this problem.
Fractionalization of research impact reveals global trends in university collaboration While science is becoming increasingly collaborative, this study reveals that the pursuit of research excellence comes at a cost.
Publishing of COVID-19 preprints in peer-reviewed journals, preprinting trends, public discussion and quality issues "Current data suggest a preference for publication of COVID-19-related preprints over the observed period."
Do negative citations reduce the impact of cited papers? In the field of SVM technology, negative citations do not reduce the impact of the cited paper.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Mexican Bioinformatics: A Portrait of Actors, Structure, and Dynamics Overall, this work suggests both the necessity to improve funding in this informatic discipline and promote academic collaboration inside and outside the country.
inverted question mark Garantiza el Ranking de Shanghai alto desempeno academico? University quality must therefore be approached from a multidimensional perspective, depending on the strategy that each institution defines to respond to the different missions.
Bibliometric analysis of the global literature productivity of adult-onset Still's disease (2011-2020) From 2011 to 2020, the number of global AOSD papers showed a rapid growth trend.
The Drug Abuse Research Training (DART) Program for Psychiatry Residents and Summer Fellows: 15-Year Outcomes Over the past 15 years, the DART program has established a diverse research training program that now spans the educational spectrum from undergraduate to residency training. Future program goals include additional training to address self-reported modifiable research barriers. This program provides a model for other training programs designed to cultivate research interests and promote the diversity of clinical researchers.
Neurosurgery Research and Education Foundation funding conversion to National Institutes of Health funding In-training and early career NREF grant awardees are an excellent investment, as a significant portion of these awardees go on to obtain NIH funding.
The small world of innovation studies: an "editormetrics" perspective We believe that this study can provide useful evidence for those interested in Innovation Studies and in the governance of journals at large.
A note on the relative productivity drivers of economists: a probit/logit approach for six European countries This study examines the drivers of relative productivity among 1431 economists from six European countries.
Bibliometric Analysis of Visualizations in Computer Graphics: A Study Bibliometric methods were used successfully to explore the wide and ever growing area of VCG. Therefore, the study can contribute to a better understanding of the field, supporting researchers, educators and other experts on VCG in the identification of research areas and developments, high quality scientific lit-erature, and selection of most appropriate journals to publish their own findings. This research could be continued and upgraded in the future.
Research Productivity of Australian Planning Academics: A Bibliometric Analysis These patterns indicate that significant institutional barriers may remain, potentially hindering female academics' chances of tenure and/ or promotion.
The interplay of the size of the research system, ways of collaboration, level, and method of funding in determining bibliometric outputs The first research proposition—that the science production function has increasing returns to scale—was unsupported by evidence. Secondly, as proposed, transnationally coordinated research projects have a positive association with citations. Thirdly, results show that not only the level of funding but also the way of financing is an important factor determining research impact.
Identification of topic evolution: network analytics with piecewise linear representation and word embedding This paper proposed a keyword network analytics method to identify and visualize evolu-tionary relationships among scientific topics.
Article processing charges, altmetrics and citation impact: Is there an economic rationale? Our results show that contrary to this belief, paying high costs does not necessarily increase impact of publications. Our results indicate that the type of journal has a strong impact on APCs. Thus, if the journal is hybrid, the APCs are on average 50% higher than if it is entirely in OA. Finally, our results suggest that, for authors, APCs should not be used as an indicator for journals selection for submission. For efficient management, institutions should be attentive to journals quality before granting funds for OA publication.
Measuring the isolation of research topics in philosophy The two hypotheses, drawn from the philosophical literature, were generally confirmed by the indicators for isolation used in this paper. These results have at least three important implications for addressing the problem of isolation in philosophy. While topics in LEMM are very strongly isolated from other fields of research, they seem reasonably well-connected to other research within philosophy.
Semantic-enhanced topic evolution analysis: a combination of the dynamic topic model and word2vec This study proposes a solution to quantify the relationship between topics and semantics based on words in topic evolution through DTM and word2vec, allowing for the construction of evolving dynamics by referring to the semantic spaces of topics in LIS.
A bibliometric analysis of nursing and midwifery research in the Caribbean Our analysis of bibliometric indicators suggest that recent and steady growth in nursing and midwifery research in the Caribbean has had low visibility.
Cooperative Research and Infectious Disease Surveillance: A 2021 Epilogue The work exemplifies successful research and publications which are frequently cooperative, and may serve as a basis to model further global scientific engagements.
Highly cited forensic practitioners in the discipline legal and forensic medicine and the importance of peer-review and publication for admission of expert testimony In conclusion, this paper has identified the most highly cited scientists with legal and forensic medicine as their primary research discipline. These citation metrics were robust, because the same ten people were identified as being the most highly cited forensic practitioners over four consecutive years 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020.
The fear of big brother: The potential negative side-effects of proctored exams "To conclude, the decision to use online proctoring needs to consider the undesirable side-effect on test anxiety."
A survey of retractions in the cardiovascular literature In conclusion, our data indicate that the number of retractions and the percentage of retraction by year in the cardiovascular field has increased significantly during the study period, although a decrease was seen after 2015.
A scientific research topic trend prediction model based on multi-LSTM and graph convolutional network This paper, by using the 2000–2021 Chinese Social Science Citation Index (CSSCI) database and Chinese Core Journals Particular Overview (core) of Peking University database in sports industry data in China, constructs the keywords knowledge and authors collaboration network and explores the relationship between network structure attributes and citation count from two perspectives. By analyzing the characteristics of the social networks at the paper level, this paper enriches the research on collaboration and knowledge networks of sports industry and paper citations and reveals the influence of the two networks on citation count in the sports industry. Therefore, it is necessary to seek cooperation with more scholars while writing papers and select collaborators with a high degree centrality as far as possible, which is conducive to increasing the citation count of papers and improving the influence of scientific research.
High social media attention scores are not reflective of study quality: an altmetrics-based content analysis The online attention of RCTs in medical journals was not necessarily reflective of high methodological quality and minimal study biases, but was associated with higher citation rates. Researchers and clinicians should critically examine each article despite the amount of online attention an article receives as the AAS does not necessarily reflect article quality.
Revealed comparative advantages in academic publishing of "old" and "new" European Union Member States 1998-2018 The results confirm that there has been convergence inside the groups as well as between the groups regarding both (1) research areas with comparative advantage and (2) average country-level SRCA correlation.
On the shoulders of giants? Motives to cite in management research Through this methodological article, we hope to contribute to forge a more accurate representation of this subject and to offer a framework that may be useful to management scholars, both for scientific production and for the evaluation of this production. First, future research could deepen our understanding of citation practices by examining their various antecedents. Finally, it could also be interesting to envision the networks of actors that are involved in citation practices – whether citing or being cited – and their respective connections in order to highlight groups of interest and their objectives.
Evaluation of Citation Inaccuracies in Surgical Literature by Journal Type, Study Design, and Level of Evidence: Towards Safeguarding the Peer-Review Process (Publication with Expression of Concern) Although 84.8% of citations from 2015-2020 were determined to be accurate, citation inaccuracies continue to be prevalent throughout highly-ranked surgical literature. There were no significant differences identified in citation inaccuracy rates between the years evaluated or based on study level of evidence. Detection and correction of citation inaccuracies should be emphasized at every step of the peer review process.
Bringing Transdisciplinary Aging Research From Theory to Practice Conducting internal evaluations of transdisciplinary team processes is integral for teams to move beyond the multi- and interdisciplinary niche and to reach true transdisciplinary success.
Research contribution pattern analysis of multinational authorship papers Most research evaluations in the past neglected the information related to the author, therefore, this study takes “author” as the unit to explore the multinational authorship papers and to analyze their research contribution patterns.
North-South research collaborations: An empirical evaluation against principles of transboundary research First, evaluations of TRCs must include the experiences of TRC actors and not only the outcomes they produce.
Citation impact and social media visibility of Great Barrington and John Snow signatories for COVID-19 strategy Through the answers formulated for the eight research questions, we detected that our research objective, namely, to perform a bibliometric analysis of technological megatrends at the societal level, had been met and that a bibliographic mapping of the scientific research in the field of megatrends had been achieved, which meant that we gained an overview of this topical issue which is of great importance at the societal level. Therefore, we encourage the prospect of future research related to the assimilation of megatrends with sustainability, technological advancement in close correlation with connectivity and industry 4.0, and—why not?—in the long run, with technological singularity as a global technological evolution [60]. To all this, we add the utility and necessity of continuing to systematically review the research on the subject of technological megatrends at the societal level through analyses of the concepts and ideas it refers to.
A scientometric study on components of Soft Computing methods from 1999 to 2019 for top most populated countries from Asian Continent Our bibliometric study offers a picture of SC methods and its development from the top most populated coun- tries from the Asian continent using PubMed database for 21 years.
Research artifacts and citations in computer systems papers The regression model described in the preceding section showed that even with multiple controlling variables we observe a strong association between artifact release and citations.
Why do journals discontinue? A study of Australian ceased journals The study showed that while the global trend of journal publishing shows growth of titles (Gu & Blackmore, 2016), Australian journals show a declining trend. Funding was found to be a key reason for journal discontinuation followed by lack of support and quality submissions and over-reliance on voluntary work. Many journals have neither sustainable business models (or funding), nor a preservation plan, both of which jeopardize journal continuation and long-term access to archive content.
What Voices are We Listening to? Authors in the Journal of Visual Impairment & Blindness These data suggest that JVIB is accomplishing the mission of gathering and publishing information from a wide range of sources, as well as keeping up with changing trends in fields related to visual impairment.
Intellectual structure of Library and Information Science in Iberoamerica using journal co-citation analysis: a comparative study based on Scopus and Web of Science Through the results obtained, we confirm that the intellectual structure of the Iberoamerican LIS research – seen from the journal citation relations – is fragmented by what could be geographical contexts and 'apparent' linguistic factors. Complementary studies are necessary to show which epistemic factors influence the current fragmentation of the intellectual structure of the Library and Information Science research in the region.
Research on Health Disparities Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Bibliometric Analysis Firstly, we summarized the main research directions in the field of health disparities related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Secondly, we identified the countries, journals, and authors (both individual and institutional) that have made major contributions to the field. Third, we identified the trends and directions of health disparity related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic by keyword co-occurrence analysis, highly citations articles analysis, and reference co-citation analysis.
Retracted publications in pharmacy systematic reviews Our findings show that retracted publications continue to be cited in systematic reviews in the field of pharmacy. Further analysis of systematic reviews citing retracted publications is needed to determine the impact of flawed data. Librarians understand the nuances involved and can advocate for greater transparency around the retraction process and increase awareness of challenges posed by retractions.
Sharing of retracted COVID-19 articles: an altmetric study In conclusion, the sharing of retracted articles related to COVID-19 has created a pandemic of its own-one of the rapid spread of incorrect or misleading facts, or infodemic.
The Citation Cloud of a biomedical article: a free, public, web-based tool enabling citation analysis Citation Cloud greatly enables the study of citations by the scientific community, including relatively advanced analyses (co-citations and bibliographic coupling) that cannot be undertaken using other available tools.
Final Year Undergraduate Students' Representation of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Lockdown: Adaptability and Responsibility In conclusion, undergraduate students enrolled in the Social Work study program in Transilvania University of Brașov suffered from a lack of interaction with their peers and teachers, as well as from missing the festive moments normally accompanying their graduation.
Integrated knowledge content in an interdisciplinary field: identification, classification, and application This study provides a feasible content-based methodology to foster the fine-grained understanding of the knowledge integration structure of an interdisciplinary field, which could become a general domain analysis method.
Predicting the impact and publication date of individual scientists' future papers By comparing with the baseline method, we show that the prediction method based on deep learning proposed in this paper achieves higher precision in predicting the impact and publication date of each paper by an individual scholar.
Size of science team at university and internal co-publications: science policy implications We discuss the implications of our findings for science policy, beyond size, such as the output- instead of input-based perspective to form a team, time requirement to build a collaborative team, inter- and intra-disciplinarity oriented research, team directorship, etc.
Forty years of European Management Journal: A bibliometric overview The EMJ publishes only original, and high-quality impactful research related to all major fields of management theory and practice.
Does Experiencing International Research Collaboration Permanently Affect the Impact of Scientific Production? Evidence from Africa In this article, a difference-in-difference regression analysis was used to show that experiencing an international collaboration has a positive effect on the research impact measured by citation score, journal score and the likeliness of publishing a top cited paper. The results of our analysis convincingly show that experiencing international collaboration has a deep and long-lasting impact on the quality of research published by these ‘treated’ scientists. Considering the significant and positive effect of experiencing international collaboration, the main and most obvious policy advice is to set more incentives for such collaboration that may positively affect academic impact through different channels.
Leveraging Social Network Analysis for Crowdsourced Software Engineering Research The findings help identify CSE research productivity, trends, performances, community structures, and relationships between various collaborative patterns to provide a more complete picture of CSE research. The findings will help researchers enhance their future research in this field and help them collaborate with the most important authors to utilize research resources. In terms of future work, because research collaborative networks are dynamic and can quickly evolve over time, this study could be expanded by involving more databases, extracting more publications, and expanding our work by using other attributes, such as gender or academic degree of the authors, to study their effects on the collaborative relationship between authors in CSE.
US-Russian partnerships in science: working with differences Our findings on the key role of Russian diaspora scientists, both at the postdoc and the tenure-track level, suggest that they serve as mediators in many communications between scientists based in the US and Russia. This would suggest that xenophobia on the part of either Russia or the US is misplaced and detrimental to the development of global scientific efforts, particularly in problems where the two countries can benefit from each other's expertise. US and Russian scientists have learned new ways of thinking, new methodologies, and new publishing strategies. They have brought new practices back to their labs and seminars. That learning has strengthened both their personal relationships and their scientific collaborations.
Does monitoring performance act as an incentive for improving research performance? National and organizational level analysis of Finnish universities What our analysis suggests, however, is that the incentives brought on by national and organiza-tional level actions have not hindered the positive development in the two elements of research performance.
Bibliometric Analysis of COVID-19 and the Association With the Number of Total Cases As a result, bibliometric analysis about COVID-19 can be useful for the future studies. It gives a general perspective of the studies. These results show us that with the increase in the number of cases, the number of studies conducted by countries in this field has increased.
The public relevance of philosophy This paper has provided empirical evidence that philosophical research, and LEMM in particular, is often isolated from the broader public and in that sense lacks public relevance.
A bibliometric study on the R&D funding and academic research performance in Shenzhen First, through the results of this study, one can infer that the Triple Helix Model in Shenzhen has the following char- acteristics. This research can help better understand the role of govern- ment and enterprise R&D in fostering research and contribute to a systematic understanding of China's Silicon Valley's aca- demic research capabilities, so it has important policy impli- cations. Investigating how public and private R&D funding transform into commercial innovations and growth could be a future direction of this research.
Comprehensive analysis of retracted journal articles in the field of veterinary medicine and animal health Retractions of journal articles in the veterinary medicine and animal health literature have increased substantially since 2012, primarily as a result of publication misconduct.
Mapping and Scientometric Measures on Research Publications of Energy Storage and Conversion The study has shown that the trend in research is booming and that funding and infrastructure are essential for good research.
The Journal Buildings: A Bibliometric Analysis (2011-2021) This study is useful to scholars, publishers or others interested in building science, building engineering and architecture. It provides people with a comprehensive overview of Buildings from the past ten years using a bibliometric method and also forms a base for initiating further study in this area. Furthermore, through the previous analysis, we can predict that the journal will be acknowledged by more and more people over the world in the future.
Thoracic Surgery Foundation Research Awards: Leading the Way to Excellence Being a recipient of the TSF award may position an individual to excel in academic medicine, with a large portion of awardees improving their academic standing with time. The rate of successful NIH grant funding after being a TSF awardee is higher than typical institutional success rates. The TSF awards for faculty positions these awardees well for a career as a cardiothoracic surgeon-scientist.
Are social sciences becoming more interdisciplinary? Evidence from publications 1960-2014 Understanding the evolution of interdisciplinarity plays a crucial role in deciphering the formation mechanism, characteristics, and potential drivers of IDR. Learning widely and digging deeply is the new norm to achieve IDR and appears to be the most common approach in the Social Sciences. In future studies, we will continue to unveil the dynamics of interdisciplinarity in Social Sciences and provide a contextualized understanding of the formation of interdisciplinarity.
Is low interdisciplinarity of references an unexpected characteristic of Nobel Prize winning research? Our work shows that NPs show lower diversity of references than non-NPs, which implies that most NPs tend to need deeper expertise than non-NPs' (see Tables 1 and 2). Our findings provide useful clues to better understand the characteristics of transformative research, here represented by key publications by Nobel Prize laureates in Physiology or Medicine, and their pattern of knowledge integration.
Productivity patterns, collaboration and scientific careers of authors with retracted publications in clinical medicine By analyzing 1839 retracted publications in clinical journals from the WoS database, our study revealed the characteristics of publication, reasons for retraction, and collaboration of authors with multiple retracted publications.
Selecting the appropriate leading journal in Hospitality and Tourism research: a guide based on the topic-journal fit and the JCR impact factor In this paper, this methodology has been used to quantify the fit of the main research topics found in the abstracts of the twelve leading journals in Tourism and Hospitality. This quantitative measure of the fit of the topic manuscript and the journal impact factor was designed so that authors may accurately assess journal suitability before the submission of a paper. Finally, it has been demonstrated that it is possible to quantify the topic-journal fit; a concept of a qualitative nature that is difficult to measure.
The relationship between citations and the linguistic traits of specific academic discourse communities identified by using social network analysis This study provides a unique perspective on the question of language use in academic dis-course by using SNA as the starting point for specific discourse community identification.
Philosophers' appraisals of bibliometric indicators and their use in evaluation: from recognition to knee-jerk rejection This study has shown that bibliometric indicators are not a preferred criterion for researchers when it comes to defining what is considered to be the quality of a publication and, indirectly, of research. Our study allows us to observe, in short, how the essential origin of criticism or frustration is linked to the quantitative way of assessing philosophical quality and what is seen as a colonisation by the latest metrics. Future panel studies would therefore allow us to assess this evolution.
Comparing standard, collaboration and fractional CNCI at the institutional level: Consequences for performance evaluation Comparing CNCI variants and deconstructing portfolios by collaboration type is, when understood and used correctly, an essential tool for interpreting institutional performance and informing policy making.
The Kardashian Index: a study of researchers' opinions on twitter 2014-2021 Since its debut, the Kardashian index has been frequently discussed on twitter. Proponents of the K-Index may not understand that the measure was created in jest and that its scientific value as a qualified index is limited. In the future, we should strive for indexes that require careful consideration when evaluating an author's competency rather than relying on a numerical value to determine a researcher's impact and influence in science.
Mining the evolutionary process of knowledge through multiple relationships between keywords In the results, an empirical study of the informetric field was analyzed. The five evolutionary process stages include knowledge generation, growth, obsolescence, transfer, and intergrowth. First, knowledge evolution is a process of rises and falls, not a continuously smooth state. The life cycle of knowledge is longer than the research topic, and old knowledge can be renewed in recent years. Second, prolocutors and promoters of knowledge are not the same scholars during the evolutionary process shaped by keyword pairs.
A method for the madness: An international survey of health professions education authors' journal choice Based on our results we make three rec-ommendations for authors when writing manuscripts: do not be disheartened by a revise decision, consider journal choice early in the research process, and use the fit between your manuscript and the journal as the main factor driving journal choice.
Proxyeconomics, a theory and model of proxy-based competition and cultural evolution Overall, we suggest such a theory may offer an explanatory and predictive framework for diverse subjects, ranging from scientific replicability to climate inaction, and outlining strategies for diagnosis and mitigation.
Gendering excellence through research productivity indicators In conclusion, this study suggests that the choices made in constructing an indicator can affect how gender differences in productivity are perceived. The way the NPI measures productivity has led to an identifiable gender-based Matthew effect, showing that although the concept of 'excellence' may be gender neutral in theory, it appears to benefit men in practice. The sensitivity of the gender gap to the ways in which productivity is measured also suggests that adjustments may be made to the NPI to help neutralize these amplifying effects.
Faculty Members' Perceptions and Attitudes Towards Anti-Plagiarism Detection Tools: Applying the Theory of Planned Behavior The theory of planned behavior successfully predicted intentions to use APTs. The use of APTs should be encouraged to all faculty members and students. In this study, most of the participating faculty members expressed positive attitudes towards APTs use and high intentions to use these tools in the future.
Perceptions of Scientific Authorship Revisited: Country Differences and the Impact of Perceived Publication Pressure In summary, the present study suggests that action is required to harmonize regulations for scientific authorship and to improve the research culture.
Predatory journals and publishers: Characteristics and impact of academic spam to researchers in educational sciences Firstly, the results indicate that among academics in the field of Social Sciences, and more specifically among researchers in Education, predatory publishers make extensive use of spam to disseminate their products.
A large-scale bibliometric analysis of global climate change research between 2001 and 2018 We draw the following key conclusions: (1) Over the investigated time period, the focus of climate change research has shifted from understanding the climate system toward climate technologies and policies, such as efficient energy use and legislation. (2) There is an imbalance in scientific production between developed and developing countries. (3) Geography, national demands, and national strategies have been important drivers that influence the research interests and concerns of researchers in different countries.
The 100 most-cited articles in orthodontic journals in the last 20 years The authors have identified and analyzed the top-cited articles in orthodontics in the past 21 years to describe the presiding trends of research. This study has provided insights into the most influential research in orthodontics in the current time and allowed for the analysis and prediction of future trends.
The Academic Impact of Advanced Clinical Fellowship Training among General Thoracic Surgeons In conclusion, academic GT surgeons completing an advanced fellowship have similar research productivity and ascend the academic ladder at a similar pace to those who do not complete an advanced fellowship. The overall findings of this study have important implications for both residency program directors and those considering careers in academic cardiothoracic surgery.
The Association Between H-Index and Publication of Plastic Surgery the Meeting Presenters From 2014 to 2017 The Hirsch index provides an objective method for evaluating the probability that an abstract will lead to manuscript publication, in addition to its traditional applica-tion in gauging the impact of research.
Researchers' institutional mobility: bibliometric evidence on academic inbreeding and internationalization This paper demonstrates how bibliometric data can provide valuable insights into the institutional mobility of researchers. The empirical analysis reveals noticeable differences along the north versus south and west versus east geographical dimen-sions. The findings also show that differences between universities and national research systems are the most important, while disciplinary differences might be only marginally important.
The rise of UK-China research collaboration: Trends, opportunities and challenges It would seem highly deleterious not to continue a partnership that gives explicit immediate and implicit long-term benefits. It would damage the UK's research base and detract from the broader benefits that arise from that science if there was an exit from such collaborations, whether driven by political pressures or for other reasons. We recommend that a first step should be an audit of current projects and the establish-ment of clear, common contractual arrangements for bilat-eral research against a template agreed between Universities UK, UKRI and government and perhaps been oversee by the RCAT.
Research trends in the oenological and viticulture sectors In contrast to the beer sector, current wine research has probably taken for granted the negative implications of the consumption of wine on human health and has given rise to no market targets for low-alcohol or alcohol-free alternatives.
Extraction and validation of scientific data for the identification of publications in open access journals To draw a picture of the publication of articles in open access journals by Brazilian researchers, it was necessary to develop components that, incorporated into LattesDataXplorer, could enable the analyzes carried out in this project.
Predicting citation impact from altmetric attention in clinical and translational research: Do big splashes lead to ripple effects? In contrast to the beer sector, current wine research has probably taken for granted the negative implications of the consumption of wine on human health and has given rise to no market targets for low-alcohol or alcohol-free alternatives. Despite the spreading of digital techniques in grapegrowing, the present wine technology appeared to be less receptive to the upcoming digital transformation of the food and beverage industry. The scientific activity related to viticulture appears to be more open and livelier.
Disrupting predatory journals Grooming at least a quarter of the Indian journals to international quality offering multiple alternative publication channels to authors who fall easy prey to predatory publishers is the first pragmatic step in that direction.
Measuring the excellence contribution at the journal level: an alternative to Garfield's impact factor The results of this study show that the journal excellence content is not completely reflected in the JIF measure and affects both Science and Social Science Edition categories.
Retracted articles in oncology in the last three decades: frequency, reasons, and themes Reviewing the reasons why articles have been retracted is important information for editors and editorial boards of oncology journals, related researchers, and policymakers in this field, which could prevent effectively similar events and their adverse consequences in the future.
Trends and status in resources security, ecological stability, and sustainable development research: a systematic analysis Through a more comprehensive and systematic mapping of knowledge in resource security, it is helpful to understand the current knowledge system in global resource security. This research provides valuable guidance for subsequent researchers and related personnel to explore the research direction and practice of resource security, to achieve ecological stability and sustainable development of resources.
The association between topic growth and citation impact of research publications The findings confirm that articles published in the topics growing after the time point of the publication received more citations in general in all of the eight disciplines examined.
Connecting brain and heart: artificial intelligence for sustainable development We found that AI papers address sustainable development to a limited extent.
The integration of African countries in international research networks Through this paper, it is possible to get an accurate picture of the level of participation of African research communities in the IRC over time.
A discussion of measuring the top-1% most-highly cited publications: quality and impact of Chinese papers Avoiding the use of field normalizations for calculating the top-1% most-highly cited may improve the validity of the measure.
Random grant allocation from the researchers' perspective: Introducing the distinction into legitimate and illegitimate problems in Bourdieu's field theory The results show that different areas of application are conceivable for a lottery mechanism in the field of science but that its use seems justifiable only for legitimate field-specific quandaries. Specifically, our analysis has shown that the use of random grant allocation is closely linked to the perceived acceptance of identified conflicts and inconsistencies in the field of science and to the available field-specific solutions. Nonetheless, it is already clear from our investigation so far that part of the scientific community is open to field-external logics such as lottery procedures if they can be tamed by the logic of the field of science and prove to be particularly suitable for resolving field-specific dilemmas and conflicts.
Is interdisciplinarity distinctive? Scientific collaborations through research projects in natural sciences In this contribution, we sought to measure the association between the main modes of distinction among natural science professors and the involvement in (inter)disciplinary collaborations.
Rating a Researcher's Cumulative Scholarly Output Based on Their Sequence Numbers in Multi-Authored Publications The presented method not only yields a true and fair rating of a researcher's scholarly output, it also discourages the unethical practice of including multiple non-contributing coauthors in the authors list in order to falsely enhance an individuals' ratings and in the expectation that they would reciprocate the favor in their future publications.
A percentile rank score of group productivity: an evaluation of publication productivity for researchers from various fields The results suggest that the DWPP can alleviate the problem in which universities with a small portion of faculty members working in the high-Pj disciplines tend to be disadvantaged in the research performance evaluation.
A bibliometric analysis of the internationalisation of political science in Europe Over the past two decades, the global political science scholarship has multiplied its output, broadened its geographic basis, and tightened international collaborations. European political scientists have been central to this development. Against the context of a massively growing scholarly production, and a tightening network of international collaborations, some European countries had an exceptional performance. But all bibliometric indicators consistently point to a generalised growth in the output and internationalisation of the scientific contribution of the European political science community.
Scientific laws of research funding to support citations and diffusion of knowledge in life science Critical implications of research policy, systematized in a decision-making matrix, suggest that R&D investments in “Neuroscience" can generate a positive impact of scientific results in science and society-in terms of citations-higher than other research fields in medicine. Overall, then, results here can explain some characteristics driving scientific change and help policymakers and scholars to allocate resources towards research fields that facilitate the development and diffusion of scientific research and knowledge in life science for positive societal impact. Finally, these findings, based on case study of life science, can have main theoretical implications to clarify aspects of scientific change and support the research policy of scientific fields, given by following properties (or laws): 1st Law. Number of citations of funded and un-funded publications grows through a power-law distribution 2nd Law. Funded research has a higher scaling potential than un-funded publications 3rd Law. Funded documents receive more citations than un-funded papers in all research fields 4th Law. Funded papers have a more substantial cumulative advantage of citations than un-funded papers
Deconstructing impact: A framework for impact evaluation in grant applications The findings of this study contribute to the design and imple-mentation of impact assessments because they show, in the case of ex ante impact assessments, what kinds of societal impact can be reasonably created and achieved, and in the case of ex post impact assessment, how normal contributions (Sivertsen and Meijer 2020) can be appraised in addition to extraordinary ones to inculcate a culture of responsible soci-etal impacts (AUTHOR in press). Based on the analysis of impact case studies, we propose a framework for impact eval-uation in grant applications. Most impor-tantly, the findings support the switch from outcome-oriented impacts to process-oriented impacts (Ma et al. 2020) so as to account for significant efforts in achieving societal impacts.
Key factors affecting the promotion of researchers of the Argentine Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET) First, both promotion levels are strongly influenced by a normative component of the evaluation system of the Council: the existence of minimum and/or a maximum required time to promotion.
Education and training policies for research integrity: Insights from a focus group study Our findings suggest that institutions should make RI education attractive for all and tailor training to disciplinary-specific contexts.
Retraction in the online world-Shall we rethink the policy? The present paper argues that a classical retraction may not be enough for papers with scientific misconduct or pervasive errors because such articles may continue to have adverse effects on social, clinical, or public health issues.
Assessing research excellence: Evaluating the Research Excellence Framework As a result, future evaluations may consider the removal of some elements of the REF or reconsider a new way of evaluating different elements to capture organizational achievement rather than individual achievements.
Research funding randomly allocated? A survey of scientists' views on peer review and lottery Funding organizations therefore should be encouraged to further experiment with, and closely examine, practiced lotteries. These findings are a ticket for officers of funding organi-zations and representatives of science policy to continue-and even to intensify—experiments with random elements in procedures to allocate research grants. Future research should examine in more detail the extent to which different characteristics of scientists can explain variations in their perspectives.
Peer reviewers' dilemmas: a qualitative exploration of decisional conflict in the evaluation of grant applications in the medical humanities and social sciences The dilemmas we have uncovered suggest that peer reviewers engage in thoughtful considerations during the peer-review process. Rather, these findings highlight the diversity of values, priorities and habits and ways of working each reviewer brings to the fore when reviewing the applicants and their project proposals and call for further reflection on, and study of, this "invisible work" to better understand and continue to improve the peer-reviewing process.
What is behind multiple institutional affiliations in academia? The results suggest that multiple affiliations are widespread, with more than a quarter of respondents report-ing at least one co-affiliation in the previous five years. Our findings are only a first step to a better understand-ing of the role of multiple institutional affiliations in the organisation of science. They contribute to the literature on cross-institutional collaborations (Beaver and Rosen 1978; Jones et al. 2008; Katz and Martin 1997) by showing that multiple affiliations are a significant part of academic life, but heterogeneous in nature.
Assessing broader impacts of funded research: the US National Science Foundation v. Lamar Smith Overall, we find that NSF-funded studies, as represented in their PORs, satisfy both NSF criteria, but not all of Smith's more specific BI criteria.
Artificial intelligence in the field of economics The history of AI use and discussion in economics is long and winding, much the same as the evolving field of AI itself. Since its beginnings, economists have engaged with AI but in varying degrees and with changing focus over time and place. Our empirical results indicate that AI in economics follows a similar trajectory (with a slight delay) to the AI field itself: activity in the 70 s, downturn in the 80 s, and increasing interest in more recent times. Primarily, this appears driven by learning approaches.
Are female scientists less inclined to publish alone? The gender solo research gap In short, the gender solo research gap that emerges from our research is clearly much weaker than expected: within a more general trend in Polish science away from solo research and toward team research and away from national research and toward international research (Kwiek, 2020), gender differences in solo publishing seem to be less relevant than initially assumed based on the research literature.
Free access to scientific literature and its influence on the publishing activity in developing countries: The effect of Sci-Hub in the field of mathematics Our investigation set out to shed light on a possible con-nection between free access to academic literature and the representation of authors from developing countries in scientific journals.
"The Hardest Task"-Peer Review and the Evaluation of Technological Activities The evaluation of academic outputs is substantially different from that of technological developments. The results of this study support the idea that adaptations must be made to the classical peer review system in order to adequately evaluate technological production. Looking at the big picture, tensions emerge between the more comprehensive national STI policies, oriented towards economic and social development, and researcher classification systems, oriented by a more classical or linear academic model.
Classification and citation analysis of the 100 top-cited articles on adult spinal deformity since 2011: A bibliometric analysis Multiple characteristics of the 100 top-cited ASD articles are presented in diagrams to guide evidence-based clinical decision-making in ASD. In conclusion, this study identified the 100 most-cited articles in the field of ASD and provides insight and summaries for use by spine surgeons working in this challenging field. This helpful information may aid in evidence-based clinical decision-making.
Implementation and Outcomes of a Movement Disorder Society-Sponsored Peer Reviewing Education and Mentoring Program "This study reported on the adoption of ORCID in one of the largest scientific areas in France."
Social Paleontology on Twitter: A Case Study of Topic Archetypes, Network Composition, and Structure Our findings demonstrate that distinct topics featuring a diverse assemblage of members have varied impacts on an online social world that was centered on paleontology.
ORCID growth and field-wise dynamics of adoption: A case study of the Toulouse scientific area At the beginning of this article, I termed this situation as the paradox of university rankings. Then I argued that the concepts of commensuration, status, and reactivity are crucially important for understanding the social dynamics of university rankings. However, more empirical research is needed to apply, evaluate, and elaborate the theoretical framework developed above.
Credit and Recognition for Contributions to Data-Sharing Platforms Among Cohort Holders and Platform Developers in Europe: Interview Study "The evaluation system might impede data sharing because it mainly focuses on first and last authorship and undervalues the contributor's work."
Influence of Society for Academic Emergency Medicine Foundation's Research Training Grant on postaward academic federal funding SAEMF RTG awards were associated with increased probability of fu-ture federal funding, including career development awards and R-series awards but not R01 awards.
Long-term Association of Altmetric Attention Scores With Citations in Selected Major Pharmacy Journals There is increasing evidence that the AAS, which captures the attention an article receives online, is associated with increased citation counts.
Partial lottery can make grant allocation more fair, more efficient, and more diverse We believe that partial randomisation holds the potential of being more fair, more efficient, and more diverse.
Some Elements of the Regime of Management of Irrelevance in Science In this work, we investigate the scientific practice in supposedly peripheral contexts, in which the scientific knowledge produced is belittled before that of other contexts.
How should evaluation be? Is a good evaluation of research also just? Towards the implementation of good evaluation In this contribution we have elaborated a model of good research evaluation.
Do papers (really) match journals' "aims and scope"? A computational assessment of innovation studies Our conclusions suggest that more can be learned from exploring the abstract-blurb nexus.
From indexation policies through citation networks to normalized citation impacts: Web of Science, Scopus, and Dimensions as varying resonance chambers We conclude that the data- bases do present structurally different perspectives, although Scopus and Dimensions with their additional circle of applied research vary more from the more base research-focused WoS than they do from one another.
Citation of retracted research: a case-controlled, ten-year follow-up scientometric analysis of Scott S. Reuben's malpractice This study highlights a major scientific problem. Invented or falsified data are still being cited after more than a decade, leading to a distortion of the evidence and scientometric parameters. The handling of retracted articles is still a challenge for the scientific community, and the optimization of retraction procedures and the implementation of automatic rejection checks in references managers and submission systems are needed to reduce the dissemination of falsified data to an unavoidable minimum.
Toward greater consistency and validity in measuring interdisciplinarity: a systematic and conceptual evaluation We hope that with these suggestions, researchers can draw more consistent conclusions, aiding in the development of a coherent body of knowledge of this ever-important phenomenon.
Global visibility of nationally published research output: the case of the post-Soviet region Although analysis of these journals suggests they are not true vehicles for communication with a global community providing international visibility for their authors, the demand for publication in internationally indexed, national journals is high and the number of journals (and articles published) has grown substantially in the last decade.
The link between countries' economic and scientific wealth has a complex dependence on technological activity and research policy This study confirms a strong link between economic and research wealth.
Are the strategic research agendas of researchers in the social sciences determinants of research productivity? This study contributes to the advancement of knowledge concerning determinants of research productivity by evidencing that the strategic research agendas of researchers are predictors of research productivity and visibility in the social sciences. This study also provides evidence that research productivity shapes researchers' strategic research agendas. It appears that there is a dialectic process in which research productivity and strategic research agendas appear to shape one another somewhat concurrently.
Impact of model settings on the text-based Rao diversity index Our experiments show that the LDA-based Rao metrics has certain limitations, since the indicator crucially depends on the quality of the underlying topic model. When applied fully automatically, it might result in sharp fluctuations that make it an unreliable indi- cator. Topic models that yield semantically cohesive topics are less affected by fluctuations when varying over the number of topics, and result in more stable measurements of the Rao index.
Detection of the Perceptual Gap between Experts and Public for the Successful Implementation of New Policies: Evidence from the Educational Policy Development This study sheds light on the way to prevent wasteful conflicts and achieve successful implementation of new policies.
Early immersion in a dedicated one-month Anesthesiology Professional Practice rotation for Post-Graduate Year-1 interns is associated with an increase in scholarly activity during residency Immersion in a one-month academic program during PGY-1 internship may contribute to increased scholarly productivity during residency.
Indicators Affecting the International Outlook of Universities The empirical outcomes of this study will make important contributions to both top-level decision-makers and students who will select a university to study.
Dataset of first appearances of the scholarly bibliographic references on Wikipedia articles This dataset is unique and attracts those who are interested in how the scholarly references on Wikipedia grew and which editors added them.
Use of Triangulation in Comparing the Blockchain Knowledge Structure between China and South Korea: Scientometric Network, Topic Modeling, and Prediction Technique This paper proposes a new triangulation research method to investigate the characteristics of the knowledge structure of blockchain between China and South Korea. We found that China's blockchain knowledge network structure is relatively complex and diverse. In addition, non-R&D research in the two countries is relatively insufficient, and it is suggested that research on commercial and social issues be increased.
Understanding Source Use by Undergraduate Post-Novice EFL Writers for the Sustainability Development of Academic Literacy: Abilities, Challenges, and Strategies This study presents a detailed account of the current abilities of undergraduate post-novice EFL writers to write from sources, the challenges faced, and the strategies adopted.
Predicting funded research project performance based on machine learning This study addressed the problem of predicting the output of funded R&D projects. By applying six machine learning algorithms, we built prediction models to predict whether an R&D project will be commercialized. Based on the experimental results, we provided insightful implications to strengthen theoretical backgrounds and shed light on the effectiveness and applicability of using a data-based approach to better operate a R&D project management system.
Towards Understanding the Landscapes of Neighbourhood Research: An Insight from Bibliometric Analysis The study has helped to understand the evolution of neighbourhood research over the past three decades. It has been shown that in terms of publication records, institutional contribution and international collaboration, the United States stands out. From the analyses, while most studies have focused on social and environmental issues, economic issues in neighbourhoods were found to be understudied and scarce.
The Difference in Open Innovation between Open Access and Closed Access, According to the Change of Collective Intelligence and Knowledge Amount Most importantly, the OAJ industry in the digital transformation era demonstrated that CI and knowledge amount promote open innovation, namely, the increase in citations and references moderates the effects of CI on open innovation.
An overview of probabilistic preference decision-making based on bibliometric analysis This research thoroughly analyzes and summarizes the essential features, research status and development trend of PPDM publications, which is helpful for the interested researchers to carry out further scientific research. In the future, innovative methods and models can be used in more hot areas, such as artificial intelligence, medical decision-making, venture capital, etc. In recent years, with more theories are applied into practice, emergency decision making, risk identification, multi-criteria /multi-attribute group decision making has become a hot topic, perhaps researchers interested in PPDM can focus on these research directions.
Factors affecting time to publication in information science This paper seeks factors affecting the publication speed. According to our results, papers belonging to editorial board members and top-ten authors are published faster. This inequality is worth examining in future studies.
Trends of sources of clinical research funding from 1990 to 2020: a meta-epidemiological study The main funding source in medical research in the last 30 years has consistently been government aid.
Interdisciplinarity and impact: the effects of the citation time window The scientific impact of interdisciplinarity may be affected by multiple factors, such as the data source, classification system, interdisciplinarity indicator, and citation time window.
Enhanced author bibliographic coupling analysis using semantic and syntactic citation information In summary, the results show that EABCA has the following advantages over ABCA:
Network dynamics in university-industry collaboration: a collaboration-knowledge dual-layer network perspective The result of this study can be used for future research into the mechanisms that underpin university-industry collaborations and opportunity discovery.
Scientific Contribution List Categories Investigation: a comparison between three mainstream medical journals Thus, the grouping of the proposed categories can help authors to identify and indicate their contributions in articles more clearly, balancing the ethical issues related to the attribution of authorship to researchers.
Diversity and interdisciplinarity: Should variety, balance and disparity be combined as a product or better as a sum? An information-theoretical and statistical estimation approach Diversity can thus be interpreted as the degree of uncertainty or unpredictability.
What counts: Making sense of metrics of research value This article provides a new way of understanding research value by examining how expert peers evaluate categories of research outputs derived from metrics of academic and wider influence.
Caution, Preprint! Brief Explanations Allow Nonscientists to Differentiate Between Preprints and Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles In sum, our research demonstrates that even a short explanation of the concept of preprints and their lack of peer review allows nonscientists who evaluate scientific findings to adjust their credibility perception accordingly.
A theoretical framework for explaining the paradox of university rankings At the beginning of this article, I termed this situation as the paradox of university rankings. The above theoretical framework provides con-ceptual resources and theoretical ideas for conducting empirical studies on these issues. However, more empirical research is needed to apply, evaluate, and elaborate the theoretical framework developed above.
Factors enabling social impact: The importance of institutional entrepreneurship in social science research The evidence we collected highlighted that institutional entrepreneurship can facilitate both the translation of new knowledge into usable contents for external users and the framing of new values and beliefs within the organization by creating a link between impact on society and internal transformations for social engagement. First, a deeper examination of the structure of knowledge translation should consider the multiple paths along which transformative changes in society are generated, including their effects on organizations. In sum, organizational factors enabling social impact should enter the policy design and implementation.
Does health-related poverty publication landscape reflect global needs in the light of the current poverty rebound? These findings highlight the need for advanced networking and the benefits of cross-disciplinary research to mitigate the coming impacts.
Web of Science's Citation Median Metrics Overcome the Major Constraints of the Journal Impact Factor Our analysis of top tier cardiovascular journals using the WoS's Citation Median mode illustrates that this representation obviates some major constraints intrinsic to the JIF.
Retrospective overview of the journal venture capital using bibliometric approach In conclusion, between 1999 and 2021, VC has emerged as an important academic outlet disseminating global wisdom on entrepreneurial finance as documented by its growth in the number of publications and citations.
Reporting preprints in the media during the COVID-19 pandemic During the first 6 months of the COVID-19 pandemic, South African media relied on science published in preprints, but to a limited degree and not necessarily in place of peer-reviewed journal articles. In general, the provisional nature of the scientific findings published in preprints was not signalled to readers. Paramount in this is the responsible reporting of scientific information from preprints in the news media.
Getting cited early: influence of visibility strategies, structure, and focal system on early citation rates In conclusion, we found strong evidence that visibility behaviors are important for determining the number of citations in the first few years following publication and how quickly an article is cited. Our study supports previous findings that suggest the number of citations received is neither random nor solely determined by article content, but our results emphasize that authors may have more control over this process than previously concluded (Leimu and Koricheva 2005a, Vieira and Gomes 2010).
Intellectual and thematic structure of Communication research in Scopus (1980-2020). A comparative perspective among Spain, Europe, and Latin America It is concluded that Spanish Communication research has developed around Journalism while the other classic disciplines (Audiovisual Communication, and Advertising and Public Relations) have not managed to consolidate a coherent and cohesive thematic and intellectual community to date, mainly due to their greater heterogeneity. In this sense, in general, the themes and references seen in Spanish Communication research remain closer to those of Europe than Latin America. Intellectually and thematically, Spanish research in Communication is closer to Europe than to Latin America.
Territorial bias in university rankings: a complex network approach In this work, we have achieved two relevant results: measuring the impact of the territory on the scores of universities in rankings, and decoupling this bias from the definition of performance, thus developing a fairer rating system.
Decolonizing Knowledge Production: Perspective on Promotion and Tenure Regulations in Palestine and beyond In conclusion, it is vital that Arab universities develop their own contextualized evaluation of academic work prioritizing the value and quality of research for the purpose of local and regional development in addition to contributing to the global body of knowledge.
The role of prior warnings when cheating is easy and punishment is credible We conclude that warnings are effective in discouraging cheating, insofar as warned cheaters behave similarly to non-cheaters.
Research calls, competition for funding and inefficiency Our results suggest that (1) reducing the dependence of the funding process on fund-ing activities' efforts, or (2) reducing the number of research groups by narrowing the subject of the call to groups that are very active in the call's subject might be particularly effective in reduc-ing inefficiency.
Comparing paper level classifications across different methods and systems: an investigation of Nature publications Being aware of the characteristics and limitations of the ways we categorize research publications is important to research management because it influences the way we think about established and innovative research topics, the way we analyze research activity and performance, and even the way we set up organizations to do research (Szomszor et al., 2021). Therefore, it is very important for researchers, those personnel with human resources func-tions, and policymakers to choose a categorization scheme by informed choice rather than happenstance. A good combination of quantitative analysis and the experts' perceptions will provide a more comprehensive and in-depth understanding on the differences among different classification systems. This kind of investigation is highly encouraged for future studies.
Measuring the innovation of method knowledge elements in scientific literature This paper proposes an innovation degree measurement framework of MKE in academic papers.
Citation burst prediction in a bibliometric network This study identifies the features that are more helpful for the researchers to gain more citations in a short time.
Are automated accounts driving scholarly communication on Twitter? a case study of dissemination of COVID-19 publications Our study enriches the understanding of the Twitter altmetrics study by demonstrating the active role of automated accounts in the process of research dissemination.
WeChat uptake of chinese scholarly journals: an analysis of CSSCI-indexed journals This study empirically explored the presence of CSSCI-indexed journals on the WeChat platform. As such, it represents the first proof of concept of how also local social media sources can be incorporated in the altmetric study of also local scholarly journals.
International research collaboration in Africa: a bibliometric and thematic analysis The findings of this study lead to a number of implications for both theory and practice.
Investigating Maps of Science Using Contextual Proximity of Citations Based on Deep Contextualized Word Representation This study has proved a significant contribution to finding important, relevant research articles.
Agricultural Research in Zimbabwe: An Author-level Bibliometric Analysis of Publication Outlets and Research Collaboration Part of the lessons learnt calls for author-level bibliometric studies to connect more closely with the local, regional and global politics of knowledge production.
Global and Local Research Excellence in Africa: New Perspectives on Performance Assessment and Funding The distinction between global and local excellence, within science funding and research assessment frameworks, offers a more comprehensive view and better understanding of high-end research performance of universities in Africa.
Economic Modelling at thirty-five: A retrospective bibliometric survey This retrospective survey of EM using a bibliometric methodology has revealed the trends in EM publications, the patterns in EM’s most-cited publications, the topics that are most prolific in EM, and the major themes that reflect the knowledge clusters in EM’s body of knowledge.
Alphabetized co-authorship in economics reconsidered Our findings thus contradict the conclusions by LT. We only find a statistically significant effect for the top 25 journals for author teams of size two. Our analysis shows that in the light of rising co-authorship (in economics), the ordering of authors seems to matter for citations if one submits a paper to a top journal in economics.
Trends and hot topics in radiology, nuclear medicine and medical imaging from 2011-2021: a bibliometric analysis of highly cited papers The bibliometric analysis of the highly cited papers provided the most updated trends and hot topics which may provide insights and research directions for medical researchers and healthcare practitioners in the future. And the practitioners and researchers in RNMI can be better aided to locate the relevant literature and keep informed about the hot topics.
In Between Centre and Periphery: Kenya as a Key Scientific Nation in East Africa? Our first motivation was to outline the relations of Kenya in regard to the global science system and other African national science systems.
Physician-scientists in the United States at 2020: Trends and concerns Weighing all of these indicators, it is difficult for us to draw definitive conclusions about the current status of the physician-scientist workforce. Better information is still needed to fully understand the status of the physician-scientist workforce, and to assess efforts to stabilize this vulnerable career path. We therefore call on the NIH leadership to reconvene the Physician-Scientist Working Group (which met last in 2013) to evaluate the successes and failures of the first report, and to consider remedial and/or new recommendations pertinent to this vital workforce, which performs a unique and essential service to the nation.
Promoting the Sustainable Improvement of Educational Empirical Research Quality: What Kinds of Collaborative Production Relationships Make Sense? According to the data analysis, scientific research collaboration can help improve the educational empirical research output quality (article influence), and an optimal scale phenomenon exists for collaborative research. From a theoretical perspective, this research is helpful for deepening the understanding of the relationship mechanisms of collaborative production relationship and educational empirical article influence. At the same time, from a practical perspective, scientific evidence has been provided to promote the continuous development and quality improvement of future educational empirical research.
ResearchGate Metrics' Behavior and Its Correlation with RG Score and Scopus Indicators A Combination of Bibliometric and Altmetric Analysis of Scholars in Medical Sciences Researchers' participation in the ResearchGate social network is effective in increasing citation indicators.
Bibliometric Evaluation of US Neurosurgery Subspecialties and Academic Rank Using RCR Index Higher academic rank is associated with increased m-RCR, but the two metrics can be utilized for field-normalized comparisons of faculty who differ in academic rank and subspecialty.
Global Research Trends on Shale Gas from 2010-2020 Using a Bibliometric Approach The bibliometric analysis that was presented in this study has revealed valuable information about the most active institutions and countries, and the most influential authors in the field of shale gas which could form the basis for establishing future collaboration. Furthermore, it can help researchers to understand the global research trend in shale gas as well as provide references for establishing future research directions. The main directions of future work will be related to pyrolysis (organic matter type and quality), CO2 sequestration, kinetic, gas adsorption, diffusion, simulation, economic potential, hydraulic fracturing (fracking) and the associated geological hazards and ways to reduce their impact, and how this raises awareness in the community.
Exploring the Role of International Research Collaboration in Building China's World-Class Universities Thus, international research collaboration effectively improves research performance, deepens academic networks, and disseminates local issues and solutions to the world, thereby enabling China’s world-class universities to reconcile global engagement with Chinese characteristics. We have found that international research collaboration can effectively improve the quality and impact of scientific research and has connected China to global science networks. In this process, we realized the need for world-class universities to provide more opportunities for international collaboration and to offer international insights and solutions based on local issues, in order to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Return migration of German-affiliated researchers: analyzing departure and return by gender, cohort, and discipline using Scopus bibliometric data 1996-2020 Our quantitative results for Scopus-published researchers with ties to Germany provide further evidence to support previous findings.
The genesis, development and implementation of an interdisciplinary university Cross-School Research Group There are four key understandings that have emerged from this limited, but revealing study: 1. institutionally, there is value in interdisciplinary research; 2. documenting and examining the process of establishing a cross-school research group and gathering and analysing data related to the process was critical as it allowed a deeper knowledge about individual and collective perspectives and aspirations, thus working from the ‘ground up’; 3. the Habermasian theoretical framework provided an analytical tool, enabling the identification of the importance of the academic Lifeworld and the role of institutional power and influence on research, and; 4. institutional support is essential to success so that the Steering Media can be more encouraging to the interdisciplinary work of academics.
A Study of the Influence of Collaboration Networks and Knowledge Networks on the Citations of Papers in Sports Industry in China This paper, by using the 2000–2021 Chinese Social Science Citation Index (CSSCI) database and Chinese Core Journals Particular Overview (core) of Peking University database in sports industry data in China, constructs the keywords knowledge and authors collaboration network and explores the relationship between network structure attributes and citation count from two perspectives. By analyzing the characteristics of the social networks at the paper level, this paper enriches the research on collaboration and knowledge networks of sports industry and paper citations and reveals the influence of the two networks on citation count in the sports industry. At the same time, this study can not only provide theoretical reference for subsequent scholars on how to improve scientific research quality and the amount of citation but also provide the theory basis for performance evaluation of the scientific research of scholars and the scientific guarantee for the sports industry to become a pillar industry of the national economy.
Healthcare Management: A Bibliometric Analysis Based on the Citations of Research Articles Published between 1967 and 2020 This paper provides an overview of research tendencies, challenges in healthcare management research, and possible future research perspectives. Our results show that there are regional disparities in scientific output that are related to some aspects of economic development, specificities of healthcare systems, and academic association models. In addition, our analysis is helpful in identifying unsatisfied challenges in the studied field that can trigger new ideas for further research.
Reporting COVID-19 preprints: fast science in newspapers in the United States, the United Kingdom and Brazil The study leads us to reflect on the challenges and weaknesses of covering fast science and the need to broaden the public's understanding of the methods and pro-cesses of science. This led to our conclusion that, intentionally or not, journalists do not tend to pay special attention or exercise more care in covering studies that were not peer reviewed.
Is coronavirus-related research becoming more interdisciplinary? A perspective of co-occurrence analysis and diversity measure of scientific articles This study has presented an intuitive understanding of the interdisciplinarity of coronavirus-related research between 1990 and 2020. Our analysis demonstrates that biomedical-related disciplines are the dominant disciplines in coronavirus-related research, including Medicine, Immunology and Microbiology, Biochemistry, Genetics and Molecular Biology. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the coronavirus-related research is not becoming more interdisciplinary before 2019, and the COVID-19 pandemic accelerate the degree of interdisciplinarity.
Identifying gender disparities in research performance: the importance of comparing apples with apples In conclusion, we argue that aggregate figures about gender differences in research productivity or performance can prove misleading because they compare apples and oranges. In our study, not only do the aggregate figures make the gender gap appear larger than it is for most publication practices, but in some contexts, they also obscure gender inequalities that are bigger, or more complex, than the aggregate figures suggest. Acknowledging the situated nature of academic publishing can help shift the discourse about gender and research productivity away from essentialist understandings of gender to more nuanced discourses about how other aspects of iden-tity—such as disciplinary belonging and degree of expertise—interact with gender to shape everyday publication practices in the academy.
Citation Context Analysis Using Combined Feature Embedding and Deep Convolutional Neural Network Model Keeping in view the fact that all citations are not equally important, and that qualitative measures of frequency count is not appropriate to portray the importance of research work, sentiment analysis of the citation can provide a better insight into the quality of a cited work, as it can predict the positive, negative, and objective intent of the citing author.
Female inventors over time: Factors affecting female Inventors' innovation performance This paper involved a longitudinal investigation of the effects of global co-inventor network properties on innovation output and specifically analyzed gender-related differences in the effects of co-inventor networks. Taken together, these findings highlight important inequalities in the structural position of female inventors and call for further investigation of the factors that lead to this outcome. Future studies could advance this research by considering various factors or combinations of inventor and patent characteristics (triadic patents, higher patent value, etc.) to identify highly qualified inventors.
The effect of writing style on success in grant applications Firstly, writing style matters: The linguistic characteristics of the project descriptions have an effect on the evaluation process.
Distinguishing transformative from incremental clinical evidence: A classifier of clinical research using textual features from abstracts and citing sentences We provide an efficient tool for identifying those clinical evidence challenging or only confirming established claims for clinicians and researchers. We have connected human knowledge in Faculty Opinions with machine learning methods to solve the problem of identifying transformative clinical studies. We also discover that linguistic patterns in citing sentences are more important and supportive than in abstracts when distinguishing transformative from incremental clinical studies.
Developing a topic-driven method for interdisciplinarity analysis This study presented a comprehensive framework that can enable topic-based interdisciplinarity analysis for a specific research domain consisting of multiple academic fields through a bottom-up approach.
Empirical analysis of recent temporal dynamics of research fields: Annual publications in chemistry and related areas as an example We introduced a methodological approach to analyse the dynamics of science on the level of research fields.
On predicting research grants productivity via machine learning Our findings indicate that predicting grants success, at least with the considered set of bibliometric features, is not a trivial task. Overall we found that the best results in all four considered approaches are statistically significant, meaning that some of the features play a role in predicting the output of research projects. Our results suggest that any of the considered features should be used as a single factor to decide whether a research grant should be funded, even if evaluations are performed by experts.
A study of referencing changes in preprint-publication pairs across multiple fields Our qualitative analysis suggests that peer review increases the methodological soundness of scientific claims, improves the communication of findings, and ensures appropriate credit for previous research. In tracking manuscript changes, we see a two-fold function of 'developmental peer review': examining the methodological soundness of manuscripts while improving the communication of findings and their appropriate credit (Horbach & Halffman, 2018). Future studies could bridge the advantage of sample size and specificity in detection of changes by using automated textual analysis, such as is used for plagiarism detection software, which could facilitate identifying changes in the text of a large sample of manuscripts (Strang & Dokshin, 2019).
Scientific performance across research disciplines: Trends and differences in the case of Slovenia "First, the trends of indicator values over time are for each indicator very similar for all level-1 UDC disciplines, although the increase or decrease is sometimes more evident for some disciplines."
Integrative model for discovering linked topics in science and technology Therefore, the proposed model can assist experts to identify LTSTs that cannot be recognized through simple fusion. Domain experts confirm that the integrative model with link prediction is better than the simple fusion model at identifying LTSTs. It discovers topics that cannot be recognized by simple fusion. Moreover, LTST recognition can be further improved through link prediction.
Which distance dimensions matter in international research collaboration? A cross-country analysis by scientific domain In general, the distances considered are barriers to global IRC, and the findings using different variables to check the robustness of our results are largely consistent with these results.
Modelling informetric data using quantile functions The main aim of the present work was to introduce quantile-based methods in informetrics and to derive some new properties of the Leimkuhler curve, one of the popular measures used in informetrics.
Heterogeneous Knowledge Learning of Predictive Academic Intelligence in Transportation In conclusion, the proposed Hy-LSTM-Att model performs the best in both the paper impact score regression and high-impact paper classification, which proves its superiority of academic prediction in the transportation field.
Development of an Embedding Framework for Clustering Scientific Papers The results of this study showed that the best performance in clustering was achieved when text, author, and citation data were embedded together. Academically, the proposed study consists of an embedding framework that uses various data, including the text data of a paper, its authors, and citations. From the practical perspective, there is a contribution in the prospect that the results derived through the paper clustering process can be used to derive a promising research field or devise an R&D strategy.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Global Pediatric Emergency Medicine Research Networks The formation of research networks has led to increased volume, as well as increased excellence determined by h-index and citations in PEM research.
The Status of Science, Technology and Innovation in Africa This overview poses questions regarding Africa's responses to the inter-related challenges of sustainability, health security and the emerging fourth industrial revolution.
Bibliometrics in Press. Representations and uses of bibliometric indicators in the Italian daily newspapers Our material shows, among other things, that the public dis-course developed in newspapers creates a favorable environment for bibliometrics-centered science policies, that bibliometric indicators contribute to the social construction of scien-tific facts in the press, especially in science news related to medicine, and that professional bibliometric expertise struggles to be represented in newspapers and hence reach the gen-eral public.
Citing documents of Wakefield's retracted article: the domino effect of authors and journals The present study reveals a growth in the number and diversity of authorship and journals in which citing documents of Wakefield's retracted study are published.
Deciphering the US News and World Report Ranking of US Chemistry Graduate Programs In summary, we find that although a purely reputational survey administered to only a small subset of faculty experts, US News’ ranking of chemistry programs can be understood in terms of seven intrinsic and extrinsic predictors, linked to a given department’s external research visibility and associated prestige. While some degree of anchoring is inescapable in any purely reputational survey, analysis of eCCDFs generated from multiple years of US News surveys since inception suggests gradual softening of anchoring effects with a characteristic timescale of 20 years.
Understanding the structure, characteristics, and future of collective intelligence using local and global bibliometric analyses Our findings support the Kuhnian idea of research communities as a useful concept in bib-liometric analysis. In general, future research is encouraged to ask the CI community about their definition of CI in each of the domains identified in both the local and global communities.
Understanding the Bibliometric Patterns of Publications in IEEE Access The article presents analytical results of publication and citation patterns, authorship structure, collaboration patterns, major funding sources, thematic structure, gender distribution, social-media visibility, and UN SDG connections of papers published in the IA journal.
Assessing publication rates from medical students' mandatory research projects in the Netherlands: a follow-up study of 10 cohorts of medical students Our findings suggest that a significant subset of hands-on mandatory research projects with flexible learning pathways result in tangible research output with proper impact and that such successful experiences can be considered as diving board towards a research-oriented career.
Assessing the impact of predatory journals on policy and guidance documents: a cross-sectional study protocol Results from this study will provide critical insight into the citation of predatory journals in policy and guidance documents.
Analyzing Faculty Open Access Publishing: A citation analysis of select colleges at the University of South Florida "This study, by looking at the publication output of seven different departments at USF over the past five years, showed clear benefits to publishing via OA venues."
Productivity spillovers in endogenous coauthor networks In this study, we examine cardiovascular scientists' choice of coauthors and productivity spillovers arising from collaborator networks.
Predicting the future impact of Computer Science researchers: Is there a gender bias? My results suggest that reliance on impact prediction models can have the unintended consequence of perpetuating gender inequality in access to research positions and funding. A one-sided focus on efficiency may also undermine intellectual diversity and hamper scientific progress in the long run. Given the broad practical and ethical implications of scientific impact prediction, the research community is called to discuss and clarify the criteria and procedures that should guide the allocation of research resources.
Peer review analyze: A novel benchmark resource for computational analysis of peer reviews Estimating Peer Review Quality is a crucial problem for the health of science and also to add force to the gatekeeper of scientific knowledge and wisdom.
A model for cooperative scientific research inspired by the ant colony algorithm We have established an ant-colony research model which enables us to understand the dynamical process of cooperative scientific research in various disciplines. Based on our model, we have made several interesting findings. Our work provides some preliminary understanding and guidance for the dynamical process of cooperative scientific research in various disciplines.
Academic favoritism at work: insider bias in Turkish national journals As Turkish universities are leading publishers of academic journals, the findings have important implications for the Turkish academia.
Why was this cited? Explainable machine learning applied to COVID-19 research literature Follow-up work should focus on the analysis of citation patterns in the context of phylogenetic trees, as well on patterns referring to DPP4, which is currently considered as a SARS-Cov-2 therapeutic target.
Academic vs. biological age in research on academic careers: a large-scale study with implications for scientifically developing systems Our research suggests that in scientifically developing countries, academic age as a proxy for biological age should be used more cautiously than in advanced countries: ideally, it should be used only for STEMM disciplines. Our detailed examination of the entire population of Polish academic scientists and scholars visible in the last decade in global science and holding at least a PhD (N=20,569) clearly indicates that using academic age as a proxy for biological age in academic career studies works well for STEMM disciplines. Global comparative studies of academic careers require reliable demographic data on a national scale, the production of which this study strongly encourages.
Bibliometrics as a promising tool for solving publication ethics issues The description of several possible techniques in this paper indicates that bibliometrics can be applied to a wide range of the detection of publication ethics issues. This is a rather new direction in the application of bibliometric tools, primarily used for the evaluation of research results.
How status of research papers affects the way they are read and cited The results suggest that higher citation counts lead to more meaningful engagement from readers and, consequently, the most highly cited papers influence the research frontier much more than their raw citation counts imply.
Retraction Stigma and its Communication via Retraction Notices In this paper, we have theorized retraction as stigma and expounded the concep-tual apparatus of retraction stigma, including its seven core dimensions, functions at both behavioral and psychological levels, various targets and stakeholders, the com-munication of such stigma (mainly through retraction notices), and strategic use of retraction stigma power via retraction notices.
Analyzing the generalizability of the network-based topic emergence identification method The network-based topic emergence identification is an alternative approach utilizing the network structure to model topics, validating the assumption that new topics can be distinguished by the structural properties of their neighborhoods in the past with classification accuracy up to 0.9. Binary classification on 20 domains showed that the proposed method can be applied to bibliographic datasets representing a specific subset of the domains. Consistent performance improvements were observed for incremental learning within each of the 20 domains over time, showing the method can adapt to various domains, such as business, chemistry, law, and medicine.
Publication Policy and Current Issues in the Development of Anthropological Research in Russia Specific measures to correct the current policy in the country in relation to the social disciplines and humanities are considered, and the author suggests to take into consideration the latest trends in the development of publishing, registration, and licensing of academic publications and to reach an optimal balance among support of natural science, social, and humanities-related research.
Status and trends of personalized medicine research from 2000 to 2020: a bibliometric analysis Owing to its both interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary nature, PM bestows researchers' numerous sources to benefit and enables them a field that they can be productive of for the future. Therefore, this field is expected to progress and be the lead area in medicine in the upcoming years. As such, this broader time interval enables a detailed evaluation of the progression in this field.
Refinement: Measuring informativeness of ratings in the absence of a gold standard In this paper, we articulated the concept of refinement as a novel way of quantifying the informativeness of human ratings that is particularly useful in the absence of a gold standard.
A probabilistic model for co-occurrence analysis in bibliometrics In this manuscript, we developed a new probabilistic model for MeSH term co-occurrence analysis and represented in detail its model frame, applications and performance based on the simulations. In general, the model is sufficient to complete the task of reducing the dimensionality of the co-occurrence matrix, and is superior to the existing state-of-the-art method.
The research landscape on the artificial intelligence: a bibliometric analysis of recent 20 years In a nutshell, analyses based on these datasets show the complementary results. This reveals the mutually reinforcement between journal and conference, academic and industry.
STRUGGLES AND DISPUTES IN THE SCIENTIFIC FIELD OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION: THE GENDER THEMATIC WORKING GROUPAT THE BRAZILIAN COLLEGE OF SPORTS SCIENCES This study concludes that the field has biases and that the agents are able to create struggle spaces. Due to the accumulated symbolic capital, the agents that produce about the gender theme in Physical Education consolidated the GTT Gender from its movement in the scientific field.
Collaboration is the new competition: developing sustainable international collaborative research delivered by a National Surgical Trainee Collaborative Group The true power of collaboration lies in the ability of surgeons and trainees working together to produce a research product greater than their individual capacity, with true meaningful impact for patients.
What Is Quality in Research? Building a Framework of Design, Process and Impact Attributes and Evaluation Perspectives The main value of the study is to propose a literature-derived and comprehensive inventory of quality attributes and perspectives of evaluation.
Marine mammal research in South America: 30 years of publication efforts and collaborative networks The publications focused on marine mammals by South American countries are related with funds devoted to the science and richness of species in each country. It was noticeable that some of the most endangered species were not among the most studied, and there are still 32 marine mammal species of South America categorized as data deficient by the IUCN (SOLAMAC 2021). The former should raise an alarm bell to indicate a gap in the South American academic community concerning the current global marine mammals' research trends.
Analysis of publications by authors of Ukrainian institutes in Scopus-delisted titles It is obvious that Ukrainian legislative initiatives aimed at improving the quality of national research and their better presentation are partially depreciated by the incorrect use of bibliometric indicators.
The impact of open access on knowledge production, consumption and dissemination in Kenya's higher education system This study has shown that, even with OA flourishing in Kenya and around Africa, actors have diverse perspectives about its impact on knowledge production and consumption. The Kenyan higher education system explored in this paper still faces a myriad of challenges such as financial constraints for both publishers and authors, and internet connectivity issues (particularly in rural areas). More research is needed to better understand the challenges and opportunities that OA presents in knowledge production, especially in Global South contexts that tend to be overlooked in global debates on knowledge production, consumption and dissemination.
The socio-economic value of scientific publications: The case of Earth Observation satellites The present work proposes and develops an original conceptual framework to estimate the socio-economic benefits related to new knowledge generation, from the strict perspective of the scientific community.
Merit and placement in the American faculty hierarchy: Cumulative advantage in archaeology In the American archaeological professoriate, productivity patterns ambiguously by degree-program level at initial hire; later productivity patterns broadly by degree program but with extensive overlap. Disparities do not owe to measurable differences in initial promise nor, as above, to data distributions, mobility, or differences in seniority or academic rank across program levels. Instead, they imply cumulative advantage. By its nature, particularism as its cause cannot be measured directly or easily, but it is a parsimonious explanation for differences that are negligible at ini-tial hire but deepen as careers mature in a field that effectively lacks mobility.
Metrics and mechanisms: Measuring the unmeasurable in the science of science We propose that understanding and modeling the mechanisms of science condition effective development and application of metrics.
Disturbance of questionable publishing to academia Our findings indicate an inflated citation impact of suspicious academic publishers.
Generalization of bibliographic coupling and co-citation using the node split network This analysis offers valuable insights into the process of searching for significantly related items regarding each coupling measure.
Cover effects on citations uncovered: Evidence from Nature Overall, our analysis casts doubts on the view that being featured on the cover of a prestigious scientific journal results in a boost in the number of citations received by an author. More generally, the identification and quantification of determinants of citation patterns that are unrelated to the intrinsic characteristics of cited works is a promising endeavor, as it can contribute to improve our understanding — and possibly the construction — of citation-based impact metrics.
Examining linguistic shifts between preprints and publications Our work reveals how linguistically similar and dissimilar preprints are to peer-reviewed text, quantifies linguistic changes that occur during the peer review process, and highlights the feasibility of document embeddings concerning preprint repository functionality and peer review's effect on publication time.
Tracking changes between preprint posting and journal publication during a pandemic While this finding should provide confidence in the utility of preprints as a way of rapidly communicating scientific findings that will largely stand the test of time, the value of subsequent manuscript development, including peer review, is underscored by the 7.2% of non-COVID-19-related and 17.2% of COVID-19-related pre-prints with major changes to their conclusions upon publication.
Leading countries in global science increasingly receive more citations than other countries doing similar research This leaves citational lensing as a useful metric in tracking the effectiveness of national science policies, as well as evaluating the relative importance of various national factors in nurturing a highly cited scientific community. Citational lensing also offers a way to study the differences in knowledge production between the Global South and the Global North, and the flow of knowledge between them. This inequality is likely to pose substantial challenges to the growth of novel ideas.
The Bibliometric Analysis on Finite Mixture Model This study presents a review on the finite mixture model within 1988 to 2020 via several dimensions, such as annual production trends, scientific production of journals and arti- cles, author’s keywords, and country scientific production. Therefore, it can be concluded that the publications of finite mixture model papers are shaped mainly by developed countries. Furthermore, the bibliometric analysis should be extended to explore moreitems such as institutions and authors to provide a complete and comprehensive view on finite mixture model papers.
The three cultures in American science: publication productivity in physics, history and economics The results provide robust empirical demonstrations of the distinct norms of publication productivity in physics, history and economics, representing the three disciplinary cultures.
When a journal is both at the 'top' and the 'bottom': the illogicality of conflating citation-based metrics with quality Our findings show that it is not uncommon for journals to attract citations to differing degrees depending on their category, resulting in journals that may at the same time be perceived as both 'high' and 'low' quality.
Preprint citation practice in PLOS We have shown that preprint citations have grown rapidly during the last years and that this growth is consistent with the creation and use of preprint repositories.
Assessing the impact of environmental accounting research: evidence from citation and journal data Environmental accounting researchers are likely to disseminate their research in other media than top-tier journals. This may have an impact on the academic viability of this field. Despite their strong connection to societal issues, some research themes could become understudied if journal rankings are not able to consider publication outlets in a more comprehensive way. There is a strong need for a broader consideration of scientific production, particularly in relation to its overall societal impact.
Contributorship in scientific collaborations: The perspective of contribution-based byline orders These findings advance studies of scientific collaboration and enrich the literature on the evaluation of scientific performance.
Open Access Monitor Germany: Best Practice in Providing Metrics for Analysis and Decision-Making The Open Access Monitor Germany (OAM) has established itself as an intensively used tool for scien-tific institutions and libraries. It has already provided important services for the open access transition at a national level, and continues to do so.
Cited Reference Analysis in a National Laboratory to Assess Journal Usage The results of this citation analysis indicate that the ORNL Research Library's collections provide our institution and researchers with a valuable resource for supporting their scholarly output. One of the tangible outcomes of this study is the creation of an evidence-based core journal list which has already proven to be a useful collection development tool. While this study did not identify any significant collection weaknesses, the confirmation that ORNL researchers seemingly require continual access to both recent and archival scientific publications indicates that additional funds might best be used to expand our electronic journal collection and purchase journal backfiles when possible.
Coverage of Data Sources and Correlations Between Altmetrics and Citation Indicators: The Case of a Brazilian Portal of Open Access Journals We concluded that the use of altmetric indicators, especially of Mendeley readers, can be considered complementary to bibliometric indicators.
How does academic education background affect top researchers' performance? Evidence from the field of artificial intelligence Overall, the present research has provided a deeper insight into the academic education factors that drive the success of AI talent.
Leveraging Axiomatic Design and Research Information Systems to Promote Research Outcomes at Public Universities Whereas most of the implemented RIMS/CRIS cover the research management life-cycle, starting from the submission of research works, our proposed Axiomatically Designed Research Support system ADRESS focus more on the research production life-cycle, towards boosting research at public universities.
A Bibliometric Analysis of First 45 Years of Journal of Management This study provides a bibliometric analysis of leading trends occurring in the scholarly achievements of JOM.
Signs of divisiveness, discrimination and stigmatization caused by Jeffrey Beall's ?predatory? open access publishing blacklists and philosophy Freedom of speech that embraces prejudice, via Beall's blog, and the establishment of "predatory" blacklists, are enhanced discriminatory ideologies that continue to be carried downstream from Beall to and by other like-minded individuals and groups who proliferate academic divisiveness and may also be formalizing and institutionalizing a culture of discriminative philosophies by cloning Beall's blacklists and encouraging their continued use.
Automated citation recommendation tools encourage questionable citations We argue that citation recommendation tools should be implemented with caution. Encouraging sloppy citation practices puts a further burden on the reliability of the research literature and hence shift the work of its assessment even more to readers: it will be up to readers to assess whether the arguments and evidence presented in a paper are properly supported by diligent citation. In conclusion, we argue that the consequences of citation recommendation tools should at least be understood and assessed before any attempts to implementation or broad distribution are undertaken.
The latent structure of global scientific development By uncovering the underlying structure of scientific development and connecting it with economic development, our results may offer a new perspective on the evolution of global science.
Navigating and negotiating global science: tensions in China's national science system This paper discusses the tensions in the national science system for an emerging scientific powerhouse that is actively engaging the global science system. Tensions lie in the relations between the academic governance and academic cultures, between the agenda of internationalization and the stratification of the higher education system, and between the universal and open nature of science and the hierarchically nested global science network. This study attempts to explore the complex tension behind the rapid growth of the total number of papers published in different disciplines, such as the number of citations and co-authors, to make a more accurate analysis of China's position in the global science system.
Should open access lead to closed research? The trends towards paying to perform research Our study has two main findings. Firstly, by comparing six countries, we find variations in the trends in how they transit to OA publishing. Secondly, we have seen rapid increases in the expenditure on APC among all the countries. As the global expenditure on APC are probably exceeding 2 billion US dollars annually, it should be time to discuss whether the original aims of OA are supported by paying to publish as a business model.
Disciplinary contributions to research topics and methodology in Library and Information Science-Leading to fragmentation? Our results indicate that traditional professional topics are cultivated mostly by LIS scholars, while IR, scientific communication and information seeking are mostly contributed by disciplines external to LIS.
"The more important findings are sustained": A diachronic perspective on the genre of the retraction notice This study has shown that compared to PRE-96 RNs in biomedical journals, POST-16 RNs have a more standardized schematic structure characterized by two compulsory moves (M2 and M6) and have more moves for mitigation and image repair.
Can transparency undermine peer review? A simulation model of scientist behavior under open peer review Although only abstract and highly hypothetical, our findings suggest the importance of multidimensional values of peer review and the anonymity and confidentiality of the process.
Analyzing the Scholarly Impact of Cardiothoracic Surgery Research Using the Relative Citation Ratio We present the first assessment of the NIH-validated RCR for academic CT surgery. CT surgery research is highly impactful, although gender disparities persist with respect to the highest-impact research of our specialty. Further efforts are required to understand and capitalize on the factors which contribute toward increased scholarly impact in CT surgery.
The evaluation of the Austrian START programme: an impact analysis of a research funding programme using a multi-method approach The evaluation showed that the START programme had considerable positive effects on the scientific performance of the START grantee: they performed significantly better than the control group for nearly all bibliometric indicators measured. Additionally, it strongly contributed to the career development of the START grantees. All START grantees remained in the science system; the majority in an Austrian institution. Based on the numerous positive impacts for the Austrian science system, the recommendation of the evaluation team to the FWF is to continue the programme.
Learning from the UK's research impact assessment exercise: a case study of a retrospective impact assessment exercise and questions for the future Thus, we would conclude that, overall, the assessment of research impact in the UK is still a work in progress.
Big Data Analysis of Water Saving Standard Based on Bibliometrics The overall trend of first rising and then falling shows that with the gradual improvement of water-saving awareness, the gap in China's water-saving standards has been significantly improved. The formulation of water-saving standards has a great impact on China's industrial, agricultural, and domestic water sectors, in order to adapt to the development of China's modernization, we should improve the water-saving standard system as soon as possible.
Worldwide ophthalmological research production 2000-2020, with special focus on the Nordic contribution The worldwide ophthalmic research productivity has maintained a growing trend from 2000 to 2020.
Disciplining interdisciplinarity: Infrastructure, identity, and interdisciplinary practice in nanoELSI research The paper examines interdisciplinary practice in nanoELSI through a case study of two CNSs.
Indian Science Reports: a web-based scientometric portal for mapping Indian research competencies at overall and institutional levels The main objective of the portal is providing an overview of the scientometric indicators for research output from India as well as individual Indian Institutions.
Superior identification index: Quantifying the capability of academic journals to recognize good research Hopefully, the new proposed SII metric and its extensions could promote the quality awareness and provide flexible tools for research evaluation.
Lost in affiliation: apatride publications in international databases We have found that by using information about the authors, it is possible to predict with high probability the countries with which the publication is affiliated.
Measuring the interdisciplinarity of Information and Library Science interactions using citation analysis and semantic analysis In this paper, we proposed a measurement model of interdisciplinary between two specific disciplines that takes both the citation relationships between disciplines and the semantic relationships found in research publications into account.
Measuring the influence of non-scientific features on citations Although our meta-analysis pointed out that some non-scientific features can be used to increase the probability of being cited, the temporal variability of their relevance jeopardizes any "recipes for success” based on their use.
Between panic and motivation: did the first wave of COVID-19 affect scientific publishing in Mediterranean countries? Based on the results obtained, it can be said that the MCs witnessed a remarkable difference in the volume and features of SP during the COVID-19 outbreak, and this pandemic served as a powerful incentive for more international collaboration, conducting research on related topics, writing in the most common language, and using the fastest forms of communication.
Epistemic community formation: a bibliometric study of recurring authors in medical journals "The results further indicate that the level of epistemic community formation, as measured by the percentage of recurring authors, is closely tied to specialization, and could therefore also be considered as yet another indicator of specialization."
Types of Errors Hiding in Google Scholar Data Almost all of the data retrieved from GS contained at least one error, calling the reliability of GS data into question.
Evaluation of the quality and subsequent performance of manuscripts rejected by Clinical Rheumatology: a research report Research report quality is an area for improvement, mainly for items critical to explaining the research and findings. The use of reporting guidelines should be encouraged by journals.
FIFTY YEARS OF JOURNAL KINESIOLOGY: BIBLIOMETRIC CHARACTERISTICS OF CATEGORIZED PAPERS SJR indicator, as well as IF, have been increasing, which means that the selection of articles is fairly strict, and the journal is considered as a quality journal in the areas of physical therapy, sports therapy, rehabilitation, and sports science. The positive changes that the journal has experienced in the fifty years of publication are reflected in the publication of the journal online, the digitization of all published issues and the fact that all papers are available for free in open access.
Tops and Trends in Iranian Cancer Research: A Bibliometric Analysis The number of research papers published by Iranian researchers on cancer is increasing.
Analysis of COVID-19 publications in the Indian Journal of Ophthalmology during two years of the pandemic and their impact on ophthalmic literature IJO opened a window of opportunity for authors by publishing quality expedited articles. Evidence-based orbital mucormycosis and general ophthalmology publications gathered most of the attention due to their heterogeneous presentation. The peak of the first wave (June-July 2020) and the October and December 2021 issues had maximum number of COVID-19 articles.
A comparison of scientometric data and publication policies of ophthalmology journals Full OA model in ophthalmology journals does not have a positive effect on the scientometric indexes.
Burnout amongst radiologists: A bibliometric study from 1993 to 2020 "Current analysis casts a spotlight on important trends being witnessed in regard to the mental health of radiologists, including lack of funding for mental health research, narrowing of female vs male citation gap, as well as authorship and citation trends."
The Impact of the CEDD-NET on the Evaluation of Rare Disorders: A Multicenter Scientific Research Platform in the Field of Pediatric Endocrinology This study demonstrated the benefits and necessity of establishing nationwide databases, even covering more than one country, in specialized branches, such as pediatric endocrinology where rare diseases are of concern.
The silver jubilee of the Nitric Oxide journal: From 1997 to 2021 Lastly, we would like to sincerely appreciate the EiC, the entire editorial board, reviewers, and especially all authors for their astonishing contributions. Congratulations to NOJ for perseverance and striving for excellence as a leading biochemical/medical journal.
A bibliometric analysis of the research on preeclampsia in the first two decades of the twenty-first century This study provides the overall landscape of science mapping in recent two decades in the field of preeclampsia, with the aim of identifying evolution of research topics and promoting potential concentration or collaboration in the future.
Bibliometric Approach to Evaluating the Impact of a Building Interdisciplinary Research Careers in Women's Health K12 Research Career Development Program Overall, bibliometric results showed that the BIRCWH program had both a strong impact on the research career development of individual Scholars, as well as a strong collective impact as an entire program compared with a comparison group. At the Scholar level, the results can be used to provide evidence of research impact in materials developed for merit review and promotion as well as in job and research grant applications. At the program level, the results can be used at the institutional level to gain broad administrative support and leverage additional funds for program activities and for evidence of program success for continuation funding from federal agencies.
A bibliometric overview of the International Journal of Gastronomy and Food Science: To where is gastronomy research evolving? The data obtained provide researchers with strategic information on the scientific studies to be carried out in the field of gastronomy. The analysis indicates that the interest in the journal and gastronomy is increasing day by day, with a geometric growth rate of 63% on a yearly basis. Currently, IJGFS mainly has Europe-based collaborations and publications.
Essential signals in publication trends and collaboration patterns in global Research Integrity and Research Ethics (RIRE) In this study, bibliometric analysis capture and characterize the macroscopic trends within the broader RIRE research community.
Open access in Angola: a survey among higher education institutions The results show that despite a relatively quick recovery of the HEI sector since the end of the civil war, concerning OA specifically there is still a lack of wider application, knowledge, and culture about it. Future research could approach the issue from an in-depth qualitative perspective through interviews to zoom into e.g. incentives and challenges that local faculty experience with regards to becoming or being active in research. We see it is necessary for the MESCTI to build a policy to facilitate related initiatives and to promote the knowledge that is produced in the country within the country, not only from outside, but this could also be done building capacities that helps researchers to trust national journals and the processes they have to ensure research and diffusion of knowledge.
Combining dissimilarity measures for quantifying changes in research fields In this paper, we developed a method to measure the changes in a research field comb-ing a collection of dissimilarity measures using PCA, while most of the existing studies use only few (mostly just one single) dissimilarity measures.
Discovering Interdisciplinary Research Based on Neural Networks Compared with traditional methods, this method makes full use of the semantic information of the author keywords in papers and has high accuracy in identifying the author keywords related to interdisciplinary research.
Differences in female representation in leading management and organization journals: Establishing a benchmark Our results provide a benchmark for female representation across leading journals and allow for the formulation of concrete research policy goals and directions for change. Our findings allow journal benchmarking as well as learning from differences between top journals within a given field, and suggest concrete avenues for narrowing the gender gap. Our findings have a number of research policy implications that might be taken into account by editorial boards, mentors and designers of doctoral programs, recruitment and promotion committees, and ac-ademic colleagues seeking to narrow the gender gap within single journals or the overall field.
The vexing but persistent problem of authorship misconduct in research Overall, our conclusion having undertaken this study is this: authorship misconduct needs to be addressed not only because of its own pernicious effects, which can be considerable, but also because its classification as a QRP makes it attractive as a convenient plea bargain for researchers wishing to escape culpability for the more serious offences of FFP.
Different manifestations of 'context': examples from a bibliometric study of research in Zimbabwe in Southern Africa The study made explicit and illustrated six types of context application and construction in a bibliometric study of research in Zimbabwe.
Identifying benchmark units for research management and evaluation This study has defined benchmark research units and presented a model for how appropriate benchmarks can be discovered.
The scientific publication of the Memorias do Instituto Oswaldo Cruz (1909-2020): a history of contribution to the biomedical sciences Since its foundation in 1909, the MIOC has focused on infectious and parasitic diseases. The editorial changes implemented from the 1980s onwards led MIOC to a relevant growth concerning annual publications and its transformation into an important communication vehicle for researchers from several Brazilian organisations besides Fiocruz, as well as organisations from other countries, especially within Latin America. Based on this historical pattern, we believe that the MIOC's publication profile is not likely to change in the coming years.
Insurance Design and Pharmaceutical Innovation We find that drug classes facing a one standard deviation greater risk of experiencing exclusions see an 11% decline in drug development activity following the introduction of closed formulary policies.
Effect of Altmetric score on manuscript citations: A randomized-controlled trial Promoting papers diffusion in social media led to a significant improvement in Altmetric score, which in turn increased the number of citations and downloads.
Working with curiosity: Knowledge transfer practitioners' ambivalence at CERN This article contributes to discovering the complicated situation of knowledge transfer at CERN by identifying the ambivalence in the interviews with the knowledge trans- fer practitioners. From the perspective of effective manage- ment, ambivalence leads to more complexity and uncertainty of practising knowledge transfer at CERN. Future directions of mitigating the ambivalence towards knowledge transfer at CERN can have practical steps as follows: (1) Discuss inter-departmentally and among the peers what the impact of particle and high-energy physics is and can be. (2) Research collaboratively on the transferrable capability and market competitiveness of the knowledge, technol- ogy, and innovation during their development. (3) Cultivate a sense of responsibility for knowledge trans- fer through the issues that have strong public aware- ness.
Top 100 Cited Articles on Clinical Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation: A Bibliometric Analysis Our study highlights the most influential articles on clinical HSCT and provides valuable insight for future research needs of the specialty.
Analysis of co-authorship networks among Brazilian graduate programs in computer science This work proposes a complex network approach to analyse and characterize the co-authorships of Brazilian computer science graduate programs. The random forest classifier algorithm pointed the number of isolated nodes out as an important feature. Thus, it was possible to observe that graduate programs with higher CAPES grades are more productive because they have more publications per researcher, therefore, more efficient. Investigations concerning how the CAPES grade is related to other qualitative indexes available in the literature are needed and suggested as further work.
Under pressure: The extent and distribution of perceived pressure among scientists in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland Summarizing all findings reported above, some policy implications can be derived on how to mitigate excessive pressure: First (and this is not a new finding, but is confirmed by our results), more secure, permanent positions should be created—not only, but especially, for predoctoral researchers. Second, it should be ensured that scientists have sufficient time for their research and are not overburdened by other tasks, such as teaching or administrative activities. Finally, the results suggest that further investments should be made (3) to promote equal career opportunities for women and men and (4) to ensure that scientists have sufficient time for their research and are not so occupied with other responsibilities, such as teaching or administrative duties.
Exploring the Determinants of Research Output: A Proposed Typology of University Researchers in Ecuador The study delivers specific guidelines for enhancing decisions about the allocation of resources to improve individual research output in the universities. Our results show that, in emerging countries, there are different profiles of professors characterized by their levels of scientific production. The typology presented allows to manage research resources according to the characteristics of each group.
Publications in Pediatric Epilepsy: Using Bibliometrics to Determine Readings in the Field Our article is a pilot study to see if a cogent reading list could be determined bibliometrically in the way suggested by Maggio et al.
Analysing academic paper ranking algorithms using test data and benchmarks: an investigation Our findings confirmed the existence of differences in the analysis results when using test data and different benchmarks with data, which means that relying exclusively on one single benchmark could lead to inadequate analysis results. A guideline was summarised to help choose the evaluation method based on the test data availability and objectives of the evaluated algorithms, and lastly a multi-benchmark approach was suggested for algorithm analysis, which can help build a comprehensive profile for the evaluated algorithms to gain more reliable and holistic insights into their performance. This is an importance step towards building up an unbiased and unified benchmark and gold standard for evaluation of ranking algorithms in the field of academic paper ranking.
Local emergence, global expansion: understanding the structural evolution of a bi-lingual national research landscape This research has shown that, on issues of global relevance, language matters.
Toward an observatory of the evolution of clinical trials through phylomemy reconstruction: the COVID-19 vaccines example This new method provides important insights for the global coordination between research teams especially in crisis situations such as the COVID-19 pandemic. We claim that phylomemy reconstruction could be instrumental to guide trialists, funders, and decision makers in biomedical research.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Child Language During 1900-2021 Under the impact of new empirical materials and new theories, the field of CL is undergoing profound changes. This paper makes a bibliometric analysis of the research trend and evolution of child language research in the past 100 years. Findings of this study will contribute to the research in this field.
Capability of non-English-speaking countries for securing a foothold in international journal publishing This study concluded that China and South Korea should monitor their development of JCR journals due to their faster improvement in the average annual rank percentage per growth journal.
Exploring perception of retraction based on mentioned status in post-retraction citations "From the different traits of the post-retraction citations of retracted papers in terms of their citation location, citation sentiment, and unaware duration, the scholars' level of perception on retractions in the psychology field is obtained."
A new method for measuring the originality of academic articles based on knowledge units in semantic networks Both the consequences of our experiment and this comparison demonstrate the characteristics of our method and verify its effectiveness.
Rank-frequency data and impact in a continuous model: Introducing impact bundles We introduced and defined the notion of strong impact measures in connection with strong impact curves. Generalizing these notions, we presented the idea of impact bundles.
A systematic method for identifying references to academic research in grey literature In answer to the research questions, it is possible to match references in grey literature to a known list of academic publications. The ultimate method proposed (lead author last name and title in either order, a maximum of 200 characters apart) has low underestimation of reference count and can be treated as effective. To aid with impact assessment of this type of content, it is also suggested that researchers potentially wishing to measure impact of their grey literature should endeavour to create DOIs where appropriate so persistent identifiers already used to assess impact by other mediums (Altmetric, n.d.) can be extended into the grey literature realm.
To Decline or Accept A Guide for Determining the Legitimacy of Academic Conference Invitations Based on our findings, emails soliciting conference speakers, claims of international pres-ence, grammatical errors, unprofessional headshots, and reduced virtual conference fees are all characteristics that should raise red flags.
Visualization Analysis of Organizational Resilience Research Based on CiteSpace From 1990-2022 Regarding contributions to the organizational resilience research, from a micro (author)-perspective, the high-yield authors are Luthans F, Azadeh A, and Avey J, while the most frequently cited authors are Van D, Weick K, Holing C, Luthans F, and Folke C. This study provides valuable insights for organizational resilience researchers to understand the current state of research and trends in organizational resilience through a visual analysis of research in the field from 1990-2022. Although research in this area has received widespread attention from scholars, its theoretical development is still immature, and the results of this study provide several reference directions for future organizational resilience studies.
Hype, skin in the game, and the stability of cooperative science We argued that the structure of collective science exposes it to a hype instability. Low skin in the game allows nudges to initiate internal feedbacks and a drift toward structural instability, i.e. a system reconfiguration. Along the drift, the number of results hyped as breakthroughs will increase and more claims will fail to live up to the hype. This provides a proposed answer to the motivating question.
Spotlight on Early COVID-19 Research Productivity: A 1-Year Bibliometric Analysis Our findings ultimately demonstrated and confirmed a massive output in early COVID-19 publications thus far, higher than any previous outbreak.
A 10-year bibliometric analysis of publications in emergency medicine In summary, we found that there is an increasing trend in the number of EM publications since 2010 which has stabilized over the final five years. Most publications were led by authors in the United States followed by Turkey, Canada, Australia, and China. These findings may provide insights into the current trends and scientific agendas of the EM research.
Characterization of the communities of attention interacting with scientific papers on Twitter: altmetric analysis of a Brazilian University Regarding the typologies of the profiles that shared papers on Twitter, we observe that profiles of individuals are more important than the other profiles identified. This shows that individuals are the main community of attention in social media, and that organizations, in general, have an important but secondary role. A limitation of this study was the choice of articles from a single Brazilian university for the analyses. However, studies like this one can help in the discussion and proposition of hypotheses, contributing to the understanding of the potential and limits of altmetrics to support decisions.
Drivers and barriers in the transition to open science: the perspective of stakeholders in the Spanish scientific community Despite the limitations in terms of the representativeness of the results of a qualitative study, this research has allowed us to deepen our knowledge of the current perceptions of the stakeholder in the Spanish scientific community with respect to Open Access, twenty years after the Budapest Open Access Initiative and the first open access initiatives. The plurality of views collated by collecting information from all stakeholders has revealed the constraints perceived by some and the competence of others. The current lack of harmony that has been detected between scientific practices and the policies and strategies developed by the competent institutions generate a context of uncertainty that will only be overcome with an adequate regulatory framework that includes a break with traditional assessment models and which is accompanied by adequate funding.
Relevance of Accounting Research (ROAR) Scores: Ratings of Titles and Abstracts by Accounting Professionals Thus, ROAR scores identify individuals and institutions that excel in producing practice-relevant knowledge, which may not coincide with citation counts.
Free for all, or free-for-all? A content analysis of Australian university open access policies Our findings show just how vital consensus building and standardisation will be as part of this process.
A light in the dark: open access to medical literature and the COVID-19 pandemic The pandemic represents a real breakthrough, in scientific publishing, towards the goal of health information for all, demonstrating that much greater access to medical literature is possible.
Bibliometric Analysis of Veterinary Communication Education Research over the Last Two Decades: Rare Yet Essential In conclusion, we found that the publication quantity has been increasing at a sharp slope rate over the last twenty years, which indicates that both veterinary education research and veterinary communication research have been in growing stages, and will attract increased attention in the future.
Protected Area Effectiveness in the Scientific Literature: A Decade-Long Bibliometric Analysis Over the last decade, there was a steady growth in the number of articles published on the ecological effectiveness of PAs, using complete or incomplete semiexperimental research designs.
Towards a new generic framework for citation network generation and analysis in the humanities Our findings from the analysis of the corpus of over 15,000 books on ancient Mediterranean religions demonstrate that the comparative exploration of heterogenic citation networks of different types and specification levels allows to better capture the structure and knowledge distribution of the discipline, such as: (i) the presence of core only in the primary literature corpus; (ii) the relatively uniform distribution and high connectivity of the secondary literature; and (iii) the division into communities and sub-communities emerging from the integration of the results of several types of networks rather than from a single network type.
How accurate are news mentions of scholarly output? A content analysis These results suggest that although the Altmetric database has made great achievements in collecting news altmetrics data, the data collection can be further improved.
Entity linking systems for literature reviews This article presents an approach, the entity linking approach, to overcome lexical ambiguity.
Gender differences among first authors in research focused on the Sustainable Development Goal of Gender Equality This investigation highlights the importance of increasing gender diversity in SDG5-related studies, which is helpful for the achievement of sustainable development. Our findings show that compared to male 1st authors, SDG5-related publications by female 1st authors have relatively lower citation impact and slightly higher interest among readers (measured as views). This may imply a need to increase gender diversity in these studies, which can make it possible to give full play to the strengths of authors of different genders.
Combining machine learning and main path analysis to identify research front: from the perspective of science-technology linkage This article has the following contributions: (1) This article combines MPA and machine learning techniques to identify research front in S&T. This method has good performance and can be used in other fields in the future. (2) Based on the MPA, it is found that this field is concentrated in RFID technology, RFID cost intelligent manufacturing, cloud services and intelligent packaging. (3) Existing studies show that RFID cost and intelligent manufacturing are future research directions (Ben-Daya et al., 2019).
Encoding the citation life-cycle: the operationalization of a literature-aging conceptual model In this study, we introduce a new micro-level conceptual model of literature aging. SP can function as an improvement of the JIF and its variants. RP provides another approach to supplement JIF and its variants. Finally, it is necessary for us to exploit the “literature revival" deeply, which will help to understand more about the laws of literature aging.
Collaboration Effect by Co-Authorship on Academic Citation and Social Attention of Research We quantified the contribution of collaboration to the academic citation and social attention of research.
Winners and runners-up alike?-a comparison between awardees and special mention recipients of the most reputable science award in Colombia via a composite citation indicator This study aimed to examine the bibliometric features of individual researcher profiles of the sCSE before and after receiving the recognition and to compare the research impact of that group with that of the CSE via a composite citation indicator.
Knowledge Trajectories on Public Crisis Management Research from Massive Literature Text Using Topic-Clustered Evolution Extraction This study introduces LDA-HMM to reveal the knowledge evolution process of public crisis management research and to predict its future trend based on the double stochastics of the research topics. This study has practical implications for preventing crisis events, optimizing related policies, and grasping key research areas in the future. The main limitation of this study is that the experimental data are limited to the articles for homogeneity, which cannot depict the whole trajectory of the knowledge evolution.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Publication Patterns in Pediatric Neurology "Our study revealed that child neurology articles are published more often in pediatric journals as opposed to general neurology and neurology subspecialty journals."
Publication practices during the COVID-19 pandemic: Expedited publishing or simply an early bird effect? In summary, we observed that publication delays for COVID-19 manuscripts were definitely improved, thanks to various initia-tives launched after a few months into the pandemic, but this advance was only incremental.
Perceptions of Research Integrity Climate in Hungarian Universities: Results from A Survey among Academic Researchers Our results suggest that institutions should pay more attention to early career researchers, especially insecure and temporary positions like postdocs and assistant professors. They should provide RCR resources, socialize them in RCR, and set more reasonable expectations. Moreover, department leaders should develop initiatives to foster better integrity climates.
Do cover papers get better citations and usage counts? An analysis of 42 journals in cell biology In this study, we investigated whether the placement of a paper on the journal cover leads to more citations and a higher usage count when we controlled for influencing factors at the paper and journal level. The results indicate that cover papers obtained more impact and attracted more attention than non-cover papers in most cases in the cell biology field. That is to say, the number of citations and usage counts, which have long been regarded as an unbiased indicator of the academic level of a paper, can be affected by whether the paper appears on the cover of the journal.
Gender inequalities in research funding: Unequal network configurations, or unequal network returns? Our results show that despite building similar collaborative networks and despite a more balanced gender composition in collaborative networks in disciplines with a higher number of tenured women, female academics still receive less funding for their research in nearly all disciplines.
Early firm engagement, government research funding, and the privatization of public knowledge This paper empirically investigates the relationship between individual scholars' research funding and paper citations and the moderating effect of early firm engagement. Our findings have important implications for understanding public knowledge production and firm engagement in the science-based innovation process. Future research can broaden the scope of the sample to examine whether our findings can be gen- eralized. Another limitation is that we use citations as a sole indicator of public production quality. Future work that uses a set of quality indicators would help address this limitation.
Reproducibility of COVID-19 pre-prints Our analysis shows that there is room for improvement in the areas of open data and code availability within COVID-19 pre-print papers on arXiv, bioRxiv, and medRxiv. In all fields of science, increasing access to data and code used for pre-printed or published research is a step in the direction of more transparent, reproducible, and reliable research. Future work would expand our analysis to consider the geographic distribution of research and the potential influence of different practices and policies concerning open science.
How research data deliver non-academic impacts: A secondary analysis of UK Research Excellence Framework impact case studies "The analysis found that research data on their own rarely generate impacts."
Influencing factors of and multiple paths to high performance in multidisciplinary scientific research cooperation in colleges in China: a fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis Only the integration of internal changes with the support of the external environment can ensure the stable development of multidisciplinary scientific research cooperation among colleges.
Identifying widely disseminated scientific papers on social media XGB can effectively identify both broadly mentioned and long-term disseminated papers by using literature-related and social media-related features, but there is no technique that can accurately identify WDPs without social media-related features.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on scientific research in the life sciences The scientific community has swiftly reallocated research efforts to cope with the COVID-19 pandemic, mobilizing knowledge across disciplines to find innovative solutions in record time. Our results provide compelling evidence that research related to COVID-19 has indeed displaced scientific production in other biomedical fields of research not related to COVID-19, with a significant drop in (impact weighted) scientific output related to non-COVID-19 and a marked reduction of financial support for publications not related to COVID-19 [4, 5, 16]. As vaccination progresses, we highlight the urgent need for science policy to re-balance support for research activity that was put on pause because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Social media usage to share information in communication journals: An analysis of social media activity and article citations This present study showed that the visibility of articles might be increased by sharing them on social media, which allows the real effects of the articles to emerge more rapidly. The results of this study show that articles with exposure to social media had higher citation rates. Therefore, the scientist and journals should develop new projects to increase the usage of social media.
A semantic main path analysis method to identify multiple developmental trajectories To address these limitations, a new method, named as semantic MPA (sMPA), is proposed in this work.
Combination of research questions and methods: A new measurement of scientific novelty Our study innovatively integrates the age, frequency, and semantics of research methods and research questions that characterizes novelty in scientific publications.
Is it all bafflegab? - Linguistic and meta characteristics of research articles in prestigious economics journals This paper took a novel approach in analyzing the relationship between linguistic and meta characteristics of scientific texts and the prestige associated with the journal they were published in. Even though one must be very cautious in concluding any sort of direct causality from individually measured effects, we deem the consistency of the influence of this particular feature set across topics to be a clear indication of an underlying association and more than sufficient grounds for further investigation. Our empirical results moreover revealed a complex relationship between readability and scientific prestige that sheds additional light on the previously hypothesized bafflegab theory and contained interesting avenues for future research.
Investigating the mentorship effect on the academic success of young scientists: An empirical study of the 985 project universities of China Our results suggest that young scientists' acquisition of an academic title can be affected by both their research performance and their mentor's academic status.
The Academic Inbreeding Controversy: Analysis and Evidence from Brazil The overall conclusion is that there is no evidence to support the detrimental view of academic inbreeding based on scientific productivity.
Quantifying the online long-term interest in research In this study, we created models to predict the online long-term interest in research articles on social media. We found that the number of mentions in Patents documents, Mendeley and Twitter are the main factors in determining the long-term online interest for an article. In future work, we plan to use a range of prediction categories such as short-, mid-, and long-term interest. Additionally, we intend to include more features such as the textual features in research articles, citation count, and the h-index of the authors and venues.
What makes or breaks competitive research proposals? A mixed-methods analysis of research grant evaluation reports "Our study brought forward two important findings about the evaluation process in ITN as one of most competitive EU research funding schemes."
The Sequences and the Sequencers: What Can a Mixed-Methods Approach Reveal about the History of Genomics? Our main conclusion is that when broader sequencing practices-especially those addressed to nonhuman species-are taken into account, the large-scale center model that characterized the organization of the HGP falls short in representing genomics as a whole.
When a coauthor joins an editorial board No single hypothesis can explain the patterns that we find in the publication and citation data.
Adjectives and adverbs in life sciences across 50 years: implications for emotions and readability in academic texts First, our results suggested that the upward trend in the use of adjectives and adverbs across the past 50 years can be partly explained by the increasing use of emotion adjectives and adverbs. Findings of the present study may be enlightening to the study of text readability in that future development of text readability measurement can consider indices concerning the use of adjectives and adverbs, particularly emotion ones. Therefore, scientific writers are advised to report their works in a clear and concise manner (Freeling et al., 2021; van Way, 2007; Weinberger et al., 2015), and be cautious with the use of adjectives and adverbs in writing their research articles (Lingard & Watling, 2021).
More journal articles and fewer books: Publication practices in the social sciences in the 2010's The article-dominated literatures of the social sciences are becoming increasingly similar to those of STEM disciplines.
VisualRPI: Visualizing Research Productivity and Impact Measuring researcher productivity and impact (RPI) is always a critical issue for hiring, tenure, and promotion decisions. In this article, we present a prototype system, called visualizing research productivity and impact (VisualRPI), which is designed to clearly visualize researchers' RPI over a range of various statistics, such as the average number of papers/citations, the average cites per paper/year, etc. Our results show that assigning a weighting value of 1.2 to some different statistics produces more explainable clustering results. Despite its usefulness, in the future, VisualRPI could be further improved by providing some other flexible functionality for users, such as manually defining the level of the presentation hierarchy, and the feature weight.
SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 Research Trend during the First Two Years of the Pandemic in the United Arab Emirates: A PRISMA-Compliant Bibliometric Analysis This study captured the relevant literature in COVID-19 research affiliated with the UAE and showed the research trends and future directions.
Mapping the research landscape of Covid-19 from social sciences perspective: a bibliometric analysis The study summarizes that the current research topics envisage Covid-19 related dis-cussions on mental health, psychosocial problems, unemployment, economic crisis, social distancing measures, tourism, and air pollution. The key themes were summed up as psy-chosocial problems among people, business economics and models, the outbreak of SARS, and discussions on the quality of life in terms of surroundings and the environment. The academic sphere demands a necessity for the developed countries who are documenting and publication papers actively on social sciences related publications addressing the impact of COVID-19 on different communities and sectors to collaborate with the least developing nations of the world to encourage these nations to explore the areas of their concern in the best possible manner.
Public use and public funding of science Overall, public uses of science present a rich landscape of specialized consumption, yet, collectively, science and society interface with remarkable alignment between scientific use, public use and funding. What the public uses and what scientists themselves use are closely consistent. And the funding of science closely tracks quantifiable public use. These results suggest the connections between the ivory tower and the real world appear more aligned than is commonly imagined.
Scientometric Analysis and Classification of Research Using Convolutional Neural Networks: A Case Study in Data Science and Analytics This study provides a methodological guide for fine-grained classification of scientific literature and a thorough investigation of its practice.
Visualization and Bibliometric Analysis of Research Trends on Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Broadly, there is growing evidence that HBOT substantially contributes to the treatment of disease, both in primary management and as an adjuvant. Therefore, the focus of future research could be determining whether HBOT has benefits in the treatment of diseases such sudden deafness, Parkinson's syndrome, dementia, cancer and other diseases, and even currently prevalent diseases such as COVID-19. More importantly, a clearer strategic direction and broader development space for HBOT should be formulated to stimulate the development of the medical field and improve the quality of medical care.
Patterns of interest change in stack overflow In summary, our work studies the Q &A community user's interest change patterns. Interestingly, our findings show that the user's interest change follows a power-law distribution, which is entirely different from the research interest change distribution of the scientists (exponential distribution), indicating that users in the community are more inclined to exploration strategy.
Bibliometric Studies on Renewable Energy-Poland Compared to Other EU Countries The obtained results revealed the researchers' interest in similar topics in the last seventeen years (from 2005 to 2021) regarding both Poland and other EU countries, i.e., wind power and electricity generation from wind, bio-energy, environmental protection, climate change, solar energy in general, and energy transition. Using the bibliometric analysis made it possible to identify leading journals on the publication market. The strong concentration of published articles around these journals is confirmed by the values of the Gini coefficient (greater than 0.5 for publications relating to both regions).
How the Covid-19 crisis shaped research collaboration behaviour The results of the multivariate econometric analysis, however, indicate a discontinuity in the propensity to collaborate, although differing according to the type of collaboration: a significant increase in the propensity to national collaboration (both intra- and extramural) seems to emerge, accompanied by a lower propensity to international collaboration. Such characterisations differentiate among countries, however, with some apparently increasing and some reducing recourse to the three different forms of scientific collaboration. Specific national investigations should be conducted to validate the findings from this pro-posed analysis, and to develop understanding of the relative determinants.
Relevance of document types in the scores' calculation of a specific field-normalized indicator: Are the scores strongly dependent on or nearly independent of the document type handling? Rather different scores are produced on the individual publication level.
Largest contribution to LIS by external disciplines as measured by the characteristics of research articles Consequently, the development of LIS in the areas of Information retrieval, Information seeking, and Scientific communication seems highly dependent on the contribution of other disciplines.
The model of maximum productivity for research universities SciVal author ranks, productivity, university rankings, and their implications Our results show that the SMP should be modified to better explain how productivity can be enhanced, and we found that research excellence could be further increased if departments put more emphasis on productivity in the recruitment process.
A new index for assessing faculty research performance in higher educational institutions of emerging economies such as India Considering the need for an index that accounts for the time spent on research activities, the quality of recent papers, and normalization across different fields, the new GG-index is proposed to assess research productivity.
A 10-Year Bibliometric Analysis of Global Research on Gut Microbiota and Parkinson's Disease: Characteristics, Impact, and Trends "The number of papers on Parkinson's disease and gut microbiota has been increasing; however, high-quality jour-nals have maintained the same high publication rate over the last decade."
Trend and status of Food Science and Technology category based on the Essential Science Indicators during 2011-2021 This work is useful for student identifying graduate schools and researchers selecting journals.
Bibliometric analysis of blueberry (Vaccinium corymbosum L.) research publications based on Web of Science This study analyzed 3,872 article and review type papers of blueberry research publications based on the Web of Science, papers mainly written in English (97.34%), were from 10,102 authors, 83 countries/territories, 2,033 organizations and published in 770 Journals and three book series.
Microwave effect: analyzing citations from classic theories and their reinventions-a case study from a classic paper in aquatic ecology-Brooks & Dodson, 1965 The microwave effect can create the impression of scientific advancement when there is little being added to the knowledge already produced.
Influence in economics and aging In this paper, we use the rich and growing RePEc database to capture several years of implicit competition for higher ranking between lead-ing economists of different ages. We find that the relationship between age and rankings follows a U-shape. Economists reach the peak of their ranking at age 60, around 30 years after Ph.D. graduation. Moreover, scientists whose exceptional influence is recognized externally by the Nobel Committee do not expe-rience a deterioration in their rankings when their works and citations are discounted by the recursive impact factor. For breadth of citations across fields, their rankings even improve at old age.
New Evidence on the Relative Scholarly Productivity of Male versus Female Political Scientists Our results in both tables 1 and 2, using important measures of research output, indicate that even after taking account of time in the profession, men remain generally more productive than women.
Mapping the Intellectual Structure of Medical Sociology: A Co-Word Analysis Most research approach was seen on the medical aspect rather than the sociological aspect. Despite the importance of sociological aspects such as social rooting of disease, sociability, medicine as a social institution and etiological studies, these subjects have not been sufficiently considered. In other words, there are no major and mature topics in this field.
Cover papers of top journals are reliable source for emerging topics detection: a machine learning based prediction framework This study provides a compressive ML framework to predict the emerging research trends in an innovative way.
EVOLUTION OF BIOMEDICAL INNOVATION QUANTIFIED VIA BILLIONS OF DISTINCT ARTICLE-LEVEL MeSH KEYWORD COMBINATIONS Our main results are twofold: (a) despite the persistent addition of new MeSH terms, the network is densifying over time meaning that scholars are increasingly exploring and realizing the vast space of all knowledge combinations; and (b) conceptual innovation is increasingly concentrated within single research articles, a harbinger of the recent paradigm shift towards convergence science.
Quantifying Award Network and Career Development in the Movie Industry This work has strong implications for the harmonious dynamics of the movie industry and the career development of performers.
Power Laws in altmetrics: An empirical analysis "Based on the empirical analysis, we report the occurrence of Power Laws in altmetrics, where our data on altmetrics constitute counts of mentions about scientific articles." "The existence of Power Laws in altmetrics can further strengthen the parallelism between altmetrics and citations." "Major implications of power law in altmetrics are given and interesting research questions are posed in pursuit of enhancing the reliability of altmetrics for research evaluation purposes."
Extracting the interdisciplinary specialty structures in social media data-based research: A clustering-based network approach Our results characterize the specialty structures of this domain at a time of growing emphasis on big social data, and we discuss the implications for indicating interdisciplinarity.
Movers? advantages: The effect of mobility on scientists? productivity and collaboration The findings of this case study imply that the benefits of mobility might outweigh its costs and that mobility improves scientists' productivity and collaboration for prolific scientists in emerging countries. In this study, we show a positive effect of domestic mobility on research quantity of scientists, regardless of the direction of their move. The finding suggests that after moving to a new affiliation, regardless of the direction of the move, scientists have a higher probability to construct new collaboration.
Conceptual structure of balanced scorecard research: A co-word analysis "The results of this study provide an overview of the state of BSC literature and can enable researchers to identify and develop ideas for future research."
Exploring the relationships between altmetric counts and citations of papers in different academic fields based on co-occurrence analysis The results show that Mendeley has the highest correlation with citations among all altmetric sources, then followed by Policy and Patent, and the rest is comparatively weaker, especially the mass-oriented social media, such as Facebook and Twitter.
Research performance of academic psychologists in the United Kingdom Our research performance norms will be useful for benchmarking at the individual, departmental and institutional levels. Our results shed light on lifetime levels of research activity in UK psychology departments and will be useful for a range of benchmarking purposes. However, they must be used and interpreted in context, alongside a range of other measures of scholarly productivity and performance.
User engagement with scholarly tweets of scientific papers: a large-scale and cross-disciplinary analysis Building on these findings, this study sheds light on the possibility to apply user engagement metrics in measuring deeper levels of Twitter reception of scholarly information.
Reasons and consequences of changes in Russian research assessment policies In general, the new system should help mitigate distortions in the development of Russian science.
Impact of h-index on author's rankings: an improvement to the h-index for lower-ranked authors Giving weight to highest cited paper significantly improves the performance of the lower-ranked authors, espe- cially for h≤ 10.
SDCF: semi-automatically structured dataset of citation functions This paper developed a dataset of citation functions consisting of 1,840,815 labeled instances.
How coupled is coupled human-natural systems research? Based on these findings, we conclude that interdisciplinary teams are not a mere sum of people from different academic disciplines, but a group of people who have the ability to incorporate different disciplines conceptually and analytically. To move forward, it is important to acknowledge that becoming an interdisciplinary researcher takes deliberative work. Educational programs that train students and early career scholars with flexible thinking and analytical capacities may be the key to furthering coupled natural-human systems research.
Rising Stars: Expert Reviews and Reputational Yardsticks in the Research Excellence Framework We conclude that in large-scale evaluations such as the REF, peer reviews and bibliometrics should be viewed as complementary modes of assessment; the time-consuming task of peer reviews would be more cost-effective if targeted at publications whose quality cannot be classified unambiguously using bibliometrics.
Presentation at the Canadian Association of Radiologists Annual General Meeting Is Associated With Higher Likelihood of Publication of Canadian Radiology Resident Research Day Presentations CAR ASM presentation of research day projects is associated with an increased rate of publication.
Ranking of addiction journals in eight widely used impact metrics The results indicate a concentration of journals at the top of the metrics and moderate to strong agreement between them, but almost three-quarters of journals appeared in at least one metric. The longitudinal data reflect both a broadening and specialization of the addiction field. The study limitations include exclusion of some journals and metrics.
Tools for simultaneous online and in-person teaching in a Linear Circuit Analysis subject The dual teaching methodology is valid for Linear Circuit subjects.
Association for Academic Surgery Diminishing Basic Science Research Experience Among United States Cardiothoracic Surgery Trainees CT surgery trainees are publishing fewer BSR papers. Additional efforts are needed to increase exposure of trainees to BSR and reaffirm that BSR is a valuable and worthwhile pursuit for academic surgeons.
A decade for the books: Bibliometric analysis of Economics Letters This paper offers a short bibliometric overview of EL, identifying the latest trends in economic research.
Scientometric analysis of Indian Orthopaedic Research in the last two decades This study revealed the characteristics and trends of research and core publications from Indian authors and organizations identified in the last two decades.
Quantifying the rise and fall of scientific fields This method provides foundations to quantitatively explore the generic patterns underlying the evolution of research fields in science, with general implications in innovation studies. Overall, explaining and predicting the evolution of scientific fields may require models including all of the factors discussed—sensitivity to scale, to time, to the organization of scientists and of scientific knowledge—along with the interactions between them. By making cross-field comparisons easier to make, our method should prove as useful for studying the role of single factors as for testing more complex models of field evolution. As such, we expect these insights to be helpful for researchers and policymakers interested in the emergence and development of research fields and more broadly in the dynamics of innovation.
For early-career researchers by early-career researchers: The GPNG model for advancing, promoting and supporting innovative research A successful ECR publishing model has to extend into education, mentorship and post-publication promotion to build confidence and encourage long-term publication success.
The untapped potential of early career researchers in academic publishing: Lessons learned from the Journal of Emerging Investigators model We believe that the success of JEI not only demonstrates that ECRs are capable of participating in publishing in a meaningful manner, but that they receive valuable benefits from their participation.
Discussants We find that papers benefit from discussants in terms of an increased probability of publication in prestigious journals.
What makes a productive Ph.D. student? In this paper, we study how the social environment influences the Ph.D. students' productivity during their training period using a dataset that considers the entire population of 77,143 Ph.D. students who graduated from French universities in STEM disciplines between 2000 and 2014.
A helping hand from the government? How public research funding affects academic output in less-prestigious universities in China This study has explored the relationship between publicly funded research and academic output realized by universities in two stages. In the first stage we demonstrated that more generous public research funding resulted in higher academic output but that this positive link between government funds and academic output is much weaker in less-prestigious universities. In the second stage, our evidence showed the existence of an inverted U-shaped link between the dependence on public research funding and academic output in less-prestigious universities in China: over-dependence on public research funds even hurts academic output quality.
Revealing role of the Korean Physics Society with keyword co-occurrence network We showed that the KPS traces through public articles rather than professional physics research papers.
An Explication of HistCite™: Updates, Modifications, and a Variety of Applications In conclusion, this paper explicates a bibliometric pro-gram known as HistCite™, its upgraded versions, modifications for incorrect data, and its variety of applications.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Research Publications of the Bucharest University of Economic Studies in Time of Pandemics: Implications for Teachers' Professional Publishing Activity The SARS-CoV-2 syndrome has had a significant impact upon research in all activity fields.
Bibliometric Analysis of Global Research Trends on Higher Education Internationalization Using Scopus Database: Towards Sustainability of Higher Education Institutions This study has presented an overview of higher education internationalization research trends based on 1412 publications retrieved from the Scopus database.
A value creation model from science-society interconnections: Archetypal analysis combining publications, survey and altmetric data In this paper we presented a model of value generation from research-related knowledge pro-cesses that entwine and co-produce science and society. We were able to identify different configurations of our model components that map onto different parts of the topic spectrum in science. This suggests that certain processes and their combinations may be of particular importance in generating value from different areas of research. Developing components and data that can allow us to better incorporate knowledge utilization processes in our approach is an important future challenge.
Who tweets climate change papers? investigating publics of research through users' descriptions This study focused on the categorization of users sharing climate change research papers on Twitter by using a word detection method based on profile descriptions.
Hotness prediction of scientific topics based on a bibliographic knowledge graph This article proposes the use of hotness as an indicator for scientific topic prediction.
Changing publication practices and the typification of the journal article in science and technology studies We have argued that the emergence of a typified journal article in STS is at least in part the result of increasingly quantified (self-)assessment practices in a highly competitive job market as well as a collective adaptation to grant-dependent, project-based work. We argue that reliance on a highly structured publication format is a distinct strategy for making STS scholarship 'doable' in the sense of facilitating the planning ability and daily conduct of research across a variety of levels – including the writing process, collaboration with peers, attracting funding, and interaction with journals. We conclude by reflecting on the advantages and downsides of the typification of journal articles for STS.
Readability is decreasing in language and linguistics This study provides the first readability investigation and its association with citations in the field of language and linguistics, to the best of the authors' knowledge. Our results reported a weak but negative correlation between readability and citations: articles cited more times tend to be less readable. Even so, high-cited articles seem to be related to harder abstracts, which is a concern for scholars, since readability influences popularity.
Impact factions: assessing the citation impact of different types of open access repositories This study suggests that a citation effect is most correlated with specialized disciplinary repositories, although the availability of manuscripts in IR and publisher OA repositories also has a positive, but smaller effect on the number of times the manuscript is cited.
Correlation study between citation count and Mendeley readership of the articles of Sri Lankan authors The present study observed a strong positive correlation between the Mendeley readership score and traditional impact assessment tool citation, except for the articles having less than 200 readerships. The articles with less than 200 readerships negatively correlate with citation counts. Thus, Mendeley readership score cannot be used as an alternative to the citation.
Association between academic degrees and research productivity: an assessment of Canadian academic general surgeons Surgeons with graduate degrees or more advanced professorships had the greatest research productivity.
Vulnerability of African Neurosurgery to Predatory Journals: An Electronic Survey of Aspiring Neurosurgeons, Residents, and Consultants Young African neurosurgery researchers are vulnerable to PJs primarily because they are not familiar with the concept of PJs or how to identify them.
Use of the bibliometric in rare diseases: taking Wilson disease personally The related specialists and medical institutions of WD screened by specific disease bibliometric analysis are eminent and credible and benefit WD patients to obtain reliable medical treatment.
Why Do Some Articles in Planning Journals Get Cited More than Others? Our findings suggest that the planning literature behaves in some ways that are similar to and in some ways that are different from other literatures, in the sense that some factors that appear to influence citations in other fields also appear to influence citations in planning while other factors do not. Our most noteworthy finding is arguably that the diversity of specializations represented in planning has important impli-cations for planning scholars and users of citation counts, in that papers about some topics tend to attract more citations than others. Last, we hope that our study will inspire more meta-research on planning scholarship, with a goal of enhancing what we do as planning researchers and the extent to which we can influence planning theory and practice.
A Ten-Year Analysis of Recent National Institutes of Health Funding for Anesthesiology Research in United States Medical Schools PhDs, Professors, and male researchers receive the majority of R01 and other R series grants to anesthesiology departments at US medical schools. Physician-scientists, including those interested in cardiac anesthesiology, are awarded a minority of R series grants. FAER continues to provide an important stimulus for subsequent NIH funding of physician-scientists in anesthesiology.
On computer science research and its temporal evolution As main take-home messages, we have that: (1) the CS community has greatly expanded over the period of observation, with countries such as China and India growing at staggering rates; (2) female representation has generally increased, albeit with exceptions and some negative records; (3) some research subareas are more popular than others with young authors (most notably artificial intelligence), while others, such as theoretical computer science, seem to struggle to attract new researchers. Our work leaves open a a variety of research avenues.
Publication in the Australian medical student journal is associated with future academic success: a matched-cohort study We have shown that publication in a MSJ is associated with markers of academic success in an Australian cohort.
Interdisciplinary knowledge integration as a unique knowledge source for technology development and the role of funding allocation Overall, our findings imply that combining knowledge in diverse fields of research might have served as intellectual sources for creating scientific knowledge that has not only a non-unique but also a unique impact on technology development.
Global research output in 'pharmacovigilance' during 2010-2020 The global phenomenon of PV is attracting the scientists of similar interest for collaborative research across the globe towards safeguard of the public health.
Prediction of Research Hotspots Based on LSTM: Taking Information Science as Example In this paper, we first calculated the research hotspot degree of each research topic in the field of intelligence from 2000 to 2020 by using the TP model of cumulative topic hotspot, divided the data into training and validation sets, and constructed an error correction ECM model. However, recent hot topics such as "new crown pneumonia" only use the horizontal cumulative word frequency ratio to reflect the hotness of the topic, which is a single measure. This will be the direction of our future efforts.
Subject-Related Research Metrics in Different Scientometrics Platforms The results showed that WoS appear to have the best consistency in citation coverage for most of the subject areas among all three platforms. This study shows WoS, Scopus and GS could be particularly helpful for academics seeking, for example, promotion, tenure, faculty positions and research grants. However, we suggest that librarians and academics should not rely on the information of a single platform and based on the background of the researchers all three platforms needs to be analysed.
Computational Topic Models of the Library Quarterly These patterns do exist, however, and may prompt us—as authors, editors, reviewers, and readers—to more closely examine the ways in which gender representation in LIS continues to reflect and refract systemic power structures and ongoing gender inequities in the profession and beyond. Understanding both the potential promise and pitfall of these methods, to use Grimmer and Stewart's formulation in the title of their 2013 article, could unlock future directions in scholarship as well as provide new insights into the history of LIS.
Dataset of identified scholars mentioned in acknowledgement statements Therefore, this adaptable acknowledgement dataset is expected to accelerate the application of bibliometric analyses to acknowledgements.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Energy Efficiency Research Firstly, this paper conducts a general analysis of the source, time, and authors of publications, and then extracts the 11-year highly cited papers from 2010 to 2020, and analyzes the relationship between the publication source, author, and institution through collaborative networks analysis. Finally, a detailed visual analysis of the keywords of these publications is carried out, and the visual graph obtained by the software is analyzed and discussed.
The Colombian scientific elite-Science mapping and a comparison with Nobel Prize laureates using a composite citation indicator This study aimed to provide a comprehensive analysis of the output, impact, and structure of the CSE. Our findings showed that the CSE has a broader agenda than indexed titles in internationally renowned bibliographic databases—mainly local-focused-including PhySci. Our findings shed light on the research performance-impact standards and agenda between the global North and South and provide an in-context assessment of outstanding local research.
A Machine Learning Model to Predict Citation Counts of Scientific Papers in Otology Field The use of models that can predict which citations an article will receive after publication can be a use-ful tool in the publisher's evaluation process. Also, it can help the research authors to improve the paper content to get more citations. We recommend using machine learning models to improve the abstracts of research articles to get more citations.
Becoming metrics literate: An analysis of brief videos that teach about the h-index The videos featured content with potential to enhance viewers' metrics literacies such that many defined the h-index and described its calculation, providing viewers with skills to recognize and interpret the metric. However, less than half described the h-index as an author quality indicator, which has been contested, and caveats about h-index use were inconsistently presented, suggesting room for improvement. We therefore argue that in order to make researchers and research administrators metrics literate, videos need to be produced by involving experts on content as well as online education and video production.
Copublication improved the dissemination of Cochrane reviews and benefited copublishing journals: a retrospective cohort study Copublication is associated with a higher citation frequency of Cochrane reviews and may increase the impact factor of the journal in which it is copublished. This facilitates broader application of Cochrane evidence and promotes its dissemina-tion. On this basis, we encourage Cochrane authors to copublish their reviews and we believe that copublication may be a “win-win-win" for practi-tioners, journals, and patients.
Female entrepreneurial leadership factors With this bibliometric analysis, we can corroborate that the field of women's EL factors is still in its early days in research terms with barely any influence and production. American discourse occupies the dominant position in the discursive community in the FE field (Ahl, 2004), the leadership field and, as we have just shown, also in the field of FEL factors. Despite its seminal studies having scholars who encourage contributions to the field from broader poststructuralist perspectives, there is still a tendency to reproduce traditional gender-biased research approaches.
Authors publishing repeatedly in predatory journals: An analysis of Scopus articles The results of this study have implications for our understanding of authors publishing in these journals. The results of this study confirms these findings and add to them by showing that author experience as measured by publications are correlated with the number of predatory publications. Further research is needed to explore the authors publishing many times in predatory journals and explore their motivations.
Achieving a Professorship with Proper Academic Merit: Discouraging Questionable Publishing Summing up the results, the implementation of new promotion guidelines at KNUST to discourage the use of questionable publication outlets by faculty members means that all publications submitted for promotion are verified by members of the library staff using specified lists of publishers and indexing services.
The level of cross-disciplinarity in cross-disciplinary accounting research: analysis and suggestions for improvement This study contributes to the literature by providing a novel definitional framework to understand cross-disciplinary accounting research from a more holistic perspective. The findings indicate that accounting research has a good level of conceptual integration, but the level of researcher interaction is still relatively low. From a practical perspective, this study provides empirical evidence to support that cross-disciplinary research is positively associated with higher citations.
Cardiovascular and cancer risk factors analysis for 2001-2020 from the global research output and European newspapers Epidemiological research into the causes and prevention of CVD and cancer only represent small percentages of the total, despite this being more cost-effective than treatment once disease is established in a patient. However, such research appears to be targeted at the most important causes in different continental regions. Within Europe, it seems that these are chosen to reflect the topics that are likely to have the most interest for their readers, which is helpful.
Neurosurgical Publication-Should We Publish at Any Cost? An In-Depth Analysis of Costs Incurred in Publication The lack of easily accessible information about neurosurgical publications, such as submission costs or OA charges, creates an unnecessary hurdle and should be remedied.
A dataset of mentorship in bioscience with semantic and demographic estimations We anticipate this dataset will spur the study of mentorship in science and deepen our understanding of its role in scientists' career outcomes.
Delivering Scientific Influence Analysis as a Service on Research Grants Repository The results also indicate that our scientific influence analysis services are valuable and meaningful. Evaluating GIMPACT using a real grants dataset, consisting of 2512 institutions and their grants received over a period of 14 years, we show that GIMPACT can effectively identify the grant-based research collaboration groups and provide valuable insight on an in-depth understanding of the scientific influence of research grants on research programs, institution leadership, and future collaboration opportunities.
Altmetric and bibliometric analysis of obstetrics and gynecology research: influence of public engagement on citation potential There seems to be weak short-term correlation between Altmetric Attention Scores and citation rates.
Coopetition between frenemies-interrelations and effects of seven collaboration problems in research clusters The structural equation model thus supports the widely held, but by no means trivial view in cooperation research that trusting and fair interaction between cooperating PIs in a research cluster is a necessary, if not sufficient, condition for their joint success.
Research Trends around Exercise Rehabilitation among Cancer Patients: A Bibliometrics and Visualized Knowledge Graph Analysis Future research should explore the recommended dosage and intensity of exercise in cancer patients.
Alzheimer's disease and epilepsy: The top 100 cited papers AD and epilepsy have been intensively studied in the past few years. The relationships, mechanisms and treatment of AD and epilepsy will be subjects of active research hotpots in future. These findings provide valuable information for clinicians and scientists to identify new perspectives with potential collaborators and cooperative countries.
Research performance and scholarly communication profile of competitive research funding: the case of Academy of Finland In all, we conclude that national VIRTA data and JUFO levels complement WoS based bibliometric analyses of research performance with a comprehensive coverage of publication output including all fields, publication types and languages.
Bibliometric analysis of the African Health Sciences' research indexed in Web of Science and Scopus This analysis has revealed the progress in the development and growth of scientific research from AHS. Moreover, top-cited documents-analysis has reflected its focus on health issues relevant to Africa. This analysis would help in evidence-based descriptions of AHS research output. This current bibliometric analysis has highlighted a significant increase in AHS scientific production since its first issue, and over time, there has been growth in the number of publications with a significant positive correlation with the citation number.
The effect of co-opinion on the cocitation-based information retrieval systems' effectiveness evaluated by semantic similarity Accordingly, the similarity in the opinions of the cociting papers towards their cocited articles can explain the cocitation relation in the scientific papers network and can be effectively utilised for improving the results of the cocitation-based retrieval systems.
Do biomedical researchers differ in their perceptions of plagiarism across Europe? Findings from an online survey among leading universities In spite of a generally similar response pattern, the present study indicates different perceptions of plagiarism among European biomedical researchers.
Agronomy researchers and research scholars in Brazil: Gender, scientific age, scientific production and impact, and training of human resources When analyzing the profile of CNPq Agronomy research fellowship applicants, it appears that less than a quarter of Agronomy research fellows are women.
Scientific Publications on Thyroid Ultrasound between 2001 and 2020: Differences in Research Characteristics by Disciplines Radiology produced the most publications for thyroid US than any other discipline. Radiology authors published more notably on imaging diagnosis compared to other topics and in journals with lower impact factors compared to authors in other disciplines. Although the radiology discipline produced the most publications, radiology led publications only in China and South Korea, and non-radiology led publications in the rest of the countries, including the United States.
Trends and developments in thermal tolerance: A scientometric research study We concluded that, along with the thriving field and climate change issues, thermal tolerance is becoming one of the future research interests.
Exploring the knowledge base of innovation research: Towards an emerging innovation model Our findings help generate opportunities to build future innovation capabilities in research, practice, and education.
Evolution of the thematic structure and main producers of physical therapy interventions research: A bibliometric analysis (1986 to 2017) The thematic structure of physical therapy interventions has evolved over time with "neurological rehabilitation", "methods", "exercise related to lifestyle diseases", and "physical activity" becoming increasingly important. Main producers of this research were tradi-tionally located in North America and Europe but now include countries like China and Brazil. The most productive countries and institutions do not necessarily obtain the high-est average citation impact.
Bibliometric analysis of rice and climate change publications based on Web of Science The results will help researchers clarify the current situation in rice and climate change adaptation science but also provide guidance for future research.
Dynamics of cross-platform attention to retracted papers Our study shows that retracted papers attract more attention after publication than comparable nonretracted papers across a variety of online platforms, including social and news media, blogs, and knowledge repositories.
The Association of Attending Physicians' Publications and Patients' Readmission Rates: Evidence from Tertiary Hospitals in China Using a Retrospective Data Analysis For internists, having clinical studies published in journals with a high impact factor is associated with better clinical outcomes; having basic science publications is not associated with better clinical outcomes.
The Top 100 Most Cited Scientific Papers in the Public, Environmental & Occupational Health Category of Web of Science: A Bibliometric and Visualized Analysis The work allows the identification of relevant aspects in order to encourage scientific mapping in the Public, Environmental & Occupational Health category.
Does the journal impact factor predict individual article citation rate in otolaryngology journals? The current results demonstrate a citation skew among OHNS journals, which is in keeping with findings from other surgical subspecialties.
Publication and Impact of Preprints Included in the First 100 Editions of the CDC COVID-19 Science Update: Content Analysis Preprints included in the CDC COVID-19 Science Update were published at a higher rate than overall COVID-19 preprints, and those that were ultimately published were published within months and received higher attention scores than unpublished preprints.
Research Topic Specialization of Universities in Information Science and Library Science and Its Impact on Inter-University Collaboration Universities play a critical role in the development of science and technology, and collaboration research has been a significant driver. It was found that universities with diverse research topic specializations have a stronger tendency to collaborate with others. The similar research topic specializations between two universities make their collaboration closer, but at the same time may lower the impact of such collaboration. The study offers novel implications for both the theoretical understanding of research collaboration, but also the strategic management of research universities.
Global Progress in Oil and Gas Well Research Using Bibliometric Analysis Based on VOSviewer and CiteSpace This paper comprehensively and quantitatively analyzes all aspects of oil and gas well research for the first time and presents valuable information about active and authoritative research entities, cooperation patterns, technology trends, hotspots, and frontiers. Therefore, it can help governments, policymakers, related companies, and the scientific community understand the global progress in oil and gas well research and provide a reference for technology development and application. According to the frontier analysis in oil and gas wells, we can find that the application of artificial intelligence and the exploration and exploitation methods of new energy, such as shale gas and hydrogen energy, will be important for future research.
Is everyone invited to the discussion table? A bibliometric analysis COVID-19-related mental health literature The global scientific discussion during the COVID-19 pandemic saw an increased contribution of academics from developing countries. However, authors from high-income countries have continued to shape this discussion. It is imperative to ensure the active participation of low- and middle-income countries in setting up the global mental health research agenda, particularly in situations of global crisis, such as the ongoing pandemic.
A comparative analysis of local similarity metrics and machine learning approaches: application to link prediction in author citation networks Our comparative approach revealed several interesting results. The Jaccard Index turned out to be the most effective similarity index, when compared with other traditional network similarity measurements. We expect, however, that the use of additional information, such as semantical similarity, global network simi-larity metrics and other metadata can improve the performance of the task.
The influence of Covid-19 on publications in economics: bibliometric evidence from five working paper series We have shown that around 15% of economic working papers have been Covid-related between January 2020 and August 2021. When comparing the Covid papers to non-Covid papers made available as working papers at the same time, we find that Covid papers are written by larger teams, are downloaded more often and receive more citations. This somewhat contrasts with general science where articles are written by fewer authors.
A grey zone for bibliometrics: publications indexed in Web of Science as anonymous The study provides some new insights such as peak years of anonymous authors' publications, the predominant language in which unknown authors have published frequently, and the majority of the papers on this nature have appeared in prestigious journals with high impact factors.
The Misalignment of the FT50 with the Achievement of the UN's SDGs: A Call for Responsible Research Assessment by Business Schools Business Schools with sustainability as a core value are encouraged to move beyond FT50 publications for assessing research quality, including for tenure and promotion purposes, and place more focus on assessing research relevance and impact.
How does academia respond to the burden of infectious and parasitic disease? From a global perspective, academia has positively responded to health needs caused by IPDs. Although the relevant research output contribution is primarily from the highly developed countries, concentrated and specialized efforts from the undeveloped regions to ease their local burden can be clearly observed. Our find-ings also indicate a tendency to focus more on local health needs for both developed and undeveloped regions.
Characteristics of global retractions of schizophrenia-related publications: A bibliometric analysis This study provides an insight into retractions of schizophrenia-related research.
Evolutionary stages and multidisciplinary nature of artificial intelligence research The analyzed sample of AI literature (covered by the WoS from1960 to 2019) exhibits an exponential growth.
Citation counts and journal impact factors do not capture some indicators of research quality in the behavioural and brain sciences Our findings raise the possibility that citation data and impact factors may be of limited utility in evaluating scientists and their research. On balance, our findings are consistent with this
The readability of abstracts in library and information science journals Therefore, it can be said that there exists a statistically important difference between abstracts with and without an impact factor. According to the results, we can answer our research question. Because of the correlation with citation and the impact factor, we can also confirm the results of Gazni (2011) that articles with heavier abstracts are more cited.
The 100 Most-Cited Articles in the Field of Colorectal Diseases from 1955 to 2020: A Bibliometric Analysis Our study could provide a historical perspective on scientific progress in the field of colorectal diseases. These 100 most-cited articles are of great significance for helping researchers understand this field over time.
Patterns and impact of collaboration in China's social sciences: cross-database comparisons between CSSCI and SSCI According to the cross-database comparisons between CSSCI and SSCI, it is observed that there are huge differences in the collaboration patterns between China's national and international publications in social sciences. However, this study also finds some similarities in the collaboration patterns between China's national and international publications in social sciences. Therefore, the prevalence of differences in collaboration between different (especially national and international) publishing channels deserves more research in the future, and the reasons for such differences need to be discussed.
Algorithmic identification of Ph.D. thesis-related publications: a proof-of-concept study We have carried out a proof-of-concept study attempting to automatically identify publications which are constituent parts of cumulative doctoral theses.
The greatest co-authorships of finance theory literature (1896-2006): scientometrics based on complex networks The results showed that the ranking of the most cited authors, expressed in a list in descending order of out-degrees and also in the first network elaborated, highlights the prominence of the following lines of research: behavioral Finance (Kahneman, Tversky, Thaler, Barber, and Odean); the—named by Peter L. Bernstein—institutionalists, (Merton, Shiller, and Campbell), the theorists of the efficient market hypothesis (Fama and French) and the scholars of the CAPM asset pricing and management model, who are called "engineers" by Peter L. Bernstein (Marschak, Sharpe, Markowitz, Scholes, Black, and Treynor). Finally, since methods tend to update over time, other methods can be applied in the future.
Numbers of publications and citations for researchers in fields pertinent to the social services: a comparison of peer-reviewed journal publications across six disciplines We discuss the implications of these results for policy, practice, and knowledge quality in the social services and the welfare sector.
Core-periphery nexus in the EU social sciences: bibliometric perspective The main objective of this study was to explore the process of integration of CEE countries/authors into the broader EU and global research landscapes in social sciences through bibliometric analysis.
Revisiting the disruptive index: evidence from the Nobel Prize-winning articles As a result, research assessment should balance between short- & long-term scientific impact; Also, discipline and time play a role in the length of the citation window when using DI to measure the innovativeness of scientific work. The study also discusses potential research directions around DI.
Why do papers from international collaborations get more citations? A bibliometric analysis of Library and Information Science papers An analysis of the asymmetry in the impact of research collaboration types according to themes is presented herein.
Domain expertise extraction for finding rising stars "The testing procedures reveal a number of insights about content and expertise. It is clear from the results that in this study a distinct factor is captured from the data which is not available from SVD. The algorithm used to derive expertise displays valuable properties of fair assignment."
Reporting of funding and conflicts of interest improved from preprints to peer-reviewed publications of biomedical research Reporting of funding and COI improved in peer-reviewed versions.
Investigating patterns of change, stability, and interaction among scientific disciplines using embeddings These findings can help researchers, academic institutions and organizations to better understand and react to the dynamics of scientific research, and can support the education sector in designing curricula or in the recruitment of academics and researchers.
Bibliometric Equilibrium A number of directions for the development of the theory of publication systems, within which authors, journal editors and research coordinators interact, are outlined.
Untangling the network effects of productivity and prominence among scientists These results highlight a substantial role of social networks in driving inequalities in science, and suggest that collaboration networks represent an important form of unequally distributed social capital that shapes who makes what scientific discoveries.
Publication practice in Taxonomy: Global inequalities and potential bias against negative results Our results suggest that there is a potential bias against “negative results" (revisions and synonymization) in taxonomic publications, possibly abetted by the rush to describe species amid the current extinction crisis. Further gender, geographic and career-stage biases were also identified here. Rather, we need to start thinking on smaller-scale and more immediately applicable measures that we can take, such as: working towards increased inclusiveness and equity; improving the definition of journal scopes and reviewer guidelines (including how to deal with unconscious bias); better informing and training editors to detect bias; being stricter with new species descriptions, requesting as much data as necessary and feasible (considering the available infrastructure in the most biodiverse countries); and, of course, giving more value and recognition to taxonomic revisions.
Uses of the Journal Impact Factor in national journal rankings in China and Europe We conclude that Journal Impact Factors are often highly influential in national journal rankings, in particular in determining top-tier journals in STEM.
Scholarly journals are sometimes regarded as substitutes even though each provides unique content For publishers, a key implication of the argument outlined here is that price discrimination tailored to the needs of bachelor's and master's institutions can help bring in revenue from institutions that would not subscribe if higher prices were charged.
CIENTOMETRIC PROFILE OF THE CHEMOMETRICS IN BRAZIL Finally, the area of Chemometrics, which is about fifty years old, is mature, with numbers of publications and training of human resources, but it is noted that a plateau has not been reached in these two numbers, because the critical mass of researchers working in the area is still increasing.
Perception and reaction of Nanyang Technological University (NTU) researchers to different forms of research integrity education modality Each RI education mode takes a different approach in ensuring that NTU's diverse research community upholds research integrity. NTU has established a strong foundation for RI education, with > 92% of researchers embracing the programmes offered by the university. For other institutions with similar modes of RI education as NTU, the results from this study may be helpful for improving participation rates and presentation of RI education modes, to be more appealing, such as the use of infographics and more concise information.
Combining Web of Science and Scopus datasets in citation-based literature study As the contribution of this study, two main issues are emphasized regarding citations in scholarly work.
Worldwide research trend of publications concerning spermatogenesis over past 10 years: A bibliometric study The analysis of trend topics suggests that 'inflammation', 'transcriptomics' and 'exosomes' may be hot topics in the field of spermatogenesis in the future. The above results provide new insights and strategies for the study of spermatogenesis and may have positive guiding significance for the study of male infertility problems.
Inappropriate Citation of Retracted Articles in Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine Publications The corresponding authors were generally unaware of the retraction of the cited article, usually because of inadequate identification of the retracted status in journals and/or web databases and the use of stored copies. Awareness of this phenomenon and rigorous control of the cited references before submitting a paper are of fundamental importance in research.
Vectors of Sustainable Development and Global Knowledge in the Metallic Materials Industry in Romania The article confirms the thesis that the evolution in the metal materials industry is based on three new concepts: The durable (sustainable) development; The global knowledge; The eco-socio-technological paradigm.
Coal Modeling Investigations in International Collaboration in the Light of Bibliometric Analysis of the Problem Many publications registered in the Web of Science database are the result of international cooperation, and the outcomes bring a significant input to the knowledge development within the issue.
Lexicons of Key Terms in Scholarly Texts and Their Disciplinary Differences: From Quantum Semantics Construction to Relative-Entropy-Based Comparisons In this study, we have introduced an approach to constructing and comparing lexicons of terms in scholarly texts.
Transformative research focus considered harmful Transformative research is crucial to the advancement of science. However, an exclusive and myopic focus on transformation may, ironically, prevent it from occurring.
The Performance of Topic Evolution Based on a Feature Maximization Measurement for the Linguistics Domain This paper applies the combinatory approach with the F-index, the contrast ratio, and the DEC clustering algorithm based on the KTRM method to detect the new yet increasing research stream on the change in linguistics research topics in China.
The green, gold grass of home: Introducing open access in universities in Norway To conclude, the introduction of open access in Norway can be characterised as rather smooth and successful, with little friction between the institutional and national level and a development over relatively long time. We nevertheless claim that the study can be useful for analysing developments in other countries, and our proposed theoretical framework opens up also for understanding differences and heterogeneity. This may prove more challenging than introducing the principles of open access.
The influence of disruption on evaluating the scientific significance of papers The DPRank model we propose in this paper considers the influence of temporal information and disruption of papers while evaluating the scientific significance of scientific papers.
Mapping the evolution of e-commerce research through co-word analysis: 2001-2020 This study identified the major research topics in e-commerce research, as well as their evolution, from 2001 to 2020 by employing co-word analysis. Our research findings provide some new insights into the e-commerce field.
Research on major depression in China: A perspective from bibliometric analysis The number of scientific papers on MDD increased yearly, and Chinese authors writing in English have an increasing influence.
Important Citation Identification by Exploding the Sentiment Analysis and Section-Wise In-Text Citation Weights To conduct a research study, a citation is considered a scientific measure to evaluate the significance of the work. The results revealed that the proposed approach achieved a 0.94 value, comparatively higher than any other approach. In this work, we have introduced an approach based on four submodules such as 1) automatically assigning the appropriate weights to sections where the citations were made, using Neural Network, 2) sentiment analysis on citation sentences, 3) calculating the similarity of research articles, and 4) utilizing overall count of citations.
On some properties of medians, percentiles, baselines, and thresholds in empirical bibliometric analysis This paper is a methodological and instructional piece on the use of well-known terms.
Analysis of E-Exam practices in higher education institutions of KSA: Learners? perspectives This research underwent an empirical investigation to examine students' attitudes regarding the E-Exam system in higher education in Saudi Arabian universities. The viability of the E-Exams paradigm in a supervised exam room scenario was successfully shown through this seed project. Reducing and eliminating these limitations will provide a better output for the E-Exam system.
DAC: Descendant-aware clustering algorithm for network-based topic emergence prediction The descendant-aware clustering algorithm is proposed to tackle the problem of topic emergence prediction before topics materialize.
Uncovering patterns in the supervision of Spanish theses: a comprehensive analysis In this paper, we identified herein patterns based on the different roles of doctoral theses supervision over the years.
Factors, components and dynamics: investigation of journal self-citation and citation by equal opportunity model Our statistical results showed constant increases in articles and citations versus a constant decrease in the self-citation rate in terms of total citations by considering citable items published in 2016-2018.
Citation analysis of the 100 top-cited articles on discectomy via endoscopy since 2011 using alluvial diagrams: bibliometric analysis We achieved a breakthrough by displaying the T100PEID network characteristics on the alluvial plateau. The MeSH terms can be used to classify article subject categories and predict T100PEID citations. The alluvial diagram can be applied to bibliometrics on 100 top-cited articles in future studies.
A longitudinal study of the evolution of opinions about open access and its main features: a twitter sentiment analysis According to the results, tweeters increasingly paid attention to OA and its features. Nonetheless, the social sphere has been slightly and slowly moving towards a mild polarization, as inferred from the increasing rates of the positive and negative opinions, with the latter showing even a relatively higher growth rate. The finding warns against the probable risk of virality of the negative opinions.
Reflections on Urban Crises, the Science-Policy Interface and the Importance of "Tiny Revolts" It is hard to shake the sense we are simultaneously too much and not enough; incredibly productive and pressured, yet never quite able to resolve the urban crises related to our research or practice. But while we often refer to "business-as-usual” or even “politics-as-usual” to highlight this necessity elsewhere, there is much less analytical attention on what we may call "academia-as-usual”. And I hope it is, because even if what you discover politically depresses you, it may sustain and provide hope to others.
Individual and Institutional Productivity in Educational Psychology Journals from 2015 to 2021 Our findings revealed that individual and institutional productivity in educational psychology journals has been both consistent (e.g., Richard E. Mayer, University of Maryland) and changing (e.g., Fred Paas, University of Texas) in terms of the top performers over the past 24 years.
Bibliometric analysis of rumor detection via web of science from 1989 to 2021 Bibliometric and network analysis results from this research will significantly facilitate understanding the progress and trends in rumor detection.
The role of citation networks to explain academic promotions: an empirical analysis of the Italian national scientific qualification In this paper, we investigated the role of citation networks in explaining the attainment of the national qualification in citation-based and non-citation-based research fields, namely in the Computer Science and in the Statistics disciplines. Citation network measures turned out to be relevant to predict the ASN qualification, particularly for the non-citation-based RFs in Statistics. Conversely, citation network measures are not a substitute for citation-based bibliometric indices in the Statistics RFs, since they do not lose their predictive power when the citation-based indices are forced in the models.
Predicting the Trending Research Topics by Deep Neural Network Based Content Analysis In this work, we study the problem of predicting the trends in academic topics.
Characterizing critical predictors of an academic career following head and neck fellowship in otolaryngology The recent improvement in supply-demand mismatch for aca-demic jobs is promising for future HN fellows interested in academia. Trainees should aim to increase their bibliometric indices (h-index and number of manuscripts) to display a propensity for academics. Additionally, it is not neces-sary to pursue an additional non-HN fellowship upon HN fellowship completion to secure an academic job.
Detecting anomalous referencing patterns in PubMed papers suggestive of author-centric reference list manipulation If citations are the currency of science, then citation hacking is akin to counterfeiting.
Exploratory analysis of text duplication in peer-review reveals peer-review fraud and paper mills We have presented a number of simple methods to help identify and quantify peer-review fraud.
Co-Occurrence-Based Double Thresholding Method for Research Topic Identification Identifying potential research gaps is a main step toward successful problem framing and hence fruitful research achievements.
Evenly Is Even Better? Digital Competitiveness and the Quality of Medical Research In highlighting the role of digital competitiveness in improving the quality of medical research, our study draws attention to the importance of understanding the prerequisites for balanced advances in medical research.
Cognitive Computing-Will It Be the Future "Smart Power" for the Energy Enterprises? Thus, this research attempts to fill the gap in the literature study and provide an analysis of trends and advances in cognitive technologies research.
Evaluation of global research trends in photocatalytic degradation of dye effluents using scientometrics analysis This scientometric study has brought together the knowledge on publications related to the application of photocatalysis for treatment of dye effluents that are available from the Web of Science (WoS) database. Future research could be focused on the cost and energy analysis of the treatment process, preparation of ideal and advanced photocatalytic materials for enhanced photocatalysis, development of cost effective photocatalyst regeneration methods and degradation of textile effluents with concomitant value-added product recovery. This scientometric study facilitates the academicians/researchers with the analysis of existing literature that could improve the research direction for significant scientific contribution in the photocatalysis field.
Scientometric assessment of scientific documents published in 2020 on herbal medicines used for COVID-19 The current study provides a snapshot of the quantity and characteristics of published scholarly documents in recent months in the intersection of herbal medicines and COVID-19.
A Fuzzy Comprehensive Evaluation Method on the Construction of High-Level Universities Based on Data from Jiangsu Province The first round of Jiangsu high-level university construction basically reached the good level on the whole.
A Call to Action: A Specialty-Specific Course to Support the Next Generation of Clinician Scientists in Anesthesiology This study highlights scientific advances and scholarly collaboration trends and serves as a model for demonstrating global trends in Omicron variant research.
The impact of Ph.D., funding, and continued publications by Sports Sciences PhDs, 1-year post PhD-Defence In our study, a part of the PhD-graduates was active researchers one-year post Ph.D. Publication count increased for post Ph.D. years, especially in the second five-year period.
Current status of coronavirus disease 2019 vaccine research based on bibliometric analysis Given the rapid transmission of SARS-CoV-2, vaccine studies on immunogenicity, spike proteins, efficacy, safety, and antibody response have undoubtedly received much attention. Additional phased clinical trials are needed to determine the effectiveness, acceptance, and side effects of vaccination against mutated strains of the virus. The findings of the present study may help funding agencies to better assess ongoing research and future research trends in COVID-19 vaccines.
Mobile young researchers and their non-mobile 'twins': who is winning the academic race? Mobile researchers from HSE University have better research performance than researchers who have never worked or studied outside of Russia.
International Research Collaboration During the Pandemic: Team Formation, Challenges, Strategies and Achievements of the African Translational Research Group This study revealed that international multi-disciplinary online research collaboration between African researchers in Africa and researchers of African heritage in the diaspora during the COVID-19 pandemic could result in significant achievements in publications and contribute to career progression and ac-ademic promotion for collaborating members, inspite of most members having never met in person.
Quantifying the structural and temporal characteristics of negative links in citation networks In summary, we find that papers with different impacts have a similar probability of receiving negative citations.
Peer Effects in Academic Research: Senders and Receivers* This article shows that peer effects in academia are present and large within precisely defined fields and for some groups of researchers, based on their gender and age. Our results have policy implications for the organisation of academia. But we view those questions as important themes for future research, in order to set-up policies to correct for the publication and promotion gender gaps.
Quantity and quality of research output and economic growth: empirical investigation for all research areas in the MENA countries The empirical findings revealed a negative and significant impact of the number of research publications on economic growth for all fields of research (combined). By contrast, they gave evidence of an important positive impact of the number of citations on economic growth. Policy makers in the MENA countries need to focus on improving the quality not quantity of research output, especially for these research areas, to realize the expected impact of research on economic growth.
Does early publishing in top journals really predict long-term scientific success in the business field? Our comprehensive analysis reveals a significant positive correlation between early publishing in top journals and the long-term prospects of junior researchers' productivity in top journals and impact. This correlation still exists when we eliminate the impact of other early factors, when we define variables in various ways, and when we adjust the time interval of the analysis. For researchers, our study strongly advises publishing in top-ranked peer-reviewed journals, encouraging researchers to persistently pursue high-quality research.
Academic training of authors publishing in high-impact epidemiology and clinical journals Researchers viewed training that prepares clinician-scholars for collaboration with epidemiologists and biostatisticians favorably.
The evolution and co-evolution of a primary care cancer research network: From academic social connection to research collaboration "The CanTest network is clearly successful in connecting researchers with each other."
Determining factors of participation and success rates in research funding competitions: Case study The main purpose of our paper was to identify the determinant factors of the participation and success rates of the researcher in research funding competitions, in the case of Romania. For the further development of this topic, we intend to extend the questionnaire in order to identify the main reasons why the projects received or did not fund in the research funding competitions by analysing the reasons from the opinion of the researchers but also of the evaluators. We also intend to apply the questionnaire to other countries in Central and Eastern Europe in order to make a comparison with the case of Romania and identify the patterns that characterize grant competitions in science.
Analysis of the Development Trend of Sports Research in China and Taiwan Using Natural Language Processing It is suggested that all disciplines/departments should re-allocate the same resources, so as to show a balanced development trend and help expand a new chapter in the sports academic field. Although the history, culture, language, and characters of China and Taiwan are of the same origin, their differences in sports policy orientation make the academic development of the two regions different. It is suggested that all disciplines/departments should develop in a balanced way, so as to realize the connotation of diversity in the sports academic field.
Institutional collaboration recommendation: An expertise-based framework using NLP and network analysis Upon validation, the recommendation system is found to be able to toss recommendations that are (i) excellent in terms of novelty and diversity and (ii) effective in terms of both intra-set and inter-set coverage.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Antibacterial Textiles This study summarizes the importance of antibacterial textiles and suggests that antibacterial textiles have been an important research topic over the past two decades. Our thematic analysis showed that introducing nanoparticles to textile materials is the most common approach for making antibacterial textiles. Bibliometric research is helpful for deciphering and mapping the cumulative scientific knowledge and evolutionary nuances of well-established fields by making sense of large volumes of unstructured data in rigorous ways.
Can international cooperation base for science and technology drive cooperation ability? Evidence from Xinjiang China This study adopted PCA to analyze the main factors affecting international science and technology cooperation of Xinjiang BISTCs. A total of four principal components were obtained, which objectively evaluated the main factors that impact international science and technology cooperation. The main factors affecting the ability of international science and technology cooperation identified in this research provide a theoretical basis for the reasonable evaluation of the effectiveness of BISTCs as well as scientific reference for how to improve the international cooperation ability of BISTCs.
An openness framework for ex ante evaluation of societal impact of research In practical terms, the framework would assist evaluators by providing a common criterion to assess the credibility of the potential societal impact of research proposals. Hence, our framework can assist researchers in their learning process by providing a tool to design thoughtfully and consciously research activities aimed at improving its coupling to non-academic knowledge without compromising their scientific rigour and relevance. Future research on ex ante evaluation could test this analytical framework against research proposals (case studies) and empirically explore its validity and potential utility as an evaluation tool.
Wikidata and the bibliography of life By providing a robust, open platform for community editing of structured data, Wikidata seems an ideal platform for the bibliography of life. It not only benefits from a community of active editors, it piggy backs on the remarkable fact that taxonomy is the only discipline to have its own Wikimedia Foundation project (Wikispecies). It is not unreasonable to expect that the bulk of the taxonomic literature will find its way into Wikidata in the next few years.
Nations ranking in scientific competition: Countries get what they paid for In this paper, we have proposed an economic model of countries' relative performance on the scientific marketplace, based on the aggregation of individual knowledge production functions.
Measuring latent combinational novelty of technology In this paper, we proposed a new method to measure the novelty of technology from the knowledge combination perspective, in which the co-occurrence relationship, the link probability, and the hierarchical-level relationship between knowledge components were considered.
Investigating the Strategic Role of Digital Transformation Path of SMEs in the Era of COVID-19: A Bibliometric Analysis Using R Finally, results can help not only SMEs, but governments as well, to develop policies in order to support SMEs with their continuity.
Predicting the clinical citation count of biomedical papers using multilayer perceptron neural network This study proposed a multilayer perceptron neural network (MPNN) model with two hidden layers to predict the clinical citation count of biomedical papers published from 1985 to 2005 in PubMed.
Ungendered writing: Writing styles are unlikely to account for gender differences in funding rates in the natural and technical sciences Analysing full proposal texts from a Danish private funder adhering to strictly double-blind peer review, we do observe differences in funding rates between men and women, but our analyses generally do not find important diversity in writing styles between the sexes. However, given the very small magnitude of writing style differences found in our study, we conclude that writing styles are unlikely to account for skewed funding balances between male and female researchers in the present case concerning the Villum Experiment. Looking forward, we argue that double-blind review procedures are insufficient to guarantee equal funding opportunities for male and female researchers alike.
The quality of the web of science data: a longitudinal study on the completeness of authors-addresses links We analysed the completeness of author-address links in the Web of Science database between 2000 and 2020, by index and by document type. The completeness can be considered as especially good from 2016 (98%). Some combinations of authors number—addresses number make it possible to identify non-ambiguous associations between authors and affiliations, even without explicit links. The remaining 1.5% of papers with incomplete links may be due both to the databases errors and to the insufficient quality of the data provided by publishers.
Unpacking research lock-in through a diachronic analysis of topic cluster trajectories in scholarly publications This attempt to unpack research lock-in for evaluating the competition dynamics of scientific fields over time calls for future works, by strengthening the method and testing it on other research fields.
Introducing the EMPIRE Index: A novel, value-based metric framework to measure the impact of medical publications The EMPIRE Index is a novel metric framework incorporating three component scores that respond to different types of publication impact: social, scholarly, and societal. The EMPIRE Index provides a richer assessment of publication value than standalone traditional and alternative metrics and may enable medical researchers to assess the impact of publications easily and to understand what characterizes impactful research. It can also be used to assess the effectiveness of communications around publications and publication enhancements such as infographics and explanatory videos.
Unified citation parameters for journals and individuals: Beyond the journal impact factor or the h-index alone In summary, we have shown that the shape of the H-curve of citations vs. rank can provide a unified description of citation profiles for individuals, institutions and journals.
Trust but verify: An analysis of redundant publications from two major psychiatry journals in India Redundant publications are a common practice in the psychiatry journals screened. Salami slicing is the most common form of redundancy, with no proper cross-referencing in most cases. Concerted efforts are needed to detect and deal with this concerning practice that undermines both science and ethics.
The top 100 most cited papers on endometrial carcinoma: A bibliometric analysis This study provides medical researchers with bibliometric information relating to endometrial carcinoma. Our results show that the United States is a clear leader in this field. The clinical treatment of endometrial carcinoma has received increasing levels of attention over recent years and is likely to remain a major area of research in the future.
A bibliometric analysis of the Journal of Molecular Graphics and Modelling: An update This brief paper has summarized the publications in, and the citations to articles in, the Journal of Molecular Graphics and Modelling. It remains international in scope, indeed with noticeably more nations contributing now than in 2007, but the previous domination by the USA (and, to a lesser extent, the UK) is a thing of the past as a new generation of researchers from around the world have started to make their contributions to this important area of science.
An explainable artificial-intelligence-based approach to investigating factors that influence the citation of papers This study reviewed previous studies that addressed factors that influence citations and secured 14 factors. The results showed that each factor contributed to the number of citations differently. We believe that the findings of our study provide concrete ways to increase the impact of research.
A Statistical Analysis of the Campus-Based Open Access Fund at Boston College One major finding in this study is that on average one-third of the OA fund is idling throughout the entire sampling period.
Remote proctoring: Lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic effect on the large scale on-line assessment at Tel Aviv University Nevertheless, it appears that the protocol employed for conducting proctored assessments remotely can serve as a fertile foundation to provide a direction for a viable alternative to traditional university models of fully on-campus examinations, as the institutions for higher education move towards normalizing online assessment in the post-pandemic environ- ment.
Forty years of invasion research: more papers, more collaboration ... bigger impact? ... The field of modern invasion science responded to the complexity, idiosyncrasy and urgency of biological invasions through increased collaborative research.
Survey on status quo and development needs of research and innovation capabilities of young researchers at university-affiliated hospitals in China: a cross-sectional survey Full-time and part-time scientific researchers have different requirements for capital investment, support for scientific research platforms, leadership demonstrations by senior peers, and a good atmosphere for scientific and technological innovation. Thus, it is important to promote innovation capacity-building among young researchers at university-affiliated hospitals (UAHs) by enhancing both talent training and introduction in a hierarchical, classified, multidimensional, and stepwise manner. However, our study had some limitations.
Scientific rewards for biomedical specialization are large and persistent The extent to which one specializes, particularly at the early stages of a biomedical research career, appears to play a significant role in determining the citation-based impact of their publications.
Citation analysis of the most influential publications on whiplash injury: A STROBE-compliant study The present analysis provides the most influential studies on whiplash injury, and reveals the leading journals, counties, institutions, and authors with special contributions in this filed. The list may serve as an archive of historical development of whiplash injury and a basis for further research.
Power laws, the Price model, and the Pareto type-2 distribution Our rank distribution approach marries the Price model and Pareto-type 2 distributions.
Management factors influencing lecturers' research productivity in Vietnam National University, Hanoi, Vietnam: A structural equation modeling analysis This study has established and examined model for evaluating man- agement factors that affect the research productivity of Vietnamese university lecturers, by SEM methodology.
Computational analysis of a collaboration network on human-computer interaction in Korea The findings of this study have several implications. Through our findings, future researchers will be able to conduct follow-up HCI research that reflects trends by referring to our research results. This could eventually contribute to the latest HCI technology advancements.
Visualizing the knowledge structure and evolution of bioinformatics The results of our analysis imply that research on bioinformatics is becoming more diversified and the ranking of computational methods in bioinformatics research is also gradually improving. In the future, we plan to enrich and complete the knowledge structure diagram of bioinformatics by applying visualization to explore other aspects of bibliometric analysis, such as author analysis, organization analysis, citation analysis, etc.
Identifying science in the news: An assessment of the precision and recall of Altmetric.com news mention data Our findings suggest that, with caveats, scholars can use Altmetric news mention data as a relatively reliable source to identify research mentions across a range of outlets with high precision and acceptable recall, offering scholars the potential to conserve resources during data collection. As a result, research mentions found by Altmetric for any given news outlet can be considered to represent a reliable lower bound of all research mentions for that outlet.
Different measures of international faculty and their impacts on global rankings This study found that international outlook scores at THE have been significantly impacted when different measures of international faculty are used.
Semantic similarity-based credit attribution on citation paths: a method for allocating residual citation to and investigating depth of influence of scientific communications This study proposed a semantic similarity-based method for allocating residual citations.
Global science and the muslim world: overview of muslim-majority country contributions to global science The findings are revealing in exploring the contributions of Muslim majority science systems to global science. The trend data on the quantity and scientific influence of papers indicate a rising trend in Muslim-majority science systems, which confirms what has been proposed recently in the literature as the pluralisation and diversification process of global science (Marginson et al., 2021b, 2021c). Yet, Muslim-majority countries are also increasingly more part of the global science now, thanks to an increasingly globally connected science structure (Oldac &Yang, 2021).
Who are the 100 largest scientific publishers by journal count? A webscraping approach The dataset can serve as a useful basis for comprehensive meta-scientific surveys on the publisher-level. The list is freely accessible and invites regular updates. The list generated by this project thus offers a gateway towards large-scale analyses regarding macro-scale engagements, actions and policies of publishers and journals.
AI-SPedia: a novel ontology to evaluate the impact of research in the field of artificial intelligence The end product, AI-SPedia, is considered a first attempt to calculate indexes using both bibliometric and altmetric indicators for publications in AI using semantic web technology. In future work, we plan to upgrade the AI-SPedia knowledge base to serve as a comprehensive recommender system with more detailed scientific indicators and parameters, including properties related to the body of scientific articles.
The Role of Articles in Science-Technology Relationship: A Topic Analysis of Non-patent Literature (NPL) References Consequently, it seems that nanotechnology patents are more technology-driven, and a medium to low rela-tionship exists between science and nanotechnology.
Evaluation of the National Institutes of Health-supported relative citation ratio among American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons fellowship faculty: a new bibliometric measure of scientific influence ASES fellowship faculty are exceptionally productive and produce highly impactful research, as evidenced by the high median RCR value relative to the benchmark NIH RCR value of 1.0. This information can be used as a standard to assess the improve-ment of grant outcomes, promotion, fellowship education, and continued evaluation of research productivity in the shoulder and elbow community.
Neurosurgery Research Productivity in Latin American and Caribbean Countries: A Bibliometric and Visualized Study In the past decade, there has been an increase in articles on neurosurgery in Latin America and the Caribbean. Scientific production in neurosurgery must continue to increase in order to promote evidence-based medicine.
Are patents linked on Twitter? A case study of Google patents Twitter has been proved to be a relevant venue for disseminating patents and inventions in a large non-academic setting.
"Formal and informal networkedness among German Academics": exploring the role of conferences and co-publications in scientific performance As a core methodological contribution, this paper provides a first approach towards operationalising the informal dimensions of interaction in science which had previously been theoretically discussed but never broadly captured by empirical means.
Universities vs. research institutes? Overcoming the Soviet legacy of higher education and research While universities now produce the bulk of research output in selected countries, in the majority of national contexts, Acad-emies of Sciences continue to be important players in research.
The associations between scientific collaborations of LIS research and its policy impact In this paper, we examined the associations between scientific collaborations of LIS arti-cles and their policy impact.
Starstruck by journal prestige and citation counts? On students' bias and perceptions of trustworthiness according to clues in publication references The results showed that the number of citations and publication dates were the most influential attributes.
Relationship between collaboration and normalized scientific impact in South American public universities The results confirmed the hypothesis of this study and the authors provide practical recommendations for science policy makers and researchers, including the promotion of strategic collaboration between different institutional sectors of society to increase the impact of publications.
The menace of self citation: An audit of two years from journals of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa The trend of author self-citation was found to be high while that of journal self-citation was low when compared with already prevalent literature.
Measuring the effect of reviewers on manuscript change: A study on a sample of submissions to Royal Society journals (2006-2017) Our results showed that reviewers had a considerable impact on manuscript changes.
How public investment fuels innovation: Clues from government-subsidized USPTO patents Our findings give us a deeper understanding of how national government mechanisms encourage innovation.
Non-linearity between referencing behavior and citation impact: A large-scale, discipline-level analysis This paper studies the relation between the reference list of a scientific publication and its citation impact.
Bibliographic coupling networks reveal the advantage of diversification in scientific projects First, we find power-law characteristics in number of articles published by each project and number of projects acknowledged by each article. The negative correlation between average GC ratio and PRL demonstrate that when the research fields of the project are more dispersed, the project may publish more high-quality papers, and this phenomenon is more obvious in small projects. At the same time, the exploration of the research content of the project in different years shows a trend of declining GC ratio year by year, indicating that the project tends to study the core and most important parts first, and then explore other fields.
Is there a need for a new journal metric? Correlations between JCR Impact Factor metrics and the Journal Citation Indicator -JCI This paper offers a first analysis of the statistical characteristics of the Journal Citation Indicator (JCI), an indicator recently introduced in the Journal Citation Reports (JCR) from Clarivate Analytics. The JCI has similar properties to the JIF and the 5-Year JIF.
Exploring the influence of coauthorship with top scientists on researchers' affiliation, research topic, productivity, and impact Strong and moderate coauthorships are win-win relationships for top-ordinary coauthorship types. In the future, we will examine the dynamics of the coauthorship effect on scientific research and the manifestation and influence of cross-disciplinary scholar performance.
Scientometrics Study of Research Output on Sheep and Goats from Greece The findings have indicated focusing of research on sheep and goats in Greece in areas associated with dairy production. The findings of the study can be employed to initiate improved relevant research approaches in the country.
The Premise of Interdisciplinarity and Its Actual Absence-A Bibliometric Analysis of Publications on Heavy Rainfall The method introduced here makes interdisciplinarity more tangible and measurable. It shows how the current state of research is still struggling to accomplish multisectoral outcomes. While interdisciplinarity is required and encouraged, we show here that the actual interdisciplinarity of research fields dealing with heavy rainfall events is mostly considered to be low.
Geographical distribution of authorship for leading cardiothoracic surgery journals The prominent Cardiothoracic authorship is predominantly located in Western countries, most commonly large metropolitan centers in the United States. This raises questions as to whether the literature adequately reflects populations in other geographical areas such as the continents of South America and Africa and rural settings. Cardiothoracic surgery journals should consider policies which encourage publication by authors from geographical locations that are underrepresented on the world stage.
Flat teams drive scientific innovation Here we reveal the place of team hierarchy in the landscape of innovation, and provide insight for funding agencies about the critical role flat teams play in advancing supporting scientists to grow the next-generation scientific workforce for sustainable, long-term scientific advance.
The policy of testing hypotheses in Chilean science. The role of a hypothesis-driven research funding programme in the installation of a hypothesis-driven experimental system in visual neuroscience The concept of science as hypothesis testing seems to play a crucial institutional or political (not philosophical) role in allowing the conceptual articulation of social expectations and researchers' expectations.
Scientists are working overtime: when do scientists download scientific papers? Our results provide compelling evidence for long-term overtime among scientists and suggest that this approach appears to be effective in proving that scientists do more unknown hard work in their break time. Making copyrighted literature more accessible to researchers would be great beneficial to science. Academic publishers, institutional libraries, and institutional IT services, on the other hand, may collaborate to create a better and easier environment for researchers to access the literature and remove barriers to legitimate use, such as providing seamless, privacy-protected, one-click subscription content so that scientists can access articles legitimately whenever and wherever they want (Felts et al., 2020; Moore, 2020).
Exploratory analysis of the perception of academic researchers about incentives: evidence from a Spanish public university The analysis of these factors contributes to the debate about the way in which academic managers can promote the design of effective incentives that could be assumed and accepted by researchers. From a practical perspective, our study could have several practical implications of interest to university managers and principal investigators of research groups. These factors could improve the commitment and feeling of belonging to the university, so that researchers would be motivated in the research activity and universities could strengthen the bonds between them.
Altmetric and bibliometric analysis of influential articles in reproductive biology, 1980-2019 This multifaceted altmetric and bibliometric analysis should be the model for future studies looking to understand research dissemination in a medical field.
Open Access Articles Garner Increased Social Media Attention and Citation Rates Compared With Subscription Access Research Articles: An Altmetrics-Based Analysis OA articles resulted in significantly greater AAS and citations in comparison with SA articles. The potential for more extensive research dissemination inherent in the OA option may therefore translate into greater reach and social media attention.
Serials Metric Studies Performed at the Academic Library to Improve Scholarly Communication of the Library Users (Experience and Opinion of the Scientific Library of the Belarusian National Technical University) In this paper, we have considered some of the experi-ence of bibliometric evaluation of serial publications carried out by academic libraries staff members both with the aim of improving library collections and information services for library users, and for the pur-pose of making managerial decisions, evaluating the effectiveness of scientific activities of the university, scientific organization, or their units.
Individual excellence funding: effects on research autonomy and the creation of protected spaces The experiences of the DPG recipients from all scientific fields are overwhelmingly positive. Their accounts indicate that the DPG achieves what it sets out to do: to enable research that would be difficult to conduct using standard project funding. The article concludes that, rather than involving a one-time accomplishment, enacting "a protected space" using a grant like the DPG requires constantly balancing investments and adjustments in different priority areas.
Medical Resident Awareness of Predatory Journal Practices in an International Medical Education System Our findings confirm that trainees in the UAE were largely unaware of reputable publication practices and were vulnerable to publishing in predatory journals.
Toward potential hybrid features evaluation using MLP-ANN binary classification model to tackle meaningful citations The results suggest that the proposed model can be effective in the systems focusing on excluding the incidental citations from pure citation count-based measure. Also, the study can greatly beneficiate the scholarly community by stipulating a list of important papers related to the research topic.
Team formation and team impact: The balance between team freshness and repeat collaboration The findings of this study provide implications for the practice of team formation and team management in science.
Citation bias in measuring knowledge flow: Evidence from the web of science at the discipline level Our empirical analysis shows that citation analysis still does not fully capture knowledge flow even if we added indirect citations into citation analysis by using DPE.
The recognition of kernel research team This paper collects all publications from the CCF-recommended journals and constructs the academic networks for ten respective research fields. We also recognize the kernel research teams by nailing down two sub-tasks. Finally, we chose some famous research teams to test our method, more members are recognized by our method than by the competitive methods, and the improved community detection algorithm performs well. In addition, paper recommendations based on kernel research teams can be a fairly practical tool for all scientists to capture the latest related research in the world as efficiently as possible.
Relations among the h-, g-, ψ-, and p-index and offset-ability This study contains two main contributions.
Questionable authorship practices across the disciplines: Building a multidisciplinary thesaurus using evolutionary concept analysis The current research represents a promising methodology for addressing intellectually complex, multidisciplinary topics accompanied by rich linguistic and disciplinary, institutional, or other forms of diversity.
Studies on Kyphoplasty over 20 years by science mapping method: Kyphoplasty by science mapping method Our study was carried out with the Science Mapping technique using Bibliometrics software. This type of work has become popular in recent years. Such studies are not common in the field of neurosurgery.
An Altmetrics and citation analysis of selected predatory journals in library and information science field Distinct from the traditional research methods, this study combined citation analysis and Altmetrics analysis. By comparing the characteristics of predatory journals and non-predatory open access journals, the findings contribute to the identification of predatory journals.
Bibliometric Analysis of Information Theoretic Studies This paper performed a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of the publications of information theoretic listed on the Scopus database from 1958 to 2022.
Bibliometric Analysis of Global Research Activity on Premature Mortality The present study summarizes the global publication information related to premature mortality, including the annual trend in publications, distribution of countries, authors' productivity, collaborations, and keywords analysis by applying bibliometric indicators.
Trends in Research about COVID-19 Vaccine Documented through Bibliometric and Visualization Analysis In conclusion, this study shows the approximate research trend for COVID-19 vaccine during the completely first two years of the pandemic. The research focuses moved from safety, effectiveness, and immunology at the early stage to the optimal allocation strategies for COVID-19 vaccine, and eventually to public attitudes and acceptance towards COVID-19 vaccination. Hence, this study offers some reference for future research, so that future researchers can foresee possible trends if a new pandemic breaks out again in the future.
Towards understanding the characteristics of successful and unsuccessful collaborations: a case-based team science study The results contribute to the knowledge bank of integration and implementation by providing additional evidence about evaluation for scientific teams, including the know-how related to everyday interactions that lead to goal attainment.
Scientific integrity and fraud in radiology research Radiology researchers reported that scientific fraud and other undesirable practices such as publication bias and honorary authorship are relatively common. Their general confidence in the scientific integrity of published work was relatively high, but far from perfect. These data may trigger stakeholders in the radiology community to place scientific integrity higher on the agenda, and to initiate cultural and policy reforms to remove perverse research incentives.
Analyzing Interdisciplinary Research Using Co-Authorship Networks In this research, we designed, developed, and deployed a co-authorship network-based solution to analyze the trend of IDR in the computer science domain.
Is the immediacy index of co-authored papers higher than that of single-authored ones? The present study examined the short-term influence of co-authorship on the citation impact of papers for all domains.
A Study of the Relation between Byline Positions of Affiliated/Non-Affiliated Authors and the Scientific Impact of European Universities in Times Higher Education World University Rankings In general, we find that the distribution of JIF quartiles changes with the rank of the university. Thus, although the prestigious byline position of non-affiliated authors has a positive effect on CNCI, this effect is higher for universities at lower positions in the THE Ranking 2022. Our results indicate that universities, especially those at less prestigious positions in the THE Ranking 2022, should consider the share and CNCI of Q1-Q4 papers as a potential tool to obtain a better standing.
The catch-22 of promotion: Is becoming department chair of surgery a threat to the triple threat? "The fourth threat of administrative demands is not a threat to the triple threat."
Value Added: A Case Study of Research Impact Services Faculty value research impact support from the libraries, and the libraries can use bibliometric services to support internal decision-making.
A research intelligence approach to assess the research impact of the Dutch university medical centres "Research intelligence is able to transform bibliometric information by interpretation and annotation into highly relevant insights that can be used for several different strategic purposes and for research impact assessment in general."
Social sciences and humanities research funded under the European Union Sixth Framework Programme (2002-2006): a long-term assessment of projects, acknowledgements and publications The results show that research funds in the Social Sci-ences and Humanities may have long-term effects, with some outputs acknowledging funding being published more than a decade after the end of the project.
The Author Impact Factor as a Metric to Evaluate the Impact of Neurosurgical Researchers The AIF provides intuitive and complementary information to the h-index regarding the research output of neurosurgical authors.
Profiling the most highly cited scholars from China: Who they are. To what extent they are interdisciplinary This study analyzed the interdisciplinary characteristics of highly cited Chinese scholars, discovered disequilibrium in fields and organizations to which they belong, and offered reasonable suggestions. China began interdisciplinary development at the national level in 2020, and our research can serve as a foundation for the development of China's future interdisciplinary references. Furthermore, this study can be used as a reference for interdisciplinary policies in other countries.
The Social Systems Citation Theory (SSCT): A proposal to use the social systems theory for conceptualizing publications and their citation links Our proposal to focus on the social systems theory for conceptualizing citation decisions can be understood as an at- tempt to overcome, improve or converge previous theories into a theory with greater explanatory capacity. However, our attempt needs to be further explored, substantiated, and theoretically contrasted in future studies.
Revisiting the exploration-exploitation behavior of scholars? research topic selection: Evidence from a large-scale bibliographic database Our research may help researchers deeply understand topic selection behavior, and therefore provide enlightenment for training scientists and give advice for funding allocation as well as research and development policy formulation.
National Digital Library of India: Democratizing Education in India NDLI has seen enormous growth in user engagement in the last few years, especially in the post-pandemic era.
Counting stars: contribution of early career scientists to marine and fisheries sciences Our counting of stars showed that ECS are important to the scientific firmament of marine and fisheries sciences, display-ing positive trends in the proportion of publications with ECS as (co-)authors, and often as leading authors.
Sustainable Development Trend of Chinese Advertising Design from 1992 to 2020: A Bibliometric and Content Analysis This paper analyzed and predicted five future sustainable research directions: research on the profound transformation of advertising media in the digital age, research on nationalization theory and localization practice of advertising design, international academic dialog in the field of advertising design, research on advertising design education under the background of interdisciplinary, and sustainable social value innovation.
Comparison of COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 papers The characteristics of COVID-19 papers differed from those of non-COVID-19 papers published in the first months of the pandemic. In order to ensure the publication of good scientific evidence the quality of COVID-19-papers should be preserved.
Exploring country's preference over news mentions to academic papers These results suggest that in micro level country's preference exist for news mentions to academic papers, but in macro level, country's preference is insignificant. Therefore, it is suggested that news mention can be used for assessing purpose in the macro level.
The inverted U-shaped relationship between knowledge diversity of researchers and societal impact Research collaborations need to take into account the cost issues associated with the diversity of member disciplines.
The association between research funding status and clinical research papers' citation impact in Japan: A cross-sectional bibliometric study Analysis via multiple indicators including CNCI and the SIGAPS category, which allows for a comparison of the papers' citation impact in different research fields, found a positive relation between research funding status and the citation impact of clinical research papers.
Academic endogamy or immobility? The impact on scholarly productivity in a developing country Results suggest that information on faculty mobility before and during their academic career is relevant when measuring the impact of endogamy on academic productivity as suggested in Horta (2013), but this is true specially among international mobiles, such as proposed by Netz, Hampel and Aman (2020).
Fuzzy logic in knowledge dissemination due to citation trees. Contribution to discipline vector The authors of the article introduce a new method of measuring the contribution to knowledge, which analyses knowledge cumulation dynamics based on the concept of a contribution-to-scientific field.
A bibliometric study on the publication errors in emergency medicine journals from 2000 to 2020 Publications errors are inevitable, but it is possible to minimize them.
Comparison of citation rates between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 articles across 24 major scientific journals These novel findings demonstrate that Covid-19 papers are being cited at remarkably higher rates than non-Covid-19 articles contained within the same journals. This suggests that journal impact factor, which is a product of the number of citations that recently published articles receive, will likely be drastically influenced by the number of Covid-19 papers that a journal has included within its pages in the previous years. We anticipate that JIFs will be affected in coming years which could change the landscape for how journal excellence is determined in the future.
Comparison of scientometric achievements at PhD and scientific output ten years later for 4,790 academic researchers We independently evaluated pre- and post-PhD publication performance.
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY IN THE CONTEXT OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH WITHIN DOCTORAL SCHOOLS The paper presents relevant information on specific aspects of ethics and integrity in the economic research activity in doctoral schools, facilitating the establishment of the level of perception of the importance of the application of ethical principles in scientific research activity by doctoral students and doctoral supervisors.
Do elite scientists play a key role in the genesis of transformative research of "sparking type"? An investigation in the science of science These findings imply that elite scientists, operationalized as those with a high h-index in the corresponding fields, are more sensitive to sparking work and, as such play a pivotal role in the genesis of transformative research.
Understanding the success motivators in scholarly publishing: A case of high ranked Malaysian scientists "This study contributes as the first study to gauge the characteristics of high ranked scientists in Malaysia from the motivational point of view."
Peer review: Risk and risk tolerance These results suggest that reviewer scoring variability may be attributed to the interpretation of proposal risks, and could benefit from intervention to improve the reliability of reviews. Additionally, the valuation of risk drives proposal evaluations and may reduce the chances that risky, but highly impactful science, is supported. This study found proposal risks-more than proposal strengths-to be a score-driving factor in the peer review of moderate- to high quality proposals. More conversations in the scientific community about values and priorities in peer review would be beneficial, e.g., of acceptable levels of risk and potential failure in grant proposals, and how to appropriately balance the assessment of risks with assets.
Does Interdisciplinary Research Lead to Higher Faculty Performance? Evidence from an Accelerated Research University in China This study is motivated by these claims to empirically explore the status and degree of interdisciplinary research on faculty's research performance. Results from this study suggest IDR promoted by accelerated research universities spurs transformative science and innovation in the short-run and it is beneficial in promoting research performance dimensions including productivity, impact, and prestige. This study contributes to the literature by empirically evaluating the effect of pursuing interdisciplinary research through institutional reforms under the context of building accelerated research universities in China.
Forecasting the publication and citation outcomes of COVID-19 preprints Our findings are promising in that they indicate that forecasting can be used to help fill the gap left by the lack of peer-review on preprints.
The Nobel Prize time gap The time lag between reporting a scientific discovery worthy of a Nobel Prize and the awarding of the Nobel itself varies across time and disciplines.
How feasible is creating a natural disaster information management open-access repository (NDIM-OAR) in Iran? The natural disaster information management open access repository (NDIM-OAR) feasibility study in Iran is one of the first serious efforts to design and implement a multistakeholder feasibility analysis in the li- brary and information science field (LIS).
Accidentality in journal citation patterns Our research indicates that the model presented in Siudem et al. (2020) can be successfully applied to scientific journals.
Collaborative Team Recognition: A Core Plus Extension Structure In this study, we investigated collaboration patterns among scholars by recognizing collaborative teams in computer science from a large co-author network constructed using the MAG-CS dataset. Compared with state-of-the-art methods, the proposed algorithm demonstrated promising results. This study clarifies team building, which determines the structure of collaborative networks and team performance.
Do international nonstop flights foster influential research? Evidence from Sino-US scientific collaboration This article contributes to the ongoing debate on whether face-to-face communication still matters to cooperation in the digital era.
Does the author's collaboration mode lead to papers' different citation impacts? An empirical analysis based on propensity score matching In this work, we explore the influence of author's collaboration mode on papers" citation impacts via an empirical study based on the PSM method.
Predicting the citation count and CiteScore of journals one year in advance We have laid out two predictive tasks that are of use for projecting the future performance of academic journals, namely prediction of citations received during the next calendar year and prediction of the CiteScore assigned for the next calendar year.
A directed collaboration network for exploring the order of scientific collaboration Scientific collaboration networks are powerful tools for scientific collaboration research.
MatrixSim: A new method for detecting the evolution paths of research topics In this study, a new method, MatrixSim, was proposed to detect the evolution paths of research topics.
Research performance of the GCC countries: A comparative analysis of quantity and quality The GCC countries witnessed an increase in their research produc-tivity over the last 25 years.
An Empirical Study on the Relationship between Scientific Collaboration and Knowledge Production of the Countries along the Belt and Road Through empirical analysis, we have reached the following conclusions: knowledge production and scientific collaboration have accumulative effects, meaning the current knowledge production or the node centrality in the network can be affected by what it accumulates in the past; knowledge production and scientific collaboration are mutually reinforcing; the number of disciplines and political stability are important factors that simultaneously affect national knowledge production and scientific collaboration; and economic development will enhance the promoting role of knowledge production to scientific collaboration. To strengthen the scientific collaboration along the Belt and Road and build a BRI scientific and technological innovation community. This study has several limitations. First, owing to the difficulty of data acquisition and processing, this study only selects the research data from 2009 to 2018.
Identifying a common pattern within ancestors of emerging topics for pan-domain topic emergence prediction The network-based topic emergence prediction method is applied throughout the wide range of research domains in this paper to validate the generalizability of the method and to identify a general pattern for emerging research topics. The results showed that there is indeed a domain-independent pattern that can predict topic emergence with high accuracy. Future work can include extracting a set of topic group candidates without accessing the future neighborhood information, which would allow prospective topic evolution prediction.
Empowering the Research Community to Investigate Misconduct and Promote Research Integrity and Ethics: New Regulation in Scandinavia The Scandinavian countries have reformed their research integrity and ethics leg-islation in a way where they recognize the difficulty in formalizing such norms.
Progressive and degenerative journals: on the growth and appraisal of knowledge in scholarly publishing This article has attempted to outline some of the deficiencies of current efforts to evaluate journal quality – specifically highlighting issues with the impact factor and predatory blacklists and whitelists.
The influence of Chinese scholars on global research Our analysis suggests that although Chinese scholars do not change the perceived publication capabilities of many countries but may have reshaped their research culture as well as workforce distributions.
Scientometric Analysis of Publications from 2004e2021 in the Spine Surgery Field: A Latin American Perspective The number of publications in the spine surgery field in Latin America has continued to increase over evaluated decades from 58.3 per year to 108, and a 1.79-fold increase between the most productive years for each decade. Brazil is still the greatest contributor (51.14%), with Mexico (26.40%) and Argentina (8.64%) as growing contributor countries. Most publications were classified as Level of Evidence 4, and this result reflects the importance of continuous research development in the quality of research for our region.
Analyzing research outcomes and spillovers at a US nanotechnology user facility The findings of this research have supported the construction of the conceptual framework of the core transformation components for the cognitive energy enterprise.
Mapping the research trends of third language acquisition: A bibliometric analysis based on Scopus The results suggest that the evolution of L3 acquisition may be divided into three phases, with 1984 to 2008 as the initiation phase, 2009 to 2014 as the development phase, and 2015 to present as the burst phase.
The Top 100 Cited Articles on Plantar Fasciitis: A Bibliometric Analysis Plantar fasciitis is a well-studied topic.
Academic support network reflects doctoral experience and productivity Our results point to the importance of academic support networks by explaining how they differ and how they influence productivity.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Application of Artificial Intelligence Techniques to the Management of Innovation Projects In this work, an exploratory study of the impact of artificial intelligence on the management of innovation projects was carried out. Decision-support systems and tools and the different processes associated with knowledge management (knowledge acquisition, knowledge sharing, and knowledge management) and information frequently appear in the different domains of project management. Product development, where sustainability is also a prominent aspect that appears in several of the domains.
DocCompare: An Approach to Prevent the Problem of Character Injection in Document Similarity Algorithm The proposed method presented a novel approach to handle the character injection in the text document. On testing, it is found that the algorithm and the application was able to detect character injection and produce accurate similarity score of the document without the bias caused by the injected characters. Hence, the proposed DoCompare method effectively handles the text plagiarism in presence of character injection while the existing tools failed to detect the same.
Review Policy Moderates the Correlation Between CiteScore and JIF For BMC Journals In this regard, we suggest that the editors and scientists should direct their focus on the potential impact and rigor of the work instead of the "perfection" or "completeness" of the study.
Who games metrics and rankings? Institutional niches and journal impact factor inflation Findings reveal the importance of status and institutional logics in influencing metrics gaming behaviors, as well as how metrics can affect work outcomes in different types of institutions.
Identifying potential breakthrough research: A machine learning method using scientific papers and Twitter data This paper contributes to identifying potential breakthrough research, as well as understanding the emergence and development of breakthrough research. This framework has been demonstrated to be valid and flexible in the solar cell technology case study. If this framework can be proven to be valid and flexible in multiple case applications, it would contribute to early identify potential breakthrough research studies. Through the analysis of Twitter data, we found that we could identify potential breakthrough research by analyzing the tweets posted by Twitter users.
Profiling African Health Journals: A Bibliometric Study African health journals face unique challenges that require targeted interventions.
ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF THE NON-ECONOMIC FACTORS ON GDP PER CAPITA USING MLRA AND ANNs The obtained results of modeling the dependence of the influence of non-economic factors (the quality of higher education and science, and GII) on GDP per capita in the considered countries, using MLRA and ANNs indicate that R2(MLRA)=0.630 < R²(ANNs)=0.878, indicating that the nonlinear ANNs model better describes the defined dependence Y = f (X1-X7).
INTERNSHIPS, SKILLS AND EMPLOYABILITY: MAPPING THE FIELD THROUGH A BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS The paper provides an innovative approach of the less studied interactions between internships, students' skills, and employability, by using a bibliometric analysis; the papers were reported into two the most relevant scientific DBs, WoS and Scopus and analyzed these papers using VOSViewer. This is a proof that the research interest on the topic under analysis is growing, alongside with the increasing societal relevance of young people's skills, employability, the role of higher education institutions in educating specialists according to the labor market's needs and the wider role of universities in society in general.
Factors influencing Lithuanian researchers' use of open access repositories as a publishing channel Lithuanian researchers differ from the general context of open access publishing behaviour in that the influence of norms on the intention to submit publications to open access repositories is greater than that of researchers in other countries, and the attitudes, although positive, are less significant.
Participation and transdisciplinarity in Ecohealth: a social network analysis perspective The proposed approach has wide application to study participation and transdisciplinarity in projects about health and environment.
Rethinking the effect of inter-gender collaboration on research performance for scholars On the whole, inter-gender collaboration was found to increase the research performance for scholars.
Impactful scientists have higher tendency to involve collaborators in new topics In this paper, we find that the actual number of topics in which the same collaborator is involved is significantly smaller than expected from surrogate time-controlled reshuffling, suggesting the preference of recruiting collaborators for a single topic.
Structural characteristics of China's COVID-19 patent cooperation network at the province, city, and patent applicant levels The present study describes the structural characteristics of China's COVID-19 patent cooperation network at the province, city, and applicant levels by using social network analysis based on data from the Incopat global patent database since 2020. First, efforts should be made to explore the potential for cooperation between patent applicants in the field of COVID-19. Second, important nodes in the COVID-19 patent cooperation network should be encouraged to play a leading role. Third and lastly, the government should subsidize the pharmaceutical R&D of relevant firms on a long-term basis and create technical reserves and strategic models for public health drugs to deal with large-scale public crises.
Expanding your institutional repository: Librarians working with faculty Our system of increasing faculty IR contributions will allow librarians to act as stewards of Open Access while allowing an Institutional Repository to reach its full potential. Based on our sample, the majority of faculty articles can be placed in an institutional repository in some form without violating copyright laws.
litstudy: A Python package for literature reviews In this work, we present litstudy, a Python package for exploring scientific literature by allowing users to select scientific publications and analyze their metadata using visualizations, network analysis, and natural language processing. The software was used to explore the landscape of Exascale computing, and several Ph.D. students already used the tool to map the landscape of the related work for their research. Given their positive feedback and interest from the community, we envision great potential for reuse.
Benefits and detriments of interdisciplinarity on early career scientists' performance. An author-level approach for US physicists and psychologists Our findings imply that ECRs should pursue a limited number of research topics and make one their main line of research [6].
Open access in the context of Information Science research The results and discussions presented here can help researchers understand the worldwide performance of open access research and suggest directions for future research. This study was limited to documents indexed only in the Scopus database, and although the research methodology aimed to be as inclusive as possible, it is recognized that it may not have captured all scientific publications on open access. Therefore, more research is needed to examine scientific production on open access in the fields of Library Science and Information Science that appear in other databases, such as Web of Science, from Clarivate Analytics, or other specialized databases in Library Science and Information Science.
How relevant is climate change research for climate change policy? An empirical analysis based on Overton data Based on these and other empirical results in this study, we propose a simple model of policy impact considering a chain of different document types: The chain starts with scientific assessment reports (systematic reviews) that lead via science communication documents (policy briefs, policy reports or plain language summaries) and government reports to legislative documents. Our analyses revealed the challenges in measuring policy impact via citation patterns. Therefore, future scientometric research may explore to what extent primary and secondary research is used in policy documents and how this varies across different sectors.
And the credit goes to ... - Ghost and honorary authorship among social scientists Our results highlight a high prevalence of ghost and honorary authorship and a broad devia-tion in authorship assignments from such as the commonly employed ICMJE criteria.
Relationships between changing communication networks and changing perceptions of psychological safety in a team science setting: Analysis with actor-oriented social network models The study results can contribute to theory-building about team science which acknowledges the importance of social influence and selection. Our analysis of the mHTI data showed how factors, such as team membership, disciplinary background, and gender [55, 56], can explain the structure, formation, or changes of scholars' communication networks. Overall, these results suggest that it would be helpful if the mHTI program could include activities that could encourage more positive interactions among team members to further promote psychological safety within teams.
Editorial board interlocking across the social sciences: Modelling the geographic, gender, and institutional representation within and between six academic fields Our findings extend the literature on editorial board diversity by evidencing a significant imbalance in their gender, geographical, institutional representation, and interlocking editorship both within and between fields.
Scientific collaboration, research funding, and novelty in scientific knowledge Our findings contribute, first, by examining macro-meso-micro levels of collaborations in Europe and by linking them to the value of novelty in scholarly activities.
Retracted papers originating from paper mills: cross sectional study Papers retracted originating from paper mills are increasing in frequency, posing a problem for the research community.
International comparison of cross-disciplinary integration in industry 4.0: A co-authorship analysis using academic literature databases This study contributes to the development of Industry 4.0 by identifying cross-disciplinary fusion patterns in AI, big data, and IoT based on Innovation theory.
Integrity of the editing and publishing process is the basis for improving an academic journal's Impact Factor Ultimately, the findings from our bibliometric assessments indicate that establishing, promoting and actively practicing processes that safeguard and bolster the integrity of the editing and publication process also help to improve the academic influence of academic journals, which itself is the cornerstone for improving JIF. The collective outcome could benefit all of science worldwide, as greater transparency and demonstrated adherence to ethical standards and norms will strengthen trust in scientific studies and their findings and in collaborative efforts worldwide.
Altmetric Scores in Conservation Science have Gender and Regional Biases Metrics, like altmetrics, may have a role to play when making rapid evaluations.
Publication delays and associated factors in ophthalmology journals Journals with higher impact factors and lower acceptance rates tend to have quicker publication processes. No significant associations were detected between publication delays and AOP or OA rate. Our results also indicate negative correlations between impact factors and AP and SP, which may be the result of the publication delay effect on impact factors and efficient peer review processes in high impact journals.
Research Productivity among Filipino Neurologists Associated with Socioeconomic, Healthcare, and Disease Burden Factors: A Bibliometric Analysis Research productivity in Philippine neurology has shown steady growth in recent years.
Evolution of Sensor Research for Clarifying the Dynamics and Properties of Future Directions To conclude, the results presented here clearly illustrate the evolutionary paths of sensor research that are based increasingly on growing interactions among research fields and technologies directed to science advances and technological change for supporting industrial and socioeconomic development [79-82]. This study provides critical information with network analysis to guide innovation management to allocate economic resources with effectiveness towards research fields and technologies that have a growing centrality degree and specific levels of closeness and betweenness (e.g., wireless sensor networks) to foster the technological development for positive industrial and impact societal.
Research Productivity in Terms of Output, Impact, and Collaboration for University Researchers in Saudi Arabia: SciVal Analytics and t-Tests Statistical Based Approach This article helps to comprehend the modifications necessary to maintain the faculties’ present efficiency levels, as well as the prospective implications of specific increases in their research outputs. Regarding the diverse nature and variances in activities of each faculty, one of the drawbacks of this approach that may be explored in future studies is not taking these disparities into account.
International impact metric of Mathematics: determining leadership through scientific impact The results obtained show that there is not a single indicator to evaluate scientific impact at any level (macro, meso and micro).
Research Performance of Chilean University System 2006-2020 The results show that the growth rate of the scientific production and citation impact of Chilean private universities is higher than that of public and public-private universities.
Obtaining interactions among science, technology, and research policy for developing an innovation strategy: A case study of supercapacitors The main purpose of this study was to examine the interactions among science, technology, and research policy at a knowledge domain level.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Use of Artificial Intelligence Technologies for Social Sciences This paper assesses the scientific impact of Biga Data and AI in social Sciences scholarly work sphere to provide a fundamental framework for future research. For the future work, there are two major points we would like to rise. First, social science perspective of the AI and Big Data applications should also include the “ethics” aspect, nonetheless, it has not revealed itself in our keyword co-occurrence analysis.
Interdisciplinarity in Cognitive Science: A Document Similarity Analysis We found that Doc2vec and cosine similarity provide robust data for evaluating the trends shaping cognitive science as an interdisciplinary field of research. Our findings show how the relevant fields contribute to cognitive science without the apparent dominance of any one relevant field over the other. The overall picture of the findings confirms that cognitive science has maintained its interdisciplinarity structure over time, without being dominated by a single field, in line with the findings reported by Oey et al. (2020).
The intellectual structure of the information systems field: Research styles and publication patterns of North American and European paradigms This study presents evidence for paradigmatic differentiation and interaction in the IS academic field using data from 509 researchers, 2,535 different journals, and 12,396 articles. Empirical analyses show that worldwide convergence of the North American style of research is not apparent. The study makes important contributions in terms of citation content. Examining the interaction among paradigms using more journals and with the help of a citation analysis will be important for future studies to further contribute to the literature.
Measuring the prevalence of open access in Canada: A national comparison Canadian research published between 2015 and 2019 remains mostly inaccessible, with 44% of articles available in OA. Practices are heterogeneous and the presence of various disciplines, funders, and the role of Érudit has contributed to the rather intricate Canadian OA landscape that exists today. OA availability is generally high within the health sciences, where research is more frequently funded, highly internationalized and OA mandates have been established for a longer period.
Bibliometric analysis of peer-reviewed literature on the Patos Lagoon, southern Brazil Our bibliometric analysis showed an increase in the number of published studies performed in the PL, especially in the last sixteen years.
Global scientific production in the pre-Covid-19 Era: An analysis of 53 countries for 22 years In conclusion, we believe that our findings may contribute to further studies aiming to evaluate the impact and changes of the scientific endeavor over the next years in light of the forthcoming new world framework. In conclusion, our data have shown a mixed scenario for the scientific endeavor during the last two decades. Our findings suggest that the scientific endeavor is strongly dependent on the economic strength of the nations.
Analyzing and predicting success of professional musicians Using these models and success metrics, aspiring professional musicians can check if their chances for career success could be improved by increasing their specific success measures in both Spotify and Billboard charts. In this work, we seek to explore various ways we can represent the music business in a network structure, as well as the correlation between success metrics with the network features in combination with musician features collected from the Musicbrainz database and the Spotify API. Our approach can be generalized and applied to any type of network data that has a target metric. It can also be extended to create a recommendation system for aspiring musicians, providing them with hints on how to raise their visibility on a given platform, such as recommended collaborations or the number of releases.
Thoughts from a past AGU SPA fellows committee By sharing our experiences, we hope to improve the process of granting awards and honours for the scientists putting together award nominations, future committee members, and the scientific societies granting these awards.
Study on Dynamic Evaluation of Sci-tech Journals Based on Time Series Model In this study, we proposed a new task: Dynamic evaluation task for journals and construct a new time series dataset of 18 journal evaluation metrics. Based on this, we built nine models based on the mainstream machine learning and deep learning methods in the field of time series analysis and conducted training and experiments on the dataset to provide comprehensive and diverse evaluation metric results, then compared and analyzed the results to confirm the generalizability of these methods for the comprehensive dynamic evaluation of journals, and found the LSTM model we built achieved high prediction accuracy in the task proposed in this paper, laying the foundation for subsequent research on this task.
Bibliometric Analysis of Psychomotricity Research Trends: The Current Role of Childhood Research on psychomotricity is experiencing exponential growth and generating great interest from researchers and journals.
Building the Cognitive Enterprise in the Energy Sector We find that SENIC's research outcomes dis-tributions are skewed.
Using Artificial Intelligence for Drug Discovery: A Bibliometric Study and Future Research Agenda Al is a group of technologies that are nowadays used and investigated for several use cases. Both the findings and the future research opportunities indicate the multidisciplinary nature of AI and its applications for understanding and discovering drugs. We hope that, with our findings and overview, we have succeeded in providing a good foundation for interested researchers and scholars from all disciplines to investigate this interesting and exciting topic.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Scientific Research of Food Industry By-Products in the Period 1976-2021 The scientific interest for food industry by-products has been growing constantly since 1976, with an intensified trend since 2015. Although the research was started by European scientists, it is not specific to a certain region, country, or institution but is led worldwide and collaborations between institutions have been intensifying since 2007. The descriptive bibliometry and visualization in this paper revealed that the Spanish (13%) and Italian (11%) scientists are the leaders in the publication of the research regarding food industry by-products; their articles have been published in high-ranked journals, as seen in the references with high impact factors.
More Inclusive Collection Development Considering the Information Needs of Researchers from Outside the Subject Area of Communication The data show that the preponderance of the citations to communication journals indexed in WoS are from outside the discipline, demonstrating the importance of considering the research needs of scholars outside the discipline and confirming the relevance of the subject area communication to areas outside communication studies. More specifically, the study provides librarians with a ranked list of journal titles cited most by scholars outside the discipline. Titles included in table 3 were found to be highly cited by researchers both outside the discipline (current study) and researchers within communication studies (the author's 2018 study); accordingly, these titles could be considered the beginning of a list of core journal titles in communication and titles whose subscriptions should be considered essential.
Extra credit for disruption: trend of disruption in radiology academic journals The disruption score highlights significant impact elements not entirely accounted for by citation count.
The Landscapes of Sustainability in the Library and Information Science: Collaboration Insights The theoretical and practical value of the present study can be summarized as follows. First of all, research on scientific cooperation contributes to a better understanding of modern scientific communication practices, which partly determine the quality and quantity of works published in a discipline.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Literature on Postgraduate Teaching The goal of this article is to create a map of the postgraduate teaching knowledge structure, while also examining the research collaboration across organizations, authors, nations, and areas. For scholars and practitioners in the field of graduate education, objective advice and helpful ideas are given through the analysis and discussion of the data acquired.
A Research Funding Allocation Scheme in Multi-Layer Networks for the Growth of Talents In this paper, the talent training process of a research-oriented university is analyzed with the life-course model. Based on this model, a talent project funding allocation scheme is proposed according to multi-layer network theory as a viable point of macro-control, which aims to optimize talent training performance for the whole university. In future work, more talent development data is needed to fit the parameters of the model proposed in this paper and to further modify the life-course mode model.
Topic Analysis of Foreign Policy and Economic Cooperation: A Text Mining Approach The main results obtained in this study are as follows. First, the major topics of state and official visits are cooperation, development, country, relation, people, bilateral, international, economic, and trade.
Addressing low-profile misconduct in management academia through theoretical triangulation and transformative ethics education Our theoretical triangulation and the resultant plan of action can serve as foundations for future research and ethics education.
Telemedicine Literature during COVID-19: A Scientometric Analysis This study, which was based on 900 scientific credentials in the field of telemedicine during COVID-19, indicated the level of cooperation among authors, countries, and organizations in 2020. Moreover, by presenting different indicators in these networks' researchers, countries, and key organizations were introduced for each indicator.
Neurosurgical research in Southeast Asia: A bibliometric analysis Our bibliometric analysis showed increasing contribution by neurosurgeons in the SEA region.
Metric indicators for the evaluation of graduate programs in Brazil: from Qualis to multi-criteria Therefore, they are more adequate to assess the Brazilian graduate programs, considering several internationally accepted criteria.
Scientometric Portrait of the Journal of Scientific and Industrial Research based on Papers Published during 2001-2020 The present study examined the chronological distribution of publication output and the variation in the impact factor of Journal of Scientific and Industrial Research during the 20 years period of 2001-2020. Analysis of data indicates a decreasing trend of output for the journal after 2011 and increasing trend of impact factor during later period. The present study could be useful for all the stakeholders of the journal like the Editor-in-Chief, Editors, Editorial Board members, authors and readers of the journal.
A protocol to gather, characterize and analyze incoming citations of retracted articles The aim of our methodology is to output data and visualizations that help us investigating and inferring behaviors related to the retraction case/s analyzed.
The Quality Assist: A Technology-Assisted Peer Review Based on Citation Functions to Predict the Paper Quality This paper developed a method for predicting paper quality to reduce the review burden that depends only on features extracted from the paper.
Indian Journal of Dermatology, Venereology and Leprology: A scientometric analysis From the scientometric analysis, it can be concluded that IJDVL is one of the most significant journals in the field of dermatology research in India. The high proportion of frequently cited articles in recent years, together with its currently high journal impact factor and quartile two-factor, give sustenance to the view that IJDVL publishes high-standard articles relevant to dermatology research and clinical practice.
Citation Activity of Journal of Korean Medical Science in 2011-2020: Reflection on the Most and Least Cited Items Most of JKMS articles are cited during 5 years post publication, with 1.4% non-citation rate.
How international are the editorial boards in the field of foot and ankle surgery?: A STROBE-compliant cross-sectional study There is a lack of international representation on editorial boards of leading foot and ankle journals. Editorial board members in the field of foot and ankle surgery are largely composed by editors from high-income countries with sever under-representation of LAMIC.
Exploring Bias in Scientific Peer Review: An ASCO Initiative "Limited data reveal that the peer review process at ASCO is not exempt from IB and suggest association with sex and institutional affiliation. Working Group on Implicit Bias recommends three actions to mitigate IB within peer review: (1) create awareness and a culture of inclusivity, (2) create systems to reduce IB, and (3) collect data for ongoing analysis."
Disciplinary Roots of 300 Top-Ranked Scientific Contributors to Gerontology: From Legacy to Enriching Our Discovery First, there is an impressive diversity of disciplines represented by these leading scholars.
Does NIH funding differ between medical specialties? A longitudinal analysis of NIH grant data by specialty and type of grant, 2011-2020 NIH funding varies significantly between medical specialties. This may affect research progress and the careers of scientists and may affect patient outcomes in less well funded specialties.
Publication games: In the web of reciprocity Under the current climate of wide spread use of scientometry indices to assess academics pub- lication cartels can provide huge, although unethical benefits. As my results indicate, members of cartels by reciprocally inviting each other as honorary authors can easily boost their own publication productivity, i.e. the number of papers they appear on as (co)author.
Rate of publication hastens, but number of publications slows academic promotion Like other studies, we found that: (1) academic hiring and promotion decisions are dominated by the number of publications a professor has published [23, 25, 27, 30–32]; (2) both the number and rate of publication increase as research group size increases [12, 18, 20, 24, 28]; and (3) postgraduate experience influences a professor’s career [25, 31].
Getting funded in a highly fluctuating environment: Shifting from excellence to luck and timing The strongest takeaway from the study is a need to redefine what is the end purpose of the national grant system. The analysis suggests that great annual fluctuations and abnormalities in grant allocations have far-reaching conse-quences for individual career prospects, especially for the younger generation of researchers, and might also question the sustainability of the overall national academic labor market.
Science in motion: A qualitative analysis of journalists' use and perception of preprints Our findings suggest this departure is likely to continue post-pandemic and expand beyond the use of preprints related to health and biomedical sciences. This research contributes to theory building by using the theoretical framework of post-normal science communication within the emerging COVID-19 context. More research is needed to better understand why journalists adopt certain communication practices in some post-normal contexts and not others, and what issues these novel practices might raise for their audiences.
Assessing future technological impacts of patents based on the classification algorithms in machine learning: The case of electric vehicle domain Early identification of the technological frontier is important for the optimal allocation of enterprises' R&D resources and the formulation of government innovation strategies. This study can help us further understand the relationships between influencing factors and the citation frequency in a domain and contributes to the intelligent identification of the technological frontier in a timely and accurate manner.
Alma mat(t)er(s): Determinants of early career success in economics The prestige of Alma maters has a substantial and significant effect on the early career publication success of economists, even after controlling for ex-post revealed ability levels.
Self-correction in science: The effect of retraction on the frequency of citations Our study adds to the evidence on the limited effect of retractions on citations: retractions decrease citations, but do not eliminate them [4, 7, 14, 18, 22, 25, 28].
Author-suggested reviewers rate manuscripts much more favorably: A cross-sectional analysis of the neuroscience section of PLOS ONE By analyzing a large dataset of reviews from the PLOS ONE journal, we found that author-suggested reviewers might produce some undesirable outcomes that make the peer review potentially biased.
Whose research benefits more from Twitter? On Twitter-worthiness of communication research and its role in reinforcing disparities of the field We conceptualize Twitter-worthiness as factors that make certain content more likely to be shared on Twitter than others. Statistical analyses results have shown that all four factors mentioned before are independently associated with papers' visibility on Twitter, which also leads to more peer citations. The possible benefit of Twitter to future citations of a paper has the potential to reinforce the disparity between the privileged researchers in Industrialized countries and the underprivileged researchers in the Global South; and, in turn, further enhances the cumulative advantage of the privileged cohort. Another key finding from this study is the equalizing potential of OA. We found that OA papers from researchers in non-G12 countries, in comparison to their counterparts in the US, have more Twitter mentions.
Motivations, concerns and selection biases when posting preprints: A survey of bioRxiv authors "We find that authors are most strongly motivated to post preprints to increase awareness of their work and increase the speed of its dissemination; conversely, the strongest reasons for not posting preprints centre around a lack of awareness of preprints and reluctance to publicly post work that has not undergone a peer review process."
From art to science: A bibliometric analysis of architectural scholarly production from 1980 to 2015 The data presented above suggests that publications on architecture are increasingly becoming academic. This is demonstrated by the growing proportion of articles and journals intended for a scholarly rather than professionals (trade), or grand public (consumer) audience. Scholarly publications testify that architecture as a research field seems to be evolving to now become an academically technical discipline.
Do open-access dermatology articles have higher citation counts than those with subscription-based access? We noted a higher citation count for OA articles than SA articles in dermatology hybrid journals. However, dermatology researchers should take into account confounding factors when deciding whether to increase the impact of their work by selecting OA over SA publishing.
Interdisciplinary collaboration from diverse science teams can produce significant outcomes A fundamental question for our study was whether a diversity of participants in a working group does lead to diverse practices and outcomes. Our findings reinforce the importance and apparent benefits of diversity of various types in research groups. They also indicate the need to pay attention to the interdisciplinarity of the collaboration itself and being more deliberate about the combination of new knowledge, working to ensure that the groups bring together their diverse perspectives.
A systematic exclusion induced by institutional ranking in engineering faculty hiring: Introducing a cycle of winners and losers Unless the U.S. higher education system is intent on squandering talent, confirming the belief that diversity is symbolic, and cementing the ranking system as the sole factor of academic quality, we recommend faculty hiring beyond the standard sociodemographic indicators and academic origins in hiring decisions.
THE IMPACT OF RESEARCH PROJECTS AND PROFESSIONAL PROMOTION ON TEACHERS' ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE All the hypotheses stated at the beginning of the research were validated by the empirical results.
Relationship between early-career collaboration among researchers and future funding success in Japanese academia This paper analyzes the relationship between researchers' early-career participation in joint research and their success in obtaining research funding in the future.
Certified Amplification: An Emerging Scientific Norm and Ethos I have argued for certified amplification as a Mertonian-styled norm whose emergence as an ethos is exhibited by decentralized institutional efforts to recouple certification and amplification across heterogeneous objects, communication modalities, and institutional contexts.
Academic Tracker: Software for tracking and reporting publications associated with authors and grants Academic Tracker is a useful tool for querying major scientific publication web portals for publications, given a list of authors or references and for creating highly customizable reports from the list of publications found.
Correlation Monitoring Method and model of Science-Technology-Industry in the AI Field: A Case of the Neural Network The results illustrate that the correlation monitoring method can be conducive to grasp accurately the development opportunity and trend, the advantage subfield, and the development status of Science and Technology (S&T) for the dominant countries.
Using Extended TPB Models to Predict Dishonest Academic Behaviors of Undergraduates in a Chinese Public University This study concluded that the extended TPB Model 4 offered the best explanations for DAB among undergraduates at this Chinese university.
Is novel research worth doing? Evidence from peer review at 49 journals Overall, the findings suggest that journal peer review favors novel research that is well situated in the existing literature, incentivizing exploration in science and challenging the view that peer review is inherently antinovelty.
Who is to blame? Evaluations in academia spreading through relationships among multiple actor types Regulators, market actors, and scrutinizers as well as researchers and academic lead-ers are thus all to blame for the development of the current evaluation regime. However, we note that, although all these actor types are culpable, none of them is guilty alone. Evaluations appear to be here for the long run.
Mapping and Analyzing the Scientific Map of Knowledge Organization Using Research Indexed in the WOS Database The results of this study indicate the importance of concepts such as classification and information science that were confirmed by studying the literature on these issues. Although social network analysis (SNA) research itself does not provide suggestions, it can be helpful in under-standing the current situation and guiding scientific trends in knowledge organization. The present study helps re-searchers to explain the process of studies and policy making in this area based on the identified areas of influence.
Deciphering the Landscape of Food Science Research Footprints: Scientific Specialties and SDGs The data reveals that global publication output is sizeable and the growth trajectory for India seems to be random in the coming years. The analysis indicates that greater percent of scientists are actually getting engaged in this research domain.
Same-gender citations do not indicate a substantial gender homophily bias Our study points out the importance of controlling structural aspects such as gendered specialization in research topics when investigating gender bias in science.
Beijing's central role in global artificial intelligence research Our study has shown that dependencies matter, so competition may not be the right approach to understand the evolution of AI.
Publication Benchmarking Data Based on Faculty Promoted at the Top 200 Worldwide Accounting Research Institutions In this paper, we report updated, expanded data on benchmarking and promotions to provide useful information to accounting faculty, decision makers, education standard setters, letter writers, and other relevant parties.
Differences in scientific collaboration and their effects on research influence: A quantitative analysis of nursing publications in Latin America (Scopus, 2005-2020) "Generally speaking, the results reveal that Latin America has enhanced its representativeness in Nursing as compared to the previous decades and, in turn, it explains why some LATAM countries have climbed their positions in different rankings (Santin, 2020)."
Getting by in a bibliometric economy: scholarly publishing and academic credibility in the Nigerian academy The histories, logics and fragilities of this regional research ecosystem reveal how Africa's scholars and publishers are getting by – but only just amid the metricized judgements of the global research economy.
Federal Funding and Citation Metrics of US Biomedical Researchers, 1996 to 2022 In this survey study, biomedical federal funding had offered support to approximately two-thirds of the top-cited biomedical scientists at some point during the last quarter century, but only a small minority of top-cited scientists had current federal biomedical funding.
Comparison of Clinical Study Results Reported in medRxiv Preprints vs Peer-reviewed Journal Articles Most clinical studies posted as preprints on medRxiv and subsequently published in peer-reviewed journals had concordant study characteristics, results, and final interpretations.
Assessing HeinOnline as a Source of Scholarly Impact Metrics However, our study shows a significant problem with lost citations, with an average rate of 14.6 percent of available citing references not accurately matched with the cited publication. Moreover, librarian efforts to uncover and report these issues divert resources from other work. The most promising way to minimize these lost citations involves integrating persistent identifiers into legal publishing practices.
Are evaluative bibliometrics neoliberal? A historical and theoretical problematization Consequently, if used without further clarification, ‘neoliberalism' is a concept too broad and diluted to be useful when analyzing the development of research evaluation and bibliometric measures in the past half a century. What we suggest is that using neoliberalism as a central explanation to the emergence of measures and indicators is not very effective analytically, as it might actually hinder detailed studies of their use and effects. Therefore, we propose to use either a more distinct definition of neoliberalism or turn to a more detailed set of concepts, such as economization, managerialism, and bureaucratization in order to depict the social and political hinterland on which the use of bibliometric measures resides.
Scientific production of Brazilian researchers focusing on oral surgery, oral medicine, and oral pathology Brazilian dental research has contributed significantly to the international research scenario.
National differences in dissemination and use of open access literature Our study has provided a snapshot of the state of OA over the 2015–2019 period. Our results highlight national differences in OA uptake and suggest that more OA initiatives at the institutional, national, and international levels are needed to support wider adoption of open scholarship. Ultimately, the current crisis shows the necessity for more sustainable OA dissemination channels.
One-year in: COVID-19 research at the international level in CORD-19 data A review of one year of research publications about the novel coronavirus that emerged in Wuhan China in late 2019 shows the research community reacting rapidly and robustly to the challenge.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on perceived publication pressure among academic researchers in Canada Overall, we document a snapshot of perceived publication pressure in Canada across researchers of different academic career stages and disciplines.
Predictive analysis of multiple future scientific impacts by embedding a heterogeneous network In this paper, we conducted predictive analysis of multiple future scientific impacts by embed- ding a heterogeneous network.
Perish and publish: Dynamics of biomedical publications by deceased authors Our analysis indicates that the attribution of deceased authorship in the literature is not an occasional occurrence but a burgeoning trend. A consensus framework to address authorship by deceased scientists is warranted.
Role of machine and organizational structure in science Our empirical work further suggests that interdisciplinary individuals are critical in delivering novel discoveries based on deeper ML (DL). Our result highlights a critical role played by interdisciplinary individuals in achieving novelty. Efforts may need to be further reinforced, for example, to support educational programs to nurture interdisciplinary scientists who can integrate computer and domain sciences.
All power to the reviewers: British sociology under two-level supervision of the Research Excellence Framework Our findings suggest that quantitative approaches geared toward the needs of actors in the field of power get consecrated by the highest quality scores (4*), which is in line with expectations a, c, and e in section ‘Implications for the empirical investigation’. Overall, research diversity according to our measures was very low at both points in time, but especially so at departments with the highest quality scores. Applying the framework of two-level supervision, we might as well uncover possible negative effects on the next generation of scholars (Unger et al., 2022) who are key to uphold research diversity and to provide solutions to pressing technological and societal problems.
Scientific X-ray: Scanning and quantifying the idea evolution of scientific publications In this paper, we propose Scientific X-ray, a framework based on the citation structure of a single publication to quantify the degree of development of its idea and its potential for future following.
Artificial Intelligence in Intensive Care Medicine: Bibliometric Analysis Our study has provided an overview of the research trends of Al in critical care medicine based on 1198 publications retrieved from the Scopus database.
How COVID-19 Affected the Journal Impact Factor of High Impact Medical Journals: Bibliometric Analysis Our findings ultimately demonstrated that the IF, likelihood of being highly cited, and publication and citation rates of manuscripts published across 6 high impact medical journals (Annals, The BMJ, JAMA, The Lancet, NatMed, and NEJM), between 2019 and 2021, were positively skewed by COVID-19 manuscripts.
Labor advantages drive the greater productivity of faculty at elite universities Using detailed productivity data for more than 78,000 faculty across 25 scientific disciplines, we show through multiple lines of evidence that the greater productivity of elite faculty can be attributed to a substantial labor advantage that they hold over faculty at less prestigious institutions (Fig. 3), which translates into increased faculty productivity in disciplines where faculty lead and coauthor with a group of junior researchers.
Open banking: A bibliometric analysis-driven definition Our study contributes to the literature by providing a generalized multidisciplinary definition of open banking.
Scientific information flux model for information areas It is also evaluated the importance of the postgraduate program studies in the areas of information in the Brazilian research.
Editorial policies of Communications in Open Ac- cess journals indexed in Scopus Conclusions: It is concluded that the EP of these OA journals in Scopus translates into offering possibilities of visibility to authors and reinforce collaborative research.
Production of academic books in Colombia between 2013 and 2019: a step forward in comparative studies "This contribution is the pilot study to consolidate criteria for carrying out comparative studies about the production of academic books in Spanish and Portu- guese-speaking countries."
The scientific production of the Autonomous Univer- sity of Quer?taro indexed in WOS, 2010-2020 It is concluded that the areas that produce the most scientific documents at the UAQ are engineering, technology, chemistry and physics, signed in coauthorship in national and international networking.
Bibliometric analysis in paediatric dental journals listed in journal citation reports. Current trends Two leading journals, International Journal of Paediatric Dentistry and European Journal of Paediatric Dentistry published more than half of the global production. The countries with the highest number of scientific publications in paediatric dentistry are USA, Brazil and Italy. The most recurrent topic is dental surgery, and most articles are cross-sectional, observational, clinical research studies.
A Co-Word Analysis of Global Research on Knowledge Organization: 1900-2019 In general, the co-word structure of knowledge organiza-tion research indicates the multiplicity of global concepts and topics studied in this field globally.
Reliability of citations of medRxiv preprints in articles published on COVID-19 in the world leading medical journals More than a quarter of preprints citations were inappropriate since preprints were in fact already published at the time of publication of the citing article, often with a different content.
Trends of research productivity across author gender and research fields: A multidisciplinary and multi-country observational study The findings of this study provided an overall picture of quantitative trends of publications in a large sample of research fields. Across different regions of the world, highly differential patterns of gender-related research production gap were unambiguously observable. This may encourage the exchange of information, experiences, and policy guides between policy makers of these countries and those that seek to intervene with their persistent academic gender gaps.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy research: an analysis of the 100 most-cited publications from 2011 to 2020 The annual number of HBO2 publications was stationary.
Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on Biomedical Publications and Their Citation Frequency COVID-19 pandemic infection has significantly impacted the trends in biomedical research and the citation of related publications.
Impact of Academic Authorship Characteristics on Article Citations Influences on citation counts has received little attention besides noting its fundamental and growing importance for evaluating scientific productivity.
Suicide and suicidal ideation in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic: A scientometric analysis Hence, the results provided by this analysis could act as a stepping stone for experts to design a roadmap for mental health research during the pandemic.
The General Growth Tendency: A tool to improve publication trend reporting by removing record inflation bias and enabling quantitative trend analysis The GGT is a versatile measure that quantifies field-specific growth rates after removing the bias caused by the overall growth of the general publication output. The measure enables statistical comparison between separate research fields of similar or different dimensions. The developed trend-analysis tool removes inflation bias from bibliometric trend analyses. The metric improves evidence-driven decision-making regarding research effort investment and funding allocation.
Linguistic capital and international circulation: A comparative study between Argentina, Brazil and Chile As these results vary by disciplinary field and related to PhD formation abroad, the article proposes a more nuanced view of the processes and dynamics of publication practices in the Southern Cone.
Impact of Neurosurgery Research and Education Foundation awards on subsequent grant funding and career outcomes of neurosurgeon-scientists In-training and early-career neurosurgeons who were awarded NREF funding had significant success in acquiring subsequent grant support, research productivity, and achievements of academic rank. NREF grants provide a tremendous return on investment across various career stages and subspecialities. They also appeared to have a broader impact on trajectory of research and innovation within the field of neurosurgery.
The narrowing of literature use and the restricted mobility of papers in the sciences At the general level, the main finding of this paper—that citation concentration is increasing—is in line with arguments that, over time, the scientific workforce tends to concentrate its attention on fewer problems relative to its size.
Massive covidization of research citations and the citation elite Overall, these data show a strong covidization of research citations across science, with major impact on shaping the citation elite. COVID-19 is generating a new citation elite. The duration and evolution of the phenomenon are unknown, but they warrant careful monitoring.
Research Collaboration Influence Analysis Using Dynamic Co-authorship and Citation Networks The study of research cultural growth has demonstrated an increased interest in publications and citations rate.
Navigating through our history in research: An altmetric analysis for publications by the full-time operative dentistry faculty at the Aga Khan University Hospital in the past decade The publications by the Operative Dentistry fulltime faculty during the past decade had a modest social impact in the community in terms of AAS. Nevertheless, the publications had a diverse geographical as well as demographical spread, demonstrating wider outreach to the non-scientific community. This allows the dissemination of important research findings, thereby promoting the institution and the practitioner amongst those seeking dental care.
Rates of publication of FCPS dissertations in international and national peer-review journals among residents at AKUH; A cross sectional review of 15 years The rate of publication for resident dissertation was found to be low. It is a significant shortcoming and a potential area of improvement of the said residency programme. Further research at national level is needed to determine the factors affecting publication rates among residents.
A bibliometric analysis of the studies on dental implant failure The CC of the top 30 papers on dental implant failure ranged from 41 to 1583. Most of the papers in the top cited list were retrospective studies, followed by literature review and systematic reviews. There was only one clinical trial in the list.
Pork Barrel or Barrel of Gold? Examining the performance implications of earmarking in public R&D grants Our findings have important implications for research on public R&D grants.
The interdisciplinarity dilemma: Public versus private interests Our results bring evidence to the idea that multiple logics within the academia might create contrasting incentives for scholars. In our study, we highlight that policies governing hiring and evaluation within universities and policies sustaining interdisciplinarity incentivize be- haviors that are, at least to a certain extent, incompatible. It is not always possible to act as to accumulate citations from published papers while combining knowledge from different domains: scholars are forced to trade off reputation and societal impact of their research.
Open access and predatory publishing: a survey of the publishing practices of academic pharmacists and nurses in the United States The results of this study provide data and insight into publication decisions made by pharmacy and nursing academics.
Research contribution of major centrally funded institution systems of India This article presents noteworthy insights into the scientific research production of India that may be useful to policymakers, researchers and science practitioners. It presents a case for increased activity by the state governments and private sector to further the cause of sustainable and inclusive R&D in the country. In light of this information, in India, the role of stakeholders such as the Government and funding agencies is important in ensuring higher productivity from centrally funded institutions as well as increasing the contribution of state and private funded institutions in research.
Research Impact Assessment in Africa and the Evolving Role of Academic Libraries The paper concludes that librarians traditionally have been well placed to play a pivotal role in research impact assessment due to their professional competencies.
The Relationship Between Open Access Article Publishing and Short-Term Citations in Otolaryngology In subscription journals in the Otolaryngology literature, newly published open access articles receive more short-term citations when compared to subscription access articles, even when controlling for study type, topic, and journal. Although open access articles represent a minority of articles included in this analysis, authors and publishers can consider open access publishing as a means to increase the visibility and citation of scholarly work. The expansion of open access publishing in subscription journals in Otolaryngology could potentially have long term benefits for the field.
Measuring the citation context of national self-references On the whole, this paper contributes to a better understanding of the role of national SRs in the scholarly communication system, and how it varies across countries and over time.
Classification and analysis of PubPeer comments: How a web journal club is used This exploratory analysis of the content of comments uploaded to PubPeer has allowed us to draw several conclusions about how this platform is used. First, over two thirds of the comments are posted to report some type of misconduct, mainly concerning image manipu- lation. The study about the participation in PubPeer revealed a small group of “super commenters” that use the plat- form to systematically review publications, mainly regarding image manipulation in biology.
Probability of discoveries between research fields to explain scientific and technological change These findings show the property of heterogeneity in inventive process between research fields and specificity of scientific and technological paths based on nature and scientific ecosystem of each discipline.
Mapping the research impact of collaboration and networking of ICAR fisheries research institutes in India: A scientometric study The study showed that the collaboration network in fisheries research is growing fast; collaborating countries in the network increased gradually, and the number of authors and publications increased almost exponentially, as indicated by the growth rate and doubling time in research publications.
Peer reviewers equally critique theory, method, and writing, with limited effect on the final content of accepted manuscripts The finding here that reviewers focused nearly equally on critiquing the methodological detail, theoretical basis, and communication style of manuscripts indicates that reviewers are aiming to achieve the principal function of peer review to detect flaws and deficiencies in the design and interpretation of studies and ensure the clarity and quality of their presentation. Finally, based on the quantitative measures used here, peer review appears to only minimally influence the final content of social science manuscripts that are ultimately accepted. However, further qualitative investigation may be more sensitive to the changes introduced by peer review, such as improvements in writing quality.
Two-dimensional mapping of university profiles in research Our introduction of a new class of heatmaps improves heatmap representation, especially for longitudinal RESP data without the need for additional tables to show the extra information.
Data sharing platforms: instruments to inform and shape science policy on data sharing? Data sharing platforms can collect information on the usage of available cohorts and the functionality of DACs. This increases the transparency over cohort and platform usage and the “invisible” processes of DACs. Systematically collecting indicators in standardized fashion allows setting up meta-research programs that increases knowledge on data sharing practices to the benefit of the research community, policy makers and funders of science.
Is the h-index Applicable and Sufficient to Assess Research Groups? In this work, we presented and discussed the main indexes to assess the productivity of research groups in qualitative and quantitative ways.
Research funding and collaboration Scientific collaboration has grown in incidence and importance.
Quotation accuracy in educational research articles To conclude, we estimated that 85% of the quotations in educational research articles is entirely correct.
When philosophy (of science) meets formal methods: a citation analysis of early approaches between research fields These results suggest that the career of networks in philosophy, both as formal methods and as research objects, has begun in the philosophy of science and, for the moment, it is still confined in rather specialized sub-areas such as social epistemology.
Tension in Interpretations of the Social Impact of the Social Sciences: Walking a Tightrope Between Divergent Conceptualizations of Research Utilization Policy advisors and academics relied on conflicting accounts of research utilization in their interpretations of the concept of impact.
The effect of journal metrics on academic resume assessment Our results find that low rated journal publications do still add some value to a candidate's resume and do still hold some worth in the way academic resumes are compiled and reviewed for recruitment.
Barriers to Surgical Innovation Research: A Canadian Study on Public Funding Trends Contrary to the landscape in the United States, there is no evidence of decreasing trends in public funding for surgical innovation in Canada.
Funding Research in Africa: Landscapes of Re-institutionalisation Research in Africa continues to rely heavily on foreign funding coming from a large variety of funders, each with their own agendas and objectives. That these ‘priorities’ and ‘needs’ are not always expressed clearly by African authorities is a concern in terms of neo-colonial modes of functioning through international collaborations. This incipient effort needs to be documented as the proliferation of funding deeply transforms universities and research systems (Arvanitis & O’Brien, 2019).
Collaboration between authors in the field of social network analysis "In this paper, we conducted the analysis of co-authorship networks to study the collaboration between authors in the field of SNA." "We faced the problem of "multiple personalities” of mostly Chinese and Korean authors, which could be overcome with the adoption of standardized author IDs by publishers and bibliographic databases." "The automatization of these processes is a task for the future development of the software support."
A method of measuring the article discriminative capacity and its distribution This work may help promote the diversity of academic research and complement the evaluation system of academic articles. One major limitation of this study is that it only used data from Chinese databases. The BERT model, which has semantic features, was found to be more suitable as a feature representation model for discrimination.
Exploring the relationship between journals indexed from a country and its research output: an empirical investigation The study explored the relationship between number of journals indexed from a country and its research output. The results confirm a positive correlation between the number of journals (NCJ) and the research output (TP) of majority of the countries. The study suggests that the developing countries should focus on developing more publication venues for its researchers, both for providing suitable venues for publication of research output and also for supporting publication of research on domestic and locally relevant problems and issues.
Network effects and research collaborations: evidence from IMF Working Paper co-authorship The empirical investigation of the determinants of co-authorship relations reveals, above all, that two researchers that are closer to each other in the existing co-authorship network are significantly more likely to collaborate, especially so in the case of first-time collaborations.
Scientific elites versus other scientists: who are better at taking advantage of the research collaboration network? The results show that DYSs exhibit the better capability to use social capital from research collaboration networks and that their Ph.D. mentors may be a critical factor in scientific success. Scientists' structural advantages in the research collaboration networks help them obtain better resources, which may exacerbate the Matthew Effect. To reduce this effect, two measures could be taken in the chemical field of China: On the one hand, it is vital to establish an objective and fair academic evaluation mechanism that would remove the impact of scientific awards and mentors' prestige.
Geographies of the global co-editor network in oncology We found that the co-editor network in oncology is constituted by two main parts: a core being occupied by 242 highly interconnected cities and a periphery containing 636 cities that are loosely interconnected with the core cities. The core of the network shows an asymmetric dual sub-core structure. The limitation of this research is that we investigated the geographies of the co-editor net- work in the case of a single research field.
Mapping the cancer imaging research landscape: which cancers are more and which cancers are less frequently investigated? This overview of published cancer imaging research may be informative and useful to all stakeholders in the field of cancer imaging. The potential causes of disproportionality between the publication rate vs. incidence and mortality rates of some cancer types are multifactorial and need to be further elucidated.
Students' mindsets on research integrity-a cross-cultural comparison This qualitative study suggests a strong transcultural element with respect to the utmost importance of RI.
FFT based ensembled model to predict ranks of higher educational institutions In this research work a global rank prediction model is proposed for various Universities and HEIs. The proposed model involves the ensemble model based on six base learners followed by application of Fast fourier transformation. The empirical results reveal that our tool outperforms all the previously proposed approaches like proposed by Agarwal et al. [2], RSFT and various other approaches discussed in section 1.1 to predict the Institutional ranks at both National and International level. The model will also let administrators and executive members upgrade HEIs by taking corrective measures timely.
Modeling the obsolescence of research literature in disciplinary journals through the age of their cited references The results in this study support that the subfield and even the discipline (specialty) are influencing obsolescence.
Stress-Inducing and Anxiety-Ridden: A Practice-Based Approach to the Construction of Status-Bestowing Evaluations in Research Funding Our argument was that we cannot understand the status consequences emanating from particular evaluations without understanding how these evaluations are constructed by those who participate in them.
Bibliometric Analysis of Artificial Intelligence in Textiles This study summarizes a vital research domain, artificial intelligence in textiles, in one glance.
The ripple effects of funding on researchers and output Funding stimulates research by supporting the teams that conduct it so that opening the black box of research projects requires accounting for how funding ripples through the people employed on research teams.
Measuring coauthors' credit in medicine field-Based on author contribution statement and citation context analysis This research proposes the Context-based Author Credit (CAC) model, which allows the author's credit to be determined by the contributor roles that the author participates in and the fact that the roles are cited. Our results show that the CAC model provides a relatively accurate representation of coauthor credit allocation, by which the credit of some lower-ranked authors is highlighted. This paper also provides the new application of this model in author academic evaluation.
Do individual and institutional predictors of misconduct vary by country? Results of a matched-control analysis of problematic image duplications Commonly hypothesised individual risk factors for scientific misconduct, including career status and productivity, might be relevant in countries where cash-reward policies generate perverse incentives.
Identification of research communities of environmental engineering and their evolution using coauthor network analysis In-depth characterization of these communities revealed that major drivers of scientific collaboration through coauthoring were research interests and the country of the author's affiliation.
Development of Public Administration Research with a Bibliometric Analysis "Bibliometrics is a series of statistical methods for researching and measuring bibliographic information. More specifically, bibliometrics describes the characteristics of research results in an objective way, which can address the subjective bias from a typical and traditional evaluation in PA field. This study provides more comprehensive comparisons through large-scale data and acknowledged methods to explore the development of PA field research."
Gender influences in Digital Humanities co-authorship networks Our results show that despite being in a minority, female scholars are significantly more important than their male counterparts in forming co-authorship networks as represented by the dataset to hand. They appear to be the main forces driving the establishment and maintenance of DH scholarly connections; they also are the facilitators who bridge isolated groups.
Toward openness and transparency to better facilitate knowledge creation We have come a long way since the so-called Enlightenment but the principles for knowledge production are the same. Scholarship is built on scholarship, and we need platforms to drive forward the open agenda and allow the maximum use of research by linking disparate datasets together to avoid them dying in discrete silos. What is essential here is not only OA and Open Data, to achieve the aims of reproducible scholarship in as transparent as possible a manner to reach the widest possible audience, but also the use and further development of open standards for interoperability and the use of persistent identifiers in conjunction with the open licensing of content—open licensing alone is not enough.
Metrics and methods in the evaluation of prestige bias in peer review: A case study in computer systems conferences The main practical implication of our analyses is that a narrow evaluation may lead to unreliable results. A thorough evaluation of prestige bias requires a careful inventory of assumptions, metrics, and methodology, often requiring a more detailed sensitivity analysis than is normally undertaken. Our main recommendation for future prestige-bias studies is therefore to not focus on a single reputation metric.
An integrated paradigm shift to deal with 'predatory publishing' Although 'predatory publishing' is currently a big problem in academia, blacklisting or whitelisting are not, in themselves, viable solutions. Fortified criteria alone, or the use of blacklists and whitelists, cannot combat 'predatory publishing', and an overhaul of rewards-based academic publishing is needed, supported by a set of reliable criteria-based guidance system. A new paradigm that is continuously evaluating the transparency and effectiveness of the peer review system of a journal and publishers is thus needed.
Institutional repositories (IRs) in universities of Pakistan: Issues and emergent framework for remedies Based on both quantitative and qualitative data it may be inferred that trend of IR development is at infancy in Pakistan, however affecting by different issues.
The citation impact of the Open Access accounting journals that appear on Beall's List of potentially predatory publishers and journals The assertion that "articles published in predatory journals have little scientific impact" (Björk et al., 2020: 1) is valid in a general sense, but it fails to acknowledge that some of the journals designated as predatory-and some individual articles in those journals-are clear exceptions to the rule. The discrepancy between the Journal's citation impact and the "predatory" label suggests two possibilities: that the main criterion used to evaluate journals for Beall's List, adherence to established norms of scholarly publishing, is not always closely related to citation impact; or that the Journal has improved its standards over time but remains on the List because there is no systematic mechanism for the re-evaluation of publishers and journals once they are added. Further research (in progress) will provide greater insight into the papers that cite the Beall's List journals-in particular, how they compare to those that cite Scopus journals of comparable citation impact.
Fifty years of the Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics: A bibliometric review We have conducted a retrospective review of JOBEE using bibliometric analysis, using a range of methodologies to this end, including performance analysis, co-authorship analysis, and regression analysis.
The funding and research trends in library and information science of NSSFC: Comparison of awards and papers This study demonstrated that the effect of funding policies on the research topics in LIS is significant. Topic suggestions and funding structure of NSSFC have more impacts on award topics than on paper topics.
Societal targeting in researcher funding: An exploratory approach This dimensions-based approach contributes and makes it possible to move from a variable and nebulous understanding of societal funding to four key dimensions that we can look for in funding instruments that researchers use, and which we can see may have various nuanced degrees suggestive of their potential to shape a researcher’s research.
The epistemic, production, and accountability prospects of social impact: An analysis of strategic research proposals I found it useful to apply the reflexive approach to impact depic- tions.
Determining journal article citation classics in school psychology: An updated bibliometric analysis using Google Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science School psychology's citation classics tended to feature quantitative research and examine the relations between constructs, and several revealed a new category of citations classics: the methodological and statistical article.
Changing dynamics of scholarly publication: a perspective towards open access publishing and the proposed one nation, one subscription policy of India “Considering the massive overhaul in the scholarly publishing system as discussed in this article, it's evident that a blanket one nation, one subscription policy won't be able to adequately address the issue of access inequity in the system.”
Chinese contribution to NEJM, Lancet, JAMA, and BMJ from 2011 to 2020: a 10-year bibliometric study The presence of Chinese scholars in the TFMJ has grown, but there is still much room to improve. A Matthew effect in China's high-level scientific research was demonstrated. Funding agencies, such as NSFC, have become an important support for high-level research.
China's Research Evaluation Reform: What are the Consequences for Global Science? Two years into the pandemic, the documents issued by MoST and MoE appear more like a communication exercise to appease public anger than the start of a strong policy reform. China's scientific administration should be aware that a successful research evaluation system should be completely merit-based; and the policy reform should start from the top. Although these long term goals will not come into effect immediately, even be replaced by other strategies in the next five-year plan, they create uncertainty for the future of global science considering the possible conflict between the rising power and traditional powers in science.
Scientific publication speed and retractions of COVID-19 pandemic original articles The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed many flaws in current scientific and academic publishing.
A bibliometric analysis of COVID-19 publications in nursing by visual mapping method The COVID-19 pandemic has an impact on nursing, and the number of publications is increasing worldwide. Our results evaluate new opportunities potential publication areas and trends and therefore will guide academics and professionals who want to do research in this field. Our results will help nurse managers identify issues related to COVID-19 that have not been researched yet and have not been adequately explained in their own institutions.
Methods to evaluate institutional responses to performance-based research funding systems This paper has presented several methods which can be used to evaluate the effects on university research quality of the introduction of a PBRFS. The methods used here enable a deeper understanding of institutional responses to PBRFSs, the sustainability of changes in research quality and the contributions of changes in researcher quality and discipline composition to changes in institutional performance. Importantly, the research methods discussed in this paper can be applied to any type of performance-based funding scheme, irrespective of the way individuals are assigned to quality categories.
Predictors of citation rates for research publications in Neurosciences The most significant predictors of citation rates for Neurosciences publications were the age of articles, population size, study design, and LOE. Awareness of the factors that influence citations may be help researchers enhance the academic impact of their work.
Team power dynamics and team impact: New perspectives on scientific collaboration using career age as a proxy for team power This study contributes to the science of teamwork by providing quantitative evidences to support flat structure for effective team collaboration through analyzing the relationship between team power dynamics and team impact using 7.7 million teams from five disciplines.
Off the beaten path: what drives scientists' entry into new fields? Our analysis contributes to the small but growing empirical literature studying scientists' deci- sions to enter research fields that are new to them. The econometric analysis first of all shows that individual competences and preferences matter, as well as the incentives associated with career progress and the competitive funding system. To the extent that society wants scientists to come up with novel breakthrough findings and that these are primarily found by spanning fields, our results suggest that the funding system in our sample seems to perform poorly, on average, in terms of selecting researchers with a track record of entering new fields.
The case of sleeping beauties in nanotechnology: a study of potential breakthrough inventions in emerging technologies Our initial empirical comparison suggests that sleeping beauties occur more frequently in nanotechnology than in the general population of patents. Contrary to expectations, in nanotechnology, we find that science-based patents mainly have an earlier impact, and possibly also a more direct impact on industrial invention. We suggest that the long-term patterns of delayed recognition and high impact in science-based technologies may require the firms to recombine multiple technologies, specializations, and industrial applications in order to do industrial invention.
Evidence-based recommendations for increasing the citation frequency of original articles Several modifiable title and article characteristics were associated with the citation frequency of articles, such as open access of an article.
Gender disparities in Russian academia: a bibliometric analysis The analysis of Russian academics' research presence and performance over the period 2017–2019 has shown that gender disparities remain in Russian academia in terms of bibliometric indicators. Women remain underrepresented in terms of their presence and performance in all disciplines, and generally in academia.
Exploring the knowledge domain of earthquake prediction based on bibliometric analysis and text mining "The results of this study are helpful for scholars in this field to find the knowledge structure and important participants."
Scientific career tracks and publication performance - relationships discovered in the Hungarian academic promotion system These peculiarities and the different stages of the promotion system should be kept in mind by everyone who is involved in scientific decision-making processes.
Academic integrity policies against assessment fraud in postgraduate studies: An analysis of the situation in Spanish universities Our findings highlight the need for Spanish universities to address the development of a clear academic integrity policy. Hence, our findings highlight the need for Spanish universities to address the development of clear policies on academic integrity; this, in turn, must be approached from the different strategic axes analysed here and from an intersectional perspective. First, the mechanisms examined in this paper (technological and control, regulatory, and training and awareness-raising mechanisms) cannot be addressed in isolation, but must rather be explored as part of a whole, thus taking a systemic view of how to deal with the matter of integrity.
"The Statistical Analysis of Compositional Data" by John Aitchison (1986): A Bibliometric Overview Our analysis reveals that although the work has received citations uninterruptedly since its publication, the number of citations has increased very significantly over the past 4 years.
Enriching research quality: A proposition for stakeholder heterogeneity This article argues that it is possible and necessary to include stakeholder involvement and stakeholder representation as dimensions of research quality.
Scholarly open access journals in medicine: A bibliometric study of DOAJ Based on the findings of this study, it is concluded that a good range of OA journals on medicine are being published throughout the world, the number is constantly increasing every year, and the quality of the content makes the DOAJ database comparable with other similar commercial databases.
Ageing Knowledge Structure in Global River Basins We developed a network metric-based framework comprising scale, equality, efficiency, and resilience to reveal the endogenous processes of knowledge developments.
Gender-specific patterns in the artificial intelligence scientific ecosystem In this study, we comprehensively analyzed gender-specific patterns in the AI scientific ecosystem from 2000 to 2019 and shed light on gender differences in collaborative behavior and how these differences could impact academic success. We believe our analysis provides a comprehensive picture of the gender-specific patterns in AI that could help the policymakers to adjust existing or set new strategies to support female researchers more sustainably and efficiently by considering all the aspects of the differences between females and males not only in initiating, leading, and maintaining collaboration and scientific activities but other influencing factors such as social and family responsibilities that could impact their professional career.
Validating citation models by proxy indices Overall, a good model is the one that not only fits data well on average, but also agrees on the essential data characteristics, aggregates, or numerical summaries.
The many facets of academic mobility and its impact on scholars' Our findings regarding the first research question revealed that in the world of academia, international mobility of women is less than men, which is consistent with the past studies (Jöns, 2011; Leemann, 2010; Myers & Griffin, 2019; Toader & Dahinden, 2018). The results carry potential insights for policy-makers concerned with the issues and inequalities in this area to provide fair opportunities at the proper phase of the academic career for all researchers who desire to communicate and collaborate with their international colleagues.
Search where you will find most: Comparing the disciplinary coverage of 56 bibliographic databases This study presents a novel method to estimate the subject coverage of scholarly databases.
Detecting and analyzing missing citations to published scientific entities This finding reveals the amount of time needed for a published scientific entity to develop into widely accepted knowledge to the point that researchers find it needless to give it citation in the domain of computer science.
Relevance assessments, bibliometrics, and altmetrics: a quantitative study on PubMed and arXiv High relevance ratings for scientific documents correlate with high citation counts and altmetrics Attention Scores.
Implementation of promotion standards to discourage publishing in questionable journals: the role of the library Summing up, two-thirds of the faculty members in this case study were satisfied or very satisfied with the verification process imple-mented at KNUST in connection to promotion application, albeit with some differences across faculties. The dissatisfied faculty members were concerned with the role of the library in the verification process, whereas the satisfied trusted the judgement of the librarians. Future development could involve openness, applicant involvement and a flexible use of the list.
Acknowledgments-based networks for mapping the social structure of research fields. A case study on recent analytic philosophy The method is based on four networks extracted from the acknowledgments: the Publications × Acknowledged Entities network (PEN), the Publications × Acknowledgees network (PAN), the Acknowledgment Coupling Network (ACN), and the Acknowledgee Co-Mention Network (AMN).
The state of Portuguese research in economics: 20 years after In the last three decades, Portuguese research in economics underwent a period of rapid internationalisation. This translated into an increasing number of publications in international journals that show affiliations to Portuguese institutions, as well as publications by Portuguese authors with foreign affiliations.
Cumulative advantage and citation performance of repeat authors in scholarly journals Our findings suggest mixed incentives associated with repeat authors. Our research also suggests that repeat authorship offers different incentives to journal gatekeepers and academics. However, these cumulative advantage incentives and processes may also present risks of undermining innovation and diversity in science, if not also professional norms of meritocracy.
Bibliometric Properties of Placebo Literature From the JIPS Database: A Descriptive Study In summary, the JIPS database is a comprehensive collection of publications in the field of placebo research.
Global and Chinese publications in plastic surgery journals between 2010 and 2020: a bibliometric analysis Our analysis demonstrated the rapid expansion and trends of plastic surgery research worldwide and in China. While the United States was the most productive country in terms of research, China contributed a considerable number of articles to the field, many of which were supported by funding. This study may indicate possible research trends in the future and promote further support for plastic surgeons who are pursuing careers in research.
The status of scholarly efforts of librarians on health literacy: a bibliometric analysis In the last two decades, librarian involvement in health literacy publications has exponentially increased, most markedly in the years following 2014. The productivity, multidisciplinary collaboration efforts, and consistent growth in literature indicate that librarians are engaged in health literacy scholarship. Further research is needed to explore the work of librarians whose impacts on health literacy may not be reflected within well-indexed, peer-reviewed publications.
An overview of the most influential journals in fuzzy systems research There are some interesting results that englobe the natural dissemination of FSR ideas, and the clear influence that information technologies have on the scientific communication process.
Attitudes, willingness, and resources to cover article publishing charges: The influence of age, position, income level country, discipline and open access habits Our research revealed that participants were more concerned about APCs as a global threat to scientific development than as a hindrance that personally affects their own careers.
The need for accelerated change in diversity, equity and inclusion in publishing and learned societies What it shows is that academic research, learned societies and publishing all have their own DE&I issues that need to be addressed, but that through improved DE&I can come better research. It is not just about fairness, however. Through improved DE&I will come better research. It is likely that through bias, prejudice and restricted practices high quality research is being missed or side-lined.
Peer effects of the young returnee scientists: Evidence from the state key laboratories in China Our findings show a positive peer effect of the young returnee scientists.
Publish or perish? A tale of academic publications in Chinese universities Our primary findings are threefold. Interpreted against the institutional background, our evidence implies that while economics publications in the most exclusive Chinese journals are heavily influenced by factors beyond researchers' research capability, the continuing internationalization of the profession in the country improves the efficiency of academic resource allocation in this large field. This suggests a possible direction for future research, which is to investigate how the interactions and collaborations between domestically and western-trained Chinese economists have changed the landscape of economics research in China.
Faculty appointment and promotion in Taiwan's medical schools, a systematic analysis From our systematic examination of the FAP policies from every medical school in Taiwan, we found that the JIF plays an unrivaled role in determining the outcome evaluation and promotion of the faculty, mostly via the CJA system. Our findings serve as an alarm for the international medical education community regarding the appointment of faculties, as well as a call-to-action for a re-examination of FAP policy for Taiwan's higher-education institutions. We recommend replacing the JIF with the h-index in the CJA system, and introduce more factors or ways of evaluation into the FAP system, such as peer-review or validated structural questionnaires to reduce the dominance of the CJA system.
Global analysis of the COVID-19 research landscape and scientific impact This study indicated how rapidly the scientific community has flocked to the front lines in the fight against COVID-19.
Synchronized bursts of productivity and success in individual careers Our investigation showed the emergence of synchronized bursts of individual productivity and success, which revealed the existence of herding between performers and spectators.
The long-term influence of Open Access on the scientific and social impact of dental journal articles: An updated analysis In the field of dentistry, about 41% of journal articles are OA 7 years after publication, and OA articles available from the publishers are more common than those from authors through self-archiving.
Creating evaluative homogeneity: Experience of constructing a national journal ranking Our study shows that evaluative homogeneity can only be understand in conflictual terms, as the tendency for the standardiza-tion and uniformization of criteria used for research evaluation clash with disciplinary reality and particular interests rooted in the local context of a given PRFS. As these forces remain imbalanced, the study concludes with a call for further exploration of the interplay between the forces of hom-ogenization and heterogenization and how the tensions between them are mediated within a performance-based research funding system.
The impacts of Centers for AIDS Research program and its enlargement on HIV/AIDS research collaboration First, the CFAR program has successfully promoted HIV/AIDS research collaboration.
Ischemic Stroke-A Scientometric Analysis Research in ischemic stroke has substantially increased over time. Scientists from the USA have the highest number of publications, followed by China and Germany. Measured by the H-index, the USA was able to demonstrate the highest publication quality, followed by Germany and the UK.
Citation Oriented AuthorRank for Scientific Publication Ranking (1) AuthorRank cannot replace PageRank for publication ranking. This conclusion is supported by the results from Tables 5 and 6.
Twenty-five years of education and information technologies: Insights from a topic modeling based bibliometric analysis The general results of the study shed light on future studies in terms of determining the research interests and trends of publications in the field of educational technologies, EAIT.
Reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS) in practice: a software tutorial The method RPYS is very versatile; there is no simple rule how a particular data set should be analyzed. However, we hope that this contribution serves as a helpful guidance for other researchers. One of the main advantages is that also non-source documents can be found if they are included in the indexed list of cited references, like in WoS. Such documents cannot be found using a topic search.
Exploring the antecedents of interdisciplinarity at the European Research Council: a topic modeling approach We have taken a descriptive approach by showing single bivariate covariations. The evidence is rich and contributes to the substantive debate. This finding opens a new direction for research, i.e. the investigation of the relation between the life cycle of scientists and their propensity to engage into IDR.
Big fish and small ponds: why the departmental h-index should not be used to rank universities If the h-index is to be used for comparison as a collective metric, results presented here demonstrate that it should be normalised according to size. Our approach opens a way to achieve that; the size-dependent averages of the reshuffled group h-index scores shown in Figs. 3 and 4 present obvious benchmarks against which to compare cores of research groups of given sizes. In this context, group h-index is not good or bad per se, but it has to be used and interpreted taking into account its peculiarities, e.g., size-dependency.
Achieving societal and academic impacts of research: A comparison of networks, values, and strategies "Hence, I argue that academic and societal impacts should not simply be added up as requirements for research funding or academic career development but should be understood and appreciated on their own terms."
Using network analyses to examine the extent to which and in what ways psychology is multidisciplinary Given that multidisciplinary research did not increase over time but instead changed in areas of research focus, ways for academic and research administrators to foster and continually renew multidisciplinary research are discussed.
Bridging the skill gap between the acquired university curriculum and the requirements of the job market: A data-driven analysis of scientific literature This study presents a bibliometric analysis of the discipline of curriculum alignment to explore its research landscape and significance in the light of 'acquired' and 'learned' skills.
Research disciplinary interactions on scientific collaboration network in photocatalytic hydrogen evolution: Characteristics and dynamics In this study, the network structure characteristics, key disciplines, and dynamic trend of disci-plinary interactive relationships in the research field of PHE were examined on the basis of SNA to address the disciplinary interactions in scientific collaboration network.
Current Status and Trends in Research on Caries Diagnosis: A Bibliometric Analysis Caries diagnosis is a subject that involves a substantial scientific production, which is exponentially increasing.
Using citation network analysis to enhance scholarship in psychological science: A case study of the human aggression literature In conclusion, our study should be viewed as providing a first-pass, gist-level topological repre- sentation of the human aggression research using a data-driven, citation analysis approach.
On the possibilities of presenting the research performance of an institute over a long period of time: the case of the Institute of Information Science at the University of Graz in Austria As could be seen in the analyses before, it makes sense to regard the research performance of an institute over such a long time at different periodic aggregation levels. Our study also revealed that the data sources used have a strong influence on the reported research performance. The—internationally seen-low research performance of the Graz institute had no significance for the proposed merger of the institute.
Reframing evidence in evidence-based policy making and role of bibliometrics: toward transdisciplinary scientometric research The current widespread use of bibliometric and scientometric analyses evokes a need for and interest in normative guidance on the utilization of analysis as evidence in research assessment, strategic planning, and decision making. This paper theoretically studied the role of bibliometric and scientometric analysis in evidence-based decision making and pointed out the necessity of transdisciplinary bibliometric research to adopt the above situ- ation and requirements. First, we divided the analysis into three types: descriptive, predictive, and explorative.
The impact of qualitative methods on article citation: an international business research perspective The general conclusion is that qualitative methods had a positive influence on impact.
Achievements and Visibility of Scientific Publications of All Peruvian Medical Schools: A 5-Year Scientometric Analyses There was a constant increase in the scientific production of Peruvian medical schools from 2015 to 2020.
The Scientometric Portrait of a Scientist as a Tool to Assess His or Her Achievements This will make it possible not only to draw a more objective scientometric portrait of a specialist but also to lay the foundation for the development of a new scientific area, scientometric anthropology.
Prevalence of questionable research practices, research misconduct and their potential explanatory factors: A survey among academic researchers in The Netherlands Our results suggest that greater emphasis on scientific norm subscription, strengthening reviewers in their role as gatekeepers of research quality and curbing the "publish or perish" incentive system promotes research integrity. We find that over the last three years one in two researchers engaged frequently in at least one QRP, while one in twelve reported having falsified or fabricated their research at least once. Perceived likelihood of detection by reviewers is significantly associated with lower odds of any FF suggesting that reviewers may have an important role in preventing research misconduct.
Knowledge creation dynamics of technological forecasting and social change special issues Firstly, this study demonstrates that manuscripts published in TFSC's SIs receive significantly higher citations than RIs i.e., 34% more citations, and are also more likely to be cited (SI: 97% vs. RI: 93%).
Scientometrics of Poverty Research for Sustainability Development: Trend Analysis of the 1964-2022 Data through Scopus The findings indicate that future studies should focus on the poverty line, social policies, and living standards. The contributions of the paper may provide a reference to the understanding of poverty research through bibliometric analysis and promote poverty research in theory and practice. To sum up, this paper provides a data analysis perspective with visualization for the comprehensive handling and understanding of the poverty situation.
New directions in science emerge from disconnection and discord This paper has unpacked the complex, temporally evolving relationship between citation impact alongside metrics of atypicality and disruption, which focus on path-breaking contributions that move the scientific frontier.
Simulation of the h index use at university departments within the bibliometrics-based heuristics framework: Can the indicator be used to compare individual researchers? In the previous section, we demonstrated in detail how certain parameters can be used to run the h_index command and to simulate various scenarios without having concrete data from a department to hand. The command cannot only be applied by people with good knowledge in bibliometrics, but also by bibliometric laypersons with basic knowledge in statistics. The run of several simulations with (slightly) differing parameters reveal how the differences in groups of researchers in a department can be assessed and how stable the results are.
Identifying keyword sleeping beauties: A perspective on the knowledge diffusion process The findings of this paper enrich the patterns of knowledge diffusion and extend academic thinking on the sleeping beauty in science.
Scores of a specific field-normalized indicator calculated with different approaches of field-categorization: Are the scores different or similar? The main policy implication is that normalized citation impact scores or rankings based on them should not be compared without deeper knowledge of the classification systems that were used to derive these values or rankings.
Exploring scientific trajectories of a large-scale dataset using topic-integrated path extraction This study's contributions are twofold. First, we claim that a small-scale dataset results in main paths with relatively short lengths of paths. We exploit the longest path algorithm, which searches paths exhaustively, enabling the identification of more sequences of knowledge transfer in the large-scale datasets. Real-world knowledge flows are revealed in our new topic-integrated longest paths, allowing us to understand the phenomena of an academic emergence in an interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary discipline, meaning the longest paths that we detected more fully capture the detailed knowledge transfer patterns of the mature, multidisciplinary fields such as healthcare informatics, which is characterized by an immense number of publications and a wide span of history in the real world.
Effectiveness of research grants funded by European Research Council and Polish National Science Centre In this paper, we have proposed WEIG – Wroclaw Effectiveness Indicator for Grants, a measure that helps to quantify the effectiveness of research grants. Overall, we believe that WEIG can be used to assess the effectiveness of fund allocation to research grants by public agencies.
Revealing the scientific comparative advantage of nations: Common and distinctive features The approach provides a new tool which may reveal useful for formulation of research policies. In this study, we have observed that all countries showing a low level of dispersion, or homogenous disciplinary structures, are among the "developed countries". Latecomer nations, and/or smaller ones, show a greater tendency to concentrate their scientific knowledge stock in a few key disciplines.
Dynamics of senses of new physics discourse: Co-keywords analysis Our paper contributes to the literature by addressing the question of quantitative research on the new physics knowledge structure.
Analysis of duplicated publications in Russian journals Conclusions are presented concerning shortcomings in editorial processes that allow duplication of publications along with the factual impossibility of detecting duplication in cases of simultaneous submission of the manuscript to different journals, the insufficient use by journal editors of means for detecting inappropriate borrowings and the need to retract a significant number of articles in connection with the identified violations.
Which types of online resource support US patent claims? This study has revealed the degree of use of URLs in patents for the first time, along with certain descriptive aspects (e.g., in which sections they are mainly included and to which websites they are directed).
The continuity and citation impact of scientific collaboration with different gender composition In general, MM was more continuous than MF and FF.
How does duplicate tweeting boost social media exposure to scholarly articles The findings in the current work have two-sided implications for the online promotion and diffusion of scholarly outputs. On the one hand, we find that the duplicate tweeting strategy can help researchers and journals publishers to promote their latest research outputs to more people. Moreover, posting non-duplicate content can significantly enhance social media exposure to scholarly articles, compared with posting duplicate tweeting.
Interpretation and inference for altmetric indicators arising from sparse data statistics The indicator MHq is a meaningful statistic to measure mentions to a group G, although the original interpretation was incorrect.
Does a gender-neutral name associate with the research impact of a scientist? This study probed the correlation between name neutralization and citations as first, last, and single authorships in the U.S., using papers published in the Web of Science from 2009 to 2015. Overall, the more neutral an author's name is, the more citations his/her publications receive. This neutral effect is more pronounced for authors with feminine names than for authors with masculine names.
The relationship between readability and scientific impact: Evidence from emerging technology discourses We find that the readability scores, i.e. the complexity of the language, have increased over time in virtually all discourses. Our analysis furthermore shows that higher readability scores significantly relates to the likelihood of articles not receiving any citations. If readability drives scientific impact due to phenomena such as the first impression bias, the primary effect or the Dr. Fox Phenomenon, authors have an incentive to (artificially) increase the complexity of their writing style in order to signal the quality of their papers to the readers. Future research should verify whether such a moral hazard in academic (abstract) writing exists, i.e. whether authors intentionally communicate their work in an unnecessarily complex manner.
Interpreting the outcomes of research assessments: A geometrical approach As shown in Section 5, the results obtained applying the procedures developed in the present paper can be very different from the ranking obtained by ANVUR and used for funding Italian universities.
An Empirical Assessment of Reviewer 2 In this study, Reviewer 2 provided reviews of equal sentiment to other reviewers, suggesting that popular beliefs surrounding Reviewer 2 may be unfounded.
Sources of convergence and divergence in university research quality: evidence from the performance-based research funding system in New Zealand This paper has extended understanding of the convergence properties arising from the New Zealand PBRFS.
Undisciplining the university through shared purpose, practice, and place Mapping the motivations will not only generate the buy-in needed to engage but also build the foundation for further refinement of the institutional strategy.
The effectiveness of promotion incentives for public employees: evidence from Italian academia Our results emphasize the importance of promotion incentives as an effective incentivizing tool in public universities and more in general public organizations.
Continued Visibility of COVID-19 Article Removals The continued visibility of removed articles poses a problem for scientific integrity because it risks the persistence of flawed research;
Metrics and epistemic injustice As metrics leverage who can speak and who will be heard, epistemic injustice is reflected in recorded knowledge and what we consider to be information.
An analysis of finance journal accessibility: Author inclusivity and journal quality Overall, our results suggest most journals have good depth in authorship.
Extent of knowledge and attitudes on plagiarism among undergraduate medical students in South India-a multicentre, cross-sectional study to determine the need for incorporating research ethics in medical undergraduate curriculum "Overall, the extent of knowledge towards plagiarism is low among the undergraduate medical students who participated in this study." "Given the poor knowledge, the proportion of students with most favourable atti- tudes towards plagiarism was meagre and a vast major- ity belonged to the middle (moderate) category on all the three components of attitude namely permissive, criti- cal and subjective norms." "Since UG medical research is being given more importance these days for various rea- sons, and research has become inevitable in a medical graduate's life, we recommend that formal train- ing programs on research methodology and ethics be incorporated in the medical curriculum."
Dispersion of ICT-related subject terms in information and knowledge management publications: A Bradford analysis This study sought to determine the nature of dispersion of the ICT subject terms in the IKM literature using Bradford's law.
Is there a correlation between Altmetric Attention Scores and citation count in Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicine journal articles? There was a weak, but statistically significant, positive correlation between the number of citations and AAS for the top 100 cited articles in RAPM in the study period that persisted even when outliers were removed. One explanation may be that higher AAS represents the ‘hype factor’ of an article rather than the quality of its contents. Traditional citation-based metrics and readership counts may be better measures of research quality.
Analysis of Retracted Publications in The Biomedical Literature from Turkey In conclusion, taking into account the total publication pool, the number of retracted articles can be considered low, but the rising trend in the number of retracted articles over the years is remarkable. Authors should be more informed and educated about the consequences of scientific publication misconduct to prevent this situation, with young researchers at the beginning of their scientific careers as the primary targets. New strategies are required to ensure that retracted articles are not cited by authors.
Gender differences in the determinants of becoming a professor in Germany. An event history analysis of academic psychologists from 1980 to 2019 This study examines gender differences in getting a tenured professorship in German psychology.
Worldwide and Brazilian scientific publications on Leishmaniasis in the first 19 years of 21<SUP>st</SUP> century: a bibliometric study The data show relevant characteristics of the scientific production on leishmaniasis and demonstrate the fundamental role played by Brazil in the production of knowledge in this area of study.
Five decades of catastrophe theory research: Geographical atlas, knowledge structure and historical roots Our analysis has far-reaching implications for aspiring researchers interested in catastrophe theory research as we retrospectively trace the evolution in research output over the last five decades, establish linkages between the authors and articles, and reveal trending topics/hotspots within the broad theme of catastrophe theory research. We argue that this is the first major step aiming at analyzing all peer-reviewed catastrophe theory research documents indexed in the Scopus database from 1975 to 2020. This finding indicated that only few actors dominate the catastrophe theory research.
Journal packing density of Library and Information Science journals published across Asia This study suggest that JPD can act as a standard measure to maintain the quality of research journals in any given subject discipline. JPD can also be used by researchers to gauge the quality of a journal, especially by assessing whether or not the journal has sustained the packing density over a period of time. By looking at the JPD of a scholarly journal, researchers can decide on their own whether they should publish their research in a particular journal or not, as excessive JPD may be an evidence of journal being possibly, probably or potentially of a predatory nature.
Evaluating the research performance of women scientists in Indian research laboratories based on Scopus citation database: A bibliometric analysis The results of this study suggest an upward trend in both the number of papers and the number of women scientists in organizations.
Not just nickel-and-dime: An analysis of journal articles winning Ig Nobel prize during 2011-2020 Though Ig Nobel prize was originally intended to be satirical, prize-winning articles themselves were indeed impactful in the academia.
Titles in research articles Article titles are a rich source of information about disciplines, fields, journals and the proclivities of individual authors. For EAP researchers they are important for what they tell us about authors' perceptions of disciplinary practices and how they think they might best reach potential readers. Finally, we hope our description of titles proves useful to teachers and that researchers feel it is worth developing further, perhaps through investigating users' preferences and perspectives.
Errata and Corrigenda in Neurosurgical Publications: An In-Depth Analysis and Inference This review is the first of its kind in the neurosurgical literature analyzing errors and corrections in published neurosurgical articles over the past 2 decades.
Does an Author's Social Media Presence Affect Dissemination of Spine Literature? Activity on Twitter and Instagram may have variable associations with altmetrics of literature visibility and readership but with citation rates. Interestingly, presence/promotion on Twitter predicted less attention/readership, while Instagram presence predicted higher Mendeley readership.
Research networks and the initial placement of PhD holders in academia: evidence from social science fields This study has theoretical and practical contributions.
Smart bibliometrics: an integrated method of science mapping and bibliometric analysis Finally, science mapping and bibliometric processes, through the Smart Bibliometrics, can potentially automate manual and routine processes, connect people and ideas, providing more agile analysis in choosing relevant scientific productions in an innovative, simplified, and accessible manner.
Measuring publication diversity among the most productive scholars: how research trajectories differ in communication, psychology, and political science Building on research revolving around the most productive scholars in three interrelated disciplines and their publication trajectories, our study provides a complex approach on how gender, geopolitical, and publication diversity are related across different academic fields. Our findings show that communication scholars are more prone to publish in psychology and political science journals than the other way around. We found that differences in gender, location, or discipline among the most productive scholars are no longer critical in publication diversity: once listed among the most productive scholars, female and non-American researchers hold similar publication diversity scores to males and American peers.
Exploring the characteristics of special issues: distribution, topicality, and citation impact To ensure the quality of the manuscripts, we recommend optimizing the procedures for selecting special issue topics and reviewing submissions. However, our analysis shows that special issues seldom focus on original research topics and these topics rarely lead to large-scale discussion afterwards. Further, we found many sub-standard manuscripts and articles with irrelevant research themes in special issues across the different disciplines. Additionally, this research has opened up many questions that could be further explored in future studies.
Co-citation Percentile Rank and JYUcite: a new network-standardized output-level citation influence metric and its implementation using Dimensions API The contrast between academic disciplines found are consistent with conventional wisdom and highlight the utility of CPR as a field-normalized citation rate metric.
Measuring the disparity among scientific disciplines using Library of Congress Subject Headings In this study, through the analysis of LCSH co-assignments, we demonstrated a new approach to measuring disparity, measured the disparity between scientific disciplines, and revealed a close relationship between biology and medicine. Our results also indicate trends of disparity measures between disciplines since 1900s. Thus for future research, an interdisciplinary measurement for bibliographic records (books or monographs) should be conducted on the basis of LCSH co-assignment as well as the calculated disparity measures, which could form a foundation for future research using subject headings to measure the degree of interdisciplinarity of books or monographs.
The high scholarly value of grey literature before and during Covid-19 The results show that citing grey literature is common in academic research, with a single organisation, WHO, now being cited in over 3% of all papers. This increase seems to have been accelerated by Covid-19 for nearly all organisations. Thus, research evaluators should be accepting of the potential value of grey literature citations from academic publications.
Recognition and longevity: an examination of award timing and lifespan in Nobel laureates In fact, according to our regression results for the sample of 387 Nobel Prize winners, receiving the Nobel Prize at a young age results in an increase in relative life expectancy; that is, being awarded the Nobel Prize or a major scientific award 10 years earlier is associated with an increase in expected lifespan difference to the average population by around 1 year. Thus, our study complements previous efforts in understanding the potential health benefits of awards (e.g., Rablen & Oswald, 2008) by exploring in more detail the conferral timing. We also provide evidence that contradicts McCann's (2001) precocity-longevity hypothesis.
The effect of data sources on the measurement of open access: A comparison of Dimensions and the Web of Science "Our results show the measurement of OA differs when using WoS or Dimensions, and that the difference is more striking for authors from outside North America, Europe, and Central Asia."
Analysis of Ecuador's SCOPUS scientific production during the 2001-2020 period by means of standardized citation indicators Finally, our results suggest, in agreement with previous studies, a correlation between the sustained growth of scientific productivity in the decade 2011-2020 with the scientific programs and policies created by the state, where the initiative of scientific culture is shown as a strategy for growth and development.
Using the H-index as a factor in the promotion of surgical faculty At our institution, the median H-indexes at the time of promotions from assistant professor to associate professor and from associate professor to full professor are 11.0 and 17.0.
Impact of Predatory Journals in Plastic Surgery Literature: Researchers Beware Predatory journals are pervasive in the medical literature and plastic surgery is no exception.
Loss of sustainability in scientific work Our model allows for projecting the current citation ecosystem into the future and investigating its sustainability.
Analysis on the research progress of library and information science since the new century Based on the publication data from 18 LIS journals since the new century as sample, and CiteSpace algorithm ideas used to visualize the evolution of LIS, we can conclude that: (1) The evolution of library science consists of three trends: first, from traditional to digital libraries, second, from library services to user behavior and third, the evolution of library utilization of databases. Our results indicate that the research fusion of network themes, such as social media, the generation of new databases and big data are conducted in both library science and information science.
Citation Context Analysis as a Method for Conducting Rigorous and Impactful Literature Reviews In this article we have presented citation context analysis as an approach to conducting rigorous literature reviews.
OpenRank - a novel approach to rank universities using objective and publicly verifiable data sources Overall, the proposed ranking methodology reflected the research objectives — ranking HEIs using objective parameters and publicly verifiable data sources.
Federal funding allocation on HIV/AIDS research in the United States (2008-2018): an exploratory study using Big Data Our findings for the first time identified disparities of federal funding allocation, suggesting that federal agencies favor states of high research capacity over heavy disease burden, which may reinforce the HIV-related health disparities.
Research on differential and interactive impact of China-led and US-led open-access articles The result shows the impact of OA articles led by the United Sates is higher than that of Chinese leaders of research. Most of social media metrics do not have an obvious correlation with impact evaluation, which indicates the social media metrics are useful when paired with citations, but not irreplaceable. However, social media metrics appear to be a useful alternative metrics to reflect the impact of OA articles within the scientific community.
Important citations identification by exploiting generative model into discriminative model In general, our deployed models exploiting generative model into discriminative model show great effectiveness on important citations identification. Finally, it is worth mentioning that this work only categorises the citations into important and incidental ones, which neglects the specific use for different levels of importance. More fine-grained taxonomy needs to be employed in the near future.
A novel focal-loss and class-weight-aware convolutional neural network for the classification of in-text citations Notably, our approach takes only the citation context as its input to achieve over 90% and 70% accuracy, respectively, for binary- and multi-class citation classification.
Infectious epidemics and the research output of nations: A data-driven analysis It is interesting that the findings point out that the epidemics of the size experienced up to recently did not have adverse effects on the countries' research output. This non-negative impact of contagious outbreaks goes in line with other positive effects of transmissible epidemics such as the rise of Internet usage.
Obsolescence of the literature: A study of included studies in Cochrane reviews This study finds that the median citation age and the mean citation age differ considerably across Cochrane groups, which represent different topic areas.
Language preference in citations: a quantitative analysis of MA theses at a French-speaking university The results presented above show that English-written sources are dominant in the reference lists of MA theses, showing that the English language is highly valued by students as medium of knowledge. In sum, the language bias towards monoliteracy in theses written in English shows that, despite studying in a French-speaking university, students are likely to be impacted by the ‘bibliographical amnesia' described by Chevrier (2016) as they ignore a significant amount of research conducted in other languages than English, among which French, in which they are likely to be highly literate.
Social network analysis of mythology field The findings of this study are seen important for scientists, decision-makers and policymakers.
A bibliometric analysis of executive functions in autism spectrum disorder In this study, the relationship between bibliometric indicators of the field and the prevalence of autism was investigated, which showed a significant positive relationship between CPD and RSI indicators.
Are we on the right track? an update to Lyytinen et al.'s commentary on why the old world cannot publish Our findings show that European IS scholars do not seem to significantly differ (anymore) from their North American counterparts – “superstar” professors aside - in terms of academic impact measures such as the h-index.
Correlation between universities' Altmetric Attention Scores and their performance scores in Nature Index, Leiden, Times Higher Education and Quacquarelli Symonds ranking systems The positive relationships between the universities' performance and ASSs signified that there existed some similarities in what they measured. However, they were of weak-to-marginally strong powers, implying that the metrics differed in what they measured. The findings contribute to the existing knowledge by providing some evidence of convergence between university-level altmetrics and university performances in various dimensions.
Open access editorial policies of SciELO health sciences journals SciELO health sciences journals use an OA model of science communication, published mostly by academic or scholarly institutions, and distributed under open licences that allow sharing and reuse of their articles.
A lasting connection: colonial ties and scientific capabilities in sub-Saharan Africa Overall, the analysis suggests that enduring relationships with former colonizers play a role in scientific development in sub-Saharan Africa. Although the paper aims to be descriptive, the results should be of interest to policy makers and donors who aim to facilitate catch-up of science in less scientifically advanced nations.
Scientists' response to global public health emergencies: A bibliometrics perspective From a global perspective, the scientific research community has responded to the major public health emergencies rapidly and timely, which is reflected in the emergence of a large number of relevant publications in the year of the outbreak.
Writing to advance knowledge: The impact of readability on knowledge diffusion in OSCM Our findings have practical implications in assuring authors and journal editors that articles can retain sufficient rigor but have greater reach. Given the immutable and inherent complexity of academic articles, improving readability may be "low-hanging fruit" that can facilitate knowledge diffusion both inside and outside the academy. Finally, our findings reinforce the additive nature of cognitive load, which we use as our theoretical lens.
Why do master's students of humanities and social sciences publish papers in Chinese-language predatory journals? A qualitative study based on Grounded Theory With the help of the semi-structured interview method and GT, this research analyzed the reasons why HSS master's students publish papers in Chinese-language predatory journals, and found that research discrimination, research context, self-awareness, and individual demand are the main reasons. The results also show that evaluating the performance of researchers based on the number of papers they publish encourages researchers to choose predatory journals. This research offers the following suggestions to alleviate the problems of Chinese-language predatory journals:
Global scientific collaboration: A social network analysis and data mining of the co-authorship networks This study was conducted to accomplish two objectives. The first goal was to analyse the co-authorship networks of the top 60 countries with the largest number of scientific publications in the world, and the second goal was to discover collaboration patterns in highly cited papers of these countries.
Journal titles and mission statements: Lexical structure, diversity, and readability in business, management and accounting research Journal titles and JMSs are two essential information pieces that express a journal's main topics, history, disciplinary incidence, publication frequency, preferred epistemology (i.e. empirical or theoretical), methods, audiences, among other components.
Peer review experiences of academic chemists in Ph.D. granting institutions in the United States These ratings suggest an opportunity to improve peer review quality. Good citizenship within the scientific community suggests that each scientist should review ca. two – three times as many papers each year as they submit, and that reviewers need to see reviewing as 'providing to others what authors hope reviewers will provide to them.'
Structured inequalities and authors' positionalities in academic publishing: The case of Philippine international migration scholarship The article contributes to the literature on positionality-based inequalities in knowledge production and a periphery standpoint in the discourse on academic publishing inequality.
Multilingual publication practices in the social sciences and humanities at a Polish university: choices and pressures Our results show that almost all SSH scholars who responded to the survey have used Polish to disseminate their results and that a vast majority are multilingual researchers in that they have published in more than one language. The primary motivation for language choice among the multilingual SSH researchers who took part in our study is establishing a dialogue with specialists in a specific area of expertise and making their research available to the communities that may most benefit from its results. The need for research policy that takes account of these threats to locally relevant research is now increasingly recognised, as can be seen in appeals for balanced multilingualism (Sivertsen, 2018, Kulczycki et al., 2020) or international initiatives that foster multilingualism in science (Helsinki Initiative on Multilingualism in Scholarly Communication, 2019).
The characteristics of knowledge diffusion of library and information science - from the perspective of citation This paper explored the characteristics of knowledge diffusion of LIS from four dimensions: breadth, intensity, speed and theme. At present, the knowledge diffusion of LIS is extensive and fast, and with the data-driven research paradigm, which would play an increasingly important role in the whole discipline system with the research themes of data, information, knowledge, management and service. In the future, LIS should continue to give full play to the advantage of its own in data management and have an impact on hard-pure disciplines as well as life system disciplines.
Determinants of societal and academic recognition: Evidence from randomised controlled trials By confirming the dependence of RCTs' recognition on some methodological validity features and attention-inducing characteristics, the study provides further evidence on the interaction of quality and visibility dynamisms in the recognition network and the complementary role of societal mentions for academic citation.
Barriers to scholarly publishing among library and information science researchers: International perspectives This study illuminates the barriers faced by researchers from around the world when working to publish in top library and information science journals.
Identifying top researchers in highly metricized academia: two discursive strategies of senior officials in Poland We have used our interviews with senior officials in Polish academia to distinguish two discursive strategies, autonomous and heteronomous, each of which produces a corresponding model of the top researcher. Autonomy and heteronomy coexist in the academic field, and every interview displays instances of both. When the tension gets high, a discursive split can be seen: not only does the discourse switch between the two strategies without an attempt at reconciliation, but it is also laden with strong emotional or moral formulations.
Localization of social science research in selected academic disciplines in South Korea This study found that the local knowledge-base of Korean social science research is relatively weak though it has been continuously increasing during the last three decades, and knowledge production is heavily reliant on Western theory. In addition, this study found that pure fields differ from applied fields, where the two applied disciplines are relatively more localized in their theory development and their selection of research agendas. This study proposes that social science research in South Korea should draw more on indigenous knowledge and be less reliant on Western theory in the future.
ALIS: A novel metric in lineage-independent evaluation of scholars This article tries to investigate the influence of a researcher based on the citation analysis performed on two networks, that is, the genealogy tree and community network.
The Author Truncation "et al." in Article References: An Anachronism That Needs to Change Liste raccourcie des auteurs ⟪ et coll. ⟫ dans les references d'articles : un anachronisme qu'il faut changer In a time of electronic publishing, where constraints such as article and journal page length should not be important factors, all authors should be recognized. The use of the "et al." truncation should be discouraged by all individuals involved in the production and publication of research.
Characterizing response quantity on academic social Q&A sites: a multidiscipline comparison of linguistic characteristics of questions This study provides support for academic social Q&A platforms to assist scholars in asking richer questions that are likely to generate more answers across disciplines, thereby promoting improved academic communication among scholars.
Institutional prestige, academic supervision and research productivity of international PhD students: Evidence from Chinese returnees The results of this work contribute to the literature by showing that the role of doctoral supervisors, rather than pure institu- tional prestige, affects PhD returnees' pre-employment productivity.
The Use and Misuse of Organizational Research Methods 'Best Practice' Articles These findings shed light on the use (and misuse) of methodological recommendations, offering insight into how we can better improve our digestion and implementation of best practices as we design and test research and theory.
Study on the law of aging in Library and Information Science In terms of aging indicators, the average number of citations in LIS is 41. It is a relatively high value. The peak citation period is three years, and the citation activity period is relatively concentrated. The citing half-life is about 7.726, and the PI is about 0.32. Compared with other scholars' studies on the aging of the discipline, it is found that the aging rate change of LIS has been significantly reduced after a long period of development, and the discipline has entered a relatively mature stage. In this paper, the negative exponential model and the Barnett model describe the citation distribution, respectively. The latter was found to be a slightly better fit than the former. After disciplinary differentiation of citations, we find that interdisciplinary citation has a similar distribution to overall citation, which impacts disciplinary aging in the form of the increased age of applicability of disciplinary literature.
Women authorship in library and information science journals from 1981 to 2020: Is equitable representation being attained? The findings of this study indicate a considerable discrepancy in the percentage of women first authors among library science and information science journals.
Article promotion on Twitter and Facebook: A case study of Cell journal This study investigated the effectiveness of social media promotion of Cell journals and their user engagement in direct- ing access to publications.
From the Semi-Periphery with Love. A Dream of a Democratic Social Science: A Margin Lever We are well aware that the problem we are discussing does not concern only publish- ing policy, and that the mechanism we are proposing does not address all the issues in this narrow area, either.
Mapping the quantity, quality and structural indicators of Asian (48 countries and 3 territories) research productivity on cloud computing The study investigated the research productivity related to the concept of cloud computing in Asian countries and territories.
A bibliometric study on library and information science and information systems literature during 2010-2019 The findings reveal that the absence of reliable relationships among the factors: the number of documents by authors, the number of total citations received and the number of citations received per document. The collaborative research seems comparatively high for the sample studied. The findings of the current research can be useful to several groups, including researchers, journal editors, publishers, administrators of academic institutions and so on.
Ranking of Iranian medical universities based on altmetric indices The results of this study reveal a relationship between the universities' ranking systems and altmetric indicators.
Less Fragmented but Highly Centralized: A Bibliometric Analysis of Research in Computational Social Science Our study thus addressed the pathways along which CSS has developed and interacted with existing research frameworks. By integrating network analyses and simulations, it not only captured the landscape of scholarly collaboration in CSS but also revealed that the field of CSS is less fragmented than often assumed. Though the findings indicate that CSS is an emerging field that has acquired notable breadth and depth, it still calls for a more comprehensive, balanced integration paradigmatically guided by theory and enriched by analytical models.
Information literacy and research support services in academic libraries: A bibliometric analysis from 2001 to 2020 Based on the bibliometric analysis, we concluded that this method enabled researchers to gain more in-depth insights into the selected topic and support to recognise variables that were used during research in the research support services in academic libraries.
Does Universities' Research Output Aligned to National Development Goals Impact Economic Productivity? Evidence from Kenya This study has shown that research output in Kenya, though generally aligned to the nation's development blueprint, does not adequately meet the needs of the country's development agenda.
Does the venue of scientific conferences leverage their impact? A large scale study on Computer Science conferences This is the first attempt to focus on the relationship of venue characteristics to conference papers.
Journal and disciplinary variations in academic open peer review anonymity, outcomes, and length The results reveal a range of properties of academic open peer review, some of which align with common sense or previous research, whereas others are more novel and unexpected.
On the Frontline-A bibliometric Study on Sustainability, Development, Coronaviruses, and COVID-19 Long-term policy recommendations are needed to address pandemics and their interrelated crises and foster sustained growth and socioecological protection. The COVID-19 crisis can be faced by considering short-term and long-term policies related to environmental aspects and, in general, sustainability. More profoundly, the crises demand a resurgence of health justice measures supported by novel public health ethics patterns (Benatar, 2002; Beauchamp and Steinbock, 1999; Beauchamp, 1976).
Acknowledgement behaviour of Information Science students of Nigeria's premier university Preliminary findings have shown that students most likely do not receive formal instructions on writing their DAs leading to instances of students copying from their colleagues or past dissertations.
Concentration of power at the editorial boards of economics journals We find that many editorial boards are characterized by high degrees of concentration of power. This manifests itself in various ways. Overall, the findings show that an editorial board characteristic, the average duration of researchers on a journal's editorial board, is an important variable associated with short-run and long-run journal impact. A hypothesis that would be interesting to investigate in future research is whether these undesirable practices and outcomes are more prevalent the more concentrated editorial boards are.
Four problems of the h-index for assessing the research productivity and impact of individual authors This paper showed that the h₁-index (i.e., the fractional h-index), which distributes each publication's received citations among its authors, can help solve these four problems effectively.
Research agendas and job dissatisfaction among Hong Kong academics The present study aimed at gaining a better understanding of the nature of academics' research agendas in terms of its antecedents (as represented by demographics) and its outcomes (as represented by job dissatisfaction).
Distribution of Article Citation Frequency, Citation Skew, and Impact Factor in Otolaryngology Journals Although citation skew exists, otolaryngology journals' overall portfolios of published works-not a small number of highly cited articles causing citation skew-likely predominate their IFs. These results show that while a small number of highly cited articles may contribute to IF, otolaryngology journals commonly publish cited articles and their overall portfolio of published works predominantly determines IF. These results may also inform editorial offices by showing that the most robust strategy toward improving IF is through the general publication of high-quality articles rather than depending on a small number of highly cited articles.
Digital platform for open and equitable sharing of scholarly knowledge in India We hope that the open-access digital publishing platform will help the Indian journals upgrade their publishing systems up to the international standard, if not better, and help researchers explore a non-commercial avenue to publish open access articles.
Transforming higher education spaces through ethical research publication: a critique of the publish or perish aphorism The exclusivity of the publish or perish aphorism has ethical and social justice implications.
Analysis of national scientific domains in the journalism discipline (scopus, 2003-2019) Scientific production in Journalism, with the analysis of the 27 countries that have led the research in the last 16 years, must be understood as a reflection of the dynamics that are being observed in the media system itself at a global level.
Foundations of knowledge management: intellectual structure and citation drivers of the Journal of Knowledge Management This inclusive overview of JKM will provide useful insights for its editorial board, readers and scholars to chart the ways forward for JKM and the future of knowledge management. First, this study presents the major themes that are present in the journal. Second, this study has explored the evolution of themes in the journal.
Factors influencing the adoption and use of open access scholarly communication among researchers in India Although the study's findings indicate that researchers are willing to make their research work OA, there is limited adoption of OA among researchers.
Academic career outcomes of Orthopedic Research and Education Foundation resident grant recipients Procurement of OREF resident grants is associated with pursuit of an academic career.
Exploring the effects of mobility and foreign nationality on internal career progression in universities The combined effects of more difficulty to be promoted and a higher propensity to leave the university for internationally mobile and foreign scientists were very strong, par-ticularly at an early stage, so that in the considered period, 1457 in 6659 of non-mobile national postdocs became professor in their university of affiliation (21.9%) compared to just 56 in 4503 internationally mobile foreigners (1.2%), or-94%. These results suggest that mobile and foreign scientists struggle to advance in universities that lack rules prevent-ing inbreeding and with few opportunities to teach in English. In order to avoid the potential negative effects of mobility in terms of career progression, scientists are recommended to preserve linkage in their home country (Baruffaldi & Landoni, 2012) or ensure that their mobility period is undertaken with the promise to return to their original institution, ascertain whether mobility is an asset for career progression in the host country and institution, become proficient in the local language, align with local evaluation criteria, and if possible, move only to tenured positions.
Using data citation to define a knowledge domain: A case study of the Add-Health dataset In conclusion, this study is thought to be the first to identify a domain via dataset citations rather than traditional domain-defining bibliometrics methods, as well as the first to confirm that CWNA and TMA can yield mutually compatible results regarding the major research interests in that domain.
Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on researcher collaboration in business and economics areas on national level: a scientometric analysis The results of this study will provide evidence to research management to properly allocate their efforts to improve the researcher cooperation during the still ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and to overcome its negative outcomes in the years to come. The main finding of this paper outlines the role of uncertainty avoidance as the cultural factor which has significantly influenced the properties of research collaboration networks. Therefore, there is still a need for further theoretical and empirical research to advance our understanding of associations' relationships between culture and research processes in academia.
The individual characteristics, organizational characteristics and research productivity of early career LIS researchers in China's mainland: A crisp set qualitative comparative analysis (csQCA) In this study, we used QCA to identify the combinations of conditions that affected the research productivity of early career LIS researchers in China's mainland. Our study revealed that no single condition could be a necessary condition for early career LIS researchers to achieve high research productivity. There were two combinations of conditions that could contribute to the high research productivity of early career LIS researchers.
Knowledge, attitudes, and practices regarding plagiarism of postgraduate students in Myanmar In our study population, plagiarism represents a significant ethical issue of academic performance among the participating postgraduate students.
Stars as catalysts: an event-study analysis of the impact of star-scientist recruitment on local research performance in a small open economy Our various event analyses—where the event is the arrival of a star—are supportive of the hypothesis that star recruitments have positive and sustained effect on productivity.
Altmetric score, reads, and citations in paediatric cardiology: do they correlate and what do they mean? This study describes the correlation of reads, citations, and Altmetric score in manuscripts published in Cardiology in the Young, demon-strating poor correlation, at best, between these metrics.
Markets for Scientific Attribution Consequently, our results demonstrate that while practices of assigning co-authorship later in the research production process can be optimal, when such regimes cannot be committed to, a process that divides research outputs into readily identified and solely “owned” constituent parts (or ‘slice's as they are often known) can also generate more efficient outcomes.
Exclusion of the non-English-speaking world from the scientific literature: Recommendations for change for addiction journals and publishers The addition of non-English-speaking authors, editorial team members, and journals will increase the value, impact, and transparency of research findings and increase the accountability and inclusivity of scientific publications. International publications could become increasingly accessible to people speaking other languages with the right incentives. Many researchers can share and attain knowledge based on the robust global community and collective effort and making that part of academia globally diverse and inclusive.
Influence of publication on university ranking: Citation, collaboration, and level of interdisciplinary research In seeking for higher-ranking within the top200 category, in addition to expanding in campus size, increasing the number of academic programs, and encouraging more publications, university decision makers should value the efforts to develop leading academic disciplines, enable broad international collaborations, and promote new interdisciplinary programs. Rather than publication number and citation number, university should pay more attention to plausibility, originality, novelty, scientific value, and societal value of their research (Aksnes et al., 2019).
Research output and visibility of librarians: Are social media influencers or distractors? The study concluded that the use of social media is a significant influencer of the research output and visibility of librarians at southwestern Nigerian universities.
'Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted': Searching for the value of metrics and altmetrics in sociology of sport journals As quantifiable measures of journals, various metrics need to be critiqued. To fight back, we need to better understand how metrics and altmetrics operate and whether they have any value beyond the calculation of a single number. Maintaining a vibrant ecology of journals is essential to robust and equitable publication opportunities for diverse scholars across their career stages and topic areas.
Visualizing the knowledge domain of anti-poverty research between 2011 and 2020: a bibliometric analysi in CiteSpace Anti-poverty has become a hot issue in the world.
Multimedia big data computing mechanisms: a bibliometric analysis This article presents a visual and systematic overview of the present Multimedia Big Data issues.
Vistas of the field: examining quality indicators of health and physical education journals Overall, we argue that it is crucial for scholars to understand these measures so that they can critically reflect on how measurement shapes their research and professional lives.
Contemporary Accounting Research: A Retrospective between 1984 and 2021 using Bibliometric Analysis Our analysis reveals some critical details about CAR and presents several potential future directions to improve its quality.
Analyses of titles and authors from 50 years of ISME Research Commission manuscripts 1968 to 2018 While arguably none of the individual metrics presented in this study fully explain the overall impact and global reach of the ISME RC, collectively they provide a very compelling set of data.
The impact of government funding on research innovation: An empirical analysis of Chinese universities Based on the statistical data from 2007 to 2017, this paper explores the relationship between the investment of GF and the output of sci-entific research achievements in universities.
Disambiguating the definitions of the concept 'transformative innovation' Therefore, distinctive science and technology (S&T) policies are needed for the different types of innovation.
Breakthrough potential of emerging research topics based on citation diffusion features The comparative analysis of these citation curves reveals that the stratification, transition and recent changes of the citation curve can be used as a basis for analysing and assessing the ERTs' breakthrough potential.
Identifying Rising Stars via Supervised Machine Learning The prediction of RBM based on the performance of Co-BMs is a very crucial business requirement. The generative classifiers, particularly BN, produce the best results along with NN as the second best method for the AR-based dataset. In addition, among the proposed methods, the method with the integration of Co-BM, SBM, and RGM features is turned up as the best method to predict RBMs.
Quis judicabit ipsos judices? A case study on the dynamics of competitive funding panel evaluations The findings of this study provide further hints toward the complex mechanisms underlying panel evaluations. The fact that scientometric indicators by themselves do not appear to have much importance in the candidate score, in contrast with the sentiment of the evaluation—which does have an impact—highlights the role of affect and informal rules as a critical part of the process. This study has several implications.
Evaluation of the arts in performance-based research funding systems: An international perspective This research offers the first overview of performance-based research funding systems that evaluate artistic outputs. By presenting different methods and criteria of evaluation and discussing the challenges related, our work aims to contribute to research as well as evaluation practices. Future research should investigate this issue by exploring the quality criteria in artistic disciplines.
Toward a ("Dissolved") Psychology of Interdisciplinary and Transdisciplinary Relations: A Complexity-Informed Proposal Finally, I propose a new domain for research and practice: a ("Dissolved") Psychology of Inter and Transdisciplinary Relations.
The impact of Italian performance-based research funding systems on the intensity of international research collaboration Can we conclude that this trend differential is an effect of the VQR? This is open to interpretation. Unless some residual effect has occurred, the observation that the remarkable deviation of the internationalization rate from expected values began only in 2016 would then lead one to reject the hypothesis that the VQR PBRFS had stimulated this behavior, causing the professors to seek more avenues for international collaboration. Whether the apparent lack of effect from the VQR incentivization is due to insufficient economic reward, or to lack of continuity, or to contamination by the worldwide trend of increasing collabor-ation, one cannot be sure.
Studying domain structure: a comparative analysis of bibliographic coupling analysis and co-citation analysis considering all authors In this study, we found that the field of scientometrics and informetrics has remained largely stable over the past decade based on ABCA and ACA. Thus, we conclude that the combination of the two methods allows us to obtain a more comprehensive and specific intellectual structure of a field. In order to examine these findings more thoroughly, further research is recommended.
Mapping the Political Landscape on Social Media Using Bibliometrics: A Longitudinal Co-Word Analysis on Twitter and Facebook Publications Published Between 2012 and 2021 The data obtained in this analysis show that the emergence of populism and its associated political phenomena: disinformation, fake news, extremism, were marked by a visible rise in scientific articles on Facebook and Twitter, starting in 2017.
Identifying the characteristics of excellent peer reviewers by using Publons Our study revealed that verified reviews, Publons mentor, and verified editor records were significantly associated with the excellent reviewer, while research performance (including the number of articles indexed by WOS, citations, H-index and high-cited researcher), words per review, Publons academy graduate, current editorial boards, past editorial boards and genders were not significantly associated with excellent reviewer.
Understanding relationship between topic selection and academic performance of scientific teams based on entity popularity trend Through understanding relationships amongst topic popularity, team performance and research funding, the study would be valuable for researchers and policy makers to conduct reasonable decision making on topic selection.
The first author takes it all? Solutions for crediting authors more visibly, transparently, and free of bias In this article, we highlighted the pitfalls of the current authorship credit heuristics dominant in psychological science.
The footprint of a metrics-based research evaluation system on Spain's philosophical scholarship: An analysis of researchers' perceptions The main finding of this study is the deep, multilayered impact the Spanish RES has on academic work in philosophy.
Research governance and the dynamics of science: A framework for the study of governance effects on research fields First, we proposed a novel approach to study governance effects, employing an extended understanding of public science as research spaces and fields, and using a nuanced interpretation of notions of research quality.
The exploration in the size of scientific collaboration team using kernel density estimation Considering both qualitative and quantitative measures, the paper proves the universality of optimal and appropriate scientific collaboration team size among 22 disciplines and calculates the specific number.
Critical factors in awakening the slumbering collections: a study based on XGBoost In sum, this research includes the definition induction of the zero circulation, the expansion of the zero-circulation phenomenon and the analysis of the critical factors of the collection awakening.
Exploring the Ranking, Classifications and Evolution Mechanisms of Research Fronts: A Method Based on Multiattribute Decision Making and Clustering In this study, we present a method based on multiattribute decision making and clustering to analyze the ranking, classifications and evolution mechanisms of research fronts.
Crossing borders, building new ones, or shifting boundaries? Shared narratives and individual paths towards inter/transdisciplinarity in research centres for urban sustainability "Despite being functional to self-representation, these shared narratives contribute towards depicting ITD as an individual escape, and interdisciplinary research centres as sanctuaries of a sort, thus paradoxically preserving the status quo."
Multidimensional scholarly citations: Characterizing and understanding scholars' citation behaviors "Hopefully, the empirical findings presented in this paper can bring us closer to characterizing and understanding the complex process of generating scholarly citations in academia."
Preprints in Chemistry: a Research Team's Journey Reviewing the experience of our research team with preprint publishing since late 2016, in this study we show evidence that preprinting research provides benefits both to early career and to senior researchers. Preprinting chemistry research not only fulfills the objective of open-access to maximize research impact by maximizing research access,[65] but it also frees and improves the scholarly communication process.
Exploring the performance of Biological Invasions in social media five years after opening its Facebook and Twitter accounts Social media activities did not affect the number of reads or citations of Biological Invasions' scientific publications.
The authors of economics journals revisited: evidence from a large-scale replication of Hodgson and Rothman (1999) An overall conclusion of this analysis is that the oligopoly effect in economics publishing, is (still) at work in a very big and potentially problematic way and its long-term persistence should be of concern for anyone interested in scientific integrity within the discipline of economics. As our study is explorative in nature it points to many venues for further research: First, an inter- disciplinary comparison would be useful to better put our results into context especially, as past research has shown that economic research is different on many levels from other social sciences. Finally, and although our data is rudimentary in many respects, we have gone a long way to assure a more or less consistent database for tracing the networks between authors, contributions, outlets and institutions (on two levels, employment as well as education).
The Influence of Disciplinary Origins on Peer Review Normativities in a New Discipline Given these findings, it seems that there are indeed peer review normativities impeding the development of EER on some fronts.
Predicting coauthorship using bibliographic network embedding We obtained substantial prediction results with well-established methods, such as translation-based and gradient boosting machines.
Evaluation and publication delay in Ibero-American scientific journals There are differences for evaluation days (Ed) between General articles and Call for Papers, but there are none for publication days (Pd), thus indicating that Call for Papers revisions are faster.
Prioritizing diversity? The allocation of US federal R&D funding Together, these findings prompt a discussion around the trade-offs of funders focusing on national priorities or broadening participation.
Evolution and adoption of contributor role ontologies and taxonomies As CROTs become more widely accepted and implemented, the debate about extending their list of roles, application across disciplines and research object types, as well as their integration into diverse scholarly workflows gets more relevant and exponentially more complicated.
Using Data Mining, Text Mining, and Bibliometric Techniques to the Research Trends and Gaps in the Field of Language and Linguistics Overall, the findings indicate that System has moved in line with its goals and scope, i.e., the applications of educational technology and applied linguistics to solve foreign language problems, which in turn reflects the open horizon, global approach and forward-looking view of the System's editorial board. This will not only help identify tops and trends, as well as research gaps, but help discover new knowledge and patterns in the field of psycholinguistics.
A perpetual motion machine: The preserved digital scholarly record Preserving the digital scholarly record is difficult, and all of us must feel a sense of ownership in doing the work, regardless of our specific roles in the preservation ecosystem. Our job—the job of all stakeholders in the digital scholarly record—is to do the very best we can, working in partnership wherever possible, then hand it off to those who will carry it forward after us.
Measuring serendipity with altmetrics and randomness Other than its implications for the concept of serendipity, this paper also contributes to a better understanding of altmetrics’ use cases: not only do altmetrics serve the measurement of impact, the facilitation of impact, and the facilitation of serendipity, but also the measurement of serendipity.
Fifteen years of YouTube scholarly research: knowledge structure, collaborative networks, and trending topics This study examined published research works related to YouTube between 2006 and 2021. The analysis revealed that 2006–2007 were initial stage in YouTube research followed by 2008–2017 which is the decade of rapid growth in YouTube research. The 2017–2021 is considered the stage of consolidation and stabilization of this research topic.
Titles in research articles: Changes across time and discipline Our study of how titles have changed across time and by discipline shows a remarkable increase in the length of titles in all disciplines and indicates that now they are generally between 11 and 15 words. These results suggest that authors do not construct their titles from an infinite range of options but select from a relatively restricted sub-set which indicate how they understand their communities. Our textual evidence for disciplinary and diachronic change in the form and content of titles also points to contradictions between the advice of journal instructions and style guides with actual practice.
What makes databases tick: Logics that underpin national databases for research output in Europe Research information infrastructure is continuously expanding as research information systems and databases for research output be-come the main tools for understanding research.
Invention and the life course: Age differences in patenting We contribute to the literature on creativity and aging by exploring how the extent and qualitative nature of patents change as inventor's age. When we look at how the attributes of patents vary with the age of their inventors, we find clear and monotonic relationships for all the attributes we examined. Merging of these new data with other data that capture diverse aspects of inventors' envi-ronment and incentives offers rich potential for new research on invention.
Globalization of scientific communication: Evidence from authors in academic journals by country of origin "The least globalized countries in the world should consider the outcomes of isolation."
Open science in China: Openness, economy, freedom & innovation Clearly, the Chinese science ambition has won its name with remarkable achievements, open data infrastructure, and digital belt-and-road success from the get-go.
Characteristics of correction practice and its citation in library and information science journals This study showed that compared with many fields, the number of corrections in LIS was small.
The art of ignoring others' work among academics: A guessing game model of scholarly information search Only if we assume that scholars can collaborate in maintaining unawareness as much as they collaborate in maintaining mutual awareness does the persistence of such structures become easily explainable.
Are the works that cite Beall's List accounting journals comparable to those that cite Scopus journals of similar citation impact? Two key findings of this study support the idea that the top 10 Beall's List accounting journals tend to be cited in less reputable outlets than the Scopus accounting journals of similar citation impact.
Impact factor JUMPS after the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic: a retrospective study in Dermatology journals Although we found journals with growth rates in the four quartiles, no journals depicted negative growth rates nor> 100% growth.
Open Editors: A dataset of scholarly journals' editorial board positions This dataset carries implications for both practical purposes of research evaluation and for meta-scientific investigations into the landscape of scholarly publications, and allows for critical inquiries regarding the representation of diversity and inclusivity across academia. There are multiple possibilities with which to proceed on the basis of the dataset thus collected, especially if it becomes linked with PIDs and other open datasets. While only providing a small step, it may be an indispensable one towards the greater goal of achieving full and inclusive knowledge equity within the broader agenda of Open Science.
Luck and the 'situations' of research Taking luck seriously thus means understanding scientific practice, and successful careers within it, as marked and shaped by luck.
'I want to be able to do what I know the tools will allow us to do': Practicing evaluative bibliometrics through digital infrastructure Since the beginning of the 2000s, insights into academic performance have become offered through a variety of new databases and devices, increasing significantly the scope and abilities of what had been offered before by the SCI and the JCR.
Timing of submissions to The Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health: Associations with the COVID-19 pandemic and editorial decisions The COVID-19 pandemic had a limited effect on the timing of manuscript submissions to JPCH. However, the timing of manuscript submission impacted the likelihood of a more positive editorial decision. While the time of manuscript submission is only one part of the research process, it is postulated that it may be associated with research quality.
Quantifying scientific breakthroughs by a novel disruption indicator based on knowledge entities Our study not only offers empirical insights into conceptual understanding of scientific breakthroughs but also provides practical disruption indicator for scientists and science management agencies searching for valuable research.
Predicting Research Productivity in STEM Faculty: The Role of Self-determined Motivation To improve research productivity, it thus follows that post-secondary institutions should aim to bolster faculty autonomous motivation. The current study results should be informative to higher education institutions, particularly those striving to increase scholarly productivity, as to specific strengths and deficits in faculty motivation for research that contribute to measurable gains in research activity. Ultimately, our findings should help to provide guidance to universities, government, and industries on how to best support research faculty in STEM domains to produce innovative basic and applied scientific knowledge, to tackle key social and economic challenges with their research, and to train the next generation of flexible, knowledgeable, and diverse researchers.
Exploring the last 50 years of Indian research on the impact of coal mining using bibliometric analysis with an overview of water-related impacts This study provides a bibliometric analysis of scientific publications related to coal mining and its impacts on India's environment and water resources indexed in the Web of Science database from 1971 to 2021 using VOSviewer software.
How scientists interpret and address funding criteria: value creation and undesirable side effects In this research, we argue that public funded grants in science represent valuable signals and frame sci-entists and funding bodies as both senders and receiv-ers in an ongoing two-way signalling interaction. Our findings show that effectively addressing three signal criteria—research feasibility, research alignment and team creden-tials—enhances the competitiveness of scientists' grant proposals and this in turn improves prospects of funding success and value creation. However, our research also shows that scientists can over-address these criteria in the hyper-competition for funding, which can be counterproductive for value creation.
COVID-19 and the scientific publishing system: growth, open access and scientific fields Both historical and forecast COVID-19 data show that the growth patterns are different from ‘normal’ times, with a more rapid growth.
Global impact or national accessibility? A paradox in China's science After analyzing citations to China's research published in both international journals (WoS) and national journals (CSCD), this study reveals that China's research published in international journals was less cited by their Chinese colleagues than research published in national journals—although international publications were more visible globally. In other words, publishing internationally limits the visibility of Chinese research for the national Chinese scientific community, and the restriction is even worse for immediate access. The primary implication for those non-English-speaking countries in Global South is to keep the balance between global impact and local interest for better scholarly communication and knowledge dissemination.
Using the weighted Lorenz curve to represent balance in collaborations: the BIC indicator The BIC indicator is a new indicator, specifically constructed to measure balance in collaboration.
AGSTA-NET: adaptive graph spatiotemporal attention network for citation count prediction In this paper, we propose a deep learning model (AGSTA-NET) to predict cita-tion count of papers by dynamically modeling the heterogeneous citation network formed at the early stage of publication, which contains two parts: the capturing module of spatial dependence and the capturing module of time dependence.
Science in the mist: A model of asymmetric information for the research market The model introduced in this paper delivers many empirical facts of modern publication systems.
Research topic flows in co-authorship networks In this work we investigated the exchange of topic specific expertise in large scientific collaboration networks.
Amplifying research influence through the social network, open access publishing, and international collaboration: A mediation analysis on nursing studies literature "This study provides empirical support for some strategies researchers may employ to amplify the citation count of their research articles." "The methodology of our study can be extended to compare research influence between entities (e.g., across countries or institutes)." "The citation refers to the research work cited by peers and is one of the indicators for research impact."
Towards regional scientific integration in Africa? Evidence from co-publications Our findings confirm the improvement in regional cohesion, but also highlight a number of acute bottlenecks and challenges, including the need to redefine or rethink some of the policy implementation strategies. Existing policies aimed at the development of an Africa-wide research area should aim to leverage existing and emerging regional excellence networks and novel coordination models to accelerate the process of scientific integration in Africa.
Standing on the shoulders of giants: How star scientists influence their coauthors We examined the consequences of star scientist collaboration and found that the status of a star caused a collaboration to act as a prism that transmits indirect peer effects.
Does publication history influence the integrity of the journals: studying publication timelines and their impact on journal metrics? The study will provide the authors with sound and valuable information to support their selection of journals.
The Company You Keep: How Network Disciplinary Diversity Enhances the Productivity of Researchers We conclude that the benefits of diversity on researchers' productivity are contingent on the personal qualities of the researchers and on network structure. The brokerage / closure debate needs a more nuanced understanding of causal relationships.
Does conflict of interest distort global university rankings? This study suggests that universities that use services provided by ranking companies more frequently may improve their positions in global university rankings over time, regardless of improvements in their institutional characteristics measured in these rankings (e.g., these universities may increase faculty-student ratio score in rankings without the actual change in faculty-student ratio).
The moderating effect of altmetrics on the correlations between single and multi-faceted university ranking systems: the case of THE and QS vs. Nature Index and Leiden Given the claims that altmetrics represent scientific, educational, economic, and techno-logical impacts of research outputs, the present study tested and confirmed their potential in bridging the gap between single- and multi-faceted university evaluation methodologies.
Applying quantified indicators in Central Asian science: can metrics improve the regional research performance? Central Asia showed lower than average research performance compared to the neighbouring countries of Eastern Europe and Asia.
The development of stratification and segregation in a new scientific field: A study of collaboration among scientists in neuroblastoma research between 1975 and 2016 In spite of the insights we have provided, we also acknowledge several limitations that should be addressed in further research.
Teaching Team Science: The Key to Addressing 21st Century Global Challenges To solve 21st century global health and environmental challenges, higher education must teach team learning.
Pathway profiles: Learning from five main approaches to assessing interdisciplinarity The assessment pathways framework helped uncover mean-ingful patterns across nearly 150 publications whose assess-ment designs could otherwise be difficult to replicate and compare given the lack of a shared language and foundation.
The connectivity between Chinese and Turkish science systems: an agential perspective The research findings are revealing in terms of not only the Chinese-Turkish scientific connectivity but also the broader global science system.
SCIENTISTS' ASSESSMENT: ARE WE USING THE CORRECT METRICS? The h-index is not a good metric anymore because does not correct for authorship inflation. The individual h-index (h₁), which takes into account fractional counting of citations, is more reliable than the h-index. An analysis on the use of h₁-index with randomly selected 15 Brazilian chemists among the top 500 more productive shows an important effect on the ranking order.
The Platformization of Science: Towards a Scientific Digital Platform Taxonomy We defined scientific digital platforms and outlined a typology based on three criteria: association with a specific social sub-system, degree of integration into the research process and phase of the scientific research process.
Fifty years of the Journal of Perinatal Medicine: an altmetric and bibliometric study We identified influential articles during 50 years of JPM, providing insight into the impact of the journal and providing a template for future studies of academic journals. The analysis provided insight into the types of articles that have been historically relevant to the Journal's readership, but also identified articles of contemporary relevance. The study suggests that the Journal's profile of engagement with public and social media platforms is not yet mature, with opportunities to build, and underscores the need for a metric that incorporates quality into its assessment of impact.
Peer review in funding-by-lottery: A systematic overview and expansion I conclude by building off of the work of Avin in moving toward a more holistic evaluation of funding-by-lottery.
A validation study on the factors affecting the practice modes of open peer review Whether or not the identities of review experts are open has become the most important factor affecting the practice modes of open peer review.
Sleep researchers' rankings of sleep journals Overall, the correspondence was high between the impact factors, the h5-index values, and the subjective rankings of sleep journals. To conclude, sleep researchers looking for the most prestigious journals can trust the impact factors to correspond with the top three journals. For other sleep journals, the association between researchers' views and impact factors are less cohesive.
Understanding researchers' Twitter uptake, activity and popularity-an analysis of applied research in Germany Our paper uses population data from the largest organization for applied research in Europe in order to study twitter uptake, activity and popularity among researchers of different academic disciplines.
A heuristic approach based on Leiden rankings to identify outliers: evidence from Italian universities in the European landscape In this work we proposed a new use of Leiden rankings as a source of information to be further elaborated and combined with statistical analysis and mappings to identify groups of universities that are not statistically different in terms of their scientific production and to highlight outlier institutions that are particularly performing to further investigate through case studies.
Global impact measures As stated in the introduction, our approach is inspired by the standard Lorenz curve. For impact studies, the role of the standard Lorenz curve is played by the non-normalized Lorenz curve, which was introduced as the graph of the area function on the interval [0,T].
Developing a comprehensive plagiarism assessment rubric The rubric we presented in this paper offers aid to illuminate students' understanding of plagiarism during their composing and later self-assessing of their written work.
Research impact as understood by two funders of agricultural research in South Africa Funders should take respon- sibility for pushing research results to a distal level by planning 'who' will do the push, 'how' it will be done and managed, and to 'what' final aim.
The structure and priorities of researchers' scholarly profile maintenance activities: A case of institutional research information management system The results provide insights for designing profile maintenance action templates for institutional RIMS that are tailored to researchers' characteristics and help enhance researchers' engagement in the curation of their research information.
International journal of finance and economics: A bibliometric overview Evidence suggests that IJFE has established itself as a leading publication in this domain. This information could be helpful to authors wanting to increase citations related to their articles.
A retrospective analysis of Journal of Forecasting: From 1982 to 2019 In this paper, a retrospective analysis of the history of JoF is conducted systematically and comprehensively.
Affective auditing: The emotional weight of the research excellence framework This study throws light onto the affective economy of research auditing, undertaken within institutions, as an affective pro-cess shaping academics’ self-actualization, which at the same time exacerbates an identity schism and the irreconcilability of aspirational or imagined and lived versions of the self, par-ticularly among REF-Leads as ambivalent and/or conflicted protagonists.
Analysis of predatory emails in early career academia and attempts at prevention In summary, this analysis of unsolicited emails from the perspective of an ECR has highlighted notable increases in emails following landmark career events (conference registration and publication of manuscripts).
Why are medical research articles tweeted? The news value perspective Based on this finding, since these fac-tors are hypothesised to be general human selection criteria, the results give new evidence that tweet counts may be indicators of general interest to society, rather than scientific impact (as for citation counts) or societal impact (as hypothesised for altmetrics).
Researcher geographic mobility and publication productivity: an investigation into individual and institutional characteristics and the roles of academicians Our findings reveal heterogeneity of geographic mobility among researchers. Our further analyses also suggest that elite scientists such as Academicians may be one of the contributing factors. That is, having an Academician is related to more same-university graduates hires, and meanwhile, the average publications of individuals are higher in the programs with academicians than programs without. Our findings merit additional questions for further research.
Labor productivity, labor impact, and co-authorship of research institutions: publications and citations per full-time equivalents In this article, we discussed the influence of applying absolute publication and citation numbers compared to numbers per FTE and the influence of whole versus fractional counting on evaluating a research institution. Our method was case study research. Values per FTE reflect the size of an institution and normalize the publication and citation counts on the employee years invested in the institution. Fractional counting seems to be fairer than whole counting, a proposition predominantly accepted in scientometrics (see, e.g., Perianes-Rodriguez et al., 2016; Leydesdorff & Park, 2017).
A comparison of three main scientific literature databases using a search in aquatic ecology "The present survey shows that if one undertakes a quick online search (top 100 hits of references provided) on a specific topic, it is unwise to restrict oneself to a single database, as at least the three databases used here all have significant biases and less than 10% of the references provided are shared by them." "We, therefore, recommend consulting different databases with similar search terms for any literature search in order to avoid bias in, for example, review papers."
A comprehensive analysis of acknowledgement texts in Web of Science: a case study on four scientific domains The analysis of the automatically extracted entities revealed differences and distinct patterns in the distribution of acknowledged entities of different types between different scientific domains. One of the future research aims might be the analysis of correlations between the acknowledged entities and such characteristics as journal impact, other scientific domains, researcher's productivity and impact. The main limitation of our study was the peculiarities of the WoS funding informa- tion indexing.
Understanding the meanings of citations using sentiment, role, and citation function classifications The analysis above reveals that it is still rare for authors to show polarity in citing articles, data citation is rare, and authors use citations for introducing and relating more than for com-paring and utilizing.
Understanding the increasing market share of the academic publisher "Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute" in the publication output of Central and Eastern European countries: a case study of Hungary The results of our research demonstrate that MDPI has gained remarkable market share in most of the CEE countries.
Research patterns in communication (2009-2019): testing female representation and productivity differences, within the most cited authors and the field First, at the field level, our findings indicate that the share of female first authors (57%) is greater in 2019 than the share of their male counterparts (43%). However, among the top-cited authors in 2019, male first authors still outperform female authors with a share of 58%. This suggests that, while the average share of female authors in the field has significantly increased, their proportion among the most cited ones remained the same (34/45=0.73; 43/57=0.74). Still, in the case of the most cited authors, productivity, as related to the number of co-authors per paper seem to follow a Bell curve: the most pro-ductive authors are those with papers with 2–4 co-authors and both authors with less than 2 and more than 4 typically underperform them. Overall, our empirical examination opens new avenues of research to better understand research productivity and sex differences in global science (Knobloch-Westerwick et al., 2013; Author, XXXXX; Gliboff, 2018).
Bibliometrics of velvet worm (Onychophora) research: geographic and historical trends over 150 years, and recommendations for future work Conservation, ecology and behavior have been neglected and offer the best chance for innovation.
On the Association between Grants and Scholarly Achievement among the World's Most Eminent Psychologists Based on our results, it appears that it would behoove our discipline to engage in a more thoughtful and thoroughgoing discussion of when exter-nal funding is essential as opposed to merely desirable for the conduct of psychological research, as well as the extent to which such funding should be weighted in hir-ing, tenure, promotion, merit raises, graduate student access, and other key personnel decisions.
A logical set theory approach to journal subject classification analysis: intra-system irregularities and inter-system discrepancies in Web of Science and Scopus Overall, our results indicate that irregularities are common in both systems. Specifically, in both systems we identify unusually sized categories, high overlap and incohesiveness between categories. These are especially prominent in Scopus.
Does cross-field influence regional and field-specific distributions of highly cited researchers? "HCR lists are informative and valuable resources for scientific research management and for society at large."
Using text mining and forest plots to identify similarities and differences between two spine-related journals based on medical subject headings (MeSH terms) and author-specified keywords in 100 top-cited articles "Using text mining and a forest plot, we are able to understand the relationships between the types of research in different journals."
The development of Brazilian women's and gender studies: a bibliometric diagnosis The area on women's and gender studies developed by researchers in Brazil is growing, in many ways. Such characteristics highlight the plurality of this research area, which is also plural in its theoretical conception—of investigating, reflecting, and understanding the plurality in relations of gender, race, ethnicity, class, sexuality, nationality, and others. The data corpus we used in this work is now available in an open research data repository at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7129182 (Hoppen, 2022).
Posters Presented at North American Skull Base Society 2016-2018: What Factors Influence Their Publication? Bibliometrics such as h-index and number of authors from posters can help objectively characterize and predict future success in research productivity.
A cross-country configurational approach to international academic mobility: exploring mobility effects on academics' career progression in EU countries Our findings show that the national context for mobility in terms of both mobility patterns and the insti-tutional recognition of mobility for career progression shape the extent to which mobile researchers perceive that international mobility has positive consequences for their career progression and, thus, the career script for international mobility.
Academic placement records and gendered placements in the political science profession The insights from this article provide guidance to undergraduate and graduate students when consider-ing different options for the pursuit of a Ph.D., and hopefully also motivate depart-ments to place greater significance on their placement records through increased transparency.
Editorial H-score as a metric of inner authenticity for national scientific journals-Pilot study for the field of pedagogy Acknowledging the limited sample, it appears that the H-index of editorial board members may be a way to value national scientific journals.
Exploiting tweet sentiments in altmetrics large-scale data Overall, the study helps us to understand the sentiments of online social exchanges of the scientific community on scientific literature.
Bias against scientific novelty: A prepublication perspective This study expands the existing knowledge of the novelty bias by examining its existence in the pre-publication process of manuscripts. This research contributes to the literature by offering quantitative evidence of the delayed recognition of novel manuscripts before publication. The findings of this research can serve as useful references for future studies on identifying finer-grained forms of novelty bias in the pre-publication process.
Evaluating the research productivity of academic dermatologists based on the NIH-supported relative citation ratio We determined that Ph.D. acquisition and the rank of full professor were associated with an increase in both mean and weighted RCR scores.
A modification of citation-based journal indexes The experimental results show that the modified journal index is more stable over time than the IIF while retaining the associated advantages.
Factors influencing researchers to publish in open-access: Is it a self-decision or a self-reinforcing cycle? The current study has contributed to the cumulative understanding of OA publicity adoption and use by Israeli researchers, and formulated and validated an empirical research model regarding its acceptance and use of OA.
Ensuring equitable access to ocean and coastal information to advance knowledge and inform decision-making: The global Aquatic Sciences and Fisheries Abstracts The results of this study demonstrated that the ASFA database is consulted and valued by users globally.
Low cited articles in operations research/management science We can conclude that uncitedness does not seem to be a problem in the OR/MS area: the proportion of uncited articles in these mainstream OR/MS journals is rather small, and has remained so in the past two decades. Additionally, if some articles are uncited, this does not mean they are not used. When comparing their keywords with those of highly cited articles, we can conjecture that uncitedness can also in part reflect the OR/MS’s movement from theory and techniques to real-world applications and managerial impact, which is perfectly aligned with OMEGA’s aims and scope.
How does co-authoring with a star affect scientists' productivity? Evidence from small open economies We conclude that policymakers' and institutions' efforts to promote access to star scientists may have substantial direct and indirect effects on the productivity of incumbent scientists within departments.
Do funding sources complement or substitute? Examining the impact of cancer research publications Our study provides two main contributions.
Interpretable reparameterisations of citation models "In this paper, we investigated the reasons for this behaviour."
Conscientiousness predicts doctoral students' research productivity The main conclusions are that doctoral students with higher conscientiousness co-author more with their supervisors, are more productive during doctoral studies, and that overall the effect of conscientiousness is similar over the research areas.
Hidden scales in statistics of citation indicators In summary, we offer empirical evidence of citation statistics representation by a global scale and local exponents for science domains. The results may inform future research policy decisions whereas the proposed approach to scale determination can be employed to understand the architecture of complexity in other power-law systems.
Global informetric impact: A description and definition using bundles The previous theorems and considerations lead us to the notion of global impact. We consider the formulation of this definition as the culmination of our investigations on impact. For global impact studies, the role of the standard Lorenz curve is played by the non-normalized Lorenz curve, which was introduced as the graph of the area function on the interval [0,T]. The dominance relation for Lorenz curves is now replaced by the relation −<≠, so that the expression Z is more even than Y, or Y shows a larger concentration than Z, becomes now 'Y has strictly more global impact than Z'.
Making the cut: How panel reviewers use evaluation devices to select applications at the European Research Council In conclusion, we discuss how the prevalence of evaluative pragmatism in the first step of ERC panel reviews shapes candidate selection, particularly regarding human and epistemic diversity in European research.
Gender mainstreaming research funding: a study of effects on STEM research proposals "These results are consistent with previous research focusing on proposal writing prac- tices and researchers’ response to funding requirements in that they suggest that applicants’ inclusion of the sex and gen- der perspectives is facilitated by the preexistence of a sex- or gender-related methodological, theoretical, or empirical discourse with which they are already familiar."
Demand-Side Obstacles to Publishing Economics Research: A View from the South We take the position that many editors of economics journals prefer manuscripts with a high-quality execution that tend to focus on already well-researched countries and topics, to creative papers that deal with under-researched countries or topics that can be analysed only imperfectly, even using the best methodologies available.
Predicting future publishing success among sociologists at time of hire in the US Higher education system This article has revealed two key findings. First, the number of sole-authored articles at the time of appointment is more predictive of future article productivity than the overall number of articles. Second, sociologists with elite doctoral origins produce fewer articles overall but publish in more prestigious outlets—as indicated by their publication in the American Sociological Review and the American Journal of Sociology. This work is suggestive of 'publishing scripts', or strategies, evident in and extending from one's doctoral origins. In an arena in which research and publication evince standardization and intensification, sole authorship presents itself as a strategy to extract and accumulate advantage.
Mapping Balkan - Southeast European studies The exponentially growing rate of academic publications, their scholarly impact, and the rapid diversification of research topics all indicate that research on the Balkans – Southeast Europe has matured and is now entering a new phase of rapid growth and diverse research avenues.
Self-citation behavior within the health allied professions' scientific sector in Italy: a bibliometric analysis Our findings showed an increase in the opportunistic use of self-citations in the 2013 ses- sion, which was double the rate compared to 2012 and 2016. When defining bibliometric thresholds for career advancement or grant competitions, policy makers and higher edu- cation systems should monitor if applicants demonstrate a strategic change in self-cita- tion habits to increase their bibliometric indexes. Further studies should investigate if the SCR changed in other sci- entific sectors and evaluate the impact of citation gaming when applying for grants and fellowships.
Convergence among academic journals in accounting: a note Our main findings indicate that competition near the top shows signs of intensifying in the future, with MAR and EAR being the most likely candidates to converge towards top-rated journals. Our findings can act as a guide for scholars looking for journals that are expected to stand out as premier outlets for academic accounting research.
CLARA: citation and similarity-based author ranking In this study, we proposed a citation and similarity-based author ranking approach (CLARA) to identify influential authors as well as quantify the contribution of co-authors of a multiauthored paper.
The relative citation ratio (RCR) as a novel bibliometric among 2511 academic orthopedic surgeons In conclusion, the RCR is a relatively new field- and time-normalized metric that is designed to overcome certain key limitations of commonly used bibliometric indicators such as the h-index.
COVID-19 and sustainable development goals: A bibliometric analysis and SWOT analysis in Malaysian context The emergence of the COVID-19 crisis has presented a new challenge to the deployment of SDGs on the global and local levels. COVID-19 has caused wide challenges and huge opportunities for meeting the SDG's agenda. We stressed the need to design an international agreement to reconsider the implementation of SDGs, among which, are strategic schemes to identify vital and appropriate policies.
Identifying emerging topics in the peer-reviewed literature to facilitate curriculum renewal and development We have argued that data mining techniques used in bibliometrics may be valuable for reducing biases implicit in expert-driven medical curriculum development by identifying the most important emerging topics independent of expert biases.
Perspectives on the narrowing and clustering of research trajectories: an epistemic threat to medical progress? An excessive concentration and narrowing of research trajectories could certainly present an epistemic threat to medical progress, particularly in contexts with a paucity of coordinating mechanisms for research funding. A collective effort including individual researchers, patients, research organizations, and funders is imperative to ensure that a sufficiently-diverse set of medical research trajectories are being pursued.
Sustainability frontiers of strategic risk management and firm survival: The Altman score effectiveness. A bibliometric analysis In light of rising climate change and environmental risks, findings suggested how the Altman score may preserve its function in getting deeper to prevent business bankruptcy.
Automatic noise reduction of domain-specific bibliographic datasets using positive-unlabeled learning This paper proposes an automatic noise reduction method for domain-specific bibliographic datasets without manual annotation using PU-Learning.
Defining the unscholarly publication: a bibliometric study of uncited and barely cited publications None of the analyses identified a natural cutoff point between scholarly and unscholarly publications.
Implementation of a new research indicator to QS ranking system Results of this implementation reveal an apparent change in the rank of the 100 universities. The rank of 92 universities change.
Organizational location and propensity for coauthorship in sociology The present work indicates that (1) sociologists with a Ph.D. from a top 10 ranked sociology program are more likely to publish sole-authored articles, (2) quantitatively-oriented sociologists publish a higher pro-portion of non-sole authored articles, and (3) academics with more external research grants are less likely to publish sole-authored articles.
Women and key positions in scientific collaboration networks: analyzing central scientists' profiles in the artificial intelligence ecosystem through a gender lens Our findings provide new insights into understanding the structure of the fast-evolving AI scientific ecosystem and identify the role of influencing factors to acquire central positions in the AI research community.
Tracking biomedical articles along the translational continuum: a measure based on biomedical knowledge representation In this study, we first propose a new indicator called “Translational Progression" (TP) based on biomedical knowledge representing (including bio-entity2vec and bio-doc2vec). The results of validations indicated that our proposed indicator was of good consistency with previous studies, such as Ke (2019) and Weber (2013). The proposed measure in this study could be used by policymakers to monitor biomedical research with high translational potential in real-time and make better decisions. It can also be adopted and improved for other domains, such as physics or computer science, to assess the application value of scientific discoveries.
RelRank: A relevance-based author ranking algorithm for individual publication venues This research proposed a novel author ranking method, namely RelRank, aiming to evaluate the significance of academic authors to individual venues (journals and conferences).
Measuring and characterizing research collaboration in SAARC countries "The results show that SAARC countries collaborate more with countries outside the region (inter-collaboration) as compared to collaboration within the region (intra-collaborated)." "The findings of the study highlight the need for more systematic efforts for promot-ing research collaboration between SAARC countries." "This may be seen as one of the limitations of the pre-sent study, which could be addressed in future work."
The regional dynamics of multilingual publishing in web of science: A statistical analysis of central and eastern european journals and researchers in linguistics Our analysis confirmed that the CEE output in language and linguistics, because of the regional publications indexed in WoS, favored multilingual publishing patterns, particularly at the journal level, and less at the level of individual CEE-based researchers. Regarding the future, our prediction model indicates that publishing trends in CEE WoS-indexed journals, namely publishing in national languages and in English, will continue in the next five years. This is an important argument in favor of sustaining multilingualism in the regional and global policies of academic publishing, such as encouraging international databases like WoS and Scopus to consider the possibility of introducing an indicator for measuring the linguistic diversity at the journal level.
Geography of science: Competitiveness and inequality "Overall, the Scientific Fitness represents the first high quality estimation of the scientific strength of nations and regions, opening new policy-making applications for better allocating resources, filling inequality gaps and ultimately promoting innovation."
Egocentric cocitation networks and scientific papers destinies The combination of these two dimensions enabled us to defined four different structural dynamics, rather exclusive: network polarization, network clusterization, network atomization, and network attrition.
Re-examining lexical and semantic attention: Dual-view graph convolutions enhanced BERT for academic paper rating This study proposes a novel model named Dual-view Graph Convolutions Enhanced BERT (DGC-BERT) for automatic academic paper rating. Our work has enormous potential to reduce peer-review burden and individual bias.
A bibliometric assessment of the existence of Eszett (13; ß)-carotene, a false positive of beta (β)-carotene, in the literature It is recommended that these errors be corrected to prevent an increase in the incidence of this false positive in the biomedical literature, especially in the fields of food science and nutrition.
Prestige of scholarly book publishers-An investigation into criteria, processes, and practices across countries Our findings support doubts about whether the assessment of books based on a judgement about their publishers yields acceptable outcomes. Even more, currently used rankings of publishers focus on evaluating the gatekeeping role of publishers but do not assess other essential stages in scholarly book publishing (e.g. dissemination or preservation). Future research may focus on developing improved approaches to assessing books.
Publications on COVID-19 in radiology journals in 2020 and 2021: bibliometric citation and co-citation network analysis This co-citation analysis is the first to focus exclusively on radiology articles on COVID-19. Our study confirms the existence of interrelated thematic clusters with different specific weights.
Sustainable strategic management: A bibliometric analysis This study contributed to the review and implications of SSM, but there are few methodological limitations that need to be highlighted. This paper provides an academic overview of the journals, authors, documents, key-words and countries that have contributed to the SSM. This demonstrates the evolution and crucial themes in the domain and carves the way for future research.
The impact of library and information science knowledge from the perspective of external citations Based on citation analysis, this study investigated the impact of knowledge in LIS, examined the academic achievements of LIS, and provided support for its knowledge dissemination and impact promotion.
Perceptions regarding open science appraised by editors of scholarly publications published in Spain Based on these results, there is a trend in favour of open access, but the perceived barriers to open peer review outweighed the advantages.
Analysis of CNES' scientific production in aerospace research: 60 years of commitment with the future This paper analyses a representative set of articles and conference contributions written by staff working for CNES from a bibliometric perspective.
An artificial intelligence-based framework for data-driven categorization of computer scientists: a case study of world's Top 10 computing departments This work addressed the issue of (computer) scientists' categorization utilizing a learn-ing-based methodology. For this, a dataset containing of computer scientists' informa-tion was created first.
Research strategies in click chemistry: Measuring its cognitive contents and knowledge flow In summary, with combining the theories of philosophy of sci-ence into data-driven technologies, we find that the concept of Sharpless' click chemistry derives from his continuous efforts on reactivity, which aims to simplicity, connectivity and practical-ity. The success of click chemistry in-spires us to rethink the value of chemistry. While interdisciplinar-ity now spans many fields across the natural and life sciences, the hard core in chemistry and the independence of chemistry should not be ignored.
How should we handle predatory journals in evidence synthesis? A descriptive survey-based cross-sectional study of evidence synthesis experts Evidence synthesis authors are likely to encounter stud- ies published in predatory journals. While most ES authors can identify common characteristics of these journals and the studies published within them, there is still some uncertainty and hesitancy regarding the appro- priate methods to follow regarding including these stud- ies into an ES project. There is scope for more consensus- based guidance to be developed for this precise issue.
SciBR-M: a method to map the evolution of scientific interest-A case study in educational data mining In this article, we proposed SciBR-M, a novel method based on FCA, to describe the evolution of scientific interest in a study area.
Sci-Hub use among Spanish researchers: Enemy or a learning opportunity for libraries? In our analysis, we can see that researchers know that they are using pirate access, even when they have access to a virtual library, but they do not mind.
From intent to impact-The decline of broader impacts throughout an NSF project life cycle Our findings indicate a systematic decline in impacts from the proposal stage to the conclusion of the funding period. This deficit not only maintains the status quo but may hinder the development of scientific thought due to an absence of diversity (Intemann 2009). Ultimately, politicians and the public will need to debate whether they believe funding science, even science that has no clear impact, is important.
A critical approach to the evaluation of the quality of accounting research in the Spanish university system and its implications With respect to our first objective, we conclude that there are considerably lower possibilities of publishing in JCR accounting journals than in BFBM JCR journals, because the number of accounting journals and published articles are much scarcer. The number of articles published in the JCR accounting journals in 2019 is a mere 5.3% of total number of articles published in the BFBM disciplines, a percent considerably lower than the corresponding share of the accounting academics in various important universities analysed. We also conclude that the importance of the JCR journals and categories are significantly associated with the number of journals and articles published in these journals and categories.
Impact of Transnational Research Collaboration on Universities' Innovation Performance: Panel Data Research of 64 Chinese Universities from 2009 to 2019 Our study aims to determine the correlation between transnational research collaboration and universities' research performance in China's context.
Global Research Trends and Hotspots on Mitochondria in Acute Lung Injury from 2012-2021: A Bibliometric Analysis This bibliometric analysis reveals the research directions and frontier hotspots of mitochondria in ALI/ARDS, which has shown a rapid growth trend in annual publication numbers. mtDNA, mitophagy, and apoptosis have been the most active research areas, while studies on mitochondrial transfer in stem cells have become a hot topic in recent years. In addition, studies on the mechanisms of mitochondria in COVID-19-associated ALI/ARDS are still of potential value.
Do civil engineering fronts emerge from interdisciplinary research? This paper quantitatively presents the significance of interdisciplinary research in giving birth to research fronts in civil, hydraulic, and architectural engineering from a bibliographic perspective.
Bibliometric and altmetric analysis of research relating to antiphospholipid syndrome based on VOS viewer (2011-2021) Taken together, the global productivity of APS articles increased from 2011 to 2021.
Publishing in predatory language and linguistics journals: Authors' experiences and motivations First, our findings highlight the need to educate graduate students and novice academics about predatory journals and publishing ethics. Second, our findings also accentuate the need for institutional and national policymakers to avoid legitimizing PPJs in any way; for example, through their indexes, journal whitelists, and other officially disseminated documents. Finally, our findings point to global inequalities that exist in scholarly publishing and call for concerted efforts to raise awareness about, generate public discussions on, and find effective ways to address the glaring inequalities.
An Integrated Methodology for Bibliometric Analysis: A Case Study of Internet of Things in Healthcare Applications This paper presents an integrated methodology to perform bibliometric analysis.
Bibliometric Analysis of Smart Healthcare Digital technology’s significance for society, economy, and environment inspired countries to place their contributions to the field of research in SHC.
Directed collaboration patterns in funded teams: A perspective of knowledge flow Our findings provide new insights into the understanding of funded collaborations and also the funding system.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Journal of Religion and Health: Sixty Years of Publication (1961-2021) JORH celebrated 60 years of publishing in 2021.
Continued collaboration shortens the transition period of scientists who move to another institution We found that continued collaboration significantly shortens the transition period by 27.2%.
The dynamics of Q&A in academic social networking sites: insights from participants, interaction network, response time, and discipline differences This study examined data collected from ResearchGate, an ASNS, to investigate Q&A users and their behavior patterns in terms of interaction network and response time, and additionally disciplinary context and differences.
Correlating article citedness and journal impact: an empirical investigation by field on a large-scale dataset Results show a low correlation between the two indicators, more so for lowly cited authors as compared to highly cited ones, although differences occur across fields. The analysis confirms that the correlation between citedness and prestige of the hosting journal, although not strong, is certainly more significant for highly cited authors than lowly cited ones. The empirical evidence supports the conclusion that the most important criterion in seeking a journal for the publication of our manuscripts is the fit between the article content and the expectations of the journal's target audience.
Ten reasons why research collaborations succeed-a random forest approach From the ten most important factors of RC's CS, five central conditions for successful research collaboration can be derived: 1. Realistic, clear and shared goals; 2. Commitment of the PIs; 3. Cohesive team climate; 4. Research Coordination; 5. Interdisciplinary communication. Accordingly, various implications for researchers, funding agencies, science managers and policy-makers can be derived from the contribution:
Valuation regimes in academia: Researchers' attitudes towards their diversity of activities and academic performance We conclude that the observed misalignment is not only resulting from an abuse of metrics but also by a lack of tools to evaluate performance in a contextualized and adaptable way.
Exploring science-technology linkages: A deep learning-empowered solution This study proposes a deep learning-based approach for science-technology linkages exploration.
A Tale of Two Academic Communities: Digital Imaginaries of Automatic Screening Tools in Editorial Practice Through the qualitative accounts of automatic screening in academic publishing, two opposing imaginaries emerge: The first imaginary portrays academic publishing as a mostly small, tightly connected academic community, in which everybody knows and trusts everybody else, informal social control is already very high and scientific misconduct is believed to be very rare. The other imaginary consists of academia as a vast and ever-growing anonymous space dominated by a focus on quantitative output and an economic logic, where mistrust against other researchers is high and misconduct presents a serious, almost overwhelming problem. Employing screening tools (or refusing to do so) thus can contribute to sustaining the respective imaginaries as plausible accounts of reality of academic publishing.
Trends and hotspots for European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry: A bibliometric study In this work, we report for the first time a comprehensive bibliometric and visual analysis of publications published in the EJMC over 35 years (1987-2022). Keyword co-occurrence and burst analysis pointed out that drug resistance, dual inhibitor, and oxidative stress may be significant future research directions in EJMC publications and even in medicinal chemistry. These scientific quantitative analyses of EJMC outputs by country, institution, author, and reference may provide newcomer scholars with a quick overview of research hotspots and future trends and inspire them to conduct more creative work.
Promoting ORCID registration at Emory University's School of Law This case study provided insights into some of the issues involved in promoting ORCID registration at an academic unit where publishing models and approaches to scholarly communication could be labelled as traditional.
The Altmetric Attention Score Is Associated With Citation Rates and May Reflect Academic Impact in the Total Joint Arthroplasty Literature In articles on TJA published in 7 journals in 2016, a higher AAS was a associated with a higher number of citations. Various bibliometric characteristics were found to be significantly associated with greater social media attention; the most common influences were number of citations and number of references. Researchers in orthopedics can use this information when considering how to assess the impact of their work.
The discursive resilience of university rankings As a result, critics are co-opted and made involuntary accomplices in a common discursive endeavor: the development and improvement of university rankings. Although rankers' defensive responses to criticism contribute to the institutionalization of rankings, it seems that the co-optation of critics is of even greater importance and should therefore be considered a major determining factor for the success of university rankings. The development of discursive resilience has several consequences: first, rankings are transformed from a heteronomous threat to scholarly autonomy into a scientized undertaking. They may be seen as imperfect but are not questioned as such.
A New Look at National Diversity of Inventor Teams within Organizations The results show that the proposed indexes and following visualization allow one to make in-depth observations about the inventor teams and to draw conclusions about different types of collaboration from the indexes.
The diversity of canonical and ubiquitous progress in computer vision: A dynamic topic modeling approach This study provides a new quantitative method for analyzing topic trends and scholars' research interests, capturing the diversity of research behavior patterns to address the phenomenon of canonical and ubiquitous progress in research fields.
Mapping research activities and societal impact by taxonomy of indicators: uniformity and diversity across academic fields Overall, the study showed that the same basic set of indicators is common to SSH and STEM.
The rocky road to translational science: An analysis of Clinical and Translational Science Awards Unfortunately, our analysis reveals little evidence of a significant positive association between receiving CTSAs and an increase in the production of translational science at either the institutional level or the PI level.
Tracing the evolution of digitalisation research in business and management fields: Bibliometric analysis, topic modelling and deep learning trend forecasting This study gives a general overview of the digitalisation research in the business and management fields based on the various bibliometric indicators, the topic modelling approach, the time-series forecasting and the data retrieved from the WoS database.
Measuring Academic Representative Papers Based on Graph Autoencoder Framework In this paper, we proposed a graph autoencoder framework (GAEPIM) to measure the impact of papers.
Do biodiversity monitoring citizen science surveys meet the core principles of open science practices? These results reveal CS is not gen-erally "open" despite being an OS approach, with implications for how the public can interact with the research that they play an active role in contributing to.
Organisational Culture Research in Healthcare: A Big Data Bibliometric Study This study describes the current situation and global trends in organisational culture research in healthcare.
A grounded theory on collaborative interactions in a community-university partnership: the case of youth in the public space We reflect on the importance of overcoming organisational asymmetries in collaborative interactions through installing feedback loops, and through the particular roles of boundary organisations, boundary objects, and practical tools that can help steer iterative collaborative interactions towards positive impact.
Quantifying revolutionary discoveries: Evidence from Nobel prize-winning papers Our metric is a two-dimension metric combining the citation count and CD index, which corresponds to Kuhn's definition of revolutionary science by measuring both direction-changing and high-impact research. Using the multivariate linear regression model, we find that our new metric effectively distinguishes the NPW papers from their counterparts since the NPW papers have both higher scientific impact and CD indices than their counterparts. Finally, our metric performs better at identifying revolutionary science compared to existing metrics, such as the CD index and the mCD index.
Analysis of factors affecting scientific migration move and distance by academic age, migrant type, and country: Migrant researchers in the field of business and management This study highlights the migration trends associated with various academic ages, migrant types, and destination countries.
(Paleo)glacier studies in Patagonia over the past decades (1976-2020): A bibliometric perspective based on the Web of Science Even though our query on the Web of Science missed highly influential (so-called) grey literature, such as local scientific journals and technical reports, the reviewed scientific literature unambiguously indicates that Patagonia is a privileged location for (paleo)glaciers studies worldwide and that it will continue offering vast opportunities to tackle critical questions related to global cryosphere and past-to-present climate changes.
A comparative study of postgraduate theses in pedagogy and preschool education in Austria and Turkey Our findings suggest that 87% of the theses written in Turkey are dramatically similar to the available resources and many of the studies carry potential risks in terms of originality and plagiarism.
Impact investment for sustainable development: A bibliometric analysis The present study provides a comprehensive scientific review of literature addressing both impact investment and sustainable development in a significant manner. The findings are expected to provide detailed insights to researchers on the research landscape and new direction for further research in this growing field. Finance is a very important resource for transition towards sustainable development and impact investment is a very significant way of routing it. Without positive impact investment, attainment of SDGs will be a distant dream.
Higher-order rich-club phenomenon in collaborative research grant networks Our results highlight advantages of collaborative grants among the institutions in the rich clubs.
Study results from journals with a higher impact factor are closer to "truth": a meta-epidemiological study Our results indicate that study results published in higher-impact journals are on average closer to truth.
Harvesting publication data to the institutional repository from Scopus, Web of Science, Dimensions and Unpaywall using a custom R Script This article demonstrates that the R programming language is well suitable for harvesting, processing, harmonizing and merging publica-tion data from various sources. The combination of reference databases, Unpaywall API and a custom R script is proven to be an effective solution for populating the repository. We are also planning to publish the script so that others can use it and build upon it.
Efficiency versus effort: A better way to compare best photovoltaic research cell efficiencies? While learning spillover from non-PV technologies, cross-pollination from other PV technologies, and hidden commercial effort are not accounted for by this metric, this analysis still yields useful and novel insights into PV technology trajectories.
Correlation of Scholarly Activity and Departmental Clinical Productivity in a Surgical Subspecialty There is a correlation between academic productivity of MFDs and the clinical productivity of their department.
An analysis of dental articles in predatory journals and associated online engagement Our findings highlight that presumed predatory publications have comparable reach to PL journals on social media risking the sharing of unreliable and misleading information.
Bibliometric analysis of surface water detection and mapping using remote sensing in South America It was possible to show that the DMSWSA in a Remote sensing scientific area needs further collaboration expansion between countries within South America and beyond this continental border.
Interdisciplinary research and the societal visibility of science: The advantages of spanning multiple and distant scientific fields To conclude, in this study, we have shown that, after controlling for relevant alternative predictors, interdisciplinary research is strongly associated to research results that are of interest to a wide non-academic audience. The original evidence presented in this study and the proposed conceptual rationale for the relationship between interdisciplinarity and societal visibility, provide useful insights for science policy related to enhancing the scientific and societal impact of publicly funded research.
Cabells' Predatory Reports criteria: Assessment and proposed revisions Our expectation is that once this and additional publishing-related criteria have been fully and carefully assessed, validated and parsed, that a community-based set of criteria will eventually become established to better guide academics about safe or risky publishing venues.
Evaluating scientists by citation and disruption of their representative works Our results imply that the policy makers need to evaluate scientists by considering scientific impact and innovation ability simultaneously under the novel representative work framework.
Visual analysis of environmental research progress in Germany linking Development Anthropology: A sustainable approach based on the Web of Science Germany has long been regarded as one of the countries with the best environmental protection and the most eco-environmental management experience. In future research, comprehensive resources can be helpful in the utilization of the results of German environmental research so that it can be adapted to China's national conditions and promote in-depth cooperation between China and Germany in the fields of low-carbon development and green industry. The global partnership between heavily industrialized countries must be seen in connection to environmental sustainability through shared experiences.
Has China?s Young Thousand Talents program been successful in recruiting and nurturing top-caliber scientists? Our paper has policy implications regarding scientific talents' global mobility, especially as early-stage scientists have increasing challenges to access research funding in the United States and European Union. Our empirics show that China's YTT program has been successful in recruiting and nurturing high-caliber scientists and that YTT scientists outperform their overseas peers in post-return publication, mainly due to their access to larger funding and research teams. These results show the potential of talent programs as a policy tool for countries to recruit expatriate scientists and promote their productivity.
Equitable representation in awards and recognition in scholarly publishing: Current challenges and the path ahead Taken together, we hope that the results shared in this case study as well as the recommendations, as outlined in the infographic (Fig. 3), may form a framework on which to build inclusive and equitable representation in awards and recognition.
A large dataset of scientific text reuse in Open-Access publications Overall, these three key properties highlight the validity of the data, and, combined with the overall amount of cases, this allows to build focused subsets of substantial size for downstream tasks and analysis. Based on the various reuse cases contained in Webis-STEREO-21, a variety of research questions can be answered. Webis-STEREO-21 contains mainly "innocent" instances of reuse, such as short phrases reused by the same authors, standardized technical language, wording prescribed by publishers (e.g., licenses), or established wording of recurring blocks of text (e.g., author contributions).
A mixed-method analysis to identify the current focus, trends, and gaps in health science research in Saudi Arabia Findings suggest that current gaps in original research from Saudi Arabia are in healthcare service quality, reproductive health, physical and mental disabilities and health informatics. Researchers and funding agencies and international collaborative projects should prioritize these areas.
Exploring the clinical translation intensity of papers published by the world's top scientists in basic medicine The three indicators, APT, TS and Cited by Clin., measured the clinical translation intensity of the paper from different perspectives. They are both related to each other and have their own characteristics.
A study of the correlation between publication delays and measurement indicators of journal articles in the social network environment-based on online data in PLOS This study indicates that reducing the acceptance time and final publication time of articles can improve the efficiency of knowledge diffusion through the formal academic citation channel, but in the context of social networking communication, an appropriate interval at a particular stage in the publishing process can enhance the heat of sharing, discussion, and collection of articles to a small extent, hence boosting the influence and attention received by the literature on the internet.
The effect of structural holes on producing novel and disruptive research in physics We find strong evidence that scientists whose networks spanning over structural holes not only produce more novel and disruptive research, but also have higher chance to publish such research.
An embedding approach for analyzing the evolution of research topics with a case study on computer science subdomains This paper established a framework for investigating the evolution of research topics and their convergence and divergence patterns.
Trends and hot topics in linguistics studies from 2011 to 2021: A bibliometric analysis of highly cited papers The first finding is that the HCPs are highly concentrated in a limited journals and countries. The second finding is the multilingual trend in linguistics research. The findings inform linguistic researchers of the publication characteristics of the HCPs in the linguistics field and help them pinpoint the research trends and directions to exert their efforts in future studies.
Formulation of rules for the scientific community using deep learning These findings can guide individual researchers to be on the list of prestigious scientists, and scientific societies can use the SQR to filter the list of researchers for subjective evaluation in order to reward prolific researchers in the domain.
Predictors of Citations for Original Research in Ophthalmology In this study, predictors of increased citation in ophthalmology were author research productivity, journal impact factor, study funding, and location in high-income countries.
Research complexity increases with scientists' academic age: Evidence from library and information science It was found that the RPC of senior scientists was generally higher than that of younger scientists. Top-ranked scientists have more complex research portfolios from the very start and reach peak complexity later in their careers compared to their colleagues. In addition, RPC can appropriately discern outstanding researchers from other similar authors.
Women as Top-Producing Authors, Editors, and Editorial Board Members in Educational Psychology Journals from 2017 to 2021 As our findings indicate otherwise, it is also important to identify institutional constraints that need be further investigated and alleviated. Specifically, women are publishing more than men in educational psychology journals, although this participation is well below membership participation. Top-producing women are slightly behind top-producing men in terms of overall productivity.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the International Dental Journal (2011-2020) IDJ is a high-impact journal with high-quality publications and international collaboration in the dental field. This allows it to have a high relevance in the citations of its articles and thus to be at the forefront of the most recent research. This would indicate that IDJ can serve to encourage greater international exchange in research, allowing new research opportunities to be generated.
Main path analysis considering citation structure and content: Case studies in different domains The original MPA theory assumes that citations have equal contributions and does not distinguish the differences between links.
Geographical characterization of the scientific performance in Mexico (1995-2015) The main contribution of this paper is to describe the research profiles of the Mexican geography of states.
Evolution of gender research in the social sciences in post-Soviet countries: a bibliometric analysis Using bibliometric analysis, this study sought to understand the evolution of gender research in social sciences in post-Soviet countries since independence. The findings suggest that post-Soviet countries' contribution to gender research remains insignificant, with articles primarily published in local rather than international journals. The findings also suggest that topics of interest of post-Soviet researchers mostly align with global trends with the increase in sociological, demographic, and political economy disciplines, and there is a potential to contribute to international research in the future.
The profit and risk in the interdisciplinary behavior Overall, this work provides a feasible approach to studying and understanding interdisciplinary behaviors in science.
Toward equitable open research: stakeholder co-created recommendations for research institutions, funders and researchers As our research and that of others highlighted in this paper has demonstrated, current implementation practices of Open Research are producing cumulative advantage for the few and disadvantage for the many. Therefore, we submit that our co-created recommendations offer a unique perspective, with equity at the centre, and that as such they are an important complement to other contributions in this vein.
Trends in authorship characteristics and collaboration in pharmacy practice publications: 2011-2020 "The assumption that last authors are senior authors does not hold in pharmacy practice publications."
Regionalisation and agency in science space: A historical bibliometric analysis of ASEAN science First, the analyses show that ASEAN countries are becoming increasingly interconnected in their research endeavours.
Let's agree to agree: The situational academic quality of the UK REF as consensual public knowledge We argue that the situational character of academic quality is what enables a REF consensus.
AIRank: An algorithm on evaluating the academic influence of papers based on heterogeneous academic network This article proposes a new ranking algorithm, AIRank algorithm, to evaluate the academic influence of papers based on heterogeneous academic network. The experimental results show that the AIRank algorithm proposed in this article can distinguish the academic influence of the paper more finely and reasonably. If more semantic information related to nodes and their connecting edges is integrated into the topology, it will help to enhance the effectiveness and accuracy of the ranking algorithm.
Article's scientific prestige: Measuring the impact of individual articles in the web of science We found that there is a high correlation between the ASP and the
Terms in journal articles associating with high quality: can qualitative research be world-leading? The results show that there are stylistic methods and topic associations with different research quality scores for journal articles in most UoAs, especially those with large numbers of articles. The most worrying findings are the lower scores given in some UoAs to educational and qualitative research. Special consideration may also be needed for qualitative research to ensure that it is not undervalued in academia.
Influence of research on open science in the public policy sphere The study has enabled us to verify the importance of open science activities for the Span- ish scientific community, as attested by the number of projects (mainly European projects) led by or participated in by Spanish institutions and the surge in international publications about open science in recent years. Among the most outstanding findings, public funding agencies have been identified as playing a central role in the scientific production process. This line has opened up new research outlooks for us, and we are working on them to develop new metrics for responsible, inclusive evaluation in the context of open science.
Does the journal impact factor reflect the impact of German medical guideline contributions? Our study suggests that the JIF is not an appropriate tool to assess the clinical relevance of medical research. All together, our study found that the Journal Impact Factor plays no relevant role in the medical guidelines with regard to publication dates, or as criteria for the selection of refer- ences. In order to capture the impact of guideline references, a new indicator should be con- sidered and developed that reflect not only the “knowledge cycle” (Grant) of articles to guide- line publication, but also the societal impact.
The citation performance of the references in the standard graduate-level microeconomics textbook: Mas-Collel et al. (1995) Our findings showed that the references in MWG have outperformed the publications in their comparison group after 1995. One possible explanation could be the careful choice of references that the textbook has relied on. This paper presents evidence that these two measures are consistent: The references in MWG have a better long-term citation performance than comparable publications.
What's on the horizon? A bibliometric analysis of personal data collection methods on social networks This study, given the exponential growth in the number of publications on social media, has proposed a narrower focus only on publications that have considered data management within digital marketing and social media. The bibliometric analysis also reveals an exponential increase in the number of publications and citations in this particular area during the period analysed. An attractive option for future research would be to perform the same analysis for the same period using different methods (g-index, p-index, article influence score, etc.) to make comparisons possible between the results of two papers.
Notes on the declining American institutions in university rankings: a trend against the Germany-Britain-America shift? While the scope of a single indicator should be limited, in the narrow term of university rankings, the world’s scientific center appears to be leaving the United States. In this context, a preliminary outlook on recent changes in university rankings would offer meaningful knowledge foundations, especially for future decision-making and policy implementation in the higher education and research sector (cf. Saisana, d’Hombres, and Saltelli 2011). Related findings would be helpful for the understanding of scientific centers’ shift in academia, and may also work as a reminder for furthering scientific and educational advancements in developed economics.
Deep representation learning of scientific paper reveals its potential scholarly impact The regression experiment results indicate that the proposed indicators are positively and significantly associated with a paper's future scholarly impact. The simulation analysis and the case studies further demonstrate the soundness of our proposed indicators. For the future use of the proposed indicators, we suggest that: (1) they can be used directly to assist academic evaluation.
A Bibliometric Analysis on Tourism Sustainable Competitiveness Research Established upon mapping the state of the art on sustainable competitiveness, the phases of identification, grouping, gap analysis, and research trends have been achieved through bibliometric analysis.
A Practical Approach to Negotiating Authorship and Preparing Manuscripts for Publication The purpose of this research note was to overview key information that authors may want to consider as well as decisions they will need to make when negotiating authorship, identifying target journals, and submitting a manuscript to a journal for consideration.
How Do Editorial Board Members Contribute to Journal Ranking in Library and Information Science? The analysis of the publication activity of EBMs of Russian LIS journals helped identify a share of EBMs' papers in parent journals as compared to other sources and quantitatively assess a degree of their influence on the journal ranking points through EBMs' papers and citations.
Exploring arXiv usage habits among Slovenian scientists Only 66% of the scientists who responded to the survey use arXiv, and only 45% publish their research articles there.
Research constituents and authorship patterns in the Knowledge Management Research and Practice: a bibliometric analysis KMRP has emerged as a platform for high-quality academic research on knowledge management. The current paper reflects on KMRP's growth and development. Scholars studying knowledge management would gain useful insights regarding the evolution of themes in the journal and the current direction of research.
Invisible borders in educational technology research? A comparative analysis The results presented in this study are indicative of the fact that researchers from these three countries do not ‘shed their research community skin’ when they decide to publish in English-language journals.
How to use academic and digital fingerprints to catch and eliminate contract cheating during online multiple-choice examinations: a case study Ultimately, catching and preventing cheating is a frustrating but omnipresent aspect of teaching, one that appears to be a growing service allotment as online cheating continues to rise.
Navigating academic habitus in a higher education system that prioritises external funding - the case of Israel We show how the very significant role competitive external research grants play in research institution finances, and in their remuneration policies for academic staff are central to a negotiation that fundamentally shapes the field of Israeli academia one which takes different forms in science and humanities faculties. This study demonstrates how local funding formulas that prioritise grants, particularly ERC grants, shape the academic culture, leading to the accumulation of specific forms of academic capital and influencing the outcomes of academic competition. This study suggests implications for policymakers and regulators on how grant-oriented funding schemes may affect research activities and academic aspirations in various disciplines.
Special Education Google Scholar Metrics to Facilitate Career Development and Advance Impact Establishing a public Google Scholar profile can increase the visibility of an author's scholarship. The publication metrics reported in this article provide a set of scholarly impact measures that can be used to (a) self-monitor career development, (b) inform future publication submission decisions (e.g., outlets, authorship roles), (c) help scholars situate their work when making career-related applications considered by others (e.g., hiring, tenure, promotion, grants), and (d) help professionals working in schools, families of students with disabilities, and other researches identify seminal, established, and emerging scholarship to inform their efforts on behalf of students with disabilities. Future research may continue to explore factors beyond the scope of this study (e.g., course teaching load, administrative duties, financial support, doctoral preparation, mentoring, personal circumstances, gender or racial inequities, reliance on emerging or less traditional communication venues) that can play combined roles in publication output and impact in special education.
TopicTracker: A platform for topic trajectory identification and visualisation In this paper, we presented a platform, TopicTracker, that can identify and visualise topic trajectory information. We believe that TopicTracker can provide a platform for topic trajectory analysis that can promote ease-of-use. As future work, we plan to extend TopicTracker in the way that enables a user to analyse TET properties and structure interactively that improves the capability of TopicTracker.
Sensibilidad y elasticidad de las universidades espanolas a los indicadores del Ranking de Shanghai (ARWU) This is useful for benchmarking between universities and identifying improvement actions to manage presence in the ranking.
Uncited papers in the structure of scientific communication The contribution of this paper is to introduce a theoretical framework in which citation distribution is considered as an asymptotic distribution of the largest values in a sequence of independent identically distributed random variables, and to show that this asymptotic distribution is the generalized extreme-value distribution.
Integrity in cardiovascular imaging research In conclusion, our survey shows that several forms of scientific fraud, publication bias, and honorary authorship are considered to be present in cardiovascular imaging research.
Bibliographic mapping of heat tolerance in farm animals This bibliometric analysis provides a basic worldwide overview of research publications on heat tolerance in farm animals. It can help direct future research and construct structured reviews on the subject of interest. This paper also shows the need to strengthen studies in less favoured areas and with species such as small ruminants, whereby smallholders may be harder hit by climate change.
Trans-O-MIM-An International Research Project on Open Access Transformation: Outcomes and Lessons Learned With Trans-O-MIM, an international research project was performed. It could—at least from the authors' point of view—be successfully completed, although the underlying conditions had changed considerably and unexpectedly during the course of the project.
How to include and recognize the work of ornithologists based in the Neotropics: Fourteen actions for Ornithological Applications, Ornithology, and other global-scope journals We created these recommendations as a starting point for Ornithological Applications, Ornithology, and other global-scope ornithological journals to improve the inclusion of researchers based in the Neotropics and their work.
Determinants of impact factor and Eigenfactor score in otolaryngology journals Sustained publication of impactful articles is the dominant driver of high IF and Eigenfactor score. Eigenfactor score reflects a unique evaluation of otolaryngology journals; ranking otolaryngology journals by their Eigenfactor scores significantly alters journal ranking compared to ranking by IF. This finding also highlights the importance of understanding what bibliometrics of journal influence or impact truly represent for readers, reviewers, editors, and publishers who must interpret them.
Impact of the number and rank of coauthors on h-index and π-index. The part-impact method Consequently, in assessing personal contribution of scientists by scientometric indices, sharing credit of publications and citations among the coauthors of publications seems to be highly relevant.
Enhancing the robustness of the disruption metric against noise Our analysis shows that the new disruption could tell Nobel prize winning papers apart.
Gender imbalance in doctoral education: an analysis of the Spanish university system (1977-2021) The gap between males and females in the doctoral system has narrowed very much over the years, although important challenges and worrying trends can still be detected when considering data from some angles. Overall, the most concerning issues about gender balance in the Spanish doctoral system seem to be linked to STEM fields and to the growth of the female involvement in some of the roles. As such, this is probably the most interesting line of research for the future.
Tracking the featured topics of the International Science of Team Science conference series and their evolution during 2010-2019 Overall, based on quantitative analysis, this study systematically analyzes the research topics in the field of SciTS, illustrating the dynamic evolution of these topics over the past 10 years. Our work can help to fill a research gap and provide some reference for scholars and practitioners to better understand the research trends of team science. Scholars can conduct in-depth research on the core research topics while also attempting to pay more attention to understudied research topics in the future.
Characteristics of scholarly journals published in non-English-speaking countries: An analysis of Library and Information Science SCOPUS journals This study examined the characteristics of SCOPUS LIS journals published in NESC, and the main results can be summarized as follows.
How do scientific papers from different journal tiers gain attention on social media? Our findings indicate the necessity of further improving the diffusion of scientific papers, especially for papers published in relatively modest journals. Our findings enhance the understanding of the diffusion process of scientific papers. At the same time, the research methods of this study provide a more holistic view to characterize papers' diffusion process.
Taxi and urban mobility studies: A bibliometric analysis Urban mobility is a key factor for society and represents numerous lines of research that are currently not only in full development but also growing exponentially. This study thus confirms the high potential of this line of research and the great interest it should generate for the most prestigious journals.
A comparative knowledge map of priority environmental issues and doctoral research in South Africa The findings have shown that research in environmental-related PhDs do respond to strategic direction guided by policy, yet PhD research by nature should be at the forefront of new discoveries driving emerging issues and development.
The impact of institutional difference on scientific collaboration: Empirical evidence from six provinces in central China The present study widens the scientific understanding about how researchers of different career levels perceive, learn, and practice interdisciplinarity in DTR. It further provides valuable indications of how interdisciplinary research in an emerging field can be profitably shaped for practice. To further advancing the development of the field of DTR, the allocation of the collaborative responsibilities to a distinct role may liberate researcher to better apply their disciplinary expertise in interdisciplinary settings.
Changes in health communication in the age of COVID-19: A study on the dissemination of preprints to the public The findings of this paper show that the COVID-19 pandemic has indeed increased the exposure of preprints in the public eye, suggesting the emergence of a new model of science communication. This study reveals that the overall media coverage of preprints is unsatisfactory, whereas digital native news media, particularly those specialized news media, possess higher reporting standards than legacy media. Based on the findings, the following practical recommendations are made.
The structure and dynamics of instrument collaboration networks This study analyses the collaboration network of scientists on the instrument level of a synchrotron radiation facility with the aim of understanding how constellations of scientists group and align within and between instruments. The results show significant differences in the structure of the networks between instruments, with an important factor being the level of external use, an important characteristic of facilities like the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF), and other so-called user facilities. These findings suggest that there may be a strong link between the level of external access to scientific instruments and the collaboration networks that form around them, with instruments that have a higher level of external use being associated with different network structures compared to instruments with less external use.
Titles and keywords: 'Great love isn't two people finding the perfect match in one another!' Through comparative analysis, this study demonstrated that colonic titles from 15 Library and Information Science journals show a higher level of informativity than nominal titles due to their length provides the capacity to include more lexical words. However, more lexical words in colonic titles does not lead to higher matchness with author-assigned keywords. Eventually, the balance achieved between title types and keywords will help improve their RAs' visibility in the aggregated database and disseminate RA findings.
Institutional drivers of research productivity: a canonical multivariate analysis of Romanian public universities Although our research findings are specific to the Romanian context, many of them may contribute to a better understanding of the insti-tutional drivers of research productivity and can be replicated in other contexts.
Is there a differentiated gender effect of collaboration with super-cited authors? Evidence from junior researchers in economics Our paper analyzes whether co-authorship with a super-cited (SC) author in the early stages of an academic career affects the future outcomes of impact and productivity in the economics profession. Our results show how co-authorship with an SC author results in a medium-term career advantage with no difference by gender. Investigating this question is a task for future research.
Research mobility to the United States: a bibliometric analysis To conclude, this study allowed us to compare the global mobility of researchers with the proportion of researchers heading to the United States, allowing us to affirm that the attractiveness of the United States is for the most part declining. We were also able to determine that cohorts of less experienced researchers seemed more sensitive to political uncertainty, while older cohorts seemed to accommodate it more easily. Finally, based on the evidence currently available, it seems fair to suggest that Trump's election seems to be a potentially aggravating factor among others in the decrease in mobility towards the United States, but not a deciding factor.
Competitive exposure and existential recognition: Visibility and legitimacy on academic social networking sites The popularity of academic social networking sites indicates that these platforms have come to fulfil a need in the academic (publish- ing) ecosystem.
Biographical representation, from narrative to list: The evolution of curricula vitae in the humanities, 1950 to 2010 Against the backdrop of this finding, the contribution concludes with three general observations: First, the evolution of CVs reflects changes in the institutional en-vironment, not least the increased competitive pressures in academic careers.
Who publishes imaging articles in non-imaging journals? A large sample data-mining study The weight of imaging articles and imaging specialist among authors in non-imaging journals has increased over time but remains limited.
Bibliometric analysis of risk science from 1996 to 2021: insights and implications The findings aim to help scholars and risk practitioners understand the structure and development of the field, and identify critical contributors and hot topics to improve the risk science field.
Language Barriers in Organismal Biology: What Can Journals Do Better? Our survey revealed that highly ranked journals in organismal biology have made little progress toward promoting linguistic equity. Exclusionary policies impose additional barriers for EAL scholars, and policies that lack transparency and clarity are similarly damaging as they generate uncertainty, result in avoidable manuscript rejections, and necessitate additional time and effort from both EAL scholars and journal editors. To achieve equity in scientific publishing, we must reject pay-to-publish models in favor of author-led, nonprofit models (Debat and Babini 2020).
Conception and Interpretation of Interdisciplinarity in Research Practice: Findings from Group Discussions in the Emerging Field of Digital Transformation The present study widens the scientific understanding about how researchers of different career levels perceive, learn, and practice interdisciplinarity in DTR. It further provides valuable indications of how interdisciplinary research in an emerging field can be profitably shaped for practice.
Sustainable Energy Research Trend: A Bibliometric Analysis Using VOSviewer, RStudio Bibliometrix, and CiteSpace Software Tools Scientific interest in the concept of sustainable energy has been increasing continuously since 1980 and has continued with an intensifying trend since 2015. Sustainable energy and related issues have attracted great attention over the years, and sustainable energy has become an important part of reducing human impact on the environment. Research can be systematized into different focus sets that differ over time.
The relevance of title, abstract, and keywords for scientific paper quality and potential impact In our paper, we proposed a tool to give authors accurate information about their skills when recognizing the potential of a manuscript and their recommended submission profile. In the light of the results achieved, we can say that the Title, Abstract, and Keywords provide, in most cases (90.6% according to results from the experiment), enough information to identify, at least, one of the three quality categories defined in this work (low, medium, or high quality). Future research must test the website with non-experienced users and compare their results with the experienced users' group. Furthermore, we would like to add articles from different fields of knowledge to analyze researchers' behavior according to their varying backgrounds. Finally, the minimum amount of information necessary to accurately score the impact of a manuscript is also an open issue requiring further investigation.
Are successful co-authors more important than first authors for publishing academic journal articles? The results show the following for domestic research in large English-speaking countries (with the strongest findings from the USA), in a way that is consistent with the correlations covering all countries:
Slow, slow, quick, quick, slow: five altmetric sources observed over a decade show evolving trends, by research age, attention source maturity and open access status This research addresses a number of gaps in the altmetric literature, establishing a number of very long-term trends in platforms: the growth and dominance in Mendeley, and its recent drop in growth; the continued growth of both the research-tweeting population, and the rate at which they tweet, and the reported decline in blogging coverage of research. This research also confirms observations that Policy Citations are the slowest form of attention to accrue, but one that favours the Humanities and Social Sciences. This research sheds new light on the adoption and use of OA research, as measured by the existence of different OAAA rates from among the five altmetric attention sources examined.
How and why are citations between disciplines made? A citation context analysis focusing on natural sciences and social sciences and humanities This study sheds new light on the exploration of knowledge flows between disciplines.
Impact of field of study (FoS) on authors' citation trend Hence concluded that FoS trend following has a certain impact on the citation count of authors.
Interdisciplinary research and technological impact: evidence from biomedicine Our work may have policy implications for interdisciplinary research and scientific and technological impact. First, given the persistently strong associations between IDR and technological impact, policy encouragement of continuous fostering and supporting IDR seems important. Despite these limitations, this work furthers our understanding of the interaction between interdisciplinary science and technology.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Groundwater Access and Its Management: Making the Invisible Visible "The present bibliometric analysis of groundwater access and management concluded that 42 countries had a strong network of collaboration, among which the United States had the most impact and research." "The study of groundwater involves many stakeholders and, hence, needs a broad multi-disciplinary approach." "Therefore, researchers should collaborate to address the issue, and they should no longer act independently in sustainable groundwater management."
A Bibliometric Visualization Analysis on Vaccine Development of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) The findings of this study provide the global status, research hotspots and potential trends in the field of COVID-19 vaccine research, which will assist researchers in mastering the knowledge structure, and evaluating and guiding the future development trends of global COVID-19 vaccine research.
The Contribution of Moral Case Deliberation to Teaching RCR to PhD Students In this paper, we highlight three important goals of RCR education for PhD stu-dents, namely fostering students' awareness and promoting the internalization of values related to RCR, supporting reflection on good conduct in real RCR issues, and engaging in dialogues about RCR with supervisors and peers.
Performance Aspiration in Meritocratic Systems: Evidence of How Academic Titles Affect the Performance of Universities From theoretical implications, this paper examines the impact of academic title differences on the research efficiency of universities and explores its mechanism from the perspective of academic role theory and the meritocratic system. From practical implications, we discovered that the efficiency of academic output tends to increase over time, whereas the efficiency of economic output tends to decrease over time. Associate professors are efficient in terms of academic output.
Peer review practices in academic medicine: how the example of orthopaedic surgery may help shift the paradigm? This study addresses serious issues in peer-reviewed prac-tices in academic medicine that are not yet known for indi-vidual disciplines, let alone the fact that they have not yet been resolved.
The Pittman Scholar Program for junior faculty recognition at the University of Alabama at Birmingham Heersink School of Medicine The implementation of the Pittman Scholars Program has been an effective strategy to celebrate scientific impact and acknowledge junior faculty members as outstand-ing scientists at our institution.
Identifying Hot Information Security Topics Using LDA and Multivariate Mann-Kendall Test This paper offers a novel NLP procedure to identify hot research themes within a given scientific domain, using information extracted from bibliometric databases. For this, we discovered the research themes, modeled as finite sets of key terms, by applying LDA topic modeling procedure and assess their trends using the multivariate version of Mann Kendall test. Our investigation for Information Security domain yielded promising results, confirming that two most trending research themes, namely machine learning and blockchain technology have promising future prospects.
Analyzing referencing patterns in grey literature produced by influential global management consulting firms and international organizations We found that, overall, the GMCFs and IOs we examined were inconsistent in the number of sources they referenced, engaged in high levels of self-referencing and relied more heavily on grey literature in comparison to scholarly literature.
The PhD origins of finance faculty In this paper we provide descriptive evidence of how finance departments across the nation hire.
Open science-related policies in Europe To strengthen the ecosystem of OS, all respective actors must be diligent; in this way, the study of the drivers and barriers influencing OS pertinent practices in three dimensions (open input, open process, and open output) is essential.
Mapping the Literature on Academic Publishing: A Bibliometric Analysis on WOS Through the bibliometric analysis of the documents on academic publishing cited by WOS Core Collection database, the study identified various types of information about academic publishing, including the disciplines distribution in the past 50 years, top-ranked journals, the evolving trends, the most cited and influencing articles, the outstanding and highly productive scholars, and the institutions, countries or regions contributing to the academic publishing research. Generally, the study has given a global bibliometric overview of academic publishing. but the cooperation among authors, institutions and countries needs enhancing to unite excellent strength and enrich the research productivity, the category of different disciplines needs systematizing to form a scientific model and study the diversified routes of research hotspots, the disadvantage of academic publishing needs overcoming to make full use of modern information and technology and push forward the sustainable and friendly development in the future.
Top 50 most-cited articles on SMILE surgery between 2010 and 2022: a correlation comparison between conventional bibliometrics and current altmetrics of research impact The first bibliometric and altmetric analysis of SMILE research provides novel direc-tions for future work by showing the current research trends, prolific parameters, and zones with potential for the public’s attention, providing useful informa-tion about the dissemination of scientific knowledge on SMILE in social media and to the general public.
The Correlation between Altmetric Attention Score and Traditional Bibliometrics in Top Nursing Journal Articles There is very weak correlations between AASs and traditional bibliometrics in top nursing journal articles.
A bibliometric analysis of cultural heritage research in the humanities: The Web of Science as a tool of knowledge management Our article contributes to cultural heritage research by providing critical knowledge on structural aspects shaping the publication volume and production patterns in multidisciplinary humanities exploring cultural heritage.
Impact of National Institutes of Health and Food and Drug Administration Tobacco Research Funding: A Bibliometrics Analyses This bibliometric analysis of publications citing FDA-TRS, NIH tobacco, or both sources of funding (ie, Common) demonstrates the high impact of tobacco research overall.
European scholarly journals from small- and mid-size publishers: mapping journals and public funding mechanisms We consider that, as the push towards more OA publish-ing increases, the aspect of public funding for journals is something that would warrant more systemic global atten-tion. A well-designed public funding instrument is likely to enable the existence and diversity of scholarly publication outlets, which are of high relevance to more specific audiences than just the generic universal global target audience. For future research, it could prove interesting to take this initial charting of the landscape and paint a fuller picture by zooming in on various aspects of interest.
Did AI get more negative recently? We analysed stance in abstracts of scientific publications, where authors position themselves positively or negatively (with respect to related work). The analysis revealed that the majority of papers in the past and today have a positive stance, that the average stance has substantially increased over time, yielding support for the hypothesis that ML and NLP have become ‘rapid discovery sciences', and that the ML domain is more positive than the NLP domain. We found (very) negative papers to be more influential than (mildly) positive ones in terms of citations they receive and more likely to be accepted to NLP/ML venues.
Does writing style affect gender differences in the research performance of articles?: An empirical study of BERT-based textual sentiment analysis "We make three contributions to the literature in this paper. Firstly, focusing on the top four marketing journals, we find that although female scholars are becoming more academically prominent, gender differences between men and women still exist."
The influencing factors of biomedical R&D cooperation in three major urban agglomerations of China based on cooperative patents Although the development strategies of the three urban agglomerations studied in this paper are different based on their actual situations, the routes they take are generally the same.
Quantifying knowledge from the perspective of information structurization This study introduces a new method of KQI for the quantification of knowledge among citation networks.
"The person in power told me to"-European PhD students' perspectives on guest authorship and good authorship practice Our study confirms that guest authorship is a significant problem, especially in the STEM and medical sciences. It also indicates that it is, to a significant extent, a cultural problem, in the sense that some PhD students operate in work environments where guest authorships are accepted practice among senior researchers who expect and, in some cases, even demand guest authorships from the junior researchers they work with. Finally, we found that participants' perceptions of deserved authorship correlate with the likelihood of granting a guest authorship to a person in power.
If this title is funny, will you cite me? Citation impacts of humour and other features of article titles in ecology and evolution Our results suggest that scientists can use creativity with titles without having their work condemned to obscurity.
Analyzing the influence of prolific collaborations on authors productivity and visibility In this paper, we analyzed the influence of the most relevant collaborators (referred to as top-collaborator) on author metrics.
International research collaboration: is Africa different? A cross-country panel data analysis The results have implications for science policy in Africa. For instance, we argue that science policies need to be adapted to each environment as the scientific landscape in each country is unique. The participation of African scientists in IRC will familiarise them with a quality-oriented research culture, which will be crucial for achieving research excellence in African science in the medium-long term and therefore in building solid S&T systems.
Use of scientific journals in Spanish universities: analysis of the relationship between citations and downloads in two university library consortia The results of this study confirm a relationship between the size of the universities analysed and the volume of their scientific production, which increased over the study period. We conclude, therefore, that our results indicate that download values can predict future citation values. This highlights the usefulness of downloads data when making decisions about collection management in academic libraries (Gumpenberger et al., 2012).
Research collaboration networks in maturing academic environments Results show that local research collaboration has been growing among University of São Paulo faculty members. The hypothesis that a homogeneous setting is prone to an increased likelihood of ties being formed among faculty members who share mutual characteristics is confirmed. Universities with high endogamy could be neglecting a high valued local resource of non-redundant contacts and their connections and the possibilities it brings for increased more diverse collaboration, internationalization, and research productivity.
Mexico: a bridge in Cuba-US scientific collaboration The results of the study show that the scientific collaboration of Mexico and Cuba mediates the relationship between Cuban international collaboration and the scientific collaboration between Cuba and the U.S. This result suggests that the Mexican science system has served as a bridge to establish and increase scientific collaboration bonds between Cuba's science system and its U.S. peer in the absence of diplomatic relations between both countries. Furthermore, the results suggest that scientific collaboration helps to lay bridges between science systems in the absence of diplomatic relations and even in the presence of political and economic hostility between them.
Intelligent Framework for Detecting Predatory Publishing Venues The results obtained were promising, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed model in the legitimacy classification task. It also demonstrated the possibility of automating the process of journal legitimacy detection.
An Evaluation of Research Publications for General Surgery Residents And its Influence on the Future Pursuit of Fellowship or Academic Career Increased research productivity was associated with continued academic pursuits and an increased likelihood of pursuing fellowship training after residency. Our findings provide insight for associations between research productivity and future academic success for general surgery residents. Future studies should evaluate the effect of the pass/fail grading system change on the research outcomes of medical students.
Ranking researchers: Evidence from Indonesia First, we find that the implementation of SINTA coincides with modest increases in publications in high- impact Scopus-indexed journals and large increases in low-impact Scopus publications.
Collaboration results in higher impact research: Case study of the Canadian Forest Service Based on this study, collaboration with external departments and agencies resulted in higher impact CFS research as mea-sured by normalized citation impacts.
'Cracks' in the scholarly communications system: Insights from a longitudinal international study of early career researchers "However, rather than signalling disaster to come, the cracks chart a path to future improvements: that is how the system transforms itself, adapts to the new realities."
Identifying potentially excellent publications using a citation-based machine learning approach The study concluded that LightGBM was the best-performing model for identifying potentially excellent papers. The findings suggest that the time-dependent citation features are more important than the static features, and the citation peak features are more significant than citation features in identifying PEPs. Further studies should include the papers without peaks in their sample to test if the models can still identify PEPs after introducing the 'noise' (e.g., papers without citation peak) to the sample.
Which papers cited which tweets? An exploratory analysis based on Scopus data In total, we found 12,234 tweets that were cited in the scholarly literature over 15 years.
What are you reading? From core journals to trendy journals in the Library and Information Science (LIS) field Our trendy journal list identifies the most influential journals right now, challenging to some extent the core LIS journal list and journal category lists ordered by citations (e.g., by JIF).
PreprintMatch: A tool for preprint to publication detection shows global inequities in scientific publication Our study represents the first analysis of bioRxiv and medRxiv preprint publication towards answering why developing countries have less research output. Our results support the idea that preprints democratize scientific publishing [10, 12], as they are more equitably distributed across countries and income groups than their later outcome of publication (Fig 4a and 4b). This suggests that authors from lower-income countries collaborating with high income country authors is correlated with higher chances of publication, but the inverse relationship does not hold true.
Transparency in conducting and reporting research: A survey of authors, reviewers, and editors across scholarly disciplines In conclusion, our study has found that attitudes of authors, reviewers, and editors did not significantly differ regarding the TOP guidelines or their perceptions of their work climates.
Researcher influence prediction (ResIP) using academic genealogy network We proposed three different methods for predicting the influence of academic researchers. The proposed method ResIP-M2 outperformed the baselines, and the findings are also consistent over several runs when compared to the baselines. In the future, we would like to include additional researcher information, such as publications, awards and recognition, with the present technique to examine their effect.
Department Research Productivity in 19 Scholarly Political Science Journals (1990-2018) We found that there is a reasonably strong relationship between research productivity and reputational rankings, the latter as based on the latest reputational measure from U.S. News & World Report.
Effect of the topic-combination novelty on the disruption and impact of scientific articles: Evidence from PubMed This paper explored the effects of topic-combination novelty on the disruption and impact of scientific papers.
Publication Speed Across Neurosurgery Journals: A Bibliometric Analysis Publication speeds vary widely among neurosurgery journals and appear to be associated with the journal impact factor. Time to publication increased over the study period. The time from SA increased in journals with a higher impact factor, which may reflect the necessity for a more thorough peer review process; this association appears to be unique to neurosurgery.
Should authorship on scientific publications be treated as a right? Given the aforementioned problems for research integrity that may arise from treating authorship on scientific publications as a right, we recommend that researchers not conceive of authorship in this way but view it as a description about contributions to research. While we think that treating authorship as a right can generate significant problems for research integrity, we acknowledge that the arguments we have given for this position are largely speculative and not evidence-based. Thus, more empirical research is needed to better ascertain the benefits and risks of treating authorship on scientific publications as a right, and we support efforts in this direction.
How Reliable Are Impact Factors for Ranking Water Resources Journals? An Analysis of the 70,878 Citation Records of the 2002 and 2021 Top 10 Journals for the Last Two Decades The general conclusion is that IFs do contain some valuable information about the journals' citation impact, but that using them to rank journals is questionable practice.
Do altmetric scores reflect article quality? Evidence from the UK Research Excellence Framework 2021 In answer to the first research question, the Altmetric.com altmetrics that are most useful as article-level indicators of research quality are, in descending order, Mendeley readers, Tweeters, Facebook Walls, News, Blogs, Wikipedia, Reddit and Research Highlights.
The rise of hyperprolific authors in computer science: characterization and implications In this article, we have characterized the anomalous behavior of hyperprolific researchers based on data collected from DBLP. Overall, the trend we may be observing is a change in the current academic system, influenced by venues that follow more flexible publication practices, and an evaluation system that allows researchers to game the system rules easily, replacing impact by the number of published papers and other measures such as citations. As future work, we intend to address the numerous open questions that our study raises.
How localized are computational templates? A machine learning approach We have observed that even when taking a rather global view, the structure of the usage of mathematics in science is largely dissolved from its thematic structure.
Fifty Years of Global Cardiovascular Research in Africa: A Scientometric Analysis, 1971 to 2021 Cardiovascular research output from African authors remains low, despite marked progress over the past 5 decades.
The gender citation gap: Why and how it matters Findings demonstrate the critical need for more attention toward gender differences in career progression when investigating the causes and solutions for gender disparities in science.
Extracting the evolutionary backbone of scientific domains: The semantic main path network analysis approach based on citation context analysis Combining them together, we obtained a more precise and comprehensive picture of domain evolution and uncover more coherent development pathways between scientific ideas.
Using Blockchain for Enabling Transparent, Traceable, and Trusted University Ranking Systems In this paper, we have proposed a blockchain-based solution to enhance the academic ranking systems in a manner that is decentralized, transparent, traceable, auditable, and trustworthy.
On novel peer review system for academic journals: analysis based on social computing Generally speaking, the novel review system proposed essentially holds considerable advantages and prospects. The reviews are more objective and accurate in the novel review system. Compared against the regular peer review system, the average number of rejections before acceptance is significantly reduced and the probability of manuscripts to be accepted by the first time is observably higher in the novel peer review system.
A conceptual framework for motivation factors influencing researchers' use of academic web profiles This study has determined that a holistic perspective is necessary to understand the high degree of complexity involved in researchers' motivation to use academic online profiles including university-provided profiles.
The top 100 most cited articles on COVID-19 vaccine: a bibliometric analysis The research on COVID-19 vaccine is currently the hottest topic in academic community.
Data-driven support for policy and decision-making in university research management: A case study from Germany Our results shed light on the complex interdependencies between third-party expenses, publications, and citations uncovered from individual-level data.
h-Index, Journal Citation Indicator, and Other Impact Factors in Neurosurgical Publications: Is There a Cost Factor That Determines the Quality? Larger costs incurred for OA fees and subscription costs for personal use do not clearly reflect on the journals' performance, as quantified by using various indices.
The influence of discipline consistency between papers and published journals on citations: an analysis of Chinese papers in three social science disciplines This study takes CSSCI-indexed papers in Economics, Law, and Library & Information Science as the research object, and uses a variety of statistical methods to verify that the discipline consistency between papers and published journals has a significant impact on citations. It's found that papers published in their own disciplinary journals have a significant citation advantage compared with those published in other disciplinary journals and multi-disciplinary journals. According to the findings, this study also discusses some issues on the development of multi-disciplinary journals and the usage of citation indicators in academic evaluation.
Academic information retrieval using citation clusters: in-depth evaluation based on systematic reviews Our research shows that the best served users are those who prefer recall over precision 2 to 8 times.
Data without reference points: collaborations in communication research in Spain are less international and publications have lower impact The study suggests that research in terms of international collaboration and level of publication output is below the expected standard and emphasizes the need to establish comparative frameworks to assess and evaluate the state of the field beyond descriptive or headline data (as in this article).
Trajectories and regimes in research versus knowledge evaluations: Contributions to an evolutionary theory of citation Combined, the results seem to confirm the hypothesis that interdisciplinarity cannot be captured by one-dimensional citation analysis.
How do journals deal with problematic articles. Editorial response of journals to articles commented in PubPeer "The main conclusion of this study is that, in average, only 21.5% publications that should deserve a correction or retraction according to PubPeer are subject of an editorial notice."
Early career researchers and predatory journals during the Covid-19 pandemic. An international analysis After two-years of interviewing around 170 ECRs about every aspect of the scholarly communications system and how it was bearing up under the pressure of the pandemic it is clear that while questionable practices are thought to be widespread, and on the increase, predatory journals are not a big concern.
Sparking attention on African swine fever research on social media platform: An altmetric evaluation of top 100 highly cited articles To increase visibility, research should be promoted on social platforms.
Papers and patents are becoming less disruptive over time Overall, our results suggest that slowing rates of disruption may reflect a fundamental shift in the nature of science and technology. We attribute this trend in part to scientists’ and inventors’ reliance on a narrower set of existing knowledge. To promote disruptive science and technology, scholars may be encouraged to read widely and given time to keep up with the rapidly expanding knowledge frontier.
The impact of the pitching research framework on AFAANZ grant applications Thus the project aims to deliver valuable empirical insights into the overall effectiveness of the AFAANZ grants process and the role of the PRF within it.
An open automation system for predatory journal detection The open system only provides reference results rather than absolute opinions and accepts user inquiries and feedback to update the system and optimize performance.
Testing of support tools to detect plagiarism in academic Japanese texts This is the first study in which the Japanese language has been extensively tested in terms of the performance of text matching tools.
Forty-five years of International Journal of Intercultural Relations: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, the past 44 years of IJIR have placed the journal as a well-respected journal in cultural studies. Our study offers useful insight into IJIR's importance and trajectory. As a result, it is recommended that additional studies be carried out by future researchers.
Revolutions in science: The proposal of an approach for the identification of most important researchers, institutions and countries based on co-citation reference publication year spectroscopy exemplified at research on physical modelling of Earth's climate In this study, we used climate change and global warming research as an example to demonstrate our proposed method for the identification of most important researchers, institutions, and countries in breakthrough research.
Factors Associated With Resident Research Success: An Analysis of Canadian General Surgery Trainees There is a wide range in research output by general surgery residents across the country.
Funding as a determinant of Citation Impact in Scientific Papers in different countries Publishing high-impact papers depends on various factors, depending on the country of origin. The direct and indirect paths from funding to impact publishing differed by the cluster of nations. Nevertheless, countries with low investments can choose alternative paths, including higher international collaboration or publication in Q1 journals that lead to higher impact and recognition of the research in the country.
Trends in the Number of Authors and Institutions in Papers Published in AJPE 2015-2019 There is a trend toward a greater number of authors and unique institutions for the publications in one pharmacy education journal. Explanations for this trend may include pressure to publish, increased research complexity, and expanded interprofessional collaboration. Authorship should be based upon significant contributions from individuals responsible for planning the research, performing the research, and writing the final manuscript.
Why are coauthored academic articles more cited: Higher quality or larger audience? This gives the first systematic evidence that greater numbers of authors associates with higher quality journal articles in the majority of academia outside the arts and humanities, at least for the UK. Positive associations between team size and citation counts in areas with little association between team size and quality also show that audience effects or other nonquality factors account for the higher citation rates of coauthored articles in some fields.
Symmetry in Scientific Collaboration Networks: A Study Using Temporal Graph Data Science and Scientometrics The achieved results suggested the feasibility of the proposed methodology indicating the main researchers, temporal behavior of the research group's scientific collaboration, the alignment between scholars' research focus and their patterns of collaboration, and the temporal cohesion of the research groups. The presented approach has the potential to instrument and expand strategic and proactive decisions of research entities when the performed analyses are properly considered. Future work will address specific open problems, including discovering similar and complementary groups, which is strategically crucial to scientific funding agencies.
Explaining the Paradox of World University Rankings in China: Higher Education Sustainability Analysis with Sentiment Analysis and LDA Topic Modeling Combining the results of sentiment analysis and LDA topic modeling, the complex emotions and different cognitive perspectives of the public on the WURs were summarized and the development paradox of WURs was explained. The public rarely thinks dialectically about the problems with World University Ranking indicators, and the public is even barely exploring ranking methods. The need for ranking has always existed but the issue of ranking has often been ignored, leading to the development paradox of rankings.
Predicting the evolution of scientific communities by interpretable machine learning approaches To investigate the evolution of scientific communities, we formulate the task of event-based GEP and demystify the influencing factors of the evolution by applying interpretable machine learning approaches. The proposed methodology offers a solution to unearth the underlying mechanisms of the evolution of scientific communities, and the findings could be useful for scholars and policymakers to monitor scientific communities and take proactive actions. Practically, the findings of notable community attributes that play important roles in predicting diverse evolution events have certain guiding significance.
Stepping beyond your comfort zone: Diffusion-based network analytics for knowledge trajectory recommendation This gives the first systematic evidence that greater numbers of authors associates with higher quality journal articles in the majority of academia outside the arts and humanities, at least for the UK.
Transparency of reporting practices in quantitative field studies: The transparency sweet spot for article citations Transparency is a crucial aspect to consider while preparing, reviewing, and publishing research articles.
A relations-based evaluation framework to support collaborative research and innovation (R&I) networks In this paper, we have proposed a new evaluation approach named Relations-based Evaluation that analyses, assesses and nourishes relationships both internal and external to the EU-funded consortia.
Short-term incentives of research evaluations: Evidence from the UK Research Excellence Framework We show that papers published just before REF deadlines (i) yield fewer citations and (ii) are published in journals with a lower impact factor when compared to publications just after deadlines. The pre-deadline decrease in the number of citations, when combined with the dramatic subsequent increase, suggests that evaluation pressure has a negative marginal effect on quality of research. If it is a policy goal to promote more long-term, fundamental, and high-impact research, regulators should either set evaluation periods that are long enough to allow for fundamental research in the absence of approaching deadlines, or they should attempt to balance the influence of REF deadlines with additional incentives for long-term research.
Academic dermatology in Australia and New Zealand between 2017 and 2022: A cross-sectional bibliometric analysis Overall, our analysis identifies a trend towards decreased research output by dermatologists in Australia and New Zealand in the last 5 years. Strategies to support dermatologists in research endeavours, particularly women and recent graduates, will be essential in maintaining strong scholarly output among Australasian dermatologists and thereby sustaining optimal evidence-based patient care.
Arithmetics of research specialization Overall, our analysis identifies a trend towards decreased research output by dermatologists in Australia and New Zealand in the last 5 years. Strategies to support dermatologists in research endeavours, particularly women and recent graduates, will be essential in maintaining strong scholarly output among Australasian dermatologists and thereby sustaining optimal evidence- based patient care.
Quantifying the impact of scientific collaboration and papers via motif-based heterogeneous networks In this paper, we propose a novel model named MSCIRank (Motif-based Scientific Collaboration Impact Rank) to quantify the impact of co-authors and papers. Experiments on APS datasets demonstrate: (1) MSCIRank is better at identifying the Nobel Prize papers than the compared SCIRank in terms of Recall; (2) The MSCIRank model can weaken or strengthen the impact of self-citations; (3) Linear MSCIRank is consistent with Pareto's principle when the transition probabilities are M1, M2, M3 and M4. While non-linear MSCIRank (Corresponding to transition probability (M5 and M₁) is inconsistent; (4) The average impact of co-author pairs with high in the linear MSCIRank is much higher than that in non-linear MSCIRank. (5) The linear MSCIRank is a robust measurement for measuring scientific collaborators' impact. In the future, first, we will integrate the time factor into the MSCIRank model. Second, other complementary information, such as venues and the content of the scholarly paper, can be considered. Third, the 4-node and 5-node motifs can be considered to model the impact of scientific collaboration.
Surprising combinations of research contents and contexts are related to impact and emerge with scientific outsiders from distant disciplines We offer support for Pierce’s contention that abduction characterizes advance by showing that surprise anticipates disproportionate impact in science and technology.
Revisiting the uniformity and inconsistency of slow-cited papers in science In this study, we benchmarked 11 slow-cited measures from nine bibliometric perspectives to organize the uniformity and inconsistency of what slow citation represents.
Identification and classification of evaluation indicators for scientific and technical publications and related factors Classification of the indicators of evaluation for scientific and technical publications and related factors can lead to improved understanding, critique, modelling and development of indicators. The findings of this study can be considered a basis for further research and help develop evaluative theoretical foundations in scientific and technical publications and related factors. Overall, with a different look at the indicators used for the evaluation of scientific and technical publications, as well as the related factors, the present study classified them into thirty-four sub-categories and eight main categories, providing a more accurate framework for studying, evaluating, and using these indicators in the fields of informetrics, scientometrics, and bibliometrics.
Towards a better understanding of Facebook Altmetrics in LIS field: assessing the characteristics of involved paper, user and post This study has investigated three categories of contextual data to explore the contextual characteristics of Facebook mentions to LIS papers. These findings indicate that Facebook mentions to LIS papers mainly reflect the institutional level advocacy and atten-tion, with low level of engagement, and could be influenced by several features including collaborative patterns and research topics.
How to accomplish a highly cited paper in the tourism, leisure and hospitality field "We have found that the number of references, the citations of the first author, the journal impact factor and the issue (first half of the year), the altmetrics, early citations, being a woman (gender) and publishing in open access format have a positive influence in the citations."
The funding effect on citation and social attention: the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a case study When funding to publish in open or hybrid access journals is not available, it is advisable to self-archiving the pre-print or post-print version in a freely accessible repository.
Knowledge domain, research hotspots and frontiers in physiology teaching reforms from 2012 to 2021: A bibliometric and knowledge-map analysis This study analyzed the research hot spots and frontiers of teaching reforms on in physiology using bibliometric and visual methods.
Academic identity at the intersection of global scientific communities and national science policies: societal impact in the UK and Netherlands The study suggests that a misalignment between scholarly and policy-driven notions of societal impact can lead to problematic academic identities and less diverse impact activities, as Figure 3 and the section on identities and behaviour show.
The politics of university rankings in China In this article, we studied the emergence and utilization of university rankings in the PRC in relation to their wider societal, especially political environment. By taking this broader perspective, it becomes clear that the career of university rankings in China is fundamen- tally interrelated with the state's top-down science and innovation policies and politics and not only an imported measuring device for international comparison in the higher education sector. Future comparative research should reveal the configuration of these factors in other contexts and countries, ideally beyond the OECD world, to test how unique or extrap-olatable our observations of the case of China are in this respect.
Expedited editorial decision in COVID-19 pandemic In this research, we causally identified an unforeseen impact of COVID-19, such that the naturally occurring pandemic leads to substantially decreased editorial decision time.
Use of Latent Profile Analysis to Model the Translation of University Research into Health Practice and Policy: Exploration of Proposed Metrics These profiles of translational research among academic institutions exemplifies how the societal benefit of academic research can be used to profile universities through the hypothesized multidimensional indicators.
The 100 most-cited articles published in the Veterinary Ophthalmology journal between 1998 and 2022: A bibliometric study This study provides insight into the impact of publishing in VO and a more comprehensive understanding of trends and the most influential contributions to VO.
Editor home bias? Overall, the findings are consistent with the idea that cultural values potentially foster editorial-biased behavior and hinder scientific progress.
Anchoring effects in the assessment of papers: An empirical survey of citing authors We conclude that initiatives aiming at reducing the use of journal impact information in research evaluation either were already successful or overestimated the influence of this information. Our main result thus far is a statistically significant effect of paper impact percentiles on quality assessments by respondents (who received this information). Since our results point out that the quality assessments were assimilated toward the paper impact information, there seems to be an anchoring bias caused by insufficient adjustment.
Analysis of the relationships among paper citation and its influencing factors: a Bayesian network-based approach In this paper, we proposed a Bayesian network-based method for the analysis of the relationships among paper citation and its influencing factors.
The association of disciplinary background with the evolution of topics and methods in Library and Information Science research 1995-2015 Consequently, Computer Science and Business are not only infusing their concepts, research questions and approaches to LIS but also likely to subsume vital parts of LIS in their own structures of knowledge production.
Gender-based homophily in collaborations across a heterogeneous scholarly landscape In this paper, we seek to test whether heterogeneity in gender composition across sub-disciplines and time can fully explain the observed gender homophily across the scholarly landscape. As a result, we think that future inquiry into potential causes for behavioral homophily would more fruitfully focus on the role of sociocultural norms and perceptions in co-authorship decisions.
Reward systems for cohort data sharing: An interview study with funding agencies Funding agencies are adopting narrative CVs that enable appropriate valuing diverse research outputs and diversity in research profiles.
GENDER DISPARITIES IN ACADEMIC OUTCOMES AMONG GRADUATES OF A CANADIAN MD-PHD PROGRAM Overall, recent MD-PhD alumni represent a more diverse population compared with their earlier counterparts.
Academic integrity in the HyFlex learning environment The present study offered important insights into how HyFlex attendance mode and personality traits shape STEM students' academic integrity.
A new facet of cumulative advantage in higher education finance A closer examination of the grant allocation, however, reveals a clear pattern of cumulative advantage within both the traditional and non-traditional university sector: the more the funding had been raised prior to the contest, the higher was the QPT funding probability.
Model for enhancing the research conducted by the university medical staff: Participatory action research This work focused primarily on using PAR to determine the barriers to research and to help design a BMC to oversee plans for the advancement of conducting research.
A comparative study of the coverage of African journals in Web of Science, Scopus, and CrossRef This study presents another evidence of the underrepresentation of research from Africa in citation databases—Web of Science, Scopus (traditional sources of data for assessing research globally), and CrossRef, a relatively new citation database.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Neurosurgery Publication Productivity of Southeast Asia in 2011e2020 By analyzing the neurosurgery publications from ASEAN countries over the previous decade, we highlight the status of neurosurgical research in these countries.
Research skills for university students? thesis in E-learning: Scale development and validation in Peru The conclusions of the study were that the 8-item research skills instrument presents acceptable psychometric indicators in Peruvian university students in thesis courses.
Association of literature metrics in gynecologic oncology with country classification by income level High income countries have a disproportionate representation in gynecologic oncology publications. After adjusting for confounders, the country's level of income was not independently associated with a high citation per year score. This implies that the number of citations per year is not compromised by the country's level of income.
Reflecting on motivations: How reasons to publish affect research behaviour in astronomy I conclude that driving up factors of controlled motivation through incentives based on performance indicators, such as publication rate, may have negative effects on astronomer's well-being and research conduct. Future studies could inquire, together with astronomers, what innovative publications, which are better aligned with the astronomers' quality criteria, could entail. Moreover, further research may uncover more aspects of research that would relate to astronomers' autonomous motivation and suggest how evaluation criteria could be designed on that basis.
Time from submission to publication in urology journals: A look at publication times before and during Covid-19 We identified journal specific acceptance and publication times and observed substantial differences between urology journals for the years 2019 and 2021.
Missing a golden opportunity? An analysis of publication trends by income level in the Directory of Open Access Journals 1987-2020 In conclusion, this exploratory study shows that the gold open access model is disadvantageous to authors in lower income regions. APC waiver policies do not seem to be sufficient for authors in MICs to increase the percentage of publications in gold open access journals. This study also points to the importance of supporting the diamond open access model as a potential means of improving global equity and epistemic diversity in knowledge production.
The price of quality: Scholarly publishing business is the primary predictor of citation-based indicators of journal performance in ecology and evolutionary biology Results suggest that the h-index for journals and the SJR reflect multi-dimensional aspects of scholarly publishing, potentially affected by marketing strategies boosted by the biggest commercial publishers.
State of forest research in 2010s-a bibliographic study with special reference to Finland, Sweden and Austria The global forestry corpus has continued to increase each year, with fluctuations in the rate of increase between years.
Research Context and Prospect of Green Railways in China Based on Bibliometric Analysis Based on the above analysis results, it can be concluded that from 1985 to 2021, China's green railway research presents the following three main characteristics.
Evaluation of research proposals by peer review panels: broader panels for broader assessments? We discuss how funders can contribute to the quality of peer review by creating a shared conceptual framework that better defines research quality and societal relevance.
Publication trends in the field of the cornea in the last 4 decades: a bibliometric study Our analysis of the top 100 most-cited articles on the cornea revealed scientific contributions, vital current data related to clinical implementations, and valuable insights into the current developments in ophthalmology. To our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate the most influential papers on the cornea, and our findings highlight the research quality and latest discoveries and trends in the management cornea diseases.
Research on the formation mechanism of research leadership relations: An exponential random graph model analysis approach Research leadership is essential to research collaborations.
Who shares scholarly output on Facebook? A systematic investigation into their location, productivity and identities These results indicate that Facebook mentions can measure interactions with scholarly outputs from much broader categories of users other than scholars and user's context information needs to be considered when using Facebook mention counts for evaluative purpose.
Trend of Academic Productivity in Plastic Surgery and the Impact of COVID-19: A Bibliometric Analysis Although the COVID-19 has a profound impact on the healthcare industry, the bibliographic data reveals an increasing scientific output in the field of plastic surgery over time. For plastic surgery, high-frequency terms, research hotspots, popular journals, article types, and international collaboration have changed under the influence of COVID-19.
Comparative Analysis of Central Asian Publication Activity Using SCImago Journal & Country Rank Data in 1996-2021 Despite a rising number of articles, CACs are not at the forefront of scientific productivity in the Asiatic Region.
Identifying the Leading Global Contributors to Scholarship in Religion Journals: A Bibliometric Study The results reveal that religion discourse is populated by some of the leading scholars in the world. Leveraging their expertise can help advance the field's knowledge development. Indeed, the findings help position the field of religion with the knowledge it needs to make strategic decisions to help advance scholarship in the critical area of religion.
How authors evaluate the novelty of their articles: A comparative analysis of highlights in research articles This study used the LIS and CS domains as examples to research the ways in which Highlights sections are written and arranged to emphasise the core of RAs. We also explored the domain characteristics that are evident in the arrangement of Highlights sections.
Development of a diagnostic framework and its application to open access journal publishing in Korea Based on the findings, the article discusses how the challenging issues identified could be addressed.
Comprehensive evaluation of university competitiveness based on DD-TOPSIS method Taking the construction of “world-class university" as the research background, this paper designs a novel evaluation index system and a comprehensive evaluation model for the comprehensive evaluation of university competitive- ness.
Disentangling international research collaboration in the Spanish academic context: Is there a desirable researcher human capital profile? This study presents an exploratory analysis and preliminary conclusions on academic profiles of human capital and IRC intensity.
Highly cited tropical medicine articles in the Web of Science from 1991 to 2020: A bibliometric analysis About 10 y of accumulated citations is needed to achieve ≥100 citations as highly cited articles in the Web of Science category of tropical medicine.
Antarctic science in Chile: a bibliometric analysis of scientific productivity during the 2009-2019 period The results presented here highlight the need for improved links in terms of scientific collaboration in the SSIs and the Antarctic Peninsula area. The scientific productivity of PROCIEN have shown significant improvement in the last decade. However, it is strongly recommended to increase and strengthen cooperation links with countries that have scientific stations on King George Island and the SSIs (e.g. Korea, Brazil, Argentina, China, Spain).
Geopolitical conflicts, sanctions and international knowledge flows: EU-Russia collaboration during the Ukraine crisis Our results provide empirical evidence that EU-Russia co-publication activities have significantly lost ground since the imposition of sanctions in 2014 relative to the scientific collaboration activities of comparison groups, such as co-publications between EU countries and the remainder BRICS economies.
Temporal trends in academic performance and career duration of principal investigators in ecology and evolutionary biology in Taiwan Taken together, our study confirms that succeeding in academia has become more challenging, with performance requirements and career duration both increasing over years. Finally, regardless of career stage, boosting research performance is the ultimate key to academic success in the face of increasingly competitive academic job markets.
Co-authorship among the Fellows of the International Communication Association The results suggest that elite scholars tend not to collaborate with other elite scholars, either domestically or inter-nationally, and that, when they do collaborate, they tend to span narrow research areas.
Scientific production of an oral implantology journal: a 5-year bibliometric study This study revealed an increasing trend in Asian research production, particularly Chinese, whereas the research production of European origin showed a decrease.
Mapping the Landscape of Indian Genomics Research: A Scientometric Analysis The results of this scientometric study on genomics present a comprehensive overview of the research growth and trends within the field. Additionally, the study reveals the most prolific organizations and funding agencies in the field, which can be used to further analyze the impact of research in genomics and identify potential collaborators for future research. India has made significant progress in genomics research in recent years, but there is still much room for growth and development in this field.
Does the perceived quality of interdisciplinary research vary between fields? The findings suggest that, as believed by many UK academics (Arnold et al., 2018), quality evaluations of interdisciplinary journal articles are more problematic than those of monodisciplinary journal articles. Even if there is no overall bias against interdisciplinary research, the choice of evaluating discipline may influence the likely score, with some relevant disciplines being apparently stricter (whether more rigorous or more inflexible) than others. Thus, researchers with a degree of choice about where their research can be evaluated, as in the REF, should consider their options carefully in the light of the quality evaluation criteria of the relevant fields.
Differences in collaboration structures and impact among prominent researchers in Europe and North America Here, we surmised that collaboration networks and scientific impact differ systematically across regions, and we found that the empirical evidence indeed supports this hypothesis.
Regular collective dynamics of research collaboration In particular, the present work demonstrates several points: (i) geographical differences in collaboration are suppressed in statistics of high-ranking papers; (ii) self-reliance in IRC depends linearly on the logarithm of the research output; (iii) the relation (Eq. (3)) holds for IRC in individual research areas but does not extend to extramural collaboration of research institutions; (iv) associations of research institutions exhibit a low level of self-reliance for their size suggesting that integration of the institutions is relatively low; (v) an increase in own research efforts may reduce the number of publications due to higher self-reliance; (vi) policy-makers should not consider the amount of research and collaboration intensity as independent targets.
Scale-free growth in regional scientific capacity building explains long-term scientific dominance We find that researchers tend to move to regions according to a sub-linear PA mechanism, where the settling probability for a region is proportional to a power of the cumulative number of scientists already working in that region.
Writing a massively multi-authored paper: Overcoming barriers to meaningful authorship for all Our approach identifies and overcomes key barriers to meaningful contributions, protecting the value of authorship even on massively multi-authored publications.
A Multiple Linear Regression Analysis to Measure the Journal Contribution to the Social Attention of Research Understanding societal attention to research is important because it can help researchers identify emerging or pressing societal issues, prioritize research questions, and engage with stakeholders and the public. It can also inform efforts to communicate research findings to a broader audience, promote evidence-based policy, and increase public trust in science. As a main result, the factors that best explain the social attention of the research are the social attention of the journal and the number of citations. There are socially influential journals, and their contribution to the social attention of the article multiplies by two the effect attributed to the academic impact measured by the number of citations. Furthermore, the number of authors and open access has a moderate effect on the social attention of research. Funding has a small effect, while the impact factor of the journal has a negative effect. In terms of future research directions, incorporating author characteristics, such as research experience, h-index, affiliations, and social media presence, into the model could provide insights into the social impact of their research and its correlation with citations received. In addition, the inclusion of these and other variables may improve the model's R-squared.
How New Ideas Diffuse in Science This work advances the systematic study of scientific ideas by moving beyond products to focus on the content of ideas themselves and applies a relational perspective that takes seriously the contingency of their success.
Finding Trends in Software Research "Here, text mining methods were applied to 35,391 documents written in the last 25 years from 34 top-ranked SE venues."
Students' Perceptions of Preprints Discovered in Google: A Window into Recognition And Evaluation Our findings indicate familiarity with cues and how they relate can influence whether and how they are used. Given the importance of preprint servers as an openly available source of scientific information, publishers, scholars, librarians, journalists and teachers should work together to ensure standardized, universal approaches. The perceptions of students, as seen in this study, can help illuminate the way.
Evaluating Research and Scholarly Impact in Criminology and Criminal Justice in the United Kingdom and Italy: A Comparative Perspective We do recognise that if the limitations we have identified can be addressed, both the REF and the VQR have the potential to serve as drivers for ensuring that higher education institutions in the UK and Italy maintain high standards of accountability in relation to public spending on research.
OpCitance: Citation contexts identified from the PubMed Central open access articles We hope that OpCitance will facilitate citation context studies in particular and benefit text-mining research more broadly.
The impact of the American Association for Thoracic Surgery on National Institutes of Health grant funding for cardiothoracic surgeons Through dedicated efforts and programs, the American Association for Thoracic Surgery has provided effective support to help increase National Institutes of Health grant funding awarded to cardiothoracic surgeons.
Modern Impact of Surgery Journals: Associations Between Impact Factor, H5-Index, and Altmetric Score Journal IF and H5-index are strongly correlated amongst general surgery journals overall. However, the strength of this correlation varies across different surgical subspecialties, with IF only accounting for two-thirds of the variability in H5-index. The future growth of surgical journals should be geared towards improving across multiple metrics, including both the conventional and the contemporary, while leveraging social media to improve readership and eventual academic impact.
Performance-based research funding: Evidence from the largest natural experiment worldwide Our results indicate that the introduction of a PRFS can improve research performance in terms of, both, research output and research excellence.
When the Big Deal Gets Smaller: Use of ScienceDirect after Cancellations "The broad picture painted here is that patrons still turn to the library and may meet their requirements via substitution or reliance on open access."
In which fields are citations indicators of research quality? The universal positive association between citation scores and research quality should provide reassurance for those that appropriately use citation-based indicators to support research quality evaluations.
Lessons learnt from a scientific peer-review training programme designed to support research capacity and professional development in a global community "Given the comprehensive instruction on peer review as well as potential spillover effects of learning writing skills, this peer-reviewer programme could have the potential to strengthen research capacity."
Relationship of Altmetric Attention Score, Twitter Performance, and Dimensions Badge Value With Traditional Metrics in Top-Cited Anterior Cruciate Ligament Research Studies Alternative metrics were linked to traditional metrics but were not a direct representation of bibliometrics. Higher AAS and Twitter popularity of an article were related to receiving high-volume RC performance. The DBV represented a stronger correlation with traditional metrics than the AAS.
High readership on academic social platforms could poorly reflect conservation interest Although this raises questions regarding the ability of ResearchGate and similar platforms to measure research interest and impacts reliably, we use the popularity of our article as an opportunity to advocate for conservation re-search in an understudied region and on an understudied species. We believe that the high readership of our article on Iranian wild pigs is probably the result of unrelated internet-based searches and does not reflect genuine research inter-est. Thus, in conclusion, although we realize that the attention received by our article on Iranian Suidae does not reflect genuine conservation sci-ence interest in either pigs or Iran, we appreciate the op-portunity it has given us to highlight these important conservation topics.
New components and combinations: The perspective of the internal collaboration networks of scientific teams First, scholars collaborating for the first time have heterogeneous knowledge that can easily inspire new components or combinations. Second, network faultlines in a team negatively affect the emergence of new components or combinations. Third, when authors have rich coauthorship experience, new author combinations will work less positively on new components and combinations, and network faultlines will work less negatively on new components and combinations.
Saving time and money in biomedical publishing: the case for free-format submissions with minimal requirements Based on the findings from our quantitative analysis and contextualized by the qualitative interviews, we conclude that free-format submission guidelines would benefit both researchers and editors.
Textile waste water treatment: analysis of mapping knowledge domains The analysis results show that researches related to oxidation and adsorption are active in recent years, while nanocomposite adsorbents and graphene oxide are the current research hotspots.
NSF Fellows' perceptions about incentives, research misconduct, and scientific integrity in STEM academia These data may be useful in considering how to better prepare STEM graduate trainees for academic careers. This work summarizes NSF Fellows' assessments of dominant academic incentives, motivations potentially guiding unethical behavior, and desired professional and legal penalties for serious offenses. The findings cast doubt on the quality and effectiveness of scientific integrity trainings being offered nationwide to engineering graduate students in promoting ethical awareness and behavior.
The influence of research collaboration on citation impact: the countries in the European Innovation Scoreboard Contrary to much of the literature, which states that RC originates publications with higher scientific impact than non-collaborative research, the findings in this study clearly show that the impact depends on the development of the RIS of the collaborating countries.
New concept of the affinity between research fields using academic journal data in Scopus The affinities derived from the field distribution in academic journals and their bidirectionality can be incorporated into other interdisciplinary research indicators to measure them more precisely and from a broader perspective.
Contribution of CEE authors to psychological science: is the growing trend of publishing in non-CEE journals still present 10 years after its inception? This study is a continuation of monitoring the trend of the internationalisation of CEE authors through the publication of papers in CEE and non-CEE journals in the period from 2014 to 2020. The results show a constant increase in the number of published papers in non-CEE journals compared to CEE, especially since 2019 when there was a rapid growth in the number of published papers in non-CEE journals and a decrease in CEE journals. The observed trends of the constant increase in the internationalization of CEE psychology in the last 25 years have shown that the process of bringing CEE psychologists closer to Western standards of scientific production is still in full swing.
Systematic reviews and meta-analyses on major depressive disorder: a bibliometric perspective The rapid increase in the number of SR/MA of MDD in recent years highlights the importance of this research field. Psychiatric comorbidities, clinical interventions, and treatment of MDD have been identified as hot topics, while biological mechanisms in MDD are likely to be an emerging research priority.
An analysis of retracted papers in Computer Science Unfortunately, retraction seems to be a sufficiently common outcome for a scientific paper that we as a research community need to take it more seriously, e.g., standardising procedures and taxonomies across publishers and the provision of appropriate research tools. Finally, we recommend particular caution when undertaking secondary analyses and meta-analyses which are at risk of becoming contaminated by these problem primary studies. Producers of systematic reviews and meta-analyses need to be particularly vigilant.
Science, interrupted: Funding delays reduce research activity but having more grants helps I find evidence that interruptions are disruptive to research.
Earlier recognition of scientific excellence enhances future achievements and promotes persistence This work highlights the importance of scientific merit recognition for scientists at their earlier career stage and provides strong implications for scientists' career development.
The effects of international research collaboration on the policy impact of research: A causal inference drawing on the journal Lancet Our findings reveal that international research collaboration has significant and positive effects on the policy impact of research.
Understanding differences of the OA uptake within the German university landscape (2010-2020): part 1-journal-based OA For both OA types the most determining factor for the differences in the OA shares is the disciplinary profile: The more a university's publication output comprises publications from subject fields with a high degree of (Hybrid or Full) OA adaption, the larger is the (Hybrid or Full) OA share of the university.
The missing links of research impact In contrast, we argue that a comprehensive identification and mapping of micro-impacts is a prerequisite for improving our understanding and planning of impact-oriented activities and for developing a more comprehensive portfolio of research contributions.
The state of current research on COVID-19 and antibiotic use: global implications for antimicrobial resistance This is the first bibliometric analysis of COVID-19-related research on antibiotics.
Global trends in the scientific research of the health economics: a bibliometric analysis from 1975 to 2022 All in all, the paper maps the literature on health economics and may be used for future research.
What Types of Novelty Are Most Disruptive? Our overarching goal in this article was to bring the empirical science of science scholarship in closer alignment with theories of scientific change (e.g., Kuhn 1962; Lakatos 1970; Mulkay 1974) that seek to understand how new ideas shape scientific develop-ment. One of our largest and most robust findings concerns new methods: articles that develop and present a new method tend to be more dis-ruptive. In contrast, we find that papers that develop new theory tend to be less disruptive, encouraging future work to build on the knowledge stream from which they have drawn.
Disentangling the local context-imagined communities and researchers' sense of belonging Overall, being a researcher in the natural or medical sci- ences, being in the mid to later stages of your career, having more than 5 years' experience and a permanent contract, and spending more time in actively researching are associated with greater levels of self-identification with the immediate working surroundings, the polis or 'visible college'.
"They Don't Understand Us, but We Have to Understand Them": Interrogating the Making of Interdisciplinary Research in Chilean Climate Science Despite clear agreement that “cross-discipli-nary" collaboration was fomented through the above-explored devices, it is difficult to conclude that these devices in fact succeed in producing a ‘common grammar' (Boltanski and Thévenot 2006). Second, we found that researcher's conceptions of interdisciplinarity were coloured by their lived experiences of attempting to practice it, and in particular by the benefits and costs they associated with doing so. Third, our findings suggest that the mandate to practice interdis-ciplinarity does pose additional challenges to researchers (e.g., a greater pressure to respond to political demands and practical challenges, additional investments of time and energy for learning new tools and methodologies, for negotiating episte-mological conflicts, and for obtaining recognition for interdisciplinary work, among others).
Depth analysis: What happens after papers stand on the giant's shoulder? Case study on NIPS conference papers showed that Depth-based paper evaluation metric captures scholarly impact that traditional citation count could not reflect.
Citation advantage of COVID-19-related publications Data showed that 8.54% of COVID-19-related papers were ESI HCPs which was much higher than the set global benchmark value of 1%.
All-pervading insider bias alters review time in Turkish university journals This study provides new evidence on the length of review time in Social Sciences and its determinants using a large dataset of 56,920 papers published by 258 journals.
COVID research across the social sciences in 2020: a bibliometric approach Each discipline engaged the core works on the topic of COVID-19 but each with their respective disciplinary traditions and corresponding trajectories. Within the citation network, we observe ten sub-clusters centered around a medical core containing numerous extensively referenced papers in high-impact publications such as The Lancet and Science. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues into another year with global cases and death toll climbing into the millions, analysis of early research publications grants insight into the social scientific frameworks and the ideas that represented the time. These frameworks continue to evolve bridging the identified gaps in knowledge and giving way to new areas of research. One such area will undoubtedly explore how future generations will be affected by these individual, local, structural, and cultural changes.
Inconsistent quality signals: evidence from the regional journals These results suggest that research evaluation policies might consider attributing greater weight to regional journals, not only for the training purposes of doctoral students but also for gaining international visibility and impact.
Comparison of subscription access and open access obstetrics and gynecology journals in the SCImago database In conclusion, access to information has become easier as a result of technological development and this will continue to affect the access policies of journals.
Boundary-work and social closure in academic recruitment: Insights from the transdisciplinary subject area Swedish as a Second Language This tendency is also problematic because the work of the evaluators is implicated in shaping 'the social definition of positions and the rewards that are attached to them' (Brubaker 2015: 41); hence, those who are selected for a job because their profile matches the evaluator's preconceptions of the core and periphery of the subject area will later go on to evaluate others, reproducing the same arbitrary boundary-work in their practices of evaluation (cf. Lamont 2012).
The Evolution of FinTech in Scientific Research: A Bibliometric Analysis The findings of the research indicate that FinTech is a dynamic and rapidly expanding field, with significant growth in annual publication numbers in recent years. The analysis also revealed that the field is heavily dependent on various technological domains, with Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence being the most frequently used keywords. Overall, the present research provides valuable insights and contributes to the harmonized development of the FinTech field.
Classics of infectious diseases: A bibliometric analysis of the 100 most cited articles In conclusion, our study examining the citation numbers of international articles on "Infectious Disease" in the WOS data- base is the first study in this respect. As a result of our study, the factors affecting the citation numbers of the most cited stud- ies in the "Infectious Disease" field in the WOS database were determined.
Analysis of Hotspots and Trends in Digitalization Research of Chinese Archives Based on Bibliometrics Finally, based on the current research hotspots in China's archival digitization, the future research and development direction of the field is discussed. Through analyzing the research content and trend changes in the field of domestic archives digitization in the past 28 years, especially the analysis of the research content in the past five years, and combining with the connotation of archives digitization and the statistical chart of keywords depicting mutation, this study believes that big data, archives work, and digital archives will become the focus of research on archives digitization in the new era. Therefore, scholars in the field of archival digitization should increase communication and strengthen collaboration to produce more valuable research.
Disciplinary collaboration rates in the social sciences and humanities: what is the influence of classification type? In this paper, we have analysed how different ways of defining publications' classification into domains and disciplines impact the final result using a case study of co-authorship in Flanders.
A geometric counting method adaptive to the author number By analysing the differences in the credit allocated among authors and the features of existing counting methods, this work proposes an adaptive geometric counting method.
Exploring high scientific productivity in international co-authorship of a small developing country based on collaboration patterns In our research, we have identified three interesting collaboration patterns which lead to high productivity of scientific papers with international co-authorship. First collaboration pattern corresponds to mega-authorship papers with hundreds of co-authors gathered in institutional research groups. The other two collaboration patterns were found in mathematics and multidisciplinary science, mainly application of graph theory and computational methods in physical chemistry which we examined in more details on the example of two most productive scientists in the dataset. There are several directions for future work. In order to analyze the scientific impact of their research, we plan to perform citation analysis of the prominent authors, together with impact factor analysis of the journals of their publications.
Cross-cultural differences in retracted publications of male and female from a global perspective This research provides three major insights: (i) Cultural dimensions (power distance, individualism, masculinity, uncertainty avoidance, long-term orientation) and trust are not necessary conditions for both male and female to cause retractions, (ii) different levels of personal trust (high/low) combine with national cultural dimensions in order to produce different configurations that can lead to high or low retractions, and (iii) Each gender causes retractions in a similar or identical way, but each also owns its unique way. The contributions of this essay are as follow. Firstly, this essay examines RP from the perspectives of both men and women. These findings are of great importance for public policy makers, as they offer policy impli- cations as follows to promote publication integrity and curb publication misconduct in a country.
Knowledge-integrated research is more disruptive when supported by homogeneous funding sources: a case of US federally funded research in biomedical and life sciences These results highlight the potential value of knowledge-integrated research that is hard to capture through short-term performance, which holds significant policy implications for current practices in research evaluations that are driven by short-term evaluation.
OA and the Academy: Evaluating an OA Fund with Authors' Input The funds thus provided have made a real difference in their ability to publish their research in this manner.
How Multilingual Is Area Studies? Citation Patterns of German Studies Scholars at American Institutions The results of this study confirm three findings from earlier studies of the humanities: 1) hu-manists use sources in multiple languages but show a preference for sources in the language of their own writing or institution; 2) scholarly communication varies significantly across humanistic disciplines; and 3) humanists rely heavily on books and continue to cite them long after initial publication.
Disclosing the interactive mechanism behind scientists' topic selection behavior from the perspective of the productivity and the impact In this study, we proposed two correlation metrics (TDC and TFC) to analyze 20,000 scientists' publication sequence from the computer science field.
Influence of interdisciplinarity on scientific impact: The case of climate change field This study explored the relationship between interdisciplinarity and scientific impact in the field of climate change, using the new interdisciplinarity measure DIV* containing three dimensions of variety, balance, and disparity.
Temporal dynamics of faculty hiring in mathematics In summary, we find that the Graduate Faculty Transition rate, an imperfect indicator of the relative ease of acquiring a DG faculty position in mathematics, is decaying over time, even for historically well-placing departments. We also uncover statistically significant factors (academic and otherwise) that influence the transition, including gender, year, target's Ph.D. authority, and the number of students advised by Ph.D. advisor. Taken together, we find that acquiring a DG faculty position is becoming more difficult and overall the rankings of departments remain relatively constant, though it is not impossible for departments to improve their ranking over time.
Bibliometric Analysis of the Top 50 Most Cited Studies on Achilles Tendon Pathology Among the 50 most influential articles in Achilles tendon pathology, the study designs most commonly used were cohort studies and review articles. Sweden was the country of origin for the most studies included on this list, which reflects this country's interest and commitment to researching Achilles tendon injuries and treatments. This article serves as a reference to direct orthopaedic practitioners to the 50 most influential studies in Achilles tendon rupture repair.
One size does not fit all: an exploratory interview study on how translational researchers navigate the current academic reward system Participants shared possible structural improvements and ideas for specialized support on an individual, institutional, and also international level.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Myopia Research in East Asia in the 21st Century: The Socio-Economic Status and Quantitative Analysis The researchers from East Asia published more than half of articles on myopia from 2019, in order of China, Japan, and South Korea.
Gintropic scaling of scientometric indexes The dimensionality of scientific performance has not only theoretical interest.
Can't We Do Better? A cost-benefit analysis of proposal writing in a competitive funding environment On average, a project consists of about 5 different partners from research and industry working together for 52 days on a single proposal.
The Effect of Multiple Scopus Profiles on the Perceived Academic Productivity of Neurosurgeons in the United States U.S. academic neurosurgeons with multiple existing profiles on Scopus experience a 17.3% loss in h-index, a 16.2% loss in document number, and a 14.1% loss in citations, heavily undercounting their perceived academic productivity. This potential bias is important to consider, as it may affect career development in academic neurosurgery.
Best practices in scholarly publishing for promotion or tenure: Avoiding predatory journals* The guidelines provided clarity for our promotion and tenure review committee and faculty. These guidelines are generic and appropriate for many disciplines. As a result, we can begin to encourage faculty to share this information within curricular content and through continuing education workshops.
In which fields do higher impact journals publish higher quality articles? The average citation impact of a Scopus-indexed journal is therefore never completely irrelevant to the quality of an article but is also never a strong indicator of article quality. Since journal citation impact can at best moderately suggest article quality it should never be relied on for this, supporting the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment. This result confirms that DORA's advice “Do not use journal-based metrics, such as Journal Impact Factors, as a surrogate measure of the quality of individual research articles, to assess an individual scientist's contributions, or in hiring, promotion, or funding decisions” (DORA, 2020) is empirically valid for all academic fields.
More diversity, more complexity, but more flexibility: research article titles in TESOL Quarterly, 1967-2022 In general, the article titles in the journal are becoming increasingly diversified and complex, both stylistically and syntactically, but more flexible by allowing writers to create a balance between informativeness and allure.
A flexible functional method for jointly valuing journal visibility and author citation count This paper set forth a simple, general, and flexible mathematical method for jointly valuing citation counts and journal prestige; two realms that are often at odds, but which can be made to work together in a single function.
Impacts of inter-institutional mobility on scientific performance from research capital and social capital perspectives Another key finding is that the aca.ind mobility of researchers in the AI domain is not conductive to the accumulation of research capital.
A nine-year (2012-2020) study of publication delay in an open access Library and Information Science journal The publication ecosystem for journal articles needs to be ramped up with the recording and provision of detailed information related to peer review timelines to avoid frustrations among authors. Editorial policymakers of DJLIT may adopt an ‘Online first' policy for speedy online publication of cutting-edge research and nascent ideas much ahead of print publication.
Profiling COVID-19 research in the social sciences from Indonesia based on Scopus database The findings suggest that social sciences researchers in Indonesia have made significant contributions to various fields including online learning; economics, business, and management; public health and administration; as well as communication and media studies. The findings of this study have several implications for researchers, funders, and academic institutions. One limitation of the current research is its reliance solely on documents from the Scopus database to collect social science research publications on COVID-19.
On the banks of Shodhganga: analysis of the academic genealogy graph of an Indian ETD repository We conducted a variety of analyses in the Shodhganga Indian Thesis Repository.
Evaluation of the National Institutes of HealtheSupported Relative Citation Ratio Among Fellowship-Trained American Orthopaedic Joint Reconstruction Surgery Faculty: A New Bibliometric Measure of Scientific Influence Adult reconstruction faculty are exceptionally productive and generate highly impactful studies as evidenced by the high median RCR value relative to the National Institutes of Health standard value of 1.0.
Anonymous editorials in biomedical research journals: Few in number but potentially problematic The solution to anonymous editorials issue is to require that the names, affiliations, and potential conflicts of interest of editors be published with editorials. Future original research can expand upon the preliminary findings on prevalence rates of anony- mous editorials presented here and study a larger pool of editorials across a range of scientific disciplines.
Universal research index: An inclusive metric to quantify scientific research output The UR-Index which incorporates publication and citation counts and can serve as a single indicator replacing the concurrent use of those two metrics. It has some advantages over the already existing research metrics: it is not just a citation impact indicator but it is more inclusive and considers the parameters disregarded by many indices. We believe that further studies can prove the predictive power of the mean USP and the practical usefulness of the UR-Index.
A construction and empirical research of the journal disruption index based on open citation data JDI reflects the innovation level of journals to a certain extent, which is helpful to promote the evaluation of innovation in sci-tech journals. This journal evaluation method makes innovative evaluation of journals with the aid of the measurement of disruption of paper from the level of knowledge structure.
Gender disparities in accounting academia: analysis from the lens of publications Despite the importance and recent interest in diversity, the accounting academic community is still predominantly represented by men as a reflection of the professional environment. In contrast, women are in a disadvantageous position in terms of recruitment, hiring, promotion, tenure, status, distribution of workload, and remuneration.
Google Scholar University Ranking Algorithm to Evaluate the Quality of Institutional Research The findings indicate that we have attained encouraging progress. This article explores the United Kingdom's Research Excellence Framework (UK-REF) 2021 tool for ranking institutes using cited data from Google Scholar (GS). The current algorithm, as demonstrated by the correlational analysis results, has limitations that can be addressed to improve its efficiency.
Effect of an educational intervention on the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of healthcare workers at King Hussein Cancer Center towards predatory publishers In short, we demonstrated that HCWs at the KHCC had subpar levels of knowledge and awareness with regards to predatory publishers.
Competitiveness of cities in the Latin American context: a bibliometric and social network analysis The study highlights the most relevant scientific productions aligned with the subject and considers the impact factor, citations, and year of publication, as well as the main categories analyzed by the authors and the social network formed around the identified relationships.
Analysis of the interval between submission and publication in genetics journals Our results may contribute in the development of strategies to expedite the pro-cess of scientific publishing in the field, and to promote equity in knowledge production and dissemination for researchers from all continents.
Does citation polarity help evaluate the quality of academic papers? Therefore, the metric of citation polarity can help evaluate the quality of papers and provide new ideas for scientific and objective evaluation of academic papers. Therefore, incorporating metrics related to citation polarity in paper quality evaluation can help distinguish papers with similar impact. Secondly, the findings are based on papers in the field of computational linguistics, and whether the conclusions are domain transferable remains to be verified.
Measuring the interdisciplinary characteristics of Chinese research in library and information science based on knowledge elements The extraction of knowledge elements facilitates the discovery of semantic information embedded in academic papers.
Bibliometric analysis of the classic cited papers in the American Journal of Surgery: Citation recapitulates surgical history Bibliometric study of the AJS has allowed for identification, characterization and appreciation of many of the key changes that have occurred in the discipline throughout the history of modern surgery.
Biomedical supervisors' role modeling of open science practices Based on our sample of 211 pairs of biomedical Ph.D. candidates and supervisors, we find the odds of a Ph.D. candidate sharing data to be greater when working under a supervisor who shared data themselves. The effect of open access was smaller and vanished when correcting for institutions, which might be explained by a greater uptake of open access across the Dutch ecosystem. Our design highlights a new way of investigating role modeling in the context of Open Science and other responsible research practices.
Before and After the Fall: Geography of Soviet and Post-Soviet Physics Surveyed via Leading Journals Still, we hope that the presented dataset and analysis will contribute to the modern history of science in the USSR and its successors. Despite all the international and integrational pathos of the Soviet ideology, the two leading multidisciplinary physics journals throughout the surveyed Soviet period remained the domain of corresponding authors from the RSFSR and the Ukrainian SSR. Such a change can be explained by the transition of the most prominent authors from Moscow and St. Petersburg to diaspora status and/or their reorientation to leading foreign publications, which made room for others with their lower-level submissions.
Contextualizing the lake ecosystem syndromes and research development activities in Chilika Lake (Odisha coast, India): a bibliometric overview (1970-2021) This short overview showed that the publication about Chilika Lagoon increased after 2015, mainly by researchers from India.
The 100 most cited papers on total anomalous pulmonary venous connection: a bibliometric analysis In conclusion, the bibliometric analysis gives a historical perspective on scientific progress in the field of TAPVC and lays the foundation for future research. This study presents a detailed list and analysis of the 100 most cited articles on TAPVC. The present study may help to find out the important factors that contribute to citation classics on TAPVC.
Does international R&D cooperation under institutional agreements have a greater impact than those without agreements? We found evidence that some impacts expected from inter-national collaboration can be increased under institutional agreements signed between the funder and foreign partners.
A Bibliometric Study of Scientific Literature on Obesity Research in Web of Science Database (2008-2020): Evidence from the MENA Region This study observed an increased share of scientific productivity in the field of obesity from the MENA countries.
Citation analysis of computer systems papers This work examined, for the first time, the citation characteristics of an important field of computer science, namely computer systems. It found that compared to other fields and disciplines, systems papers are very well cited: the top-cited papers rank the field among the highest scientific disciplines in citation counts, and only a few papers remain uncited after five years.
Industrial Informatics: Emerging Trends and Applications in the Era of Big Data and AI Since 1995, the number of publications in the field of industrial informatics has increased rapidly.
A new interpretation of scientific collaboration patterns from the perspective of symbiosis: An investigation for long-term collaboration in publications This indicates that our symbiosis-based framework can be used to effectively interpret the developmental and evolutionary trajectories of scientific collaboration.
Medical students' contribution to research; the scientific output of medical theses held in Moroccan medical schools during the last decade (2011-2021) The publication rate of Moroccan medical theses is very low when compared to other countries, which leads to question the real benefit of this time and resources consuming educational activity. Additional research should investigate the perspectives of students and supervisors regarding the importance of theses in the course of medical studies and their motivation for going through the scientific publication process.
Disruptive coefficient and 2-step disruptive coefficient: Novel measures for identifying vital nodes in complex networks Our results suggest that D and 2stepD are capable of providing valuable and distinct insights for identifying critical nodes in complex networks. Specifically, our findings suggest that D and 2stepD are valuable and effective measures for identifying critical nodes, providing a distinct approach from conventional node identification measures. Our new measures of D and 2stepD can fill in the gaps in the field of critical node identification in complex networks from the perspective of disruptiveness, and inspires further research on the identification of vital nodes in directed networks and contribute to the development of more efficient network disruption strategies in various fields.
Exploring the knowledge certainty shift: Metaknowledge analysis on drugs via assertion uncertainty burstiness We believe AUBAF and our experiment results can stimulate more comprehensive research on neurodegenerative disease treatments and contribute to clinical practice in the long run.
Comparative Study of ASEAN Research Productivity Overall, Singapore is at the forefront of research produc-tivity in the ASEAN. Although the publication output is still inferior compared to Malaysia, Singapore is superior in terms of citations and patents. Governmental and industry support in terms of investing in research and development is also needed to support innovation which will have an impact on the country's economy.
The Italian contribution to pediatric sleep medicine: A scientometric analysis Overall, Italian researchers have provided a crucial contribution to pediatric sleep medicine across a number of specific topics, spanning from neurophysiology to treatment, and from neurological to behavioral/psychopathological aspects. Despite these limitations, our analysis provides quantitative evidence from scientific publications supporting the key international contributions of Italian researchers in the field of pediatric sleep medicine across a number of specific topics, spanning from neurophysiology to treatment, and from neurological to behavioral/psychopathological aspects, reflecting the very essence of pediatric sleep medicine.
Scientific collaboration of post-Soviet countries: the effects of different network normalizations Our analysis reveals that the collaboration structure of post-Soviet countries changed significantly during the past twenty years and the observed changes depend on the type of normalization.
Finally! How time lapse in Nobel Prize reception affects emotionality in the Nobel Prize banquet speeches In our study, we have discovered a robust association between the length of time that scientists waited to receive the Nobel Prize for their work and the positive emotional response that they expressed during their Nobel Prize banquet speeches.
Can open access increase LIS research's policy impact? Using regression analysis and causal inference Our study revealed that OA had significant and positive effects on the policy impact of research. First, the findings of this study could provide empirical evidence for the OA movement. The findings of this study also have practical implications for improving the policy impact of research.
The forms of societal interaction in the social sciences, humanities and arts: Below the tip of the iceberg The almost 40,000 contributions approved in the transfer sex-enio evaluation process provide a better understanding of how scientific knowledge is transferred, the weight and rele-vance of the transfer channels and their success rates across STEM and SSHA. The results show that the most successful types of contribu-tions are those based on commercial and formal media, such as licensing of intellectual property rights, participation in spin-off activity, and contracts or agreement with external en-tities. In future evaluations, success rates for dis-semination contributions might increase were these activities to be better defined and distinguished from scholarly publica-tions for peer-to-peer communication, which are considered in evaluations of research not linked to societal impact.
Evaluating open access publication and research impact in gynecologic oncology In IJGC and Gynecologic Oncology, one-third of recent articles are published OA. These OA-published articles have a higher number of citations per year and other citation metrics score compared with articles published without OA. Articles written by authors in low/middle-income countries are under-represented overall, but even more so among OA publications, raising a concern that authors from these regions face obstacles to using OA to publish and distribute their research work.
Exploring the merits of research performance measures that comply with the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment and strategies to overcome barriers of adoption: qualitative interviews with administrators and researchers While participants identified many strengths of the measures, they also identified a few limitations and offered corresponding strategies to address the barriers that we will apply at our organization. Ongoing work is needed to develop a framework that evaluators can use to translate the measures into an overall assessment in response to a key concern about arriving at an overall assessment for an individual researcher.
Unsexing citation: Closing the gender gap in global public law Our empirical analysis reveals a substantial gendered citation gap and hints at the possibility that different forms of implicit bias might explain these findings, especially implicit biases on the part of male-identifying scholars in evaluating the significance of work by female-identifying scholars. Our aim is to show the need for increased attention to gendered patterns of citation in the field, and for debate as to how we should best respond to these patterns as an academic community.
"Bringing in" and "Going abroad": A bibliometric evaluation of the internationalization of archaeology in Mainland China Therefore the internationalization is not yet a dominant trend and with the introduction of the new inward-looking policy we need more time to observe where the trends of internationalization and localization in Chinese archaeology are heading.
Visibility, impact, and applications of bibliometric software tools through citation analysis A comprehensive analysis of 2882 citing articles retrieved from the WOS Core Collection revealed that these tools have a noteworthy impact and contribution to research, but their visibility through referencing, Author Keywords, and KeyWords Plus is generally low. This study serves as a clarion call to raise awareness and initiate discussions on the citing practices of software tools in scholarly publications. Future work could also include analyzing citations to specific data sets, software source codes, or fragments of codes, as well as AI chatbots, such as ChatGPT-4 (OpenAI, 2021).
Similar-to-me effects in the grant application process: Applicants, panellists, and the likelihood of obtaining funds More importantly, our paper suggests that the similarities between applicants and panels matter.
Unverified history: an analysis of quotation accuracy in leading history journals An overall quotation error rate of about 25% is in line with studies in other fields, and clearly shows that quotation errors pervade history literature also. Decreasing quotation errors would require journal publishers to modify their referencing standards and authors of history articles to be more accurate and specific in their use of references. These changes would not be trivial, but they would greatly increase the accuracy, transparency, and verifiability of history literature.
Researcher capacity estimation based on the Q model: a generalized linear mixed model perspective Overall, the reported findings look promising for the Q model to become a flexible tool for research and practice. While the current work has direct implications for practical research assessment (e.g., the Q parameter can be highly reliably estimated), there are more far reaching consequences for the Q model as well. Future work is needed to explore these options for the Q model, but the path is well laid out from here onwards.
Contextual ψ-index and its estimate for contextual productivity assessment Thus, both objectives are achieved and we can conclude that Ψ-index is most suitable for contextualization and contextual Ψ-index is the most suitable h-type indicator for contextual productivity assessment and its estimate can be used for quick rough assessment of the performance of actors in a research context.
Leadership and international collaboration on COVID-19 research: reducing the North-South divide? This study provides a more detailed look at international scientific collaboration related to the COVID-19 epidemic.
Knowledge diffusion for individual literature from the perspective of Altmetrics: Models, measurement and features The methodology and investigation in this study have implications for both research and practice.
Does knowledge have a half-life? An observational study analyzing the use of older citations in medical and scientific publications This study found evidence of a small increase in the citation of older research in medical and scientific literature over the past decade.
Motivation for downloading academic publications Due to the consis-tency between downloading and citing in reflecting the usefulness, downloads is an effective metric to supple-ment citation metrics in evaluating the impact of academic literature.
Neurosurgical Academic Impact Rankings by h5-Index: A Global Perspective This is the first study to explore the h-index between nations on an international level. GDP and proportion of GDP spent on health expenditure are the strongest correlates of the h5-index. Although a higher number of neurosurgeons in a nation does result in more publications, this is not necessarily translated into higher quality research.
Research frontier detection and analysis based on research grants information: A case study on health informatics in the US In this work, we proposed methodology for research front detection using research grant information. We identified five front topics from the 47 clustering topics: medical data privacy security, feature selection algorithm, brain dynamics research, health warning system, and blockchain algorithm. In addition, we identified the integration-splitting-reintegration pattern in health informatics research in recent decades.
Citation differences across research funding and access modalities Our analysis revealed that while funded research articles tend to receive more citations than unfunded ones, there is a greater open access citation advantage for unfunded articles.
A term function-aware keyword citation network method for science mapping analysis We believe that our work expands the methodology of keyword citation network and science mapping analysis and provides guidance for considering the term function in various scenarios.
Use of positive terms and certainty language in retracted and non-retracted articles: The case of biochemistry The findings from our research suggest that linguistic characteristics can serve as a tool for distinguishing between retracted and non-retracted articles. They can also assist us in better understanding of how scientific misconduct in scientific articles can affect communication and presentation of scientific findings. These findings also provide insight and guide policy for journal editors and authors within biochemistry discipline. In addition, better understanding of linguistic features of retracted and non-retracted could be helpful for classification of retracted articles (due to misconduct) and non-retracted articles using machine learning algorithms.
Retracted Publications in Medical Imaging Literature: an Analysis Using the Retraction Watch Database The number of retracted medical imaging publications continues to increase over time, which could indicate that more compromised research has either been published or discovered.
Common Interests Without Common Expertise: Reflections on Early-career Experiences in Cross-Disciplinary Research Through summarizing a range of student concerns about embarking on careers as interdisciplinary scientists and identifying ways to dismantle institutional and lab management-level barriers, we aim to promote an inclusive and collaborative problem-solving environment for scientists of all experience levels.
Cognitive and interdisciplinary mobility in the social sciences and humanities: Traces of increased boundary crossing The results presented in this study show that quite an extensive network of interdisciplinary traffic of researchers becomes apparent (cf. Figure 2).
Open access books through open data sources: assessing prevalence, providers, and preservation "The results suggest reason for concern for the long tail of OA books distributed at thousands of different web domains as these include volatile cloud storage or sometimes no longer contained the files at all."
The division of cognitive labor and the structure of interdisciplinary problems Our findings suggest that typical forms of interdisciplinary collaboration are unlikely to find optimal solutions to complex problems within short time frames and can lead to methodological conservatism.
Predictors of self-reported research productivity amongst medical students in the United Kingdom: a national cross-sectional survey Our data suggest that there are gender, ethnic and socioeconomic inequalities in research productivity among UK medical students.
CORE: A Global Aggregation Service for Open Access Papers An ongoing goal of CORE is to keep growing the collection to become a single point of access to all of world's open access research. The proposed system, titled CORE Works, will leverage CORE's central position in the OA infrastructure landscape and will link different versions of the same paper using a unique identifier. We will continue to keep linking the CORE collection to scholarly entities from other services, thereby making CORE data participate in a global scholarly knowledge graph.
Trends in invasive insect pest research: a bibliometric analysis Consequently, bibliometric analysis aids in the sys-tematic synthesis of research on invasive species and pests. The study identifies hot issues in studies on invasive spe-cies, such as climate change and disequilibrium dynamics. To determine the implications of research findings in reducing the hazards posed by invasive pests, more thorough analysis is required in near future.
Assessing the effects of publication requirements for professorship on research performance and publishing behaviour of Ukrainian academics The results of the study highlighted that the academics who became professors after the reform (Cohort B), at the time of promotion had a better scientific profile than the colleagues who were promoted before it (Cohort A). The statistical difference in differences tests revealed that in general the incentive to produce more S&W publications worked, but it did not always translate into higher research productivity which should be the ultimate aim of incentive schemes in research systems. Evidently, in several cases, the increase in S&W publications was obtained at the expense of research impact.
The association between prior knowledge and the disruption of an article This study deepens our understanding of the association between prior knowledge and disruption, and has significant implications for researchers to search for and synthesize different types of prior knowledge. Our findings provide empirical evidence that theamount, impact,disruption, and novelty of prior knowledge are positively associated with disruption while recency and homogeneity of prior knowledge are negatively correlated with disruption.
Structural Inequality in Collaboration Networks My model shows that the structure of collaboration networks can give rise to inequality even in the absence of social categories.I also bring empirical considerations to bear on models of the social organization of science by showing that structural inequality can likewise arise in real-world collaboration networks (cf. Martini and Pinto 2017).Further work could therefore consider collaboration networks where scientists pursue different strategies with different collaborators, change whom they interact with over time, differ with respect to how productive they are, or update their strategies according to different rules.
A study of the impact of interdisciplinary citation on the aging of library and information science The effect of interdisciplinary citation on literature aging needs to be judged dialectically.
SciSciNet: A large-scale open data lake for the science of science research Overall, this data lake serves as an initial but useful resource for the field, by lowering the barrier to entry, reducing duplication of efforts in data processing and measurements, improving the robustness and replicability of empirical claims, and broadening the diversity and representation of ideas in the field.
Author perceptions of positive and negative behaviors among library and information science journal editors This exploratory study is the first of its kind in LIS, and just the second of its kind across the disciplines. The authors of this study encourage future researchers to investigate author perceptions of journal editor behaviors across the disciplines. Study results might help to form the basis of a typology of LIS journal editor behaviors, which in turn might inform the development of prescriptive guidelines for training new editors or for improving the performance of those who already serve in that capacity.
Affiliation bias in peer review and the gender gap By analyzing the citation counts of papers published in top Chinese journals, we show that papers written by affiliated authors on average receive significantly fewer citation counts than papers written by non-affiliated authors.
Evaluation of Scientific Research in Universities Based on the Theories for Sustainable Competitive Advantage The research results prove that this theory can effectively predict the sustainable development ability of universities, which is of great significance for universities to formulate higher education policies in the future.
Who Controls the National Academic Promotion System: An Analysis of Power Distribution in Poland Our major finding is that the Polish system of academic promotion does not seem to be entirely based on merit; rather, interpersonal connections appear to be much at play. We have shown that being selected to a panel of judges is positively related to membership in a central administrative body. This suggests that our study has quantitatively captured hallmarks of spontaneous social order on a national scale.
Analysis of Attrition Studies Within the Computer Sciences This study provides insights into research on student attrition. Our study serves as a guide to young and emerging researchers aiming to shape their research prospects on attrition in computer science education. For educators, administrators, and other stakeholders, this study provides relevant information that can guide strategic planning and preparation for the future in order to address more issues related to student retention as a measure of academic success in the field.
New trends in bibliometric APIs: A comparative analysis "Considering the obtained results, there is no single API that gathers all the information needed to perform any bibliometric analysis."
Were academic promotions in biochemistry and other research disciplines improperly controlled in Poland between 2011 and 2020? A response to the recently published "Who controls the national academic promotion system" article However, the conclusions presented by the authors were highly influenced by serious errors and misinterpretation of the data.
The impact of financial incentives on research production: Evidence from Saudi Arabia The results show an improvement in the Saudi RDI performance in scientific publications. This positive increase could be attributed to the launch of the National Science, Technology, and Innovation Plan (NSTIP) and the promulgation of the Regulations on Scientific Publication Awards for Faculty Members and the like. This study further highlights the considerable improvement in the scientific research output and an increase in the quality of scientific papers in the KSA compared with most MENA countries.
North-South research funding dynamics of collaborative projects: researchers' appropriation strategies of agencies' project frameworks Finally, findings inform research management about the importance of defining relatively large frameworks that include applicants' knowledge, competences, and contextual features to enhance local relevance while contributing to the policy debate on project-based funding impact on contemporary research. Our study shows that building a con-sensual framework is a time-consuming process that requires considerable knowledge and skills in terms of learning about operational modes, interests, and appropriate language as each donor has its own coordination modalities and relational logics. By stressing researchers' ability to assert their interests and become full players, we question, on the one hand, the vision of a unidirectional relationship between agencies and grantees and, on the other hand, the vision of Southern researchers as passive beings when participating in international collaborations.
Triviality and the Search for Scholarly Impact Overall, the findings reinforced a need to develop composite measures of scholarly impact, to reduce excessive focus on methodologies and techniques, to incentivize developing ideas important to external constituencies, and to introduce more applications of theories to practice. Impactful academic research may emerge from cross-collaborations between academics from different disciplines, policymakers and businesspersons. Meanwhile, too many of our top-tier journals continue to focus on coffee budgets and bike sheds.
Nobel Citation Effects on Scientific Publications: A Case Study in Physics In this study, we quantified the Nobel citation effects by calculating the ACE of the Nobel Prize on publications' post-award citation counts, based on the one-to-four propensity score matching strategy with replacement, and verified the significance of the Nobel citation effects using a variety of statistical tests.
The Brazilian and Chinese scientific publication indexed on the Web of Science: analysis of the Information Science area It is concluded that the scientific production in the field of Information Science from Brazil and China, as indexed in the Web of Science, exhibits diversified strategies. Brazil stands out for the indexing of national journals and publishing articles in Portuguese that are available through Open Access repositories. On the other hand, China is notable for its publication of articles in English, in journals that are already indexed in the Web of Science, and predominantly edited by commercial publishers. A more internationalized production than the Brazilian one, but with greater dependence on the system by the scientific community.
Identification of potential young talented individuals in the natural and life sciences: A bibliometric approach Our study - the proposed method for identifying potentially talented individuals – has several advantages: First, our method follows previous studies that have investigated the relationship of early and late performance of scientists.
Medical articles in questionable journals are less impactful than those in non-questionable journals but still extensively cited Medical articles in questionable journals received significantly fewer citations than similar articles in non-questionable journals. However, articles in questionable journals were still extensively cited in 1736 primarily non-questionable journals. Self-citations accounted for only 12% of these citations.
COVID-19: a disruptive impact on the knowledge support of references The findings indicate that the occurrence of COVID-19, a disruptive event, has a significant impact on the initial knowledge support pattern.
Scientometric assessment of funded scientometrics and bibliometrics research (2011-2021) In this study, our objective was to comprehensively map the landscape of funded research in the field of scientometrics and bibliometrics over a ten-year period.
The marginalizing effect of journal submission fees in Accounting and Finance With this study, we contribute to a critical assessment of both the landscape and unintended, yet foreseen, effects of submission fees in Accounting and Finance.
Which factors are associated with fraud in medical imaging research? Our results suggest that instructors/lecturers and fellows/residents are particularly prone to engage in scientific misconduct in medical imaging research.
Too official to be effective: An empirical examination of unofficial information channel and continued use of retracted articles This study shows that unofficial information channels can help to reduce post-retraction citations when articles were retracted two or more years after the publication year.
Democratic governance and global science: A longitudinal analysis of the international research collaboration network This study sought to test two hypotheses, each with two sub-hypotheses, using longitudinal data merged from the Varieties of Democracy Institute, Scopus, Web of Science, and World Bank Indicators, and analyzed with two types of inferential network analysis: bootstrapped temporal exponential random graph models (TERGM), which leveraged the panel structure of the data; and, valued exponential random graph models (VERGM), leveraging edge weights but treating each year sequentially over time.
Developing a four-entities reinforced rank model to evaluate the topic influence in academic networks This study enriches the methodology for assessing topic impact and contributes to the development of future topic-based retrieval and prediction tasks.
Society of Interventional Radiology Foundation Funding to National Institutes of Health Funding: Report from the Society of Interventional Radiology Foundation/National Institutes of Health Task Force In terms of the return on investment for the SIRF awards, between 2002 and 2020, SIRF invested $4.7 million on 201 individuals who were subsequently awarded more than $37.6 million in NIH funds, which shows a return of 8 NIH dollars for every 1 SIRF dollar invested.
Identify novel elements of knowledge with word embedding This study offers a new bibliometric indicator of element novelty, drawing on a word embedding model trained on scientific publications in all disciplines, and validated it with self-reported novelty scores from our original survey.
Priorities in research portfolios: exploring the need for upstream research in cardiometabolic and mental health The results suggest the need for mission-oriented innovation policies in health to balance research portfolios towards more upstream and intervention-oriented research. We finish with a reflection on the causes of the mismatch and conclude that shifting priorities in health research is unlikely to be achieved without broader institutional rearrangement, as suggested by the literature on mission orientation and transformative change. In particular, there is a strong consensus on the importance of transdisciplinary approaches and formative modes of evaluation so as to allow discussion, conflict, and negotiations and thus facilitate collective understanding across a diversity of stakeholders on broader visions towards transformative change.
Cien a?os de la Revista Panamericana de Salud P?blica: visualizaci?n de sus contenidos The topics published in the Pan American Journal of Public Health and its precursor bulletins reflect the history of regional public health and its evolution over time, as well as the key health issues of the Pan American Health Organization.
Unmasking what drive academic output in domestic journals: A longitudinal study considering the intensity of international collaboration The findings offer important suggestions for scientific leaders to design collaboration strategies with foreign partners, and provide an important alternative for scholars to consider international partners. Although the patterns of international collaboration are gradually changing over the years, our work still provides insights for improving domestic papers.
A 10-year (2010 to 2019) scientometric analysis of prosthodontic journals based on SCImago Journal and Country Rank indicators Scientometric tools enable the evaluation of journal performance to aid researchers when choosing a journal to which to submit their work. Analysis of the 7 prosthodontic journals revealed the performance of various journals and gives an insight into the journal characteristics for future researchers who wish to submit their scholarly work. In-depth analysis of performance will allow researchers to identify the journal where their work can create maximum impact by creating change in clinical practice and generating further discussion.
Climbing up the ladder of abstraction: how to span the boundaries of knowledge space in the online knowledge market? In all, this research supports that knowledge spanning has an inverted U-shaped effect on the success of questions.
A bibliometric analysis of quality assurance in higher education institutions: Implications for assessing university's societal impact This study has significant importance to orient HEI's QA process towards the assessment of the university's societal impact.
Infrastructure Features Associated With Increased Department Research Capacity Most departments that increased their research capacity added multiple additional infrastructure features.
Does scientific collaboration variety influence the impact of articles? This study examines the relationship between the academic background variety, CN variety in the co-authorship team and the article's impact separately in the field of dentistry. The results demonstrate that the relationship between CA variety and CN variety and article impact is both positive and negative, depending on the type of variety of the cooperative scientist. The findings indicate that authors can improve their scientific output by collaborating with similar authors of academic backgrounds or stable groups of authors, which provides guidance for scientific cooperation.
Communication costs in science: evidence from the National Science Foundation Network The overall findings suggest that a decline in communication costs due to the national NSFnet bolstered scientific output academic institutions by increasing citations per paper roughly ten percent.
Comprehensive bibliometric research in neuroscience: focusing on ophthalmology This study visualized ophthalmology research in the field of neuroscience through bibliometric analysis and predicted potential research trends in future to help clinicians and basic researchers provide diversified perspectives and further carry out in-depth research on ophthalmology.
Publication performance and trends in bruxism research: A bibliometric analysis The most productive authors and those with the highest performance have some common features; they have several national and international collaborations; and they have published articles about the definition, aetiology/pathophysiology and prevalence of bruxism, all senior researchers in the field of TMD.
Eurowhiteness in Science: Privilege Escalation and Intentional Sludge In the above, we used Böröcz's concept to prove that Eurowhiteness can have an effect on areas like academia, where its presence is seemingly absent, while its effects are obvious and long-lasting to those it hurts. Based on these assertations, we believe that we need a more enlightened European academia that really values diversity and performance and does not discriminate based on whether a scientific performance was made in Sri Lanka, Budapest, or Leuven, in Tamil, Hungarian, or French. How we can achieve a more diverse system is a good question.
Global reach, regional strength: Spatial patterns of a big science facility The present study proposes a novel methodology to make use of the rich address data available in Web of Science, where author affiliation is detailed by publication.
Comparing Manually Added Research Labels and Automatically Extracted Research Keywords to Identify Specialist Researchers in Learning Analytics: A Case Study Using Google Scholar Researcher Profiles Our work contributes to the areas of knowledge of bibliometrics and of sustainable research and education. The chief contribution is a heuristic approach to accessing the value and impact of scientific knowledge. The results showed that using manually added research labels to identify the specialist LA researchers was of limited use, and that using automatically extracted keywords was more useful.
Improving in-text citation reason extraction and classification using supervised machine learning techniques In this research, we have presented an automatic citation reason classification model to annotate in-text citations into eight reasons defined by CCRO. Our future work involves the development of CCRO based intelligent citation knowledge graph that can provide better insight and filtering mechanism to save time and effort to filter out required articles significantly.
Bibliometric analysis and evaluation of the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry from 1970 to 2019 "This bibliometric analysis provided a comprehensive overview of the impactful role of the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry in contemporary dentistry, particularly in the field of prosthodontics."
The role of author identities in peer review Overall, these findings support anonymization of author identities in some form (e.g., as was done in ITCS 2023), as long as there is a robust and efficient way to check conflicts of interest. Our results suggest support for some form of anonymizing authors in peer review. Doing so can help mitigate biases pertaining to initial impressions about authors.
Fewer Than One in 20 Current Academic Orthopaedic Surgeons Have Obtained National Institutes of Health Funding Fewer than one in 20 academic orthopaedic surgeons have received NIH funding.
A Metadata-Based Approach for Research Discipline Prediction Using Machine Learning Techniques and Distance Metrics In this paper, we proposed a generic framework not only for multiple disciplines prediction but also for interdisciplinarity calculation. Empirical results show that in the proposed framework, the ML classifier performs better than conventional approaches like TF-IDF as features and binary encoded labels as output variables. This study has some limitations, which can be considered in the future. First of all, the size of the experimental data is limited. i.e. only 2571 records from FRIS and 4248 records from Dimensions were considered.
Quantifying the impact of strong ties in international scientific research collaboration The main purpose of this study is to explore how the bonding of collaboration ties contributes to countries/regions' international scientific performances.
"Dear Doctor, greetings of the day!": A 1-year observational study of presumed predatory journal invitations Nearly 8 out of 10 unsolicited e-mail invitations sent to orthodontists for scholarly contribution may be related to journals suspicious for publishing malpractices and suboptimal standards. Excessive flattering language, grammatical errors, broad range of submissions, and incomplete journal contact information were commonly encountered findings. Researchers in orthodontics should be alert to the unethical policies of illegitimate journals and their harmful consequences on the scientific literature.
Studies on intramedullary nailing over 40 years by science mapping method Our study sheds light on the 40-year development dynamics of intramedullary nailing.
Demography's Changing Intellectual Landscape: A Bibliometric Analysis of the Leading Anglophone Journals, 1950-2020 From a field that first coalesced around a relatively narrow scope, anglophone demography has become a broad, diverse field of research, with articles published in its three leading journals touching on an expansive range of topics.
Can journal reviewers dependably assess rigour, significance, and originality in theoretical papers? Evidence from physics The results of our study confirm that there is a moderate degree of agreement (ICCs 0.36 to 0.40) between journal article reviewers for each of the three core dimensions of research quality (validity, originality, and significance) in the relatively ideal case of theoretical physics journal article submissions.
Insights from the co-authorship network of the Italian academic statisticians The present contribution was motivated by the recent Italian regulation that aggregates some academic scientific sectors (Scientific Disciplinary Sectors, SDS) in a same Competition Sector (CS) for purposes of recruitment and career advancement. In particular, analyses showed a clear evidence of a significant effect of the SDS on the work and collaborative style, especially pronounced on the distribution of the number of publications and the degree strength. These results provide useful suggestions for the decision maker: indeed, the aggregation of S04 and S05 on one side and S01 and S02 on the other side in the same competitive sectors appears questionable.
Behind the curtains of academic publishing: strategic responses of economists and business scholars The results show that authors are induced to first submit to a well-ranked journal. If they are rejected, they then choose a lower-ranked journal for resubmission.
Dynamics and characteristics of interdisciplinary research in scientific breakthroughs: case studies of Nobel-winning research in the past 120 years This study analysed the interdisciplinary dynamics and characteristics in natural science from the perspective of knowledge integration using Nobel-winning research and their references data.
On the lack of women researchers in the Middle East and North Africa Our longitudinal study contributes to a better understanding of gender disparities in science in MENA which is catching up in terms of policy engagement and women representation. However, the results suggest that the effects of the policy changes have yet to materialize into distinct improvements in women's participation and performance in science. Based on our analysis, one can predict countries such as Turkey, Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, UAE, Qatar, Jordan and Iran might possibly close the women representation gap in science in the next 10 years.
BIOMEDICAL CONVERGENCE FACILITATED BY THE EMERGENCE OF TECHNOLOGICAL AND INFORMATIC CAPABILITIES Altogether, we develop a knowledge network framework that identifies the critical role of techno-informatic inputs as convergence bridges or catalyzers of integration across distinct knowledge domains as highlighted by the 1990s genomics revolution, and onward in contemporary brain, behavior and health science initiatives.
The relevance of livestock husbandry in the context of food security: a bibliometric outlook of research studies from 1938 to 2020 The bibliometric assessment of the present study revealed an essential rise in the use of livestock as a potential instrument to tackle the challenges of hunger, malnutrition, and food security, with more large research investigations being done in well-developed nations (also known as high-income countries) in comparison to developing nations (also known as low- and middle-income countries).
More on the relationship between interdisciplinary accounting research and citation impact The most productive authors and those with the highest performance have some common features; they have several national and international collaborations; and they have published articles about the definition, aetiology/pathophysiology and prevalence of bruxism, all senior researchers in the field of TMD.
Open Access Advantages as a Function of the Discipline: Mixed-methods Study Our findings contribute to the increasing body of research that addresses OA citations and societal-impact advantages. The findings suggest the need to adopt an OA-policy after a thorough assessment of the consequences for SSH disciplines.
Content and form of original research articles in general major medical journals Title content changed over time and differed substantially between the five major medical journals.
An analysis of reporting practices in the top 100 cited health and medicine-related bibliometric studies from 2019 to 2021 based on a proposed guidelines "In conclusion, our findings suggest that the reporting practices of bibliometric studies in the field of health and medicine are in need of improvement."
A mathematical analysis of the h-index and study of its correlation with some improved metrics: A conceptual approach Summarising the study, we can conclude that the h-index is certainly an efficient measurement that has strength in its potential to assess the set of small papers but other traditional bibliometric indicators are often seen to fail in efficiently assessing the performance at author, journal or institution levels. The study well established the relationship of the h-index with total publications and citations. The study also explores the correlation of h-index with metrics such as g-index and m-index showing their dependency on one another. So, further studies should explore methods to evaluate correlation comparison between traditional metrics such as citations, the number of publications and h-index with AAS and to explore methods to develop different weighing schemes including social media, which are having potential for impact but not included in altmetric scoring system.
Bibliometric mining of research directions and trends for big data Big Data is an active research area that plays an important role in many fields of science and technology.
An ablation study on the use of publication venue quality to rank computer science departments Publication quality is strongly correlated with the subjective perception of research strength The results revealed that none of the ablations helped substantially improve the quality of CSRankings, where the quality was defined as the correlation with the U.S. News ranking.
Improving our understanding of open access: how it relates to funding, internationality of research and scientific leadership "Our study shows that, even within an institution, discipline-specific publishing practices lead to different degrees of OA adoption." "Internationality of research, where “international research" is considered as research with foreign funding and/or international collaboration (particularly collaboration with leading OA supporter countries), increases the chances of OA publication at CSIC." "Further research on this issue is called for."
Do reviewers get their deserved acknowledgments from the authors of manuscripts? As gatekeepers of science, reviewers of scientific papers play an essential role in academic communication and have contributed in improving the quality of articles.
Research trends within aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage from 2017 to 2021: a bibliometric study To the authors’ best knowledge, this is the most up-to-date bibliometric analysis within aSAH research.
What do Retraction Notices Reveal About Institutional Investigations into Allegations Underlying Retractions? Our study identified seven types of institutional investigators into allegations that had led to retractions, and institutional investigations were disclosed in just over one quarter of the 7,318 retraction notices examined.
Bibliographic mapping of animal genetic resources and climate change in farm animals This study can help to understand new research trends in the area of animal genetic resources and climate change and can assist in the development of future actions within the research community.
An Optimization Ranking Approach Based on Weighted Citation Networks and P-Rank Algorithm Refining the evaluation of scientific papers is crucial, yet it poses significant difficulty due to the intricate and constantly evolving nature of the diverse academic network.
Investigating hybridity in artificial intelligence research The article thus contributes a new theoretical and empirical understanding of hybridity as a measure of influence as well as as a feature of knowledge production.
Research publications of Australia's natural history museums, 1981-2020: Enduring relevance in a changing world Growth in numbers of documents and collaborations, as well as use of documents internationally over a period of great change in scientific and funding environments, indicate an enduring legacy of ANHM research, grounded on the intrinsic value of the collections. In that context, the increases in publications by authors affiliated with ANHMs between 1981 and 2020 point to an enduring relevance of natural history museum collections, despite a changing research environment and on-going reflection on the role of museums in science and society [2, 3].
Will patent family be dormant? Research on the identification and characteristics of sleeping beauty's patent family This study expands the theoretical framework of technological knowledge diffusion by identifying the Sleeping Beauty phenomenon of technological innovations and provides theoretical and methodology support for identifying advanced and transformative technologies based on patent data.
Quantifying progress in research topics across nations The historical and global divide in research topic progress remains strong, despite the advancement of developing nations in science⁴² and the increased open access to scientific information¹⁻³. The TPI correlates strongly with the percentage of information-rich scientists. These results provide support for national research strategies that promote global co-authorship²⁹, the recruitment of top scientists³⁰, and the encouragement of scientists to go abroad and return³¹.
Contextualised segment-wise citation function classification More specifically, the study justified the necessity of modelling in-text citations in context and confirmed the superiority of doing citation function classification at citation (segment) level.
A model for reference list length of scholarly articles Our results show that the uniform citation model we have used is good enough to explain the time evolution of the length of reference lists and to relate this to the growth in the number of articles published, at least in the modern era of electronic searching.
Turning academics into researchers: The development of National Researcher Categorization Systems in Latin America In summary, our study sheds light on NRCSs, providing insights into their nature, comparative analysis across countries, and implications within the broader academic research landscape.
Citation of updated and co-published Cochrane Methodology Reviews Earlier versions of Cochrane Methodology Reviews continue to be cited after an update is published, which raises doubts about whether those citing are using the most recent evidence or are aware of the update.
Bibliometric analysis of Asian 'language and linguistics' research: A case of 13 countries The present study was designed to contribute to the literature on the comprehensive bibliometric analyses of Asian 'language and linguistics' research. The findings of this study have opened up other possible avenues of research to pursue. Therefore, it will be an imperative academic path to take, to analyze the research trends of computerized language analyses in Asian language and linguistics' research.
The European Tertiary Education Register, the reference dataset on European Higher Education Institutions In just a few years, the ETER dataset has become widely used in scholarly literature on European higher education; a search in Google Scholar retrieved as of April 2023 more than 300 documents referring to ETER as a data source.
How unpredictable is research impact? Evidence from the UK's Research Excellence Framework Our findings suggest that research impact appears to be broadly predictable, although unpredictability remains important.
Modelling in engineering: A citation context analysis This study confirms that critical citations are not common in written academic discourse, even though criticism is essential (or the backbone) for scientific progress and knowledge construction. The working hypothesis that research based on modelling techniques builds heavily on previous work and developments could not be confirmed. Only 6% of citations can be attributed to the category 'Extending'.
Sorting out journals: The proliferation of journal lists in China The Chinese journal lists are an instrument that helps administrative bodies, outsiders to the academic community, to ascribe value to scientific journals and direct funding to journals in support of research policy goals. It is the diverse field of policy goals and actors that generates this remarkable proliferation of journal lists.
USA vs Russia in the scientific arena The USA is not just larger in research size but also outperforms Russia in labor research productivity, in all fields but entomology and aerospace engineering, with the latter confirming that the cold war contest in space exploration between the two countries is still on. While the USA higher diversification allows capturing returns to scope, where potentially available, on the other hand, they might partly be a cause of lower efficiency in funds allocation across fields, as findings reveal. Looking at knowledge advances emerging from the USA and Russia, it could be interesting to focus new research on the collaboration networks and knowledge flows between the two countries and with the rest of the world.
Cite-seeing and reviewing: A study on citation bias in peer review Thus, the finding of this work may be informative for conference chairs and journal editors who may need to develop measures to counteract citation bias in peer review.
Predatory journals: Perception, impact and use of Beall's list by the scientific community-A bibliometric big data study It seems that the importance of Beall's list for the scien-tific community is overestimated.
Comprehensive Evaluation of Publication and Citation Metrics for Quantifying Scholarly Influence This research has conducted a comprehensive analysis of parameters used to evaluate authors by utilizing the h-index and its 32 variants.
The Economics of Scientific Publishing A fundamental change in scientific publishing is required to enable socially efficient and equitable access for wider society's benefit.
Crisis and the Trajectory of Science: Evidence from the 2014 Ebola Outbreak The findings imply that an epidemic has a directional and distributional effect on the scientific enterprise in affected countries.
Bibliometrics Methods in Detecting Citations to Questionable Journals It is important to note that although we cannot assume that all the journals removed followed unethical practices, it is still essential that researchers are aware of the issues around citing journals that have been suspected of misconduct.
The 'Zoomification' of Collaboration: How Timely Technology has Affected Academic Research Our view is that Zoomification will continue to be an important tool in research collaboration and its use will in the intermediate term expand, but it will not replace in-person research collaboration and mentoring.
The Top 100 Most Cited Publications on Suicide: A Citation Analysis This study identified and analyzed the top 100 cited publications on the topic of suicide.
Issue assignment delay of early-view articles: Impact on subscribers through an aggregator database While these results portray aggregator databases in a negative light, the products remain economical for libraries and powerful for searchers.
Undeserved authorship in surgical research: an underestimated bias with potential side effects on academic careers This survey showed that undeserved authorship is sadly confirmed to be a common research misconduct across any countries and medical specialties, even among a very selected group of surgeons with international reputation irrespective of the academic position.
Global COVID-19 Policy Engagement With Scientific Research Information: Altmetric Data Study The global scientific network ecology during the COVID-19 pandemic revealed distinct types of links primarily centered around the WHO. Western countries demonstrated effective networking practices in constructing these networks. The prominent position of the key term “COVID-19 vaccine” demonstrates that nation-states align with global authority regardless of their national contexts.
Impact of institutional organization on research productivity and multidisciplinarity In this study, we have presented a model to investigate the impact of a research institutional organization on the performance of its members.
Open Science in Italy: Lessons Learned En Route to Opening Scholarship The present succinct analysis of the adoption of open science in Italy also shows evidence that, as it happens at the CNR where researchers rely on self-determination to outclass a shrinking research budget, [56] a small group of researchers and librarians self-determined to practice and disseminate research carried out according to the principles of open science, advocated its value for nearly two decades within a research community showing a prolonged lack of interest. Much remains to be done in Italy concerning the uptake of open science in education, especially undergraduate education, that goes much beyond open educational resources to include a new relationship between educational and research work,[57] and new evaluation of scholarship. [7]
It Takes a Team to Make Team Science a Success: Career Development within Multicenter Networks Networks and collaboratives provide a wealth of benefits to trainees and junior faculty, including career satisfaction, access to senior faculty to meet a variety of career development needs, and activities leading to both promotion, and maximal impact on child health.
Exploitation and exploration: An analysis of the research pattern of Nobel laureates in Physics In general, we found that different Nobel laureates in Physics had a similar research pattern, that is, although at any particular time point in their career, they tend to explore 2 or 3 topics alternately, throughout their entire careers they would identify their core research topics early and mainly focus on it. And when exploring new research fields, they would prefer to go back to the original core research topics. Also, our findings have contribution to the identification and training of creative talents, as well as for the selection of career strategies for academic newcomers.
Methods for measuring social and conceptual dimensions of convergence science This distinction thereby calls for both clear problem-solving agenda setting, often imposed or incentivized via a funding body, as well as social engineering to integrate disparate domains according to principles of structural and functional relatedness (Hidalgo et al. 2018), thereby requiring an opera- tional distance metric.
Exploring the research features of Nobel laureates in Physics based on the semantic similarity measurement The major conclusions of this research are as follows: i) The mean WI value is approximately 0.5, which indicates that the laureate generally starts the Prize-winning research in the mid-term of the T1 period. ii) The mean RI value stabilizes at approximately 1.55, which shows that laureates on average spend 1.55 times as much as the T2 period for further research in the Prize-winning field. And most laureates spent about 15 years on their Prize-winning research. Our study practices a relatively new research perspective, that is, using semantic similarity measurement to quantify the career development of Nobel laureates in Physics, and our findings are similar to those obtained by using bibliometric indexes. This indicates the value of semantic technology in scientometrics.
The impact of geographic inequality in federal research funding: A comparative longitudinal study of research and scholarly outputs in EPSCoR versus non-EPSCoR states Our analysis revealed that non-EPSCoR states received more research funding per faculty and exhibited more research productivity when compared to their EPSCOR counterparts.
Habits and perceptions regarding open science by researchers from Spanish institutions The meaning of open science and its implementation are emerging topics that still require promotion, training and even persuasion to be carried out. Researchers do not seem to question the objectives of open science, although they do question the pathways or difficulties that may arise from day to day. In this sense, more and better support is needed on the part of institutions and teacher support services.
Is ORCID your ID? A case study at the Faculty of Arts and Humanities of the University of Porto This study shows how the existence of an ORCID iD is no guar-antee of its use as a means of digital identity. Therefore, introducing new tools, platforms and systems, including PIDs, requires complementary actions. National R&D agencies and universities need to make every effort to raise awareness of the value of an international identi-fier such as ORCID beyond its mere requirement.
Do bibliometrics introduce gender, institutional or interdisciplinary biases into research evaluations? In conclusion, out of the three potential sources of bibliometric bias examined, the most serious seems to be the tendency for bibliometric scores to work against high quality departments, assuming that the peer review scores are correct.
Social capital theory perspective on the role of academic social networking sites Thus, the findings imply that academics vies ASNs as a means of developing their social assets, which they may leverage in the future. Our analyses revealed a correlation between the creation of profiles on Academia.edu and GSC and institution rankings. Accordingly, university administration should advocate for the use of ASNs and provide researchers with the necessary training for this purpose in order to promote not only the individual achievements of researchers but also the influence and reputation of their respective research units (Wiechetek & Pastuszak, 2022).
Highly cited publication performance in the ophthalmology category in the Web of Science database: a bibliometric analysis The findings of the present study highlight the current scope of global research in ophthalmology. The findings can help policy-makers and advisory groups of research centers to develop future policies. In addition, the findings can guide researchers in this field.
Vet the journal before you submit: turnaround times of journals publishing in zoological medicine and related fields Results may prove useful for authors deciding where to submit their works, depending on how they prioritize the many factors involved.
Sub-Saharan Africa's biomedical journal coverage in scholarly databases: a comparison of Web of Science, Scopus, EMBASE, MEDLINE, African Index Medicus, and African Journals Online The majority of studies from Sub-Saharan Africa are left out when biomedical evidence-based researchers only retrieve studies from authoritative international databases.
Discrepancies among Scopus and Web of Science, coverage of funding information in medical journal articles: a follow-up study Due to significant differences in the number of funded articles indexed in WoS and Scopus, which might be attributed to the different protocols for handling funding data in WoS and Scopus, we would still advise using both databases to obtain and analyze funding information.
Assessing the impact of geopolitics on international scientific cooperation-The case of US-China marine pollution research In terms of scientific research output in the field of marine pollution between the US and China, the impact of geopolitics on inter-country research cooperation has not been evident.
Replacing academic journals In summary, we argue that the time is ripe to replace traditional and outdated academic journals with an open, interoperable and community-governed modern scholarly information infrastructure.
A Bibliometric Study on E-Learning Software Engineering Education The research findings can be used to identify the current state of E-learning Software Engineering Education, as well as to identify various research trends and the general direction of E-learning research. The research findings will help interested researchers in the field of E-learning to understand the current state of E-learning Software Engineering Education and discover the different research trends. Finally, it should be noted that E-learning Software Engineering education involving fields such as gamifications [Sobrino-Duque et al. 2022] is a promising area for researchers.
A large scale randomized controlled trial on herding in peer-review discussions Overall, we find no evidence of herding in the discussion phase of ICML 2020 peer review.
The evolution of scientific literature as metastable knowledge states This paper proposes a hybrid language- and network-based framework that uses semantic embeddings and citation information to model metastability of ideas in order to identify dynamic events associated with the rise, fall, combination, and dispersion of topics in the scholarly corpus.
From consolidation to disruption: A novel way to measure the impact of scientists and identify laureates Overall, this study provides a scientifically sound and effective new perspective on measuring scientists using a dual measurement of disruptive and consolidating influence. This paper makes significant theoretical contributions in several ways. Overall, the practical implications of this study can help to improve the accuracy and fairness of academic evaluation and decision-making processes.
Toward a Potential Solution of the Crisis in Scholarly Publishing: An Academic Research Community Alliance Model A modified Diamond OA ARC Alliance model is proposed, which is largely consistent with the BOAI, as an alternative to existing publishing models.
Measuring risk in science How ordinary citizens come to know what is collectively known by science is simultaneously a mystery that excites deep scholarly curiosity and a practical problem that motivates urgent attention by those charged with assuring democratic societies make effective use of the collective knowledge at their disposal. An appropriately discerning and focused instrument for measuring individual differences in the cognitive capacities essential to recognizing what is known to science is essential to progress in these convergent inquiries. Future research will include additional forms of behavioral validation, including assess- ments of the scale’s power to predict individuals’ capacity to recognize and make appropriate use of valid science in various real-world domains.
Evaluation of the 101 most cited immunology articles: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, our study examining the citation numbers of international articles on "Immunology" in the WoS database is the first study on this subject.
Current and Historical Publication Trends of State Library Association Journals and Newsletters As data indicated, they are far from dead and have not slowed down. State associations should make sure MARC records in OCLC are up to date to have accurate publication information. I plan to follow up this assessment with a questionnaire distributed to each state association.
Does double dipping occur? The case of Wiley's hybrid journals By formulating the two prices, this study revealed that Wiley has not reduced subscription prices in response to the development of open access in hybrid journals. The findings suggest that Wiley charges the same article twice, that is, it double dips. Research institutions and consortiums must be cautious about subscription prices when negotiating subscription contracts with the publisher.
Measuring and characterizing international collaboration patterns in Indian scientific research The article measures and characterizes the international collaboration patterns in Indian scientific research during the last two decades (2001–2020).
Publication rate and factors associated with publication of research projects by obstetrics residents in an academic department over 10 years Approximately one third of ObGyn residents who rotated through our obstetric department published their mandatory research project. Factors associated with scientific publications were resident's desire for the career in academic medicine and the prospective study design of the project. Freeing up time for research, as has recently occurred in France, could increase the publication rate, since lack of time seems to be a major obstacle.
The impact of COVID-19 on global health journals: an analysis of impact factor and publication trends COVID-19 has impacted the structure of COVID-19-related publications, the JIFs of global health journals and their numbers of non-COVID-19 publications.
What is an "ArchintorTM?" A paradigm shift in teaching, facilitation, and learning: The impact of different types of coursework expectations on classroom network structures Understanding that expectations can impact a network's structure marks a paradigm shift in educational assessment approaches.
Altmetric Behaviour over a Two-Year Observation Period: A Longitudinal Cohort Study in Orthodontic Research In the Orthodontic field, the AAS and the mentions in the Altmetric resources used for its calculation display a slow increase over time when compared to the behavior of classic citations.
Bibliometric Analysis of Computational and Mathematical Models of Innovation and Technology in Business This study analyzed research on using computational models in technology and business innovation through a bibliometric literature review. The study results indicate that publications in high-impact journals correspond to diverse areas, such as management, technology, computer science, and social sciences. A relevant aspect of our analysis is the scarce contribution made by Latin American countries, which contributed 1.6% of the total number of works analyzed together. Therefore, a call should be made to develop literature in these geographic areas, considering the region's characteristics and that Latin American economies have particularities that make it necessary to analyze data from these contexts. On the other hand, with this study oriented at the company level, it would be of interest in future research to also consider the analysis of the adoption of computational and mathematical models to optimize the implementation of circular economy strategies.
An analysis of citing and referencing habits across all scholarly disciplines: approaches and trends in bibliographic referencing and citing practices As an answer to RQ1, our data showed that the errors pointed out by Sweetland (1989) still hold today, plus other issues identified in the study. However, consciously or not, the increasing amount of reference styles contributes to multiple (and sometimes totally different) interpretations of similar guidelines, which ends up acting as a barrier to the standardisation of bibliographic metadata concerning citing and referencing matters. In the future, it would be interesting to extend the current corpus of documents we used in this analysis by considering articles published more recently (e.g. 2023) to see if the additional citing and referencing practices introduced recently, such as (Starr et al., 2015; Smith et al., 2016), may introduce an improvement at least for specific types of cited publications.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Research on Historical Buildings and Digitization The results indicate that greater progress has been made in research on the use of digital technologies for the conservation of historic buildings from 2019 to 2023, but cross-disciplinary, cross-institutional, and cross-border collaboration should be enhanced.
Are peer reviews of grant proposals reliable? An analysis of Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) funding applications Our results demonstrate that there is precious little agreement between peer-reviewers in their evaluations of the same submission.
A bibliometric evaluation of the top 100 cited articles on ocrelizumab This study's results can give researchers an idea about current developments and research collaborations on ocrelizumab.
Citation versus disruption in the military: Analysis of the top disruptive military trauma research publications DS identifies publications that changed military paradigms and future research directions previously overlooked by citation count alone.
A gender perspective on the global migration of scholars Our analysis revealed a gender gap in favor of males among all published researchers and an even larger gender gap among internationally mobile researchers. This study represents an initial key step toward improving our understanding of global patterns over time, which is essential for promoting gender-equitable science policies and interventions. Our findings describe the global gender imbalances in scholarly migration but do not assess the specific mechanisms or factors underlying the imbalances or the factors driving changes in the gender gap.
Research Outputs as Testimony & the APC as Testimonial Injustice in the Global South Ultimately, I propose the following argument: If people use journal rankings as a guide to which testimony they should take seriously and the OA APC publishing model systematically excludes researchers from the Global South on non-meritocratic grounds, then the OA APC publishing model contributes to testimonial injustice. The main aim of this paper was to give an account of testimonial injustice related to APCs.
Open Access Author Contracts and Alignment with the Open Ethos: A Global Study Our findings show that publishing in an open access journal does not guarantee that an author will retain rights over their work or that the work itself will be published under terms that align with accessibility and sharing, which goes against the purpose of the open access movement.
Predictors of self-reported research self-efficacy and perception of research amongst medical students in the United Kingdom: a national cross-sectional survey We found gender disparities in self-reported RSE amongst UK medical students. Future studies should investigate the role of targeted research mentorship in improving RSE amongst female medical students. UK medical schools should collaborate with allied organizations to create targeted mentoring and research training programmes to improve RSE amongst underrepresented-in-medicine students, especially female students.
Empirical analysis of factors influencing delay in article acceptance in accounting journals This study conducts an empirical analysis of the factors influencing acceptance delays in academic journals, using a sample of top accounting journals.
Local peer communities and future academic success of Ph.D. candidates Our results highlight the importance of universities supporting informal interactions among Ph.D. candidates.
Gender differences in research topic and method selection in library and information science: Perspectives from three top journals This study highlights the significant differences between female and male scholars in the use of research methods, even in different topics or journals.
How to detect the sleeping beauty papers and princes in technology considering indirect citations? In conclusion, detecting SB papers and their princes in technology could uncover the dynamic knowledge contribution from science to technology, offer a new perspective to study the science and technology interaction, and implement dynamic evaluation of the paper's technology impact.
Editorial time management: Peer review dates and other key dates of Spanish Communication journals The work presented herein allows it to be concluded that there is no common policy on or shared criteria for the publication of dates describing the editorial processes of Communication journals indexed in Dialnet Métricas.
An efficient entropy of sum approach for measuring diversity and interdisciplinarity Results of verification on different types of data sets show that EDVS can not only effectively measure the diversity of disciplines in interdisciplinary research, but also effectively measure the diversity of other entities.
Self-interestedness in Research Collaboration and its Association with Career Stage and Nature of Collaboration: A Survey of Zimbabwean Researchers Measures aimed at capacitating research organisations and research teams in developing countries in the African context, to counter collaborator self-interestedness, are recommended.
What makes a successful rebuttal in computer science conferences?: A perspective on social interaction In summary, this work presents a study on the impact factors of successful rebuttals from both reviewers' and authors' perspectives and lays the foundation for analyzing rebuttals with social network analysis. We hope our research can illuminate strategies for crafting successful rebuttals for reviews and assist authors in getting their submissions accepted. In terms of future work, we will concentrate on negative links (i.e., rejected decisions/recommendations) in peer review to identify the most significant (implicit/explicit) reasons behind these negative links.
Brain drain of healthcare professionals from Pakistan from 1971 to 2022: Evidence-based analysis It adversely affected the academic institutes, the healthcare system, socio-economic growth, research productivity, and the development of the nation.
Assessing the publishing priorities and preferences among STEM researchers at a large R1 institution Our findings shed light on publishing attitudes and preferences among researchers at a major R1 research institution, and offer insight into advocacy strategies that incentivize open access publishing.
Team science: A syllabus for success on big projects Project-based team science classes can benefit student advancement, enhance the productivity of the project, and accelerate the discovery of solutions to ecological issues by building community, establishing a shared project vocabulary, and building a workforce with collaborative skills to better answer ecological research questions.
Which of the metadata with relevance for bibliometrics are the same and which are different when switching from Microsoft Academic Graph to OpenAlex? Overall, OpenAlex seems to be at least as suited for bibliometric analyses as MAG for publication years before 2021 or maybe even better because of the broader coverage of document type assignments. However, this first impression needs to be checked by further detailed studies.
Altmetrics can capture research evidence: an analysis across types of studies in COVID-19 literature We can conclude that, depending on the type of study, altmetrics reach different values and that, in addition, these values are able to capture the usefulness and evidence of the studies, as we have seen when comparing our results with the pyramids of evidence. These are results that provide empirical evidence on the possible meaning of altmetrics and open the doors to their application in evaluative bibliometrics, at least in the field of health sciences. For this reason, future work should explore this relationship between study type and altmetrics in the medical field beyond COVID-19 studies.
Rethinking a national classification of research and graduate education The investigation and the comparisons conducted reveal that the system needs to be revised.
Seeing impact: genres referencing journal articles Tracking the interactions between genres can provide a window into the use of knowledge throughout society. Citation counts create visibility for societal impact of research. This visibility can help to support arguments for research funding because it visualizes the connection between research and societal benefit.
The effect of social media knowledge cascade: an analysis of scientific papers diffusion We revealed the general features of SMKCs in the process of scientific paper diffusion.
Modeling a successful citation trajectory structure for scholar's impact evaluation in Israeli academia This research presented a new quantitative methodology for modeling scholarly success based on a set of measures that capture the structure of scholars' citation slope trajectories.
How international are the editorial boards in the field of hand research? A cross-sectional study of leading subspecialty hand journals The EBMs of leading subspecialty hand journals are dominated by HIC with a very low representation of LMIC. There is a need to make the editorial boards more international in the field of hand research.
Publish or Perish Selective Attrition as a Unifying Explanation for Patterns in Innovation over the Career Our results suggest that federal science funders' (most notably the National Institutes of Health) face an important tradeoff when deciding whether to shift resources from older to younger scientists. While the quality of an individual's research declines with experience, the average "ability” of a researcher who remains active is higher than the average young researcher. These results suggest that policies attempting to shift resources from established older scientists to younger scientists should be designed with care.
Exploring the application of machine learning to expert evaluation of research impact Overall, our work makes two key contributions. First, it shows that ML models are able to accurately classify case studies that have been evaluated as high or low-scoring by expert pan-els.
Altmetrics-based sleeping beauties: necessity or just a supplement? To further illustrate the necessity of considering the comprehensive impact of literature in the related research of knowledge diffusion, based on a larger sample dataset, the comparative analysis of interdisciplinary and impact between A-SB and C-SB reveal the possible defects in the traditional C-SB research on the measurement of impact in knowledge diffusion, the mining of potential mechanism and the discovery of some key scientific literature, and that A-SB plays a vital role in these aspects.
Beyond views, productivity, and citations: measuring geopolitical differences of scientific impact in communication research Our findings provide three interrelated contributions within this line of inquiry.
Do research performances of universities and disciplines in England converge or diverge? An assessment of the progress between research excellence frameworks in 2014 and 2021 However, contrary to the expectations of increased divergence between institutes, we found that the research performance of universities and disciplines converged between the two REF exercises. Furthermore, we also found that the convergence in the research quality between universities also resulted in a convergence in mainstream QR funding between universities, and there has been a decline in research funding differences between universities. Future research could evaluate the strategies used by the universities that experienced relatively higher growth in their research performance between two assessment periods to provide guidance on the practices for improving research quality.
Authorship order as an indicator of similarity between article discourse and author citation identity in informetrics Therefore bibliographic coupling provides an objective and quantitative perspective to the assessment of author contributions to collaborative research.
Bibliometric analysis of veterinary medicine on embryo of animals in textbook in conceptualizing disease and health According to the result above, repetitive keywords used in abstract of samples of this study were cells/cell, gene, and human. Those repetitive words were closely related to a word disease.
Investigating the relationship between research income and research excellence in education: Evidence from the REF2021-UoA23 data Based on the analyses presented above, it is important to be nuanced about the claim that generating research funding automatically strongly correlates with research excellence from the highest level. To conclude, while generating research income can thus significantly improve individual career prospects and enable academics to undertake novel work, scoring high in REF at the institutional level is more complicated than just following whatever research funding is available.
Impact of major awards on the subsequent work of their recipients If major research awards indeed fail to increase (and even decrease) recipients' impact, one may need to reassess the purposes, criteria, and impacts of awards to improve the scientific enterprise. Our combined findings that Nobel Laureates experienced a non-significant post-award decrease in publication counts, MacArthur Fellows experienced a significant post-award increase in publication counts, and all researchers experienced a significant post-award decrease in citations per publication indicates that changes in research impact may be driven by changes in per-paper citations, rather than manuscript publication rates. Characterizing the effect of research awards on scientists other than awardees may merit future study, as well.
Comparing Apples With Apples: Women Faculty Research Productivity in Vietnamese Higher Education To sum up, although a large body of international and Vietnamese literature discloses the present study strived to unfold the weakened scholarly publication share of women academics compared to male counterparts, the present study shed light on reaching research productivity of solely women academics in SSH and NSE disciplines taking into account of their unique features.
Social determinants of citations: An empirical analysis of UK economists The implication is that citations do not signal the intrinsic quality of research outputs only, but they also capture social and professional connections.
Tracing policy diffusion: Identifying main paths in policy citation networks This study contributes to policy research and practice in several ways.
Trends in Scientific Publications for the French West Indies and the Dominican Republic from 1990 through 2019: Infectious Diseases This study is one of the first to perform a bibliometric analysis of the scientific output (over a period of 30 years) of the FWI and the DR. Both sites published articles about infectious diseases, indicating that this might be a strong area for future collaborations. This therapeutic area, which gave rise to infectious diseases publications at both sites, could be well-suited to partnerships and scientific cooperation.
Ukrainian arts and humanities research in Scopus: a bibliometric analysis Firstly, we found that the absolute annual number of Ukrainian A&H papers has increased, accompanied by an increase in the number of published sources. An important aspect of our findings is the low integration of Ukrainian A&H into the global scholarly information system: Ukrainian A&H authors tend to publish their results in local journals targeting domestic audiences. To obtain a more complete picture of the publishing activity of Ukrainian authors in the field of A&H, it is necessary to significantly expand the source base of the bibliometric analysis, particularly by adding more non-English-language local sources.
How to Maintain Sustainable Research Productivity: From Talents Mobility Perspective This research provides a reference for the wellbeing and sustainable productivity of university scholars, which is essential in higher education and social environments, and provides universities in developing countries with inspiration for building a sustainable academic talent flow system. These findings are of certain significance for colleges and universities in developing countries and can be used to formulate talent-training and -recruiting plans. In the future, there might be further discussion on whether academic networks are built in the international community after scholars travel due to the limitation of data acquisition and whether online learning and blended learning introduced by the post-pandemic era will change the cross-border mobility of scholars.
Do the paper's connections to existing work disclose its citation impact? A study based on graph representation learning This article presents a novel framework to examine the relationship between citation network embeddings and the future citation counts of papers. From both theoretical and practical perspectives, our framework offers significant insights into the research field by seamlessly integrating cluster analysis, visual analysis and statistical analysis. Our study may offer a method for applying the graph representation learning approach to citation network analysis and the larger process of scientific development.
Conceptual and technical work: Who will disrupt science? In this study, we used sleeping beauty (SB) papers and TF-IDF papers as examples to reveal the insights and intuition underlying how science is disrupted.
TechMiner: Analysis of bibliographic datasets using Python TechMiner seeks to simplify these steps for bibliographical datasets extracted from Scopus by providing an easy-to-use graphical user interface, so that typical users are able to execute basic and advanced analysis task with the aim of solve typical research questions involved in bibliometrics and tech-mining studies; advanced users with programming skills are able to code their own analyses using TechMiner as a basis.
Development of sensory integration therapy in Mainland China: A comprehensive study with bibliometrics and visualization techniques This study indicates that the academic community working on SIT is not large and the research field is currently limited in the mainland China.
Postdoctoral National Institutes of Health F32 Grants Broken Pipeline in the Development of Surgeon-Scientists Surgery trainees who obtain NIH F32 grants during dedicated research years are less likely to receive any form of NIH funding in the future compared to their internal medicine colleagues who received F32 grants. Surgery residents are faced with challenges including long periods of clinical training without the opportunity for research continuity. With increasing difficulty in obtaining funding and establishing a research program, the surgeon-scientist as we know it may become extinct without action.
Predicting the Future Popularity of Academic Publications Using Deep Learning by Considering It as Temporal Citation Networks The outcome of this research study leads to informed data-driven decision-making in science, such as the allocation and distribution of research funds and investment in strategic research centers.
In search of a scientific elite: highly cited researchers (HCR) in France The analysis of the case of the French HCRs can help us to outline answers to two questions: does the list of HCRs make it possible to identify a scientific elite? Is the number of HCRs a relevant indicator for an institution or a country? To the first question, if the answer is positive, it is accompanied by a reservation: indeed, the list of HCRs incontestably makes it possible to identify a scientific elite of 'super-publishers'; however, it does no satisfactorily help in the search for future winners of major international prizes, or the identification of the scientific leaders of the research front in their field.
Saudi Arabia research: academic insights and trend analysis According to our bibliometric analysis of the KSA research output using the Scopus database, the top three research areas in Saudi Arabia include (i) medicine and healthcare, (ii) engineering, and (iii) chemistry. Increasing research activities in KSA have been recognized in this study aligned with the national strategic Vision 2030 program. The RDIA is expected to play a significant role in coordinating KSA research activities, and hence improving national research collaborations in the future.
The Effect of Journal Competition on Research Quality with Endogenous Choices of Open Access or Restricted Access We constructed a model of journal competition using endogenous journal quality and journal types. We found that the competition between journals of different types (open versus restricted access) would induce a higher quality of the academic community measured by the quality of the quality leading journal than a situation involving only open access journals.
On the culture of open access: the Sci-hub paradox Thus, paradoxically, although Sci-hub may seem to facilitate access to scientific knowledge, it negatively affects the OA movement as a whole, by reducing the comparative advantage of OA publications in terms of visibility for researchers.
Semantic domain comparison of research keywords by indicator-based fuzzy distances: A new prospect In this study, we proposed a method using fuzzy distances to delineate the thematic similarity or dissimilarity of research domains with respect to an indicator.
Research excellence and scientific advisory boards Our results sug- gest no significant or even a negative correlation between the selected research excellence indicators and the probability of a scientific advisory board appointment.
Assessing academic impacts of machine learning applications on a social science: Bibliometric evidence from economics Our findings can be summarized as follows.
Network Analysis for Formative Evaluation of Collaborative, Team Science Research Partnerships In this paper, we provide an extended example of generating actionable insight into the nature and extent of collaborations within the MVTCP research network. The evaluation method we described is a simple strategy for remedying this gap at CPACHE sites and others like them.
What citation tests really tell us about bias in academic publishing In this paper, I address the question of bias in academic publishing, and show that the citation tests that have commonly been used to evaluate the existence of bias do not robustly identify the desired parameter: it is easy to construct a simple and intuitive model of generalized bias in favour of high-status economists that can replicate the findings that some previous studies have interpreted as evidence of bias against high-status economists.
Delineating development trends of nanotechnology in the semiconductor industry: Focusing on the relationship between science and technology by employing structural topic model Our findings reaffirm prior findings and illustrate nanotechnology in the semiconductor industry is often led by science, and most topics are science-oriented.
The architecture of global knowledge production - do low-income countries get more involved? In this paper, we introduced an undirected science collaboration model that captures the reciprocal preferential attachment and the homophily mechanism in the formation of a scientific network.
Exploring the Significance of Publication-Age-Based Parameters for Evaluating Researcher Impact The findings of this study revealed that the Ar index outperformed the other evaluated indices, as it brought the highest number of awardees to the top 10% of the ranked list, reaching a maximum of 80%. However, it is important to note that none of the indices were able to include all the awardees in the top rankings, indicating that no single index can offer a complete and accurate evaluation of author rankings. To assess their performance, it is significant to evaluate these indices on a comprehensive dataset of other domains.
Creating an interdisciplinary collaborative network of scholars in child maltreatment prevention: A network analysis of the Doris Duke Fellowships for the Promotion of Child Well-Being "Findings indicate the collaborative network created by the fellowships program is growing and strengthening over time." "The new Child Well-Being Research Network extends the fellowships network to a broader group of scholars and professionals to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice in the field of child well-being research."
The effectiveness of Japanese public funding to generate emerging topics in life science and medicine Our results suggest that offering smaller, widely dispersed grants rather than large, concentrated grants is more effective in promoting the generation of emerging topics in life science and medicine.
Support behind the scenes: the relationship between acknowledgement, coauthor, and citation in Nobel articles Our study captured a new norm in the reward triangle for the scholarly communication community. This will greatly contribute to the matter of evaluation metrics and social network detection.
Association for Academic Surgery/Society of University Surgeons research awards are highly successful in fostering future surgeon-scientists Association for Academic Surgery/Society of University Surgeons research awardees experience high degrees of success in academic surgery.
Analytical Mapping of Materials Science in Quantum Computing using Cite Space It deduced that two-qubit gates, quantum entanglement, and spin fluctuation are the research hotspots. Superconducting qubits and spin-orbit coupling are the current most active research areas in material science assisted-quantum computing research. In all, the scientometric analysis performed in this paper helps a wide array of intellectuals with future research directives and taking informed decisions in this knowledge domain.
Global Research Trends of Neurosurgery: A Comprehensive Bibliometric and Visualized Analysis of Systematic Reviews The increasing trend during the past 20 years, and especially in the past 2 years, highlights the advancements in various subspecialities in the field.
The 10 top-cited authors who published papers in journal medicine since 2000 using the betweenness centrality to identify unique names: Bibliometric analysis Using AWS and BC, we identified the top 10 most cited authors.
Top 50 Most Cited Articles About OAB: A Bibliometric Analysis This paper identified and bibliometrically analyzed the 50 most-cited articles about OAB. This list can provide urologists and other healthcare professionals with a valuable resource to understand the vast body of knowledge and trajectory of OAB and of Urology to guide future education efforts and research.
Evolution of scientific collaboration based on academic ages Using a large-scale dataset that covers more than 22 million papers and 7.9 million authors, we investigate the international scientific collaborative patterns from the view of academic age (AA).
The effect of national higher education initiatives on university rankings This study confirms that national higher education initiatives have improved the ranking of participating universities. The findings suggest that developing countries can learn from the experiences of other countries in implementing national higher education initiatives and improving higher education quality through encouraging competitiveness while offering autonomy, optimizing higher education management model, enhancing regular quality evaluations, and dynamic withdrawal mechanism. For countries with underdeveloped higher education systems, establishing national initiatives can accelerate improvement.
Mapping the research output from Indian states This study has analysed and characterized the research output of all the states and UTs in India. It presents an overview of the national research output from the perspective of administrative units and highlights the major contributors, most improved and less productive states. The analytical results of this study present useful quantitative measures of the research contributions of different states in India. Some probable reasons for the observed patterns and certain policy suggestions are also discussed in this study.
Open-access vs. paywalled journals in translation and interpreting studies: is it the time to abolish stumbling blocks? A great deal is left to be desired in open-access T&I growth.
Exploring the use of preprints in dentistry Preprints gained popularity over the last several years due to the COVID-19 pandemic and reached a larger audience, especially on platforms such as Twitter. In addition, studies published in peer-reviewed journals tended to receive more citations than in preprint format, but the number of preprint citations might predict future article citations. Preprint publishing allows faster dissemination of science for the benefit of society.
Valuing research output: Evidence from a Chinese university Our paper sheds empirical light on evaluating the research output of college faculty.
Inconsistency in the registration of the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) of articles on Web of Science and Scopus In this study we report inconsistencies in DOI registration by Web of Science and Scopus. While databases need to continually improve their procedure to annotate all the metadata provided by each journal to ensure the accuracy and consistency of the collected data, the editorial management team also share responsibility in this matter. Thus, the implementation of DOIS by journals will not only assist citation tracking but will increase their visibility.
The 100 top-cited articles in the field of Wilson's disease from 1990 to 2022: A bibliometric study This study reveals the most influential articles in the field of WD research. In addition, the major research themes and technological innovations in the field of WD worldwide are presented. By promoting communication and collaboration among diverse groups of researchers and investigators, new and efficient management as well as treatment strategies for patients with WD can be developed.
A bibliometric approach to understanding the recent development of self-sufficient fish feed production utilizing agri-food wastes and by-products towards sustainable aquaculture This bibliometric study provides comprehensive information on the intellectual domain and research landscape on self-sufficient fish feed and also shows how interest in this research topic and similar ones is growing. Future bibliometric research could be performed by investigating major upstream and downstream activities in the value and supply chains in the production of self-sufficient fish feed, cost analysis of the valorization of agri-food wastes and by-products to produce self-sufficient fish feed, and systematic literature on the effect of diet supplementation of self-sufficient fish feed on fish growth performance.
The interdisciplinarity of economics Historically, economics has been uniquely inward looking.
The pandemic and changes in early career researchers' career prospects, research and publishing practices Although, generally, the pandemic negatively impacted many aspects of ECRs' work-life, certain research areas and individuals benefited from being more appreciated and valued, and, in some cases, resulted in increased resources, better productivity and greater impact.
Bibliometric analysis of pediatric glaucoma Following the USA, India and China stand out as the topmost productive countries in PG.
Publication and collaboration anomalies in academic papers originating from a paper mill: Evidence from a Russia-based paper mill The current study allowed me to identify 451 suspicious papers that are most likely associated with the Russian paper mill 'International Publisher' LLC.
Research Interdisciplinarity and Citation Impact: A Network Analysis of Social Networking Sites Research Our findings suggest the viability of determining science disciplines from scholars focusing on a single research topic. The second finding is a positive relationship between betweenness centrality and academic impact, compared to the non-significant relationship between constraint and academic impact. Several practical implications can be given based on current findings.
Keyword occurrences and journal specialization This study introduces a new methodology for constructing an index of journal specialization.
The Matthew Effect in China's social sciences and humanities research: a comparative analysis of CSSCI and SSCI The paper's conclusion challenges our initial hypothesis and reveals several noteworthy trends.
Quantifying and addressing uncertainty in the measurement of interdisciplinarity Our results highlight issues with citation analysis for measuring interdisciplinarity and offer an approach to improve the confidence in assessing this concept. Specific guidelines for assessing the confidence in the Rao-Stirling diversity measure and subsequently other simi-lar diversity measures are presented, hopefully reducing the likelihood of drawing false inferences about interdisciplinarity in the future.
Do funding modes matter? A multilevel analysis of funding allocation mechanisms on university research performance Finally, our results do not allow to clarify the impact of modes of funding on the quantity of publications.
The role of local colleagues in establishing international scientific collaboration: Social capital in emerging science systems Many of our results are both consistent with prior literature and intuitively plausible.
Scientific authorship in neurosurgery On average, Spanish neurosurgeons publish half of their articles in neurosurgical journals, appear as first or second author in one third of the cases, and the IF attributable to these papers comprise 25% of the total IF. The PAQ and PIQ provide bibliometric information that minimizes the enlarging effect on curriculum of massive co-authorship and allow comparisons among authors and different scientific fields. Since there are no data in the literature from other medical or surgical specialties, we encourage researchers to provide the rates for their specialty in order to analyse and compare these results.
What counts' in international forest policy research? A conference ethnography of valuation practice and habitus in an interdisciplinary social science field In this paper, we examine implicit norms and orientations guiding contemporary FPR through an empirical study of valuation practice at international conferences.
Patterns of collaboration and knowledge generated by an Australian rural research centre over 20 years: a co-authorship network analysis Collaboration in publications increased, expanded, and consolidated, which coincided with an increase in the number and diversity of both co-authoring organisations and UCRH-affiliated authors in the final period.
Impact of publisher's commercial or non-profit orientation on editorial practices: Moving towards a more strategic approach to supporting editorial staff The study's findings highlighted the importance of publishers adopting a more strategic approach to support their editorial staff, while considering the unique needs of each journal.
Citation beneficiaries of discipline-specific mega-journals: who and how much Overall, DSMJs can widely impact scholarly evaluation because they contribute citation benefits and improve the evaluation index performance of different scientific entities at different levels.
Relationship between journal impact factor and the thoroughness and helpfulness of peer reviews This study of peer review characteristics indicates that peer review in journals with higher impact factors tends to be more thorough, particularly in addressing the study's methods while giving relatively less emphasis to presentation or suggesting solutions. Differences were modest, and the Journal Impact Factor is therefore a bad predictor of the quality of peer review of an individual manuscript.
How Boundary-spanning Paper Sparkles Citation: From Citation Count to Citation Network In terms of citation counts, results show papers in three disciplines with a higher degree of boundary-spanning usually gain more citation counts than the lower ones.
Relationship between bibliometric indicators and university ranking positions Our results confirm previous observations that there are reasonable similarities between the rankings.
High acknowledgement index: Characterizing research supporters with factors of acknowledgement affecting paper citation counts This study holds significant implications in proposing an acknowledgement index focusing on individual acknowledgments and providing an integrated analysis of researchers' performance.
Peer Review in a General Medical Research Journal Before and During the COVID-19 Pandemic In this cohort study, the speed and editor-reported quality of peer reviews in an open-access general medical journal improved modestly during the initial year of the pandemic.
Scaling and kinetic exchange like behavior of Hirsch index and total citation distributions: Scopus-CiteScore data analysis Our analysis (see Figs. 2) for the Hirsch indices and the corresponding values of the total citations (from Scopus data) for the top ranking c-score authors therefore confirms the relation (1) with the exponent ac = 1/2, as obtained by Yong [3]. This then may be identified as the effective social coordination number (or Dunbar number [14]) giving the group size of the top-rated scientists today, as in the primates. As discussed at the end of the last section (see Figs. 6), the limiting value of this citation-network coordination number (network average of citations per paper) gets extrapolated to about 75.
Twitter and citations Our research demonstrates that altmetrics and traditional metrics can be closely related, but not identical. We suggest that both altmetrics and traditional cita-tion rates can be useful metrics of research impact.
Opening the gates: The increasing impact of papers beyond the top five and other changes in economic publishing The results suggest that what economists are writing about, where papers are being published, and how papers are formatted has changed over this 50-year time period, with a shift to a format that is similar to the sciences; while how economists write (i.e., readability, sentence structure, and tense) has not. Furthermore, the paper identifies changes that are influencing the direction of the profession that are happening outside of the T5 including an increasing impact of articles in the fields of health economics, economic development, and agricultural, environmental and ecological economics and a quicker rise in the role of women authors.
Characterization of Comments About bioRxiv and medRxiv Preprints In this cross-sectional study of preprint comments, topics commonly associated with journal peer review were frequent.
Towards indicating interdisciplinarity: Characterizing interdisciplinary knowledge flow This paper proposes a new perspective quantifying the unexplored aspects of interdisciplinary knowledge flow to infer the pattern and dynamics of interdisciplinarity. We argue that our method carries great power and potential in indicating interdisciplinarity and avoids some of the problems of composite indicators of interdisciplinarity. Our study has several limitations and room for future studies.
Scholarly article retrieval from Web of Science, Scopus and Dimensions: A comparative analysis of retrieval quality The retrieval relevance of Web of Science and Scopus is found to be similar, as per the NDCG values computed, though Web of Science has a slight edge.
Quantifying scientists' research ability by taking institutions' scientific impact as priori information In conclusion, our models are effective evaluation and prediction tools for quantifying research ability and predicting the scientific impact, and the BBVI-EM algorithm is an effective variational inference algorithm. This study makes a theoretical contribution to broaden the idea of incorporating the academic environment into scientific evaluation. There are still some limitations in this study. Our models focus on using scientists' institutions, countries and colla-borators as prior information.
A bibliometric analysis of literature on bibliometrics in recent half-century This bibliometric study presents the characteristics of publication volume, subject, citation, co-citation and research topic in the field of bibliometrics. It can help to understand the overall picture of bibliometrics research, important literature, authors, journals, countries, cities and research hotspots.
The Performing Arts in Institutional Repositories: An Analysis of Policies and Holdings By better understanding current practices, librarians may develop new ideas for how and when to include performance materials in our own institutional repositories.
A thematic study of creativity research in Spain within the social sciences and psychology Based on two leading international databases, Scopus and WoS, this study provides an overall picture of the develop-ment of creativity studies in Spain and the current status of research in the fields of social sciences and psychology. For the social sciences, by the year 2020, the motor themes were a) creativity in children and students in an educational environment, b) innovation and knowledge creation in a working environment; and c) cities and creativity to integrate culture into the day-by-day life. We suggest some themes for future research, such as creative collaboration in virtual environments, value co-creation, and how machines can help humans boost their creativity.
Correlation Between Altmetric Scores and Citation Count in 4 High-Impact Plastic Surgery Journals NOC and H-index of the first author correlated with AAS in the plastic surgery literature, suggesting AAS may be a useful adjunct to traditional bibliometrics when evaluating the impact and reach of peer-reviewed articles.
The Relative Citation Ratio: Evaluating a New Measure of Scientific Influence Among Academic Sports Medicine Surgeons Study findings indicate that fellowship-trained academic sports medicine surgery faculty are highly productive and produce impactful research, as evidenced by the high median RCR value relative to the benchmark NIH RCR value of 1.0. The RCR helps to overcome some of the weaknesses of other productivity indices and has the ability to serve as a more comprehensive assessor of research impact within the sports medicine community. This information can be used as a standard to assess the improvement of grant outcomes, promotion, fellowship education, and continued evaluation of research productivity in the sports medicine surgery community.
Global patterns of migration of scholars with economic development This study does not use a causal framework, nor do we intend to fully explain all relevant explanations. As long as they remain active in terms of publishing, future studies can leverage these rich microlevel data to move toward more causal explanations of underlying mechanisms that explain observed patterns.
Formally comparing topic models and human-generated qualitative coding of physician mothers' experiences of workplace discrimination Despite the growth of computational social science, the relationship between machine- and human-generated thematic text analysis remains poorly described, and tradeoffs between methods remain vague. Given that there are many different approaches to text analysis, even within the large “qualitative methods” umbrella, integrating computational methods may be more appropriate for certain approaches. It is crucial that we better understand the dynamics of discrimination in the workplace, and this will not be accomplished by a single study (Deardorff and Dahl, 2016; Ridgeway, 2011).
Comparison of nanotechnology research for coronaviruses and influenza from 2000 to 2022 First, the study shows that there was low, yet steady growth in nanoflu research, while the nanocovid research received little attention until COVID-19. These findings show that factors other than disease severity drive research portfolios. Policy makers and science funding organizations need to rethink how they prioritize research and find tools to encourage research on topics that have long-term consequences.
The academic status of reviewers predicts their language use In summary, this study examines the relationship between the reviewers' academic status and their language usage during the peer review process.
Global Trends in Highly Cited Studies in COVID-19 Research This study found that the total number of highly cited studies related to COVID-19 peaked at the end of 2021 and showed a downward trend until the end of 2022, while the origin of these studies shifted from China to the US and UK.
Authorship in Academic Librarianship Journals, 2015-2019: Evaluating Author Occupations, National and Institutional Affiliations, and Coauthorship Taken altogether, the findings of this study as represented in eight journals paint a picture of recent trends in authorship in academic librarianship: significant increases in multiauthor papers as well as quantity of authors per collaboration, but also an increase in authors who are not academic library practitioners, and relatively few publications originating from outside doctoral universities and English-speaking Western nations. If academic librarianship journals overemphasize the R1 perspective without striving for more balanced inclusion, they could risk isolating the practitioner readers at other types of institutions and creating a conversation that is not relevant or generalizable to a broader audience. Ultimately, the findings of the present study cannot reach conclusions on this point, but it raises questions worth addressing in future research.
Papers with code or without code? Impact of GitHub repository usability on the diffusion of machine learning research Our findings reveal that ML papers experienced a significant increase of approximately 20% in monthly citation rates following the creation of their first accompanying GitHub repositories, compared to papers without such repositories. As the research community continues to embrace the principle of Open Science, it is critical to understand the complexities and challenges posed by these dynamics to more effectively support and balance different objectives of research transparency, innovation, and scientific rigor.
A multidimensional approach to Mexican scientific output from 2010-2019 Mexican scientific production experimented an exponential growth during the period 2010-2019. SOM-based science mapping offered a better comprehension of Mexican research areas during the last decade, allowing the analysis of specific characteristics and common links among research practices in different Mexican knowledge domains. Altmetric indicators offered an interesting approach that would be seriously analyzed for future research assessment policies.
Peer Review, Innovation, and Predicting the Future of Science: The Scope of Lotteries in Science Funding Policy This further suggests that we cannot use peer review, even in the restricted sense allotted to it in partial lotteries, for luxury research as reviewer judgments will be no better than random chance.
Orthopaedic surgery academic productivity - how do we measure up? Orthopaedic surgeons had the equal lowest h-index, the shortest duration involved in research, the fewest articles and the second lowest number of citations among the Australian surgical specialties. We propose working with major citation databases to prospectively collect articles published by Australian surgeons to maintain up-to-date specialty h- and m-indices. We encourage surgical colleges from other parts of the world to utilise this methodology for self-assessment as a starting point to document improvement objectively.
Scientific impact of Chilean-based animal behavioralists is positively associated with co-authorships from developed countries, high impact factor journals, but not with gender Our bibliometric and survey-based approach supported that establishing collaborations with research-ers from developed countries and publishing in high impact factor journals are correlated with the career-long impact of Chilean-based animal behavioralists, and that this association is not contingent on gender, or influenced by the role (first or corresponding author) played by collaborators. Findings supported that career-long measures of impact based on citations of research publications are positively associated with the number of coauthors from economically developed countries, with the journal impact factor of publications, but not with gender of focal researchers. Additionally, the number of citations of research publications was not associated with the role (first or corresponding author) played by collaborators from developed countries.
Exploring the effect of overlapping institutional applications on panel decision-making This paper provides new and exploratory evidence that scientific panels may disfavour applications from the same institution in the same funding round, suggesting that panel funding may be shaped by a tendency towards promoting institutional diversity.
Does grant funding foster research impact? Evidence from France Our results support grant funding as an effective model to achieve the policymakers' goal of producing impactful research. Our results suggest that being part of a grant-funded research project improves researchers' citation scores.
What is research funding, how does it influence research, and how is it recorded? Key dimensions of variation This paper has described dimensions along which research funding differs between projects, with a focus on grant funding.
How DID THE 2008 ECoNoMIC CRISIS AFFECT CENTRAL BANKS' RESEARCH ToPICS? THE CASE oF CEMLA ASSoCIATES AND CoLLABoRATING MEMBER Central banks are public institutions that play a fundamental role in a country's monetary policy.
Fifty years of Energy Policy: A bibliometric overview Based on data from the WoS database, this study presents a general overview of the evolutions and trends in Energy Policy between 1973 and 2022 using various bibliometric methods, including performance anal- ysis and science mapping tools. During the past decades, Energy Policy gradually grew as one of the most influential and important journals in the field of energy and environmental studies, strongly focusing on is- sues related to energy supply and use, and representing wide-ranging diversity regarding institutions, countries, and cited journals. Most of the future studies in the next few years of Energy Policy will center on advances and solutions toward a net zero emissions future.
Bibliometric analysis of top papers in Ecology based on Essential Science Indicators during 2011-2021 In this study we analyzed 1,777 top papers in the subject category of Ecology, published within the period of eleven years, from 2011 to 2021.
Geoscience academic hiring networks reinforce historic patterns of inequity This study reveals longstanding patterns in the geoscience academic hiring network that have reinforced historical inequities that privilege graduates of prestigious programs over all others.
A bibliometric study of article retractions in technology fields in developing economies countries It is essential to adopt sophisticated techniques to prevent plagiarism and duplicate publication. In addition, using an open peer review model is expected to reduce the occurrence of misconduct practices. Journals must also follow stricter policies, e.g., clear retraction guidelines, to prevent authors from possible misconduct.
Mapping the scientific and technological landscape: an analysis of Nobel Prize-producing institutions As time goes on, it has become increasingly common for multiple individuals to share the same Nobel Prize, especially in physics.
Hot streaks in the music industry: identifying and characterizing above-average success periods in artists' careers Overall, our findings represent a step further in the science behind musical success, as we observe the temporal evolution of artists' careers and their success. In short, the real value of identifying hot streaks is in revealing the fundamental patterns that govern individual careers.
Faculty-student authorship practices in nursing: Cross-sectional study Preparing graduates to disseminate scholarly work is essential for a students' coursework and to the development of the nursing profession. Findings indicated that current practices do not always align with faculty's thoughts of best practices in co-authorship. Based on the findings, nursing schools are encouraged to adopt an authorship policy for faculty-student collaboration to protect the fundamental elements of the scholarly process while protecting both the faculty and student.
Warnings of declining research productivity: Does Italy buck the trend? The results, therefore, show that, contrary to some current global alarms, the research productivity of Italian academics has not decreased but has unequivocally and significantly increased. The reasons behind the widespread and noticeable increases in productivity are, in our opinion, to be found in the competitive mechanisms introduced by the Italian government in the public research sector. The authors are aware of some limitations of the approach proposed here, in particular the impossibility of controlling for possible field-level changes in the resources allocated to research. However, the magnitude of the trends detected suggests that these effects could not reverse what emerges from the analysis. Instead, these very limitations stimulate reflection on possible future in-depth studies.
The 100 top-cited articles in uveitis from 1950 to 2022 This study summarizes and analyzes the research characteristics and trends of uveitis.
Clickbait or conspiracy? How Twitter users address the epistemic uncertainty of a controversial preprint Our study contributes to research on the intricate relations between scientific knowledge and conspiracy theories online, as well as the role of social media platforms for new genres of scholarly communication.
Research progress on endangered plants: A bibliometric analysis A bibliometric analysis showed research on endangered plants is mainly performed in the fields of plant sciences, environmental sciences and ecology, biodiversity conservation, and other cross-disciplines.
Knowledge inheritance in disciplines: Quantifying the successive and distant reuse of references We show that knowledge inheritance could reveal disciplinary characteristics regarding the trajectory of knowledge base evolution and interesting insights into the metabolism and maturity of scholarly communication. This study proposes a new perspective on understanding the connotation of disciplinarity by investigating the modes of knowledge base evolution of scientific disciplines. High knowledge inheritance could, on the one hand, indicate cognitive continuity which foregrounds disciplinarity and, on the other hand, alarm deficit in new ideas.
The relationship between methodological quality and the use of retracted publications in evidence syntheses The association between high-quality evidence syntheses and recognition of a publication's retracted status may indicate that best practices are sufficient.
An analysis of international mobility and research productivity in computer science In this paper, we have studied the long-term international mobility of computer science researchers over a period of thirty years, making two major contributions. As a first outcome of our study, mobility strongly correlates with research productivity, measured in terms of standard bibliometric indicators. As a second contribution, we analyzed individual career paths and characterized a worldwide mobility graph, placing the United States as a central hub for international mobility in CS.
Aggregate level research governance effects on particle physics: A comparative analysis Going back to the central question of the paper, namely, do governance arrangements affect the dynamics-epistemic and structural-of global research fields, the answer for this field would therefore be 'no'.
Are paid tools worth the cost? A prospective cross-over study to find the right tool for plagiarism detection Grammarly is unexpectedly most effective in detecting plagiarism in AI-generated articles compared to the other tools. This highlights the potential for lower-cost plagiarism detection tools to be utilized by researchers. By establishing the efficacy of lower-cost alternatives, researchers could access the appropriate tools for detecting plagiarism with ease.
Exploring authors engagement in journals with questionable practices: a case study of OMICS This study sought to get closer to the author base of a questionable publisher, OMICS, in order to better understand the motivations, the drivers and the conditions under which researchers submitting their manuscripts. The results not only provided additional insights into the existing author profiles identified in the literature but also revealed new author profiles. It is crucial for institutions to recognize and actively address the risks posed by predatory journals. More importantly, they should extend support to their researchers by offering training, tools and resources that impart knowledge, values and norms of contemporary scholarly publishing.
Unpacking the essential tension of knowledge recombination: Analyzing the impact of knowledge spanning on citation impact and disruptive innovation This study contributes to the theories of knowledge recombination by suggesting that either intellectual conformism or knowledge recombination can lead to disruptive innovation.
Intellectual Virtues for Interdisciplinary Research: A Consensual Qualitative Analysis In conclusion, interdisciplinary researchers must cultivate intellectual virtues, which are necessary for all epistemic work (as it was mentioned by all the interviewees). They must also cultivate social virtues, which are necessary for all teamwork. But in this study, we have also detected a specific subgroup of intellectual virtues, which we have called interpersonal intellectual virtues, that are essential for developing any successful collective epistemic enterprise. Interdisciplinary research is a privileged context where these qualities manifest themselves in a relevant way. The current article has limitations that open exciting perspectives for future studies.
Publishing in English or Chinese: a qualitative analysis of Chinese researchers' academic language choice In conclusion, the research findings are significant because they shed new light on the factors that influence Chinese researchers' choice of publishing language from a perceived value perspective. Accordingly, this study provides suggestions for policymakers and journal operators when developing policies for language use and operating journals as follows. Although this study provides insights and references on the relationship between journal attributes and researchers' language preferences, there are some limitations that need to be addressed.
The Evolutionary Characteristics and Interaction of Interdisciplinarity and Scientific Collaboration under the Convergence Paradigm: Analysis in the Field of Materials Genome Engineering According to the findings, the evolution and interaction between interdisciplinarity and scientific collaboration under the convergence paradigm jointly contribute to the development of the field. This study has significance for guiding scientific research efforts under the convergence paradigm, breaking down disciplinary barriers to innovation, and thus realizing a major improvement in productivity and the promotion of sustainable human development. This study still has some limitations. Due to the complexities of data processing, this study was limited to the field of MGE in China.
Systematic Mapping of Research on Vaccine-Preventable Diseases in Children in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Decennial Scientometric Analysis The findings of this study suggest that research on VPDs in children in sub-Saharan Africa is diverse and complex, with several key themes emerging, including vaccine efficacy and safety, disease burden and epidemiology, and antimicrobial resistance.
The concept of decentralization through time and disciplines: a quantitative exploration In summary, our findings provide a quantitative assessment of the evolution of a key yet elusive concept, which has undergone cycles of rise and fall within different fields. Overall, our analysis provides new insights in the origin and evolution of the ubiquitous concept of (de)centralization, shedding light on the academic roots and influence of the blockchain technology.
Editorial favoritism in the field of laboratory experimental economics While not being able to provide waterproof causal evidence of editorial favoritism, our study, nonetheless, provides insights that edi-tors can use to make their selection of research papers more efficient and fairer. Thus, as our 'managerial' recommendations, we provide sugges-tions on how to increase impact factors and simultaneously advance scientific progress.
Spanish research on Communication in WoS: thematic, methodological, and intellectual comparison between SSCI and ESCI Our findings highlight certain trends in Spanish scientific publications on Communication, published in ESCI, that distinguish them from the characteristics observed in SSCI articles.
Data-driven scientific research based on public statistics: a bibliometric perspective "Applying a bibliometric perspective, this paper analyzes the use of official statistics as data sources, either in whole or in part, for scientific research."
Gender difference in library and information science research The current study on authors of 24 prominent journals in the LIS reveals that males and females are almost equally productive in the field of LIS. Considering the results, it can be concluded that female LIS researchers have improved in terms of research productivity and have even surpassed male researchers in acquiring research funds, but they still lag behind in citations, creating low research impact necessary for academic excellence, prestige, and recognition. Thus, there is a need to devise various policies and programs to elevate the posi- tion of women in research, which will slowly but surely work in favor of females for example, Individual scientists and departments should use research indicators appropri- ately by learning about bias introduced by some measures, as well as contextualizing the information they provide.
The Association Between Altmetric Attention Scores and Public Engagement in the Medical Literature Scholarly article Altmetric Scores may serve as a novel means to explore public engagement in scientific research and health policy.
Fun and less fun funding: the experiential affordances of research grant conditions We set out to study how scientists experience a new type of double-blinded research grant phenomenologically and whether it affords what it intends: risky, novel research. This paper makes three contributions: (1) it reaffirms that how researchers experience grant conditions affects whether a scheme affords what it intends, (2) it highlights that the affordances of research funding are relative to other concurrent funding options, and (3) it shows that small, more broadly allocatable grants can afford scientists a protected space for autonomous research, usually associated with elusive tenure positions or European Research Council (ERC) grants. If funders want to contribute to a healthier aca-demic environment that will stimulate risky, novel research, they may consider introducing more grants—or revising the conditions of existing ones in ways that enable protected spaces and mobilize scientists’ self-perceptions and ideals.
Time-Tested Strategies in Modern Context: A Bibliometric Study of Chemotherapy's Continued Importance in Colorectal Cancer Treatment The analysis of bibliometric data underscores the sustained significance and impact of research on cytotoxic drugs for the treatment of colorectal cancer. Currently, research in this field is primarily concentrated in three key areas: pharmacogenetics, adjuvant substances, and advancements in pharmaceutical forms. This research serves as a foundation for future endeavors, aiding researchers, clinicians, and policymakers in making informed decisions about the direction of research and development in the dynamic field of colorectal cancer therapy.
Does society show differential attention to researchers based on gender and field? We conclude that for most fields and dimensions with enough non-zero alt-metrics data, gender differences in social attention are not predominant, but are still present and vary across fields.
An in-depth exploration of researcher experiences of time and effort involved in health and social care research funding in the UK: The need for changes The findings from this study describe researcher experiences of tasks in the research pathway that currently take considerable time and effort. Better investment in health and social care research and in the researchers themselves who design and deliver the research, alongside improvements in transparency, streamlining and research support could ensure a more positive research culture, and improve the quality of funded research.
Evaluating the Effectiveness of Author-Count Based Metrics in Measuring Scientific Contributions From the result we notice a high degree of correlation among the majority of the metrics such as HI index and Hf index, indicating that their rankings are largely consistent.
National Institutes of Health funding among vascular surgeons is rare NIH funding of vascular surgeons is rare and predominantly consists of basic or translational science projects focused on abdominal aortic aneurysm and peripheral arterial disease research. Future efforts should focus on increasing the number of vascular surgeons receiving NIH grants and ensuring all SVS research priorities receive NIH funding.
The role of gender and coauthors in academic publication behavior Our paper has studied gender and coauthor differences in publication behavior.
Validation of publication pressure questionnaire-revised into Chinese nurses from a university hospital The Chinese version of PPQ-r could be accepted as a reliable and valid tool to measure the Chinese nurses' publication pressure.
The Anesthesiology Physician-Scientist Pipeline: Current Status and Recommendations for Future Growth-An Initiative of the Anesthesia Research Council Recommendations for expanding the size and diversity of the anesthesiology physician-scientist pipeline included (1) developing strategies to increase the number of research intensive anesthesiology departments; (2) unifying the diverse programs among academic anesthesiology foundations and societies that seek to grow research in the specialty; (3) adjusting American Society of Anesthesiologists metrics of success to include the number of anesthesiology physician-scientists with extramural research support; (4) increasing the number of mentored awards from Foundation of Anesthesia Education and Research (FAER) and International Anesthesia Research Society (IARS); (5) supporting an organized and concerted effort to inform research-oriented medical students of the diverse research opportunities within anesthesiology should include the specialty being represented at the annual meetings of Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) students and the American Physician Scientist Association, as well as in institutional MSTP programs. The medical specialty of anesthesiology is defined by new discoveries and contributions to perioperative medicine which will only be sustained by a robust pipeline of anesthesiology physician-scientists. It is incumbent upon leaders of medical schools, anesthesiology departments, anesthesiology societies, and foundations to recommit to the growth of the anesthesiology physician-scientist pipeline, which is the genesis of innovations in perioperative care and pain medicine for the betterment of human health.
Exploring the correlation between acknowledgees' contributions and their academic performance The results demonstrate that five academic performance indicators positively correlate with the paper citation count, indicating that the academic performance of the acknowledgees may influence the citations of the paper itself in scientific communication activities. Additionally, these five academic performance indicators exhibit an extremely weak correlation with the frequency of acknowledgments, implying that acknowledgment frequency may not have a linear correlation with acknowledgee performance. The main limitation is that the PMC dataset focuses on biomedical and life sciences.
Do male and female authors employ different journal choice strategies? The aggregate picture that our alternative measures yield is that male authors (and male-dominated teams) pursue a more aggressive publication strategy, continuing with their submissions to relatively good journals and planning more potential submission targets in the face of past rejections. These differences can thus contribute to the observed gender difference in publishing records. They could encourage female scholars to be not only more confident but also more strategic and forward-looking in their journal choice strategies.
Ranking academic institutions by means of institution-publication networks In this paper, we propose a novel method for ranking academic institutions, called HRank, which aims to improve the robustness and accuracy of reputation measurement by exploring the compactness of interactions between institutions and their publications.
Exploring international collaboration and language dynamics in Digital Humanities: insights from co-authorship networks in canonical journals This study visualised the co-authorship network based on the data drawn from three canonical DH journals, analysed co-author clusters and studied the interconnectedness of country and language using the betweenness centrality method. It provides a new perspective on collaboration patterns and geolinguistic distribution in DH, and it raises new questions to be examined in future studies. DH scholars as well as policy makers could take this study as a reference when planning future collaborations and collaboration-enhancing programmes.
The k-step h-index in citation networks at the paper, author, and institution levels These findings hold significant implications for research evaluation, policy-making, and strategic planning, as they pave the way for a more holistic understanding of scholarly contributions.
Predicting substantive biomedical citations without full text This is a threefold overrepresentation in this important type of knowledge flow. This population of citations is liklier to represent substantive knowledge transfer in a bench-to-bedside translation context, raising the pos-sibility that federal support for biomedical research is an effective tool for stimulating this process. We show that it is possible to generate predictions about substantive citations even without access to full text citation context.
Biomedical doctoral students' research practices when facing dilemmas: two vignette-based randomized control trials Biomedical doctoral students frequently chose DRP when facing dilemmas. We did not find any evidence of the impact of post-doctoral researchers and supervisors. The study findings can be useful to universities, research integrity bodies, research funders, and training providers.
'Walking between the lines': research evaluation in China beyond COVID-19: research evaluation in China beyond COVID-19 Adopting the glonacal agency heuristic, the study exam-ines how Chinese research universities, as active agents, exercise agency in response to the changing contexts of the post-COVID-19 era.
Mapping out the bibliometric characteristics of classic articles published in a Taiwanese academic journal in dentistry: A scopus- based analysis Despite its limitations, the escalating trends in JIFs, and JIFs without self-citations, and inter-nation and inter-institute collaboration of classic articles published in the JDS were noticed. Of all the dissected associated factor, Preventive and Community Dentistry in the research field significantly increased the citation counts of classic article.
Factors influencing the impact of randomized clinical trials on dental implants: A bibliometric analysis Within the limitation of the study, Factors such as open access, statistically significant results, and country influence the number of citations received by the RCTs on dental implants.
Trends in Paragonimiasis Global Research: Bibliometric Analysis of a Neglected Food-Borne Parasite The study concluded by providing an overview of the paragonimiasis research field, including current trends, development, and researcher collaboration. By addressing gaps in this bibliometric analysis and increasing collaboration, stakeholders could strengthen their strategies to effectively combat paragonimiasis and improve public health outcomes. Despite the excellent quality of studies from diverse nations, international collaborations are limited, and encouraging partnerships between high-income and middle- Or low-income countries could boost worldwide efforts to eradicate paragonimiasis.
Author contributions and allocation of authorship credit: testing the validity of different counting methods in the field of chemical biology I would argue that the harmonic parabolic model is the one that performs best overall for the analyzed data set, even though the fractional model produces the lowest lack of fit when considering all types of tasks. Tables 9 and 10, lends proof to the consideration that the harmonic parabolic model is the best overall pick for allocating author credit in bibliometric exercises in the field of chemical biology. Another fruitful enterprise would be using author contribution data from journals adopting the CRediT-taxonomy for a large-scale study of allocation models in various fields.
Use of inactive Cochrane reviews in academia: A citation analysis Cochrane reviews continued to be cited even though they were not being updated. This could pose a problem if they do not represent the most up-to-date evidence, as it may lead to the distribution of outdated evidence or misinformation.
Retracted Covid-19 articles: significantly more cited than other articles within their journal of origin Retracted COVID-19 publications may have been more likely to include bold claims that garnered a disproportionately high amount of attention within the scientific community.
Is the research performance of Chinese returnees better than that of their local counterparts? Based on a sample of 637 returnees who returned to China from overseas in 1984–2017 and their 4,133 local counterparts, we found no significant differences between returnees and their local counterparts in terms of productivity, although returnees had more opportunities to be PIs in research teams. However, returnees still have an advantage in AHSS.
Prolific non-research authors in high impact scientific journals: meta-research study The practice of assigning so much power to non-researchers in shaping scien-tific discourse should be further debated and disclosures of potential conflicts of interest should be emphasized.
The modified repeat rate described within a thermodynamic framework In this article, we showed a direct relationship between the thermodynamic framework and the classical theory of evenness as measured using the modified repeat rate and its weighted form.
A research landscape bibliometric analysis on climate change for last decades: Evidence from applications of machine learning In conclusion, the paper finds that MLCC research has a significant socio-economic, environmental, and research impact, which points to increased discoveries, publications, and citations in the near future.
Does the quality of orthodontic studies influence their Altmetric Attention Score? In this exploratory cross-sectional study, social media platforms had the greatest influence on AASs in orthodontic studies. Among the study characteristics, the study quality had little impact on the AAS of orthodontic studies. Therefore, clinicians should critically evaluate the findings of these studies before implementing them in clinical practice.
Does interdisciplinarity attract more social media attention? Our study demonstrates that interdisciplinary research tends to attract attention on social media, extending beyond the traditional boundaries of academia. Our findings also imply that traditional academic metrics, such as citation counts or journal impact factors, fall short in terms of accurately assessing interdisciplinary research. Emphasising a broader range of impact indicators can encourage and incentivise researchers to engage in interdisciplinary endeavours that make a meaningful difference in society.
Collaboration strategies and corresponding authorship in Agronomy research of Brazilian academic and non-academic institutions Among non-academic institutions, we verified the gain in citation impact when their researchers assume a leadership role (as corresponding authors) in international collabora-tion.
Interdisciplinarity affects the technological impact of scientific research Our findings suggest that what is considered excellent within interdisciplinary research can potentially lead to remarkable advancements in technological innovation.
Academic co-authorship is a risky game Taken together, the results in Figs. 2, 3, and 4 suggest that the current form of co-authorship in which the consent of all authors at any given point in the project is necessary to achieve the shared objective of finishing the project and submitting the manuscript has an enormous number of configurations in which one author can IAU and succeed in doing so. As such, the academic community should embrace a mechanism for co-authorship that penalizes authors for issuing ultimatums or obviates their ability to do so. While our model does not provide a solution, researchers in future works can utilize it as a benchmark for testing possible solutions.
Quantifying knowledge synchronization with the network-driven approach This study enables us to understand the contemporary Silk Road of knowledge dissemination and that virtual social interactions shape the structure of human knowledge, as indicated by the massive records of online-based collaborative knowledge in the form of Wikipedia.
A bibliometric analysis of publications on gunshot wounds, 1980-2022 As a result of the research, useful information has been revealed for researchers working on GSW.
Scientific production in Library and Information Science in Puerto Rico (1961-2020) This analysis concludes that scientific production in Puerto Rico follows some trends that can be observed in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
Science Education Collaboration Network: the Case of the Cultural-Historical Activity Theory We have verified that the available community presents structural and dynamic properties of mature research fields, and scholars are introducing their collaborators to one another, creating new social acquaintances resulting in coauthorship. Nevertheless, studies on science education ground in the CHAT framework do not rely on international collaboration. Finally, the conducted analysis indicates several fruitful avenues for future research.
Twenty years of Chinese social sciences towards internationalization (1998-2017): a knowledge sources perspective On the basis of the above findings, this study further discloses that China's knowledge production in social sciences also experienced rapid internationalization like its knowledge utilization, and the association between international knowledge production and utilization is statistically significant at the discipline level and journal level.
How can policy document mentions to scholarly papers be interpreted? An analysis of the underlying mentioning process In summary, most policy document mentions have truly made use of the content of scholarly paper, in the critical part of policy document, and been aimed to improve its persuasion and reliability. Moreover, this study has revealed in detail where, how, and why scholarly papers are mentioned by policy document, and hence has revealed the underlying process of policy document mentions. This has provided a better understanding of how policy document mentions can play an effective role in science and technology communication and evaluation.
A two-fold evaluation in science: the case of Nobel Prize The selection of Nobel laureates in science showcases performance evaluation in the scientific community at its highest level.
Self-Citation Rates Among Neurosurgery Journals and Authors: Unethical or Misunderstood? In our study, we found overall low levels of self-citations in neurosurgery journals with a few outliers.
Global research trends of immunosenescence: A bibliometric study Based on the current data, we firstly concluded that there will be a dramatically rising publications on immunosenescence, and research teams from USA or GERMANY might be the best chooses for collaboration. Moreover, We particularly emphasized the development potential of mechanism and intervening strateges like "gut microbiota" and "nivolumab" in immunosenescence. We hope to provide new ideas for promoting the basic research and clinical application of immunosenescence.
Open(ing) Access: Top Health Publication Availability to Researchers in Low- and Middle-Income Countries Most journals offer hybrid access services. Authors may be forced to choose between high cost with greater reach through OA and low cost with less reach publishing under the subscription model under current policies. International readers face higher costs.
Mapping the research publication trends among ICAR-Animal Sciences Research Institutes in India: Web of Science-based scientometric study The paper provides a comprehensive account of the research trends in animal sciences research and also insights for strengthening research focus in India. The present study results indicate that all the ICAR-animal sciences institutions over a period, have indeed progressed in terms of the quantity and quality of scholarly literature. The results of the present scientometric analysis highlight the progress and impact of ICAR-animal science institutions in terms of research productivity and provide clear direction on the strong areas of research.
The Theoretical Basis and Basic Principles of Knowledge Network Construction in Digital Libraries KNC is not only the inevitable demand for DLS to seek its own development, meet the challenge of knowledge economy in the future, and avoid facing the crisis of a ubiquitous knowledge environment, but also the strategic choice for the digital library to construct dynamic knowledge system-atically and realize ubiquitous knowledge service from now on.
An Optimization Analysis of the Subject Directory System on the MedlinePlus Portal - An Investigation of Children Related Health Topics This research study concentrates on the investigation and optimization regarding the topic-based subject directory applied by the representative public health portal MedlinePlus.
Science, Part III: Further Developments in the Concept of Science It states that the many pieces of fragmented knowledge about science from many different fields and perspectives must work together in a much more integrated way. Concerning information science, knowledge organization, and related fields, these fields need to understand themselves as a member of the science studies in its broad meaning. All activities concerning science must realize the socio-cultural and paradigmatic conflicts involved in such activities, from producing over mediating (retrieving, publishing, digitalizing, curating, translating, organizing, teaching, etc.) to use.
COVID-19 retracted publications on retraction watch: A systematic survey of their pre-prints and citations Our study highlights that although most corresponding pre-prints are no longer available, withdrawn research has already been cited and shared on social media. We put in a call to action for social media platforms and journals to employ thorough quality assurance strategies to mitigate the spread of untrustworthy study findings from retracted COVID-19 research.
Bibliometric analysis of Spanish research on Communication for Development and Social Change (2014-2020): emerging thematics or field in implosion? The conclusions point to the second term of this dilemma. We are witnessing an uncreative destruction of the field, to the extent that the fragile theoretical foundations from which this incipient field in Spanish communication research was beginning to rise have been demolished.
Simulation of the New Proposed Method by CAPES for the Qualis 2017-2020 Classification of the Brazilian Archives of Biology and Technology- Part II It is concluded that the journal comprises a very broad target audience and the A4 stratum in which the BABT was classified on Qualis 2017-2020 is consistent with the method proposed by the documents published by CAPES. Finally, when Qualis 2017-2020 was officially released, it was concluded that BABT is classified in an appropriate stratum (A4), since its indicators, both in this study and the previous one [9], demonstrated that it meets all the requirements to be allocated in the upper strata of Qualis.
How Productive Are Economics and Finance PhDs? Our econometric results analysed the determinants of research performance and confirmed the role of experience.
Exploiting Contextual Word Embedding for Identification of Important Citations: Incorporating Section-Wise Citation Counts and Metadata Features Based on these results, we confidently claim that our approach provides a more accurate reflection of important citations.
Acknowledgement Patterns in Information Science Students' Dissertations in a Nigerian University: Are there Generational Differences? This study suggests further studies comparing acknowledgement patterns in Information Science dissertations at institutional, regional and international levels. This could drive a more holistic description of acknowledgement behaviour in the Information Science discipline. Moreover, the Centre's manual of style can be revised to address this aspect as acknowledgement of data sources should be a norm in scholarly writing.
Journal self-citation on the h5-index of Ibero-American journals These results suggest that the prior exclusion of journal self-citations in the calculation of the h5-index is not necessary. However, monitoring journals with excessive self-citation rates is recommended to avoid distortions in impact assessment procedures based on h5-index of Google Scholar Metrics. The results suggest that the h5-index is less susceptible to self-citations' influence than the IF.
Is Lottery a Better Way of Resource Distribution Than Baseline Funding? The current model shows that when most new scientists come from the same discipline, a combination of baseline funding, such as block grants, and competitive funding works better.
Research Productivity of Pakistani Female LIS Authors, 1977 to 2020: A Bibliometric Analysis The findings of the study would help future researchers to understand trends and various bibliometric aspects of publications originating from women LIS researchers in Pakistan.
Sports Medicine: Scientometric of 10 Years of Global Scientific Productions Considering the importance of sports medicine in the prevention, control and treatment of many diseases, as well as the growth of the elderly population, it is necessary to develop research in this area. By identifying the features of highly cited articles in this field, a clear view of the top authors and publications and widely used topics was provided.
Statistical analysis of research integrity construction in 466 Chinese universities with medical programs Overall, the statistics show that Chinese universities with medical programs have achieved some progress in research integrity construction while revealing some issues.
Quantifying hierarchy and prestige in US ballet academies as social predictors of career success In summary, our research highlights the usefulness of the science of science methods as an efficient tool to quantify career patterns in creative professions that were not possible to elucidate before.
Resilient or Resistant: Pandemic Crisis and Early Observations of Different Preventive Capabilities from Cumulativeness of Scientific Research Points of View This study provided many imperative leads to understand what makes a nation “resilient” and is a significant step towards understanding the capabilities in deploying preventive measures. Therefore, it informs the policymakers about strategic capability positioning as they put together a plan to accumulate science targeted for use as preventive knowledge in the future. The framing of resistant and resilient capabilities in this study would be a useful guide for policymakers who aspire to orchestrate a process to accumulate scientific knowledge and develop the two capabilities.
Evaluating Collaboration in a Translational Research Ecosystem This paper reports the evaluation of collaboration in a large translational research program about cancer treatment.
In health research publications, the number of authors is strongly associated with collective self-citations but less so with citations by others If citations by others reflect scientific utility, then another mechanism must explain the excess of collective self-citations observed for multi-authored articles.
The expansion of team size in library and information science (LIS): Is bigger always better? Our research suggests that indiscriminately increasing the size of a team may not be a prudent decision. Our study not only deepens our quantitative understanding of the trend of team size in LIS but also provides several practical implications for diverse academic roles. Future studies should quantify and consider these dimensions when examining the correlation between team size and research performance.
Scientific divulgation before the post-truth and the crisis of credibility of science in the context of Digital Humanities Finally, it was concluded that the protagonists actors in the promotion of scientific divulgation strategies are public universities, because they have the democratization of access to knowledge as a social commitment. Public universities are key actors in promoting scientific divulgation strategies through social networks. Breaking down the walls between the university and society is an initial condition for thinking about science critically, understanding the importance of each informational process related to it, from creating knowledge to its forms of textualization, circulation, and divulgation.
Multi-affiliation: a growing problem of scientific integrity Coupled with the high numbers of affiliations involved, this emphasizes the need for careful scrutiny of the actual scientific contributions made by these authors and the importance of safeguarding the integrity of scientific output and networks. This study draws attention to several groups of countries, some of which have experienced a worrying increase in the occurrence of multi-affiliations, particularly those involving foreign affiliations. Our recommendation is that universities, where researchers maintain primary affiliations, rigorously examine each researcher's affiliations to ensure they comply with legal, ethical, and legitimate standards.
Mapping open science at Spanish universities. Analysis of higher education systems Open-science regulations, policies and strategies have begun to be implemented in the last 10 years, focusing mainly on open access. The data lead us, as other experts on the subject have (Anglada, 2022; González-Teruel et al., 2022), to conclude that open science has not yet "taken off" in Spanish universities, so the consolidation of open science will depend on what is done in the next few years.
Multi-task learning model for citation intent classification in scientific publications Our experimental results suggest that the proposed MTCIC framework and joint cita- tion representation model outperforms contrast methods, and the auxiliary tasks and joint citation representation model do contribute to the citation intent classification.
Evolution of number of citations per article in Materials Science: possible causes and effect on the impact factor of journals A general increase in the number of references cited per article is found in the Materials Science, Multidisciplinary WoS category since, roughly, 2005.
Social science research: An analysis of BRICS countries The study's findings highlight publication trends and collaboration pattern among the BRICS countries in social sciences, which benefit the academic community, decision-makers and the economy of the BRICS countries. The findings of this study paved the path for international partnerships among the BRICS countries by identifying which BRICS country is stronger/weaker in which sub-discipline of social sciences.
And the award goes to…the Matthew Effect: Examining external status as a predictor of productivity and opportunity Together, this work provides support for the Matthew Effect, whereby affiliation-based external status, bestowed by an award win, is associated with increased opportunities, which is associated with more productivity across careers.
Intra-Specialty Citation Pattern in Radiology and Gastroenterology/Hepatology Journals: A Cross-Specialty Comparison The significantly lower per-article intra-specialty citation counts in all radiology article types, a measurement that directly links to specialty IFs, may contribute to the lower impact factors of radiology journals compared with gastroenterology/hepatology ones. The significantly lower per-article intra-specialty citation counts of radiology articles likely contributed to the overall lower IFs of radiology journals.
Comparison of the application of curricula vitae and bibliometric analyses for tracing long-term and temporary scientific mobility The study findings confirmed that neither CV analysis nor bibliometric analysis can provide a complete overview of researchers' affiliations and mobility.
Publish and flourish: investigating publication requirements for PhD students in China In summary, our findings indicate that doctoral students in China are required to pub- lish at least one journal paper during their 3–6 year study period, with WoS papers being a mandatory requirement for many universities. Moreover, authorship is deemed crucial. The impact of the post "Breaking the Five Only” policy on the quality of doctoral training is also the focus of our future study, especially if the number of journal papers is no longer considered the primary evaluation indicator, then what alternative assessment measures should be adopted deserves in-depth exploration. This area warrants further examination in future research.
Are female researchers more efficient? An analysis of gender in a Spanish technological university The empirical analysis conducted here reveals that, using the available resources, women scientists obtain slightly better results than men, meaning they are able to manage their research more effectively.
Retracted publications in BRICS countries: an analytical study The study has investigated the retracted publications in BRICS countries, measured through data analysis on SCOPUS from 1989 to 2021. Unless the academic and research communities enforce severe action to address the growing problems of fabrication and plagiarism, research will be futile. More retraction would result in the degradation of the authors as well as the institution; both have to join hands and follow the publication ethics to stop or at least avoid retraction in the future.
Identifying the driving factors of word co-occurrence: a perspective of semantic relations This research extracted important pairs of co-occurring words from an experimental dataset and used the semantic KB to conduct annotation of semantic relations between word pairs. The study revealed that six semantic relations (i.e., RelatedTo, IsA, Synonym, HasContext, Antonym, and MannerOf) were significant factors directly inducing word co-occurrence from a semantic perspective. Moreover, some combinations of semantic relations can also have a significant driving effect on the co-occurrence of words. Through in-depth analysis and discussion of these relations, the key factors that induce word co-occurrence can be classified into three major types of relations between words: collocation and modification, hyponymy, and synonym and antonym.
Evolution analysis of cross-domain collaborative research topic: a case study of cognitive-based product conceptual design The methodology of this paper provides a new perspective for studying interdisciplinary topic convergence trends based on collaborative goal-oriented research, which can help scholars capture the convergence and development trends of cross-domain collaborative research topics over the years and explore dynamic CDTs to effectively support interdisciplinary scientific exchange.
Full publication of preprint articles in prevention research: an analysis of publication proportions and results consistency This study expands our knowledge that preprints on prevention research topics have few major changes in the effect estimates and conclusions after undergoing the peer-review process.
A social network analysis of academic journals in public administration in the early twenty-first century: examining journal level bibliometrics with network analysis We conclude that the public administration journal citation networks had both scale-free characteristics and small-world characteristics in the first two decades of the twenty-first century. Our results indicate that that Public Administration Review (PAR)—the oldest and most well-established journal of the field (established in 1940)—was consistently the most central journal of public administration in the period we studied. As other researchers pointed out, by identifying the structures in citation networks and the changes in them over time, we can better understand the intellectual histories of academic fields of study (Burt, 1977; Culnan, 1987; Culnan et al., 1990; de Solla Price, 1963, 1965), which in turn can help us gain a sense of the futures of these fields (Culnan, 1986; Rosetto et al., 2018).
The most productive age of the management scholars in Taiwan We conclude that forty is the most productive age of the management scholars in Taiwan, and the eligible age thirty-eight for applying for the Columbus Program of NSTC is reasonable from the viewpoint of management studies.
Mapping the research trends of migration behavior in agricultural households: a bibliometric analysis Consequently, these findings provide valuable insights into future research directions and evidence-based policy framing which will contribute to shielding agricultural households from unforeseen consequences of migration, benefiting researchers, policymakers, and practitioners in this arena.
Magnitude decrease of the Matthew effect in citations: a study based on Nobel Prize articles The study suggests a potential magnitude decrease in the Matthew effect, which is a reminder that most researchers nowadays will recognize the importance of scientific breakthrough in its early stage.
A transfer learning approach to interdisciplinary document classification with keyword-based explanation In this research, we proposed an interdisciplinary scientific document classification method based on transfer learning.
Scientific eminence and scientific hierarchy: bibliometric prediction of fellowship in the Australian Academy of Science The present research offered support for both of its main predictions.
Influence of different journal publishing models in the presence and detection of scientific errors and misconduct The main conclusion of this study is that the-re are differences in the presence and detection of error and misconduct cases according to the type of publisher.
Judging Journals: How Impact Factor and Other Metrics Differ across Disciplines Our study identifies some interesting trends in publishing metrics across disciplines—trends that will be useful to academic librarians in advising their faculty on publications and in work-ing on publications of their own. The biggest takeaway from our study is the huge discrepancy between disciplines, which prevents comparing their bibliometrics. Our results demonstrate that librarians as well as scholars and administrators must be careful in their treatment of metrics.
Antibacterial Resistance, Research, and Funding in 2024 "This was the first systematic analysis of research funding of antibacterial resistance of this scale and scope, which relied on the availability and accuracy of data from organisations included."
PyblioNet - Software for the creation, visualization and analysis of bibliometric networks In this paper, we presented PyblioNet, a software suite designed to support researchers in bibliometric analysis, scoping reviews, and daily literature searches. PyblioNet is a valuable addition to the bibliometrics field, providing researchers with an efficient and versatile tool for bibliometric analysis, literature searches, and science mapping. By streamlining data collection and offering extensive analysis and visualization capabilities, PyblioNet contributes to a deeper understanding of scholarly interactions and knowledge dissemination, fostering informed decision-making and advancing research in diverse domains.
Gender inequity in cancer research leadership in Europe: Time to act Our data show that Horizon Europe's Cancer Mission must ensure gender equity in its future research programmes and support the enhancement of female cancer research leadership opportunities.
Evolution of global scientific collaboration in mRNA vaccine research: Insights from bibliometric and social network analysis (2010∼2023) In conclusion, our research has provided valuable insights into the evolution of scientific collaboration in the field of mRNA vaccines, with the following key findings.
SERB-SURE scheme in India: early indicators and recommendations The early indicators of these submissions suggest the need to sensitize institutes to motivate, mentor and provide handholding to the female researcher to come forward and submit their research ideas for funding.
Environmental tobacco smoke and children's health: a bibliometric and altmetric analysis of 100 most cited articles This study demonstrates the evolution, digital dissemination and research hotspots in the field of ETS and CH, predicting the possible future research directions.
SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS IN BRAZILIAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION: PUBLICATIONS, INSTITUTIONS AND INDEXERS It is perceived that the group of scientific journals of physical education is consolidated and they make up the internal dynamics of this academic-scientific field. In the case of the scientific literature of Brazilian physical education, we can see that it is consolidated, since there are at least 39 journals that in some way represent the internal dynamics of the academic-scientific field, mostly affiliated with public HEls, with growing participation of scientific associations in their composition. They have managed to enter different databases, although they face difficulties in reaching those with greater prestige in the face of their selective and exclusionary criteria.
Three personality facets can relate to increased academic output To summarise, in terms of personality, there may exist three alternative ways to publish more often and, furthermore, to publish citable papers: to be more creative, to be more productive, or to have mood swings. Therefore, we presume that Emotional Volatility may boost academic productivity and, eventually, academic impact.
A framework for developing team science expertise using a reflective-reflexive design method (R2DM) In closing, we describe the R2DM model that relies on theo-retical and applied frameworks to make visible individual needs in relation to team science goals.
Research trend the in meteorology and atmospheric sciences category based on essential science indicators during 2011-2021 This study analyzed 1,636 top papers in the subject category of meteorology and atmospheric sciences published in the period from 2011 to 2021, which included 1,636 highly cited papers and 24 hot papers in the field and belonged to 20 Web of Science categories and 14 research areas. This work is also useful for student identifying graduate schools and for researchers selecting journals.
Trends in organic farming research in India (2002-2021) The study has the potential to benchmark the organic farming research in India to play a significant catalytic role for further research in the field of organic farming. This analytical study concludes following remarks about organic farming research during 2002 to 2021: Considering annual growth the year span between 2017 to 2021, (44.96%) is the most productive period and the period between 2002–2006 (7.58%) is the lowest productive period in the organic farming research. Most of the major contributing source outlets (9 out of 15 sources) preferred by researchers are originated from foreign countries.
The Emergence of the Open Research University Through International Research Collaboration This finding demonstrates the significance of international research collaboration and the degree to which scholars affiliated with open universities participate in globalized knowledge production and dissemination.
Early-career factors largely determine the future impact of prominent researchers: evidence across eight scientific fields Our findings show that these few early-career factors help predict researchers' impact later in their careers.
Why do manuscripts submitted to the Turkish Journal of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation get rejected? "In conclusion, methodological mistakes were found to be the most common reason for the rejection of manuscripts in Turk J Phys Med Rehab between 2016 and 2022. Planning the studies with proper protocols and study design before starting, avoiding repetitions of recent studies, and making the correct interpretation of the findings in the discussion would facilitate the acceptance of the submitted manuscripts to the journal."
Publications during COVID-19 times: An unexpected overall increase As to the main question of this investigation, we see that contrary to our expectations, the world's output in all broad categories (Arts and Humanities being a possible exception) has increased for the publication year 2021. We consider our study as a contribution to the science of science.
Nobel begets Nobel in economics Conditional on being a candidate, the professors and peers of Nobelists are more likely to win but their students are less likely to win. There are three big gaps in this research. It is an open question how the networks of Nobel candidates differ from other economists—particularly to what extent excellent people group together, in departments and co-author networks, and how such social dynamics propel researchers to new heights.
A revisit to the specification of sub-datasets and corresponding coverage timespans when using Web of Science Core Collection In conclusion, this study found that only 45.0% of the 934 bibliometric papers published during 2020-2022 have specified the sub-datasets of WOSCC they used for data collection. Worse than that, only 4.8% of the 934 papers specified the coverage timespan(s) of each sub-dataset or the entire dataset used for the bibliometric analysis. Detailed and correct information regarding the use of WOSCC should be reported in future studies.
Impact of COVID-19 on Journal Impact Factor The rapid surge of COVID-19 publications emphasized the capacity of scientific communities to respond against a global health emergency, yet inflated IFs create ambiguity as benchmark tools for assessing scholarly impact.
Retracted publications in infectious diseases and clinical microbiology literature: an analysis using the retraction watch database Retractions of infectious diseases and clinical microbiology publications are increasing.
Academic "click bait": A diachronic investigation into the use of rhetorical part in pragmatics research article titles Hopefully, this study could provide new evidence for the transition to post-academic writing style as well as the documented rhetorical marketization of the academic genres, and inform academic title writing in practice.
Bibliometric and thematic characterization of the research on HIV-aids in Spain (2010-2019) Spanish HIV research, largely driven by RIS groups, has reached a stage of maturity, with a notable increase in scientific production, participation in international cooperative networks and an outstanding impact and visibility.
Funding assistance and global productivity in the field of implant overdentures: A bibliometric analysis of 35 years The number of funded studies on implant overdentures increased over the years. Other bibliometric parameters such as country income, continent, study design, retention system, and corresponding author h-index were associated with the frequency of funded studies published. Therefore, the null hypothesis that funding assistance would not affect bibliometric parameters was rejected.
The conflict of impact for early career researchers planning for a future in the academy Policy solutions are recommended to address the current conflicts between ECRs' intrinsic orientation towards achieving extra-academic impact and the requirements for successful career progress that favour traditional notions of research value and excellence.
Randomisation as a tool for organisational decision-making: a debatable or debilitating proposition? The discussion reveals that experts are not without fault, yet randomisation is not a panacea. We believe that this article contributes a fresh lens to the discourse on the role of AI in modern organisations. Future work can build on these conversations to chart the applicability of experts, randomisation and AI across different settings, and explore the ideal mix for organisations and society as a whole.
Scientific creativity patterns in scholars' academic careers: Evidence from PubMed Our findings enrich the typology of scientific creativity patterns and provide a basis for policymakers to establish and improve performance evaluation systems. This study explored the overall scientific creativity patterns throughout scholars' academic careers and examined how scientific creativity patterns differed across genders and university tiers. First, the cluster results advance and expand our knowledge of scientific creativity patterns in scholars' careers. The overall scientific creativity patterns (flat and peak) found in this study complement the patterns found in previous research (single- or double-peak patterns).
How to configure intellectual capital of research teams for triggering scientific breakthroughs: Exploratory study in the field of gene editing The findings challenge the conventional notion that research teams of scientific breakthroughs excel in all supportive conditions.
The experiences of COVID-19 preprint authors: a survey of researchers about publishing and receiving feedback on their work during the pandemic The boost in preprinting may therefore have a structural effect that will last after the pandemic, although future developments will also depend on other factors, including the broader growth in the adoption of open science practices. Our study confirms the potential of feedback on preprints to provide valuable comments on research leading to greater efficiency in scholarly publishing.
Empirical demonstration of the Matthew effect in scientific research careers This paper presents a scientometric analysis of the Matthew effect in scientific research careers.
Statistical model and method for analyzing AI conference rankings: China vs USA This paper has analyzed the publications of US and China scientists in conferences proceedings on artificial intelligence and compared them. Despite the fact China published more Al conference papers, US papers are cites more, and more often published at conferences where they are more likely to receive higher than expected citations. Thus, we can conclude that the measures taken by the Chinese government and companies, and the huge data flow, provide an opportunity for the development of AI in the country, which has already resulted in it overtaking the United States quantitatively and could subsequently lead to a change of leader in this field also qualitatively, as defined by citations.
World Workshop on Oral Medicine VIII: Barriers to research in oral medicine: results from a global survey The results of this survey identified perceived barriers to conducting research in OM and highlighted solutions to address such barriers.
Scholarly communication practices and attitudes of Egyptian junior researchers: An exploratory study The findings of this study furnish us with a more profound comprehension of the prevailing scholarly system in Egypt, which in turn can serve as a foundation for potential system enhancement.
Nature and characteristics of global attention to research on article processing charges The significant attention given to the research area of APCs, as evidenced by the total of 460 papers published in 25 years (an average of 17.7 papers per year), indicates that APCs is a topic of increasing importance and interest within the scholarly community. This calls for collaboration and knowledge-sharing across disciplines to gain a comprehensive understanding of APCs. The research also indicates the need for broader participation from countries around the world, especially those with limited resources or representation.
Individual and Program-Related Predictors of Academic Vascular Surgery Practice An individual's research output during training and achievement of advanced degrees predict an academic vascular surgery career and continued publication success.
Impact of self-citation on author h-index in anaesthesiology and pain medicine Our initial hypothesis was disproved, and the modest increase in the h-index regardless of the initial h-index implies that self-citations alone usually have a relatively minor impact on the h-index growth, and that the large majority of researchers grew their own metrics on external citations. Whilst our paper highlights the generally neutral nature of self-citation in the fields of anaesthesia and pain medicine, our findings do not endorse unrestricted self-citation practices. For this reason, it is crucial for reviewers, editors, and co-authors to work together to enhance scientific integrity and address potential issues related to self-citation.
Characteristics of Retracted Publications From Kazakhstan: An Analysis Using the Retraction Watch Database The vast majority of the publications were research articles and conference papers.
Human resource management research in healthcare: a big data bibliometric study This study describes the current state and global trends in HRM research in healthcare. However, the focus and hotspots of the research are scattered, and there is presently no systematic research on the content of HRM in healthcare. We propose that our colleagues should consider focusing on these research gaps in the future.
Comprehensive Analysis of Scientific Output in Hip and Knee Arthroscopy This study provides the first scientific comparison between H-ASC and K-ASC.
From Pixels to Sustainability: Trends and Collaborations in Remote Sensing for Advancing Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11) In this study, we analyzed remote sensing and Earth observation studies in the context of their contribution to SDG 11. The analysis of 6820 articles published between 2016 and 2023 indicated an upward trend in the field, which also revealed the central role of geospatial technologies in guiding the future of cities. Future directions in remote sensing research related to SDG 11 should focus on a more inclusive and diverse approach, in light of the findings and identified gaps.
Exploring the role of ranking systems towards university performance improvement: A focus group-based study Findings propose the potential development of an empirically tested ranking system that might address the challenge of evaluating the performance and precise goal-setting of HEIs.
Citations in Chemistry at the Dawn of Open Science The analysis presented in this study suggests three main findings that will hopefully assist chemistry researchers in gaining a closer knowledge of citation patterns and citation habits of fellow chemists. First, research chemists continue to chiefly cite journal articles over any other form of citeable items (software, book, patent, preprint, data set, Web site, book chapter, etc.). Second, élite research chemists chiefly cite articles in reputed general chemistry journals, including relatively new OA journals established by the leading chemistry publishers in the early 2010s. Third, chemistry researchers publishing research articles in general chemistry or multi-disciplinary journals tend to cite many more journals including specialized publications. Hopefully, therefore, the outcomes of this study will also assist in promoting the uptake of self-archiving among research chemists.
Ranking philosophy journals: a meta-ranking and a new survey ranking The paper's contributions are two-fold. It presents the first meta-ranking of philosophy journals, based on a variety of existing rankings. And it presents a new survey-based ranking of philosophy journals. While this paper's primary aim is to present methodologically rigorous work on journal rankings, some words of caution and criticism about journal rankings, and some observations about the limitations are in place.
The evolution research on Silver Economy: Current researches, trends, and implications for future directions Pursuant to the goals of this article, more than one thousand research themes have already been identified, their impact, relation and evolution, these results allow us to establish a frame of reference around Silver Economy, from a comprehensive perspective, ie, academic, scientific, technological, entrepreneurial, social and political.
Machine Learning Approach for Effective Ranking of Researcher Assessment Parameters Evaluating the scientific influence of a scholar holds great importance due to the numerous benefits.
Female early-career scientists have conducted less interdisciplinary research in the past six decades: evidence from doctoral theses The findings indicate the potential underrepresentation of female scientists in pursuing inter-disciplinary research at the early stages of their careers.
Ranking versus rating in peer review of research grant applications We conclude that when compared to rating, ranking provides a more reliable assessment of the quality of research applications, is not as influenced by reviewer expertise or experience, and is associated with fewer sources of bias.
Measuring the novelty of scientific publications: A fastText and local outlier factor approach This study proposed a fastText and LOF approach to measure the novelty of scientific publications using textual information from papers.
The impact of Canadian-produced research on the global orthopedic literature: a bibliometric analysis The body of Canadian orthopedic literature has grown consistently over the past 20 years. Despite the overall leadership of the United States and other developed nations such as China and Japan, Canada ranks among the most influential countries in terms of the quality and quantity of orthopedic research. Given the growing trend of national collaboration on orthopedic publications between aca-demic centres, this rank is only expected to improve in the future with increased data sharing, networking and production of high-impact research.
Development and validation of an instrument to assess the knowledge and perceptions of predatory journals This study has successfully developed a valid and reliable questionnaire to measure knowledge and perceptions of predatory journals among researchers in the clinical and health disciplines.
Limited number of spine surgeons among recipients of National Institutes of Health grants awarded for degenerative spine disease research Few spine surgeons receive NIH grants for degenerative spine disease research.
The overseas background of Chinese returnee energy scientists The findings of this study have important implications for the development of China's energy sector and the cultivation of scientific research talents. In conclusion, this study highlights the importance of international education experiences for energy scientists and underscores the need to attract and retain these talents in the Chinese energy sector.
Worldwide scientific efforts on nursing in the field of SARS-CoV-2: a cross-sectional survey analysis Several countries, institutions, journals, and authors contributed greatly to SARS-CoV-2-related nursing studies.
Comparative bibliometric analysis of leading Open Access journals: a focus on Chinese and non-Chinese journals in science, technology, and medicine In conclusion, this study highlights the disparity in publication productivity, internationalization, and scientific performance between leading OA Chinese journals and their international counterparts. The analysis underscores the need for strengthening the construction and support of English STM journals in China, and other emerging scientific nations to enhance their international influence. To address these challenges, efforts should focus on enhancing the journals' capacity to attract high-quality international manuscripts, cultivating a stronger reputation within the global academic community, and improving operational modes and marketization degrees.
Impact factor based on logarithmic correction for papers' citations and studies on its category normalization It is concluded that cnlFlog1.5 is an ideal journal evaluation indicator in same or different disciplines.
MOPRD: A multidisciplinary open peer review dataset In this paper, we introduce the Multidisciplinary Open Peer Review Dataset (MOPRD), which is, to our best knowledge, the first large-scale open peer review dataset of multidisciplinary data.
The relationship between interdisciplinarity and citation impact-a novel perspective on citation accumulation In conclusion, it is necessary to consider the length of the citation window when explaining the relationship between interdisciplinarity and citation impact.
Prevalence of Short Peer Reviews in 3 Leading General Medical Journals In this study of 3 leading general medical journals, one-fifth of initial editorial decisions for published articles were likely based at least partially on reviews of such short length that they were unlikely to be of high quality. Future research could determine whether monitoring peer review length improves the quality of peer reviews and which interventions, such as incentives and norm-based interventions, may elicit more detailed reviews.
Impact of Bonding Capital and Bridging Capital on Scientific Results of Research Groups Thus, firstly, we have verified the existence of a curvilinear inverted U-shaped relationship between bonding capital—cohesion—and the results of the research groups.
Preliminary guideline for reporting bibliometric reviews of the biomedical literature (BIBLIO): a minimum requirements The BIBLIO for the first time provides a preliminary guideline of its own kind. It is hoped that it could contribute to the transparent reporting of bibliometric reviews.
Evaluation of a Scientific Productivity Model among World Highly Cited Authors: a Study Based on Experts' Opinions The combination of quan- titative and qualitative factors presented in this model can effectively provide the basis for individual and organizational scientific development and pave the way for individu- als and organizations to promote scientific productivity.
Untangling pair synergy in the evolution of collaborative scientific impact In this paper, we have presented a quantitative and mechanistic analysis of synergy in scientific collaboration, contributing to the field in two key ways. Our analysis based on the SBM inference highlights the critical role of combinations of individual attributes, resulting in the predictability of unknown synergy types. Our results pave the way for matching underrepresented scientists with unrealized potential, which has the potential to accelerate scientific innovation on a global scale.
"... is an open access, peer-reviewed, scholarly journal": How open access journals describe themselves in their "Aims and Scope" statements The findings in this study reveal the rhetorically resourceful strategies adopted by some OAJs in their A&S statements. Through the lens of the prestige economy, the rhetorical strategies show the efforts by the OAJs analyzed in this study to comply with what is expected in the prestige economy of scholarly publishing and to attempt to redefine what is relevant in such an economy. I hope this study has taken a measurable step in advancing our understanding of OAJs and OS.
Achieving success with RISE: A widely implementable, iterative, structured process for mastering interdisciplinary team science collaborations Consistent and useful lessons learned can emerge from the RISE process.
The Journal of Accounting and Public Policy at 40: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, our study makes several contributions. First, it identifies JAPP's publication and citation trends, presenting an overview of its academic contributions and impact between 1982 and 2021. JAPP has grown considerably since its inception. This growth extends beyond publications and citations to include themes explored in the journal. We identify several JAPP themes that researchers can develop in the future.
Mapping Research Trends With Factorial Analysis in Organizational Politics This study analyzed data on scientific publications related to the topic of “organizational politics” and found that there are many publications on the topic, with keywords such as “perception,” “politics,” and “organizational performance.”
Embracing Digital Transformation in Financial Services: From Past to Future This study establishes a framework for policymakers, academics, and researchers to investigate the areas where digital technologies influence financial services.
The Collaboration Patterns of Institution during the COVID-19 Pandemic Our study reveals the collaboration patterns of scientific institutions during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Never mind predatory publishers... what about 'grey' publishers? It seems that countries form a continuum in their approach to 'grey' publishers, from those who seem to have little concerns about them -Australia, Israel, UK, and US- to those growingly concerned about the phenomenon, with Malaysia the most concerned, but China, Poland, France, and Spain also exhibiting signs of unease. The level of concern is perhaps traceable to the assessment procedures in place in the different countries: the more a country relies on quantitative productivity coupled with citation-data based bibliometric indicators to measure research achievements, the more problematic the role of 'grey' publishers becomes. Thus, this paper, largely meant to be an opinion piece, has laid the ground for future systematic research on the part of the Harbingers group.
A search strategy for publications in interdisciplinary research The proposed search strategy can be applied for the retrieval of any interdisciplinary publications. Adjustment, however, has to be done according to the characteristics of the target disciplines. To solve this problem, we plan to develop user-friendly guidelines and to make them freely accessible, so that researchers in fields with little knowledge of computer science and bibliometrics may apply the guidelines to collect an expanded set of publications in the interdisciplinary area of their choosing.
Novel approach for quantitative and qualitative authors research profiling using feature fusion and tree-based learning approach This research investigates the intricate world of citation sentiment analysis, shedding light on the profound impact of self-citation on an author's scientific profile.
Publications in Educational Research Journals from Singapore, Japan, and South Korea (2008-2017): A Bibliometric Analysis In this study, the educational research performance of Singapore, Japan, and South Korea between 2008 and 2017 in SSCI was examined from a bibliometric perspective, which also has demonstrated the potential of using GraphPad Prism and VOSviewer tools together. Given this, future research can focus more on this crucial area to understand the metrics and weights that journals accept papers, which can improve the acceptance of papers and the efficiency of researchers.
Women Participation in Health Research of Iran: Analysis of Challenges and Strategies with Literature of Review Findings may help illuminate policy makings to promote participation of women in the country research.
The geographic diversity of authorship in leading general surgery journals; A study of 24,332 authors Authorship in leading general surgery journals is predominantly from wealthy, Western countries.
ChatGPT identifies gender disparities in scientific peer review Together, this study highlights the potential of generative artificial intelligence in performing natural language processing of specialized scientific texts.
A global exploratory comparison of country self-citations 1996-2019 The analysis of the research policies adopted by these anomalous countries in the last years has revealed that they all share a common trait, namely the introduction of direct or indirect rewards for the bibliometric performance of scientists. Policy pressure seems therefore capable of affecting rapidly and visibly the citation behavior of entire countries, possibly distorting global rankings of countries based on citations [31]. Hence, they should be handled by science policy makers with the most extreme caution.
What does ChatGPT advise about predatory publishing? In conclusion, ChatGPT provided accurate responses to "predatory publishing" since its strength is to collate, synthesize and summarize previous human-created knowledge of a particular area of exploration, as in this case of predatory publishing.
SLA as an interdiscipline: A bibliometric study The results of this study have shown that SLA acts as both the intellectual provider and the recipient of knowledge in an interdisciplinary context. New insights are also presented in response to some existing discussions on the disciplinary and interdisciplinary identity of SLA, which will hopefully contribute to a clearer understanding of the interdisciplinarity of the discipline. To sustain the healthy development of SLA, researchers need to pay more attention to its disciplinary and interdisciplinary nature, and enhance the depth of research.
Interaction in written texts: A bibliometric study of published research In this study we have used bibliometric methods to track the emergence of an area of applied linguistics and language pedagogy which has grown considerably in recent years.
Open reproducible scientometric research with Alexandria3k Alexandria3k builds on a rich and evolving ecosystem of publicly available data and sophisti- cated open source software libraries coupled with exponential advances in computing power, enabling scientists to perform reproducible bibliometric, scientometric, and research synthesis studies in a transparent and repeatable manner on a personal computer. Nevertheless, Alexandria3k opens many possibilities to conduct research that goes beyond what can be easily done through the query and API-based approaches offered by existing pro- prietary [2] and open [6] databases. We hope that running Alexan- dria3k as an open source project will allow it to grow organically serving ever more needs of research synthesis and analysis studies.
Differences in productivity and collaboration patterns on spine-related research between neurosurgeons and orthopedic spine surgeons: Bibliometric analysis Orthopedic spine surgeons have a higher number of publications, citations, and CJAL scores in spine research than those in neurosurgeons.
A comprehensive approach for clustering analysis using follower-leading clustering algorithm (FLCA): Bibliometric analysis The FLCA algorithm proposed in this study offers researchers a comprehensive approach to exploring and comprehending the complex connections among authors or keywords.
How academic librarians combat student plagiarism Overall, the results showed that academic libraries should be placed at the forefront of student plagiarism prevention, with library professionals assuming the roles of informants, educators, and counsellors within these initiatives. However, librarians are not usually involved in policy development, and Greek HEIs have yet to include the library in their anti-plagiarism planning actively. Similarly, libraries have a minor role in plagiarism detection, indicating a significant cooperation deficit between libraries and the other HEI internal stakeholders.
Disciplinary gender balance, research productivity, and recognition of men and women in academia Our results show the overall suitability of our model, and the important role of research collaboration and choice of journal in explaining productivity and citations.
Association between the use of Sci-Hub and consultation of scientific journals by medical students from six Latin American countries: A secondary analysis Overall, the regular consultation of scientific journals is low among Latin American medical students, but our data demonstrated that a higher frequency of use of Sci-Hub was positively associated with the consultation of scientific journals.
Developing International Collaboration Indicators in Fisheries Remote Sensing Research to Achieve SDG 14 and 17 Regarding research partnerships, bibliographic information and metrics are essential for quantifying them.
Unsupervised embedding of trajectories captures the latent structure of scientific migration Neural embedding approaches offer a novel, data-driven solution for efficiently learning an effective and robust representation of locations based on trajectory data, encoding the complex and multi-faceted nature of migration.
Defining standards for rankings: An investigation of global university rankings according to the Berlin Principles Overall, rankings do not consider differences in higher education and are not transparent about the processes by which rankings are developed. Rankings should for this reason be interpreted carefully and methodological weaknesses of rankings that can lead to false inferences should be recognised.
How to motivate a reviewer with a present bias to work harder Therefore, using a formal model, we have found that a reviewer with a present bias increases their motivation to work hard by setting a higher goal for the manuscript evaluation (relative to having no goal).
A study on the election factors of an ACM Fellow based on the co-authorship relations "In line with most research findings, a cooperative relationship between the candidates and previous Fellows increases the chances of the candidates being successfully elected as Fellows."
Compromising quality parameters lead to fallout: a study of de-indexing of research journals Research information seekers in general and researchers, in particular, should avoid forming the misconception that the research journals indexed in Scopus or WoS are perpetually standardized and of high quality.
Strategies for building institutional repositories: a case study of content recruitment in Malaysian higher learning institutions This research has identified the various strategies employed by academic institutions in Malaysia to acquire content for their institutional repositories.
Thirty years of research in tropical medicine: historical trends for the world and for the Revista de Biologia Tropical (1990-2020) While countries with large research budgets have a large presence in this database, lower income tropical countries like Brazil and Kenya have done a remarkable contribution in the field of tropical medicine.
Congestion on the information superhighway: Inefficiencies in economics working papers In total, our results highlight significant and damaging conse-quences from congestion in the profession's diffusion of working pa-pers. Our results highlight how readers face time and cognitive constraints, with increased congestion in working papers leading to real impacts on how research is consumed. This congestion problem is likely even more pertinent in contexts where timely research is needed, such as during the Covid pandemic: drastic events attract greater research output, but increased working paper releases cannibalize viewership across all papers, effectively hamstringing the potential positive impacts of timely economic research.
Loet Leydesdorff, interdisciplinarity, and diversity In this article, I focused on Leydesdorff's approach and propose a correction to my own work and the Leydesdorff-Wagner-Bornmann suggestion.
Toward the consolidation of a multi-metric-based journal ranking and categorization system for computer science subject areas These comparisons demonstrated that the multi-metric-based ESA index can serve as a valuable reference for publishers, journal editors, researchers, policymakers, librarians, and practitioners in journal selection, decision making, and professional assessment.
Reference publication year spectroscopy (RPYS) of papers published by Loet Leydesdorff: A giant in the field of scientometrics passed away The empirical results of this study can confirm these themes in Loet's program. Based on the results of our study, we would like to add the theme "quantitative research evaluation". Both, his publications and programs will surely continue to be extremely helpful to the scientometrics community.
A bibliometric perspective on the academic contributions of Loet Leydesdorff He made profound contributions to the study of bibliometrics, innovation systems (the Triple Helix model), and communications. By tracing the academic contribution of Loet Leydesdorff from different perspectives, the current paper provides a quantified portrait of him. It is no exaggeration to say that he is an internationally distinguished scholar.
Creating a collection of publications categorized by their research guarantors into the Scopus ASJC scheme The most important thing is that, despite having been explicitly urged to use few assignations, and to match them in so far as possible with those assigned by the journal, the author's responses show what is, in our opinion, a high proportion of multiple assignations that do not coincide with the journals. What is certain is that there is a striking deviation between the journal-based classifications established in Scopus and the classification that the authors of the works themselves believe to be most appropriate, and to which, in some way, any classification should converge. With all this, we consider that the Author's Assignation Collection (AAC) that we have created can be used as a further classification of reference for evaluating other classification systems of scientific documents collected in Scopus that also use the ASJC scheme.
Loet Leydesdorff: bibliometric analysis and mapping of his scientific production A bibliometric analysis of Leydesdorff's publications collected in WoS has been carried out and a scientific mapping of his papers, including co-authors, their countries of origin and keywords (author and indexing), has also been produced.
New map of the research published in Profesional de la Informacion (2006-2023) Since no poor behaviour is seen in any of these areas, it can be concluded that, in becoming part of WoS and Scopus, EPI has entered a virtuous cycle that has led it to successfully expand its thematic scope, and to attain levels of impact and excellence superior to those of its origins.
Editorial boards of information science and library science journals: roles, terminology, origin, and internationalization This work provides an in-depth look at the wide range of terminological titles assigned to EBMs in Information Science and Library Science journals, and is the first study to analyze all EC positions in the same field. Furthermore, due to the great diversity of positions and their titles, we recommend drawing up a guide to good editorial practices that includes both a description of the complex range of functions performed by EBMs in the editorial process and a unified designa- tion of these universal positions.
Altmetrics for the identification of scientific controversies: The case of NeuroGenderings and neurosexism We can therefore confirm that analyzing scientific controversies in the social sphere is feasible when combining natural language processing techniques, traditional bibliometric techniques, and altmetrics.
Archaeological research in Catalonia: projects 2014-2022 The outcomes of our study underscore the significance of the public financing model for archaeological research implemented in Catalonia over the past nine years.
Underrepresentation of Low- and Middle-Income Nations in Ophthalmology Journals: A Critical Analysis on Diversity, Equity, and Global Representation A clear underrepresentation of low- to middle-income nations was observed in ophthalmology journals. Promoting editorial diversity and minimizing the possibility of editorial bias could lead to greater exposure to real-world data from resource-constrained settings. The documented underrepresentation of low- to middle-income nations in ophthalmology journals highlights the importance of promoting diversity and inclusion.
US News Global Ranking of Subjects 2022-23 Thus, the data we curated from the US News Global Ranking of Universities are similar to those from the SRC Subject Rankings 2022 (refs 1, 2).
A network-based normalized impact measure reveals successful periods of scientific discovery across disciplines Our work provides insights into the evolution of science and paves a way for fair comparisons of the impact of diverse contributions across many fields.
Questionable research practices in competitive grant funding: A survey Our survey results suggest that QRPs are widespread in grant writing and grant peer review.
Research on dynamic evaluation method of individual scientific impact under multiple key nodes The two-node piecewise linear regression model successfully divided the academic trajectories of individual scientists into three stages.
Ranking mobility and impact inequality in early academic careers These findings provide clarity on the opportunities of new scholars entering the academic community, with implications for academic policymaking.
Limited online training opportunities exist for scholarly peer reviewers Our comprehensive search of the literature identified 20 openly accessible online training materials in manuscript peer review. Future collaborative efforts should focus on the creation of a more unified manuscript peer review training program. To meaningfully promote improving peer review skills, publishers could require all new peer reviewers to complete training and certification prior to peer reviewing.
The Challenge of Representing Ethno-Literature: The Case of Macunaima's Decolonial Glossary Despite encountering representation challenges akin to those in interdisciplinary spaces, the Macunaíma's Decolonial Glossary will contribute to the documentation of the National Inventory of Linguistic Diversity.
Publications in gold open access and article processing charge expenditure: evidence from Indian scholarly output India must consider a country-level OA policy mandate that helps researchers publish their funded research in OA journals. With a large pool of researchers in India, initiatives may be taken to have ‘one nation, one OA repository' of all the preprint publications and back the Plan S initiative, which mandates OA publication for research supported by public agencies. Besides, it should provide infrastructural support for new and existing OA journals in India, thereby contributing enormously to making scholarly publications accessible without any paywall.
Education quality, internet access in schools, and research performance in management and accounting domains: a cross-country investigation The results indicate that the education system's quality, math education quality, and business schools' quality are all influential in stimulating research productivity both in accounting and management domains.
Identifying interdisciplinary research in research projects In this paper, we proposed an approach for identifying IDR in projects available on the RIS based on an organizational approach.
Co-follower metric on academic-social media ResearchGate: similarities between Derek de Solla Price Memorial Medal winners It is concluded that, instead of social proximities, the co-follower relational metric objectively represents theoretical-methodological proximities between researchers, as perceived by the ResearchGate community, providing a clear image of the role played by the researchers analyzed in this environment.
Relating popularity on Twitter and Linkedin to bibliometric indicators of visibility and interconnectedness: an analysis of 8512 applied researchers in Germany As one central finding, we can confirm that researchers who are more popular on social media have more distinct co-authors (Hypothesis 1a). Our findings support the notion that social media have become a new part-alternative, part-additional communication channel in, of and about science that integrates with existing ones, as some of the more recent literature has suggested (Shakeel et al., 2022; Kelly et al., 2016; Costas, 2015). This underlines that researchers' social media activity alone may not be effective for improving scientific networks.
The effect of academic mobility on research performance: the case of China This article empirically analyzes the effect of academic mobility of scientific researchers who have received funding from the National Natural Science Foundation for Distinguished Young Scholars (Jieqing) on their research performance in China.
From the Soviet Union to the Russian Federation: publication activity dynamics along the evolution of national science policies The current paper has identified and discussed the whole range of problems related to the development of PA under different socioeconomic and political conditions of the former USSR and Russia. As the experience of many countries, including both the USSR and Russia, shows, it is advisable to assess the state of PA only in the long term, since at each point in time the PA indicators reflect the results or effectiveness of scientific activity only in some approximation. The comparisons of the USSR and Russia done in this paper suggest that the direct quantitative PA targets imposed on organizations or individual researchers have a limited stimulating potential, particularly for the quality of scientific research.
Remote collaboration fuses fewer breakthrough ideas We conclude that despite striking improvements in digital technology in recent years, remote teams are less likely to integrate the knowledge of their members to produce new, disruptive ideas.
Research trends in mental health problems of children and adolescents during the COVID-19 pandemic: A bibliometric and visualization analysis This study helped analyze the mental health of children and adolescents during the COVID-19 pandemic and identified hot trends and shortcomings, which are important references for the theoretical basis of future research and decision making and technical guidance for systematic reviews.
New academic journals: an international overview of indexing and access models In the expansion of the publishing market, academic journals represent a small fraction of the total. The main sources of new titles in open access with no processing charges for authors are universities in countries that are not home to large commercial publishers (Indonesia, Brazil, and Spain), all with government subsidies. An analysis of processing charges reveals that universities in countries that are not home to large commercial publishers (Indonesia, Brazil, and Spain) play a vital role in the creation of new open-access journals with no author processing charges, thanks in all cases to government subsidies.
Factors Associated with the Citation Status of Papers Published in the Iranian Journal of Radiology (IJR) in the Past Five Years (2018-2022) The present research indicated that the number of years since publication, type of paper, and scope of the paper's title were the most significant factors influencing the citation status of papers in the IJR.
The structure of segregation in co-authorship networks and its impact on scientific production Our results help study highly segregated communities of scientific co-authors and can pave the way for intervention strategies to improve the growth and dissemination of scientific knowledge. Our results indicate that highly segregated communities tend to be more on the periphery, with some differences in density and clustering with non-segregated communities. Researchers in larger and non-segregated communities in the nucleus also increase their impact.
The Contribution of Universities to the Production of Basic Scientific Knowledge in Russia However, the contribution of the university sector has been constantly growing and in recent years has become equal to the contribution of the research sector. Thus, over the past three decades, Russia has managed to overcome the historical gap between the research sector and the higher education sector in the production of scientific knowledge. Universities, especially leading ones, are more involved in international coauthorship than the research sector.
openalexR: An R-Tool for Collecting Bibliometric Data from OpenAlex openalexR is a new package that facilitates querying, collecting, and downloading bibliographic metadata of OpenAlex entities through the provided REST APIs. openalexR helps streamline the researcher's workflow in accessing, collecting, and wrangling OpenAlex data.
THEMATIC AND CONCEPTUAL ANALYSIS OF THE JOURNAL OF WORLD ECONOMY (REVISTA DE ECONOMÍA MUNDIAL) USING SCIMAT Bibliometric analysis is a scientific method that has gained popularity in recent years, permitting in this case a retrospective study of documents published in the Journal of World Economy (Revista de Economía Mundial, or REM) between 2008 and 2021 – years in which the journal was indexed in the SSCI.
Analysis of Retracted Publications in Medical Literature Due to Ethical Violations Unethical behavior is one of the most significant obstacles to scientific advancement.
How effectively do journal author guides communicate issues regarding plagiarism? A study of graduate students in Taiwan The findings revealed that plagiarism related to citation is the easiest type to understand, whereas a journal's handling of plagiarism cases and self-plagiarism are more confusing and difficult for the students to comprehend.
Dissemination, Publication, and Impact of Finance Research: When Novelty Meets Conventionality* Our ultimate aim is to provide comprehensive and objective evidence that could help the profession, especially its leaders, to reflect on the prevailing patterns and to think of creative ways to encourage and promote innovations in research.
The new knowledge production in the social sciences and in the arts and humanities in Latin America Our findings revealed six major patterns of knowledge production in the SS and the A&H in LATAM: (i) a rapid growth in the production of journal articles in both knowledge areas and in both indexes (WoS and SciELO); (ii) large differences in article production across countries in the LATAM region; (iii) important variations in the magnitude and the growth of articles across disciplines within the SS and the A&H; (iv) an initial predominance of single-authored articles but which has been declining in favour of collaboration within both a single-country in LATAM and with countries outside LATAM, the latter mainly in the SS; (v) a significant variation across the two indexes (WoScc and SciELO) in the magnitudes of joint articles with researchers outside LATAM, collaboration that tends to be with scholars from countries in the global North; and (vi) strong research leadership in the region, as depicted by corresponding authorship, although unequally distributed across LATAM countries. Our broad conclusion, therefore, is that—while there are significant and understandable variations across the region—the development of the SS and the A&H across LATAM is now being significantly influenced by both worldwide forces and national forces of knowledge production. Promising areas for future research on knowledge production in the region include investigating - using a multilevel approach - the joint effect of individual-level characteristics (e.g. gender, seniority), institutional-level correlates (e.g. type of institution, funding, size, ranking position), and nation-level variables (e.g. economic development, science funding indicators, research capacity, main language) on research outcomes, and how the effects of these variables interact.
Origins, motives, and challenges in Western-Chinese research collaborations amid recent geopolitical tensions: findings from Swedish-Chinese research collaborations Swedish–Chinese collaboration, and international research collaboration generally, continues to increase.
The Role of Early-Career University Prestige Stratification on the Future Academic Performance of Scholars Our main findings underline a more complex relation between prestige movements and performance than the common positive association.
A comparison study of topic modeling based literature analysis by using full texts and abstracts of scientific articles: a case of COVID-19 research First, by using topic modeling, we present an overview of COVID-19 literature, such as the most relevant terms, the main research themes, and research trends for COVID-19 research. Second, our study also contributes to the literature analysis approach. Third, the current study provides a methodological framework, which can be applied in any specific field of study, which is very important for librarians or documentalists to efficiently manage the literature in a special field.
Citations and Author Characteristics in Open-Access and Subscription-Based Otolaryngology Journals Articles published in open-access journals in otolaryngology were cited significantly less than those published in subscription-based journals.
Assessment criteria for research misconduct: Taiwanese researchers' perceptions Hence, The Criteria seem to be ready for practical use.
A bibliometric analysis of the IRAL over the past six decades Using a bibliometric analysis of articles published in IRAL over the past 60 years, we obtained multi-faceted information about this long-established journal, including topics (e.g., the most discussed topics and their evolving patterns), citations and references (e.g., the most highly-cited articles, the source of citation, the sub-subject of the source of citation, and the most highly-cited references), authors and countries/regions (e.g., the counts of authors each year, authors' influence, and the most contributing authors and countries/regions).
Exploring COVID-19 research papers published on journals in the field of LIS It is noted that COVID-19 has had both positive and negative impacts on scholarly communication and publishing. This study is valuable in that it provides an opportunity to reconsider and innovate the traditional research-publishing lifecycle.
Expert judgments versus publication-based metrics: do the two methods produce identical results in measuring academic reputation? The results of the study support our conclusion that scientometric indicators predict the names of the most influential sociologists with significant accuracy.
COVID-19 citation pandemic within the psychological knowledge domain The role of "hot" papers was elaborated from the perspective of research evaluation practice.
Academics' perceptions of research impact and engagement through interactions on social media platforms This paper has explored academics' own perceptions of what constitutes research impact through social media.
Mapping the field of physical therapy and identification of the leading active producers. A bibliometric analysis of the period 2000-2018 Our advanced bibliometric delineation and visualization approach makes possible the study of the thematic structure in physical therapy, unveiling eleven main topics in the field. The topic with the strongest increase in production is the one related to “Evidence-based physical therapy research methods", which is also the topic attracting most attention from the scientific community, as captured by the high number of citations. The most productive countries and institutions are not necessary related to a high average citation impact.
Publishing international library and information science journals: The changing landscape The general trend in the past two decades showed increases in numbers of LIS journals, publishers, countries of pub-lishers, and articles indexed in the SJR, with a consistent prevalence of large commercial publishers.
Factors influencing the citation behavior of Pakistani novice LIS researchers "The current study establishes that there is no difference in the citation behavior of male and female LIS researchers in Pakistan."
Investigating the contribution of author-and publication-specific features to scholars' h-index prediction This study aims to reveal the factors associated with the future h-index of researchers based on bibliometric data, which allowed us to have various researchers groups from dif-ferent countries and scientific fields for more comprehensive analyses.
A new perspective on trends in psychology Overall, our findings provide a fresh and nuanced understanding of trends in Psychology.
Social Media and Academic Impact: Do Early Tweets Correlate With Future Citations? These data suggest a moderate correlation between tweets and article citations, but a clear difference in the number of citations in articles tweeted vs those with no tweets.
Expert-recommended biomedical journal articles: Their retractions or corrections, and post-retraction citing Based on the findings, this study suggests that expert recommendation systems such as Faculty Opinions implement strategies and methods to (1) notify all recommending FMs as soon as possible about the subsequent retractions; (2) invite FMs to revise or amend their recommendations on what is still valid and what were flaws or errors; (3) shorten the time-lag in adding editorial notes about the retractions using multiple sources such as data from the Retraction Watch database; and (4) alert the users who have accessed the recommendations before the articles’ retractions. It is also important that publishers should make retracted articles and their notices of retractions more transparent and open access to facilitate corrections of invalid literature.
Gender differences in citation sentiment: A case study in life sciences and biomedicine Collectively, our findings showed gender differences in citation homophily and citation sentiments in the fields of in life science and biomedicine. We believe that our findings are important, as they provide awareness regarding these gender differences in tendency of authors, in terms of citation and language framing of research findings that they cited. Thus, they could serve as a basis for initial actions that can be taken to reduce the gender gap in life sciences and biomedicine.
Analysis of interdisciplinary characteristics and knowledge structure from multidimensional perspective: a case study of national fitness topic in China China's national fitness is still in the primary development stage, and the strong boost of the national top-level policy is the biggest driving force of its development, driven by the policy together with the settlement of many major events, constantly improving and enriching the wings.
Frontier hotspots and trend evolution of cultural and creative design in China-an empirical research on CNKI-based bibliometrics With the continuous improvement of China's comprehensive strength, cultural confidence and cultural strategy are being paid more and more attention by scholars. Cross-integration has become the development direction for future research on cultural and creative design theory in China. With the continuous progress of science and technology, the integration of emotion and product industry is the mainstream trend of the future development of cultural and creative design.
How has academia responded to the urgent needs created by COVID-19? A multi-level global, regional and national analysis The significant and constant growth in the number of publications on COVID-19 reflects a quick and intense reaction from academia globally. Our findings may serve as resources for fostering strategies to respond to future threats of pandemics. Researchers wishing to expand upon this research might look to multi-dimensional objects and indexes to provide an in-depth analysis of how different sectors in academia respond to emergencies.
Unveiling cognitive structure and comparative advantages of countries in knowledge domains Accordingly, implications that could contribute to decision-making regarding the economy and research policies are described.
Questionable conferences and presenters from top-ranked universities The results of the present research confirm that although participation in questionable conferences is considered problematic by scientific communities, even researchers from the seven leading universities in the world (according to university ranking systems) participate in these conferences.
Multilingualism in academic writing for publication: Putting English in its place In this paper we have argued for putting English in its place by taking greater account of the place of multilingualism in academic knowledge production. We also urge policymakers designing and implementing research evaluation regimes at institutional, national and international levels to explicitly recognize the value of publishing multilingually—including the additional time, resources, and effort it requires—and to provide support for this work.
Content recruiting: Obstacle to institutional repository development in university libraries in Nigeria and South Africa Arising from the analysis, it emerged that the most popular contents submitted to IRs in the two countries are theses and dissertations, journal articles, special items, conference and workshop papers, and research and technical reports. The comparison of institutional repository development between both countries showed that, South Africa is far ahead of Nigeria in terms of institutional repository development. The study identified some factors such as: lack of awareness of the existence of institutional repositories by faculty members; lack of mandatory self-archiving policy by institutions or funding bodies; considering copyright and intellectual property issues; some faculty members are skeptical on the principle of open access; some faculty members are not interested in IR; some faculty members believe it is too risky to submit their research work to IR; lack of technical skills for some faculty members to self-archive as obstacles which are peculiar to collecting contents from various contributors in both counties.
Aligning research trends of NIPERs, India (2010-2021) The present study provides a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the global research productivity of five NIPERs of India.
Time-based changes in authorship trend in research-intensive universities in Malaysia The “publish or perish” policy stimulated the academics to create a multi-disciplinary network and collaborative research that resulted in the production of more and more papers. Through this study, we have presented a giant leap in the trend to contribute as coauthor in research publications compared to the role a lead author in the biomedical science from the three Malaysian research universities.
Publishing in library and information science journals: The success of less experienced researchers The findings of this study show that there are considerable differences between library and information science journals when it comes to the average past publication success by the authors publishing in these journals. On average, the library automation journals are characterized by publishing articles and reviews by authors with less experience than the information science journals. This study shows, that generally publications in these 10 library and information science journals are being published by authors with an increasing publishing experience and fewer papers are being published by author teams with little experience in total.
Four decades of image processing: a bibliometric analysis As Image Processing is now becoming one of the most critical fields, the research productivity has enhanced during the past five years and more work is done while the era of 2005-2013 was the area with the least amount of work in this area.
A comparative analysis of Inventor Patent Classification Coupling between the first-inventor and all-inventor: Taking 3D printing as an example In conclusion, both inventor classification codes coupling analysis has the effect of revealing the structure of knowledge.
Factors affecting the journal choice for manuscript submission: A qualitative study on Turkish medical researchers "We have demonstrated that Turkish medical researchers mainly rely on journal prestige (SCIE indexing and JIF), journal audience, and research compatibility with the journal, the cost of publishing and open access publication, and turnaround times for journal selection criteria."
Personalised publication recommendation service for open-access digital archives Within the study’s scope, a personalised recommendation method was developed for open-access digital archives, whose popularity is increasing day by day. The proposed architecture can be easily integrated into existing open-access digital archives. It has been revealed that all open-access digital archives using the system can be linked to each other through a common data repository and can use services together.
Do retraction practices work effectively? Evidence from citations of psychological retracted articles We explored the general situation of publication retraction in psychology science from three aspects. Specifically, retraction induced approximately 0.45 times of citation reduc- tion, which is a very small influence. Retraction induced approximately 65.1% of negative citation reduction. The analysis of moderating effects demonstrated that the retraction practice of OAJs and journals with higher impact factors was more effective than other journals.
Korea's national approach to Open Science: Present and possible future This study represents one of the first efforts to provide a systematic overview of Korea's national OS approach.
Research on the discourse power evaluation of academic journals from the perspective of multiple fusion: Taking Medicine, General and Internal journals as an example The results show that the research on the discourse power evaluation for academic journals based on the theory, method and application logic is practical, comprehensive and reliable.
Unveiling research productivity of premier IIMs of India (2010-2021) The present study is a trend-based assessment that covered the last decade's activity (2010–2021) of the top four premiers IIMs of India to address the evidence of current research trends.
Scholarly Publishing, Boundary Processes, and the Problem of Fake Peer Reviews We conclude that constant work is required to maintain clear lines of separation between genuine and fake reviews and highlight how the concept has served to reassert the boundaries between science and society in a context where they have increasingly been questioned.
Gender inequality in applying research project and funding This study suggests that female scientists should give priority to accumulating their own external resource advantages and participate in academic activities more frequently to activate women's participation in scientific research and academia.
Anatomising the impact of ResearchGate followers and followings on influence identification A procedure is established to discover influential RG users that are commonly present in all top-k centrality results to identify dominant skills, affiliations, departments and locations from the rendered data.
Improved PageRank and New Indices for Academic Impact Evaluation Using AI Papers as Case Studies This study considers citation importance and introduces deep learning ideas to improve the standard PR algorithm in citation-based paper evaluation.
Inequality of authors' reference reuse This brief communication reports a clear and universal inequality of authors' reference reuse behaviour, that is, a few references are reused many times in an author's oeuvre while most of his or her references only occur in the reference list for quite a limited number of times.
Research trends and output among information studies postgraduate students in Tanzania, 2000-2017: A reflection of the University of Dar es Salaam The study concludes that there is still low postgraduate research output in LIS discipline in Tanzania with no clear pattern on increase or decrease of research output. It is recommended that students ought to be exposed to new LIS global research trends for enhanced and broadened research areas to materialise. The study, calls for LIS Schools in Tanzania to review curriculum to accommo-date new demand-driven programmes, solicit and provide research funds to students and tutors.
De-naturalizing the "predatory": A study of "bogus" publications at public sector universities in Pakistan We recommend that this practice must be altered at the policy level since it not only violates the HEC's standards for quality research but also damages the researchers' credibility and country's scientific reputation.
FROM PHILANTHROPY TO BUSINESS: THE ECONOMICS OF ROYALSOCIETY JOURNAL PUBLISHING IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY The financial longue durée offered in this paper enables us to tell the story of the Royal Society's transition from subsidizing its journal publishing to seeing publishing as an income stream. This is undoubtedly of historical interest, but of perhaps greater contemporary interest is that this long chronological perspective allows us to see how unusual the late 1950s and 1960s were for scientific journal publishing. As we wait to see what shape a sustainable model for online open access journal publishing will take, the Royal Society's history of repeatedly exploring alternative, and multiple, streams of income may be relevant.
Student views on the culture of STEM research laboratories: Results from an interview study Overall, the results from the interviews of students point to the central role of Pls for the culture of research labs. One first step to improve lab culture is to raise awareness among Pls, lab managers, and senior personnel of the crucial role they play for the culture of their lab. We hope that by adopting some of these suggestions posed here and through future research into what makes strong, ethical lab cultures, both students and faculty can better engage in quality scientific research and build the strong, trusting relationships that make this kind of work possible.
A modified LSTM network to predict the citation counts of papers We proposed a method to predict the accumulated citation counts of articles, by using a random number sampled from a power-law distribution to modify the results given by the LSTM network.
Finding answers to COVID-19-specific questions: An information retrieval system based on latent keywords and adapted TF-IDF In the current context of the COVID-19 pandemic, a massive influx of scientific knowledge is being produced. This amount of information makes it difficult for researchers to search for useful information. Therefore, our method can be a useful tool for identifying arti-cles on very specific topics that might occupy less popular places within a corpus. 'A posteriori' evaluation, specifically, improved the performance scores obtained by ‘a priori' evaluation by identify-ing relationships between concepts that were not as evident for humans as for latent models.
Sentencing social psychology: Scientific deviance and the diffusion of statistical rules Our analysis of the Stapel case allowed us to approach empirically the definition of deviance within the scientific field and the connected issue of rules' diffusion and application.
Intellectual Structure of the Hospitality Literature Via Topic Modeling Analysis These findings contribute by revealing the hidden pattern of intellectual structures and research trends in hospitality research and overcoming the weaknesses of traditional co-citation analysis.
Citation Count Is Not Enough: Citation's Context-Based Scientific Impact Evaluation This study shows the importance of the context of the citations while calculating the scientific impact.
Characteristics of blacklisted journals: Evidence from Chinese-language academic journals While there is scientific merit in creating and publishing a blacklist of academic journals, the list development process requires more rigorous evaluation and a public process of development. The current study shows that, in terms of academic impact, blacklisted Chinese-language journals are significantly different from non-blacklisted Chinese-language journals.
Who Gets Hired at the Top? The Academic Caste System Theory in the Planning Academy The findings provide evidence that align with the academic caste system theory.
Status bias in Chinese scholarly publishing: an exploratory study based on mixed methods This study recommends that Chinese-language academic journals join the Committee on Publication Ethics, other publishing ethics organizations, and the “Responsible Journals" program as soon as possible.
A formal study of co-opetition in scholarly publishing In conclusion, we found that cooperative peer review could benefit the competing academic journals and help increase their quality levels, their standards for accepting articles, and their review quality, which establishes the benefit of cooperative peer-review. However, the benefit from co-opetition between peer-reviewed journals may be eliminated by increasing the cost-sharing factor above a threshold in the pursuit of fairness in cost sharing. Therefore, the journals need to carefully weigh a fairness-efficiency trade-off.
Institutional policies on plagiarism management: A comparison of universities in mainland China and Hong Kong This study is a response to the scarcity of scholarship on university policies on plagiarism in mainland China and Hong Kong. Through examining and comparing the anti-plagiarism policies of 16 universities in these two contexts, we have found that while some of the mainland universities still subscribe to a predominantly moral discourse on and, correspondingly, a punitive approach to student plagiarism, the rest display a mixture of moral, regulative and academic writing discourses and punitive, self-regulative and educative approaches, as they aim to minimize plagiarism through not only the imposition of disciplinary sanctions and honor codes but, more importantly, supporting students with academic guidance to enhance their citation skills and source use techniques. For Chinese institutions aspiring to develop into world-class universities, alignment with international tertiary education in addressing plagiarism and handling academic integrity issues may be achieved through learning from counterparts in Hong Kong and in the mainland itself, with which they share greater similarity in policy, cultural and educational backgrounds.
Studying the cognitive relatedness between topics in the global science landscape: The case of Big Data research In this study, we have shown that the mean citation generation can enrich our understanding of the cognitive relatedness and knowledge evolution within citation networks.
Mapping Manuel Sandoval Vallarta (1899-1977) Scientific Contribution The mapping tools—bibliometric analysis, network theory (backward and forward cita-tion), and tag-clouds—used in this paper to study Vallarta, demonstrate the number of citations of his work increased significantly over the last decades.
Formal and Informal Infrastructures of Collaboration in the Human Brain Project In this article, we have discussed the tensions and interactions between the formal and informal infrastructures of collaboration in the HBP.
What is the sensitivity and specificity of the peer review process? Our paper contributes to the literature by being the first to introduce the concepts of sensitivity and specificity in regard to peer review.
Overlay journals: A study of the current landscape The overlay journal movement is still in its early stages. The current presence of overlay journals is diminutive compared to the overall number of OA journals, but our findings show that new overlay journals have been actively established recently. Both the adoption of OA preprint repositories and researchers' willingness to publish in overlay journals will determine the model's wider impact on scientific publishing.
Highly cited educational technology journal articles: a descriptive and critical analysis According to our findings, a 'typical' EdTech HCA is a review article or quantitative research paper reporting positive findings, conducted in a higher education context, published in a generic high IF journal by a major publisher, and written by authors working in Western universities. Lastly, we wish to highlight that all forms of the imbalances identified in this study are already recognized by some of the edtech journals and they have taken actions for improving the situation.
Construction and management of retraction stigma in retraction notices: an authorship-based investigation The findings of this study point to retraction notices as a discourse genre capable of both stigmatizing and destigmatizing, and imbued with communicative tensions that are rooted in their diverse functions and resolved by carefully coordinated stigma construction and management strate-gies.
Messing with Merton: The intersection between open science practices and Mertonian values Addressing these tensions cannot be achieved with more conformity between OSPs and Mertonian values, and requires continuous improvement of, and innovations in OSPs. Understanding this shift and its implications requires empirical work and will help shape the boundaries of various operationalizations of good science under banners such as “research ethics,” "research integrity," "research quality," "responsible research” or “rigor.”
From plagiarism to scientific paper mills: a profile of retracted articles within the SciELO Brazil collection Our study provides a profile of retracted publications and their citations among retractions indexed in the SciELO database Brazil Collection. We have identified a change of scenario that began in 2015, with recurrences of retracted articles produced by paper mills. Publishers, researchers, and research mentors should be aware of these concerns and work to educate others about the damage these publications do to the credibility of science.
Authorship climate: A new tool for studying ethical issues in authorship We have argued that the concept of authorship climate (consisting of procedural justice, informational justice, and distributive justice) holds significant potential as a tool for understanding people's experiences on science teams, identifying ethical concerns related to authorship, and developing responses to those concerns that improve experiences. Our investigation of authorship climate indicates that power, disciplinary norms, and marginalized group membership all affect authorship experiences in important ways that can thwart equity in the sciences. Given the central role that coauthoring and publishing plays in scientific careers, it is incumbent on the scientific community to take steps to ensure that all scientists can have procedurally, informationally, and distributively fair authorship experiences.
Factors influencing the effectiveness of group interactions among international and interdisciplinary early-career researchers working toward environmental sustainability in climate change "Based on detected barriers, future events organizers searching for an interdisciplinary climate change approach are encouraged to actively overcome these limitations by taking into account the culture, beliefs, and conceptualization aspects at a group level without overlooking indi- vidual preferences."
Innovation in Technology Instead of Thinking? Assetization and Its Epistemic Consequences in Academia As such, processes of assetization in academia are not neutral and can reshape epistemic practices in impactful ways.
Jumping over the paywall: Strategies and motivations for scholarly piracy and other alternatives Aligned with previous research (Bohannon, 2016; Behboudi et al., 2021), our results point to the extended and generalized use of pirate libraries.
Data mining topics in the discipline of library and information science: analysis of influential terms and Dirichlet multinomial regression topic model This study empirically investigated the relationships between LIS and DM based on text mining. As shown in the results of the study, LIS research has employed various DM methods, such as machine learning, artificial intelligence and neural networks. Also, this study revealed that LIS has exhibited a close tie with DM in the areas of machine learning, deep learning, citation analysis, big data and several others.
The scientific outcome in the domain of grey literature: bibliometric mapping and visualisation using the R-bibliometrix package and the VOSviewer There are ample channels for GL to disseminate information, knowledge and expertise. These resources help researchers to provide information not available through the majority of other sources. The existence of GL contributes to nations' socioeconomic and cultural achievements and the development of a vibrant scientific community.
Graduate student perceptions of preparedness for responsible conduct of research: a mixed methods study This study investigated the role of individual and institutional variables in developing the perceived RCR preparedness of graduate students and explored the convergence of quantitative and interview data. The findings suggested that individual and institutional factors played essential roles in forming graduate students' preparedness for RCR. Overall, in this study, both quantitative and qualitative findings intersect on the need for resources enabling the active involvement of the students in ethical conduct.
Status of open access scholarly journal publishing in Pakistan This study filled the literature gap and concluded that Pakistan has emerged in the OA publishing paradigm by publishing a large majority of 297 (90%) journals in OA from the total 329 HEC-recognized journals of Pakistan. This study may help to come up with recommendations to strengthen the credibility of OA journals in Pakistan. More studies may be executed by consid-ering the updated HEC-recognized journals lists and fol-lowing the JPPS.
Creating research ethics and integrity country report cards: Case study from Europe Our exercise with RI Country Report Cards showed the existence of many initiatives aiming at RI and RE promotion and implementation across various European countries. However, the analysis also showed there are still great differences when it comes to promoting and implementing RI and RE standards into practice which is evident from, for example, the way RI and RE issues are handled or RI and RE education provided. This shows that RI and RE in Europe needs to continue its development and perhaps try to reach a certain level of harmonization so that researchers working in the European areas have the same expectation and management of RI and RE issues in a similar way, regardless of the place of work.
Using co-creation methods for research integrity guideline development - how, what, why and when? We conclude that co-creation methods are a valuable approach to creating new RI guidelines when used together with additional methods. The results show that co-creation methods help to develop RI guidelines that are sensitive to the needs of diverse RI stakeholders. They are particularly helpful in terms of engaging stakeholders closely throughout the guideline development process, as well as evoking a broad range of ideas and including diverse perspectives in the guidelines. This allows for the development of guidelines that meet diverse stakeholders’ actual needs.
Postgraduate students' perception of plagiarism, awareness, and use of Turnitin text-matching software Findings reveal that there is no statistically significant difference between postgraduate students' academic levels and their perception of plagiarism. The findings also reveal that there is statistically significant relationship between postgraduate students' perception of plagiarism and their use of Turnitin. Also, there is statistically significant relationship between postgraduate students' awareness of Turnitin and its use.
A scientometric approach to psychological research during the COVID-19 pandemic Using the results of this study, psychology researchers can identify their potential colleagues and research gaps in the subject of Covid-19. This can affect the future direc-tion of research in the field. Maybe psychology researchers can use the results of this study to identify their research colleagues around the world and increase international collaboration.
Limitations of the "Indian one nation, one subscription" policy proposal and a way forward The growth of OA publications with the availability of a considerable proportion of articles as OA and growing numbers in transformative agreements point towards the requirement of a coupled deal that accounts for both the aspects of article publishing- access and suitable avenues to publish.
Game of Brains: Examining Researcher Brain Gain and Brain Drain and Research University Policy We uncover the historical trends of researcher mobility within Taiwanese academia, investigate talent recruitment surrounding the 2005 excellence initiative, and provide empirical evidence to show the influence of mobility on the rising research productivity of inbound scholars to Taiwan.
Self-archiving of Scholarly Publications for improved access to local content in Tanzania: A study of Open Access Institutional Repositories in Universities in Tanzania In order to strengthen self-archiving of scholarly publications for improved access to local contents in Tanzania the study recommended providing supporting services such as ICT infrastructure, technical support such as ICT technicians, encourage supervisors/peers/colleague or the university, improve de-motive creation of awareness, provide personal benefit such as rewards and promotions, educating faculty members on issues concerning plagiarism and giving them more time and effort to self-archive and implement OAIR policies in order to enhance the process of self-archiving scholarly publications in OAIRs among faculty members of selected universities in Tanzania.
OLIVA: The Scientific output in journals edited in Latin America. Disciplinary Diversity, Institutional Collaboration, and Multilingualism in SciELO and Redalyc (1995-2018) The study of the output published in SciELO and Redalyc has allowed us to discuss some assumptions that permeate the recognition of scientific knowledge. OLIVA reveals two dimensions of this scientific communication space of growing editorial quality: its diversity and thematic/linguistic breadth, and international/inter-institutional collaboration at the national level. This system promotes broad dissemination and multi-scale research programs and can effectively address the current needs of scientific communication in times of open science.
How to combine rules and commitment in fostering research integrity? "In this study, we argued that institutions should use network processes to develop and legitimize rules that foster RI in research institutions."
Research trends in LIS: The case of doctoral research in Pakistan, 1981-2021 The study has explored LIS research trends at the doctoral level and presents an agenda for future research to inspire potential LIS scholars. The findings are useful to improve research quality at the doctoral level for LIS scholars and faculty members of LIS schools in Pakistan and other developing countries.
Business and Management Studies in the United Kingdom's 2021 Research Excellence Framework: Implications for Research Quality Assessment First, we have provided evidence that journal lists and citation indices do not correlate with the peer assessment of research quality. Third, there are implications of the intellectual costs and benefits of the exercise, particularly in such a large submission as B&M. Finally, this paper has demonstrated the intellectual vibrancy of research in B&M studies, although we have been unable to do justice to the range of subject areas addressed.
Hunting for the Elusive (the Appraisal of Research as a Conundrum) The determination of the value of research is far from being a job within the power of an average expert. And without radical transformation of the existing practice of “measuring” the value of scientific research, this tendency can scarcely be overcome. What the new picture of science should be in detail and how it should be put into practice is the subject of a whole series of research to be initiated.
Once highly productive, forever highly productive? Full professors' research productivity from a longitudinal perspective Our results may also imply the need to cultivate productivity, especially among young academics: entering productivity elites early on substantially increases the chances of belonging to productivity elites in later career stages.
Tectonic shifts in global science: US-China scientific competition and the Muslim-majority science systems in multipolar science All the analyses consistently demonstrated that the USA is losing its scientific influence with major Muslim-majority countries to China as global science continues to multipolarise. The selected systems demonstrated an astonishing increase in their scientific collabo- rations with China-based scientists in the last decade. These will be significant foci of my future research, and I invite the international research community to give more atten- tion to these issues for future research.
Knowledge diffusion trajectories of PageRank: A main path analysis This article has some contributions to the PR field: First, it is the first time to analyse the development status of the PR field objectively by constructing a citation network. Four main development directions are obtained. (1) Scholars can continuously improve the theory of PR algorithms. The combination of text analysis will be the trend of the future.
Retracted publications in autism research are mostly concerned with ethical misconduct These findings summarize errors of previous retractions and illuminate opportunities for researchers, journal publishers and librarians to learn from retracted publications.
Emerging Scientific Topic Discovery by Analyzing Reliable Patterns of Infrequent Synonymous Biterms "In this paper, we propose a novel Analyzing Reliable Patterns of Infrequent Synonymous Biterms (ARPISB) method to improve the accuracy of predicting the potential influences of emerging topics."
Better guidance is needed for editorial expressions of concern This paper makes an attempt to improve guidelines that editors could consider when faced with the dilemma of whether to issue an EoC, or not.
Returnee and local doctorates on research productivity: doctoral training, international mobility, and research collaboration This study broke the myths of returnee doctorates corresponding to high research productivity.
Comparison of text-based and linked-based metrics in terms of estimating the similarity of articles The results indicate that linked-based metrics have more power in estimating the similarity of articles than the combination of text-based metrics.
Research Networks and Publications in Economics: Evidence from a Small Developing Country Our findings indicate that researchers living in a developing country get a higher impact or quality of their research when involved in international collaborations, including researchers in northern countries. Our results suggest that policies that strengthen the capacity to collaborate at the international level may help local economists to achieve a higher impact on their publications and build a stronger academic career according to international standards. A final point refers to some questions for future research which are motivated by our results.
When forgiveness beats permission: Exploring the scholarly ethos of clinical faculty in economics This study indicates, however, that current holders of this title, particularly among the economics professorate, are characterized by a research ethos that is similar to the one that has pervaded economics faculties at America's premier liberal arts colleges over the past 40 years. Thus, the research ethos pervading the clinical economics faculties employed by America's large research universities appears to be quite similar to that characterizing the economics departments at liberal arts colleges.
How social are open-access debates: a follow-up study of tweeters' sentiments In line with previous studies, this research highlighted OA advantages and disadvantages as reflected in Tweeters' opinions. They seemed to be optimistic about the OAP and OAM while being pessimistic about the OACF and OAVQ. The finding implies a low societal impact of the OA debates and hence calls for solutions to attract the public's attention to OA.
Ph.D. publication productivity: the role of gender and race in supervision in South Africa Our work aims at quantifying and identifying the origins of some of the gender and/or race differences in the publication productivity of early career scientists.
Detecting Fraudulent Student Communication in a Multiple Choice Online Test Environment This work introduced a novel methodology to assess likely fraud communication acts in remote online MCQ exams based on the concordance of responses and answer times.
Does the COVID-19 Pandemic Affect Excellence in Academic Research? a Study of Science and Engineering Faculty Members in China First, this study demonstrated the negative effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on research excellence in the fields of Science and Engineering.
Gauging the research performance of BRICS in the domain of Library and Information Science through Performance analysis and Science mapping This study provides insightful information about recent scientific developments in the field of LIS. Additionally, this study can serve as a valuable resource for researchers, providing insights into the most prolific authors, institutions and countries, as well as the most influential publications in the field. This study also outlines potential research directions in this field of research.
Research performance of management scholars in Australian group of eight universities We recommend incorporating publication benchmarks in the Consolidated List of top management journals into the hiring, tenure and promotion decisions of departments that want to create high-performing research environments and to nurture excellent scholarship that influences theory and advances society. We believe widespread adoption and appropriate application of these benchmarks has the potential to enhance management scholarship across the Australian university sector over time.
Sex differences in scientific productivity and impact are largely explained by the proportion of highly productive individuals: a whole-population study of researchers across six disciplines in Sweden In summary, the three hypotheses consistent with social-environmental factors were falsified, and the greater male variability hypothesis was supported through H4 and H5. Based on the present and reviewed studies, the conclusion must be that greater male variability contributes substantially to males' greater productivity, in terms of a larger proportion of male researchers who are very productive, that males are generally somewhat more productive, as an effect of greater motivation and time use, and that there is a tendency to promote females with lower publication merits.
Evolution of retracted publications in the medical sciences: Citations analysis, bibliometrics, and altmetrics trends In conclusion, this study highlights the prevalence of intentional errors as the main reason for the retraction of medical publications.
A decade of changes in OA and non-OA journal publication and production The rapid increase in the number of OA journals between 2011 and 2021 has not translated to a proportion-ate increase in their share of total publications. This sug-gests that adoption of OA publishing still faces barriers, and non-OA publishers remain dominant. Thus future studies should aim to incorporate additional categories of journal publishers and account for the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, indexing practices, and other potential factors that may have contributed to the observed trends.
The Landscape of Technology Research in Special Education: A Bibliometric Analysis In conclusion, this study provides an overview of technology research's development and the current state of special education. When our study's findings are analyzed, it becomes clear that there has been a growing interest in this topic, particularly over the past few decades. The research topics are shaped by changes in special education, legal regulations, important international events, and technological advances.
Scientific collaboration amid geopolitical tensions: a comparison of Sweden and Australia The Swedish and Australian cases illustrate divergent responses to challenges with research collaboration with research actors in China. The findings demonstrate variation in countries' responses along three key dimensions to the challenges geopolitical tensions pose to internationalisation with China. The research conducted here informs policymakers and the academic sector about the nature and impact of responses to Western-Chinese research collaborations.
The plagiarism pandemic: Inspection of academic dishonesty during the COVID-19 outbreak using originality software The present research suggests important insights into the institutional factors that impact academic integrity breaching, such as academic field, type of academic institution, and institutions' ranking.
More Than Euros: Exploring the Construction of Project Grants as Prizes and Consolations My paper shows the many ways that scientists may draw on competition and expertise when ascribing different meanings to grants.
The use of Basque as a language for scientific dissemination: scholars' practices and beliefs The results are of interest in the context of advancing the normalisation of the Basque language in the academic field.
Twenty-Five Years of Research in the Journal of Special Education Technology: A Bibliometric Analysis This article offers a comprehensive overview of the research published in JOSET and highlights its significant contribution to the academic knowledge on educational technology usage for children with special needs. These analyses help the research community to better understand JOSET's intellectual landscape and the structure of knowledge in the field. Ultimately, this bibliometric study aids researchers in determining the relevance of their topic to JOSET.
From 'making lists' to conducting 'well-rounded' studies: Epistemic re-orientations in soil microbial ecology We conclude that enabling research fields to re-orient themselves towards such more integrative modes of research—which are often seen as crucial for addressing pressing social-environmental crises not only on soil microbial ecology, but also in, for example, the broader field of ecology (Carpenter et al., 2009; Hampton & Parker, 2011) or soil science (Sigl et al., 2023)—will require building respective enabling conditions within the research ecosystem.
Identifying interdisciplinary topics and their evolution based on BERTopic To solve this problem, this paper first applied BERTopic to identify interdisciplinary topics from large-scale academic literature and then conducted fine-grained evolution analysis on these extracted topics. Specifically, we first identified the interdisciplinary topics in LIS from two perspectives: disciplinary diversity and disciplinary cohesion. Then, we investigated the trend of topic intensity and content evolution and analyzed the evolutionary path of interdisciplinary topics in this field. However, this study has its limitations. First, this approach considers only journal literature, regardless of other literature, such as conference papers, books, dissertations, and others. Therefore, in the future, we further attempt to deploy link prediction on each interdisciplinary topic to predict their future trends.
Partners in Criminology: Machine Learning and Network Science Reveal Missed Opportunities and Inequalities in the Study of Crime Facilitating communication between researchers and organizations from adjacent subdisciplines could benefit researchers and produce new, innovative research. Encouraging comparative research would help international scholars, many of whom may rely on US collaborators, benefit more from US scholarship. Ultimately, this implies that some of criminology’s most salient subfields are siloed.
From Bogus Journals to Predatory Universities: The Evolution of the Russian Academic Sphere Within the Predatory Settings of the State The case analysed in this research is a story of formation and evolution of the preda- tory part of the academic system in Russia.
The Relative Citation Ratio: An Impartial Assessment of Productivity in Academic Otolaryngologists RCR is a convenient tool for assessment of academic productivity that may resolve some of the shortcomings of other bibliometric indices, such as the h-index. However, m-RCR did not display differences based on gender or number of fellowships.
Reducing the residue of retractions in evidence synthesis: ways to minimise inappropriate citation and use of retracted data Many 'unknown unknowns' remain concerning the potential impacts of retracted publications on evidence synthesis and the best approaches to mitigate such impact.
Pedagogical strategy for scholarly communication literacy and avoiding deceptive publishing practices The results of these educational seminars demonstrate that this type of pedagogical strategy that consists of training, awareness-raising, and prevention approaches is a key factor to informing and warning novice researchers about scholarly communication pitfalls and deceptive publishing practices.
Decoding Academic Integrity Policies: A Corpus Linguistics Investigation of AI and Other Technological Threats These results underscore the urgent need for HEIs to revise their academic integrity policies, considering the evolving landscape of AI and its implications for academic integrity.
Does the tenure track influence academic research? An empirical study of faculty members in China First, the study found that tenure track reform caused changes in the academic research behavior of faculty members. Those on the tenure track showed an increase in the total number of published articles in total; however, fewer articles were published in high-impact journals. Second, this study revealed the mechanisms by which the tenure track system affected faculty members' academic performance. Third, we found that the tenure track system is more likely to reduce the number of high-quality publications in science compared with engineering.
Disruption Index in Otolaryngology: Uncovering a Bibliometric History of a Rapidly Evolving Field DI in otolaryngology can be appreciated as an added dimension to existing indices and can unearth seminal research, which serve as early foundations of evidence-based management in the field of OHNS today.
The 100 Leading Contributors to English-Language Gerontological Journals: An International Study of Scholarly Impact Leveraging their expertise can help advance the field’s collective knowledge development. The results reveal that scientists from several nations are making important contributions to the gerontological literature from a diverse array of professional perspectives. This finding suggests that gerontological discourse would benefit from efforts to include additional perspectives that are also relevant to the aging process.
Is requiring Research Integrity Advisors a useful policy for improving research integrity? A census of advisors in Australia Advisors might be a useful policy for supporting research integrity, but some advisors need better institutional support in terms of training and raising awareness.
Predicting annus mirabilis with machine learning: Turkish movie industry In this research, we analyzed the Turkish movie industry with a focus on the individual criteria of success. With the aid of several machine learning algorithms, we predicted the miracle year of the performers.
The "IMPACT" of Web of Science Coverage and Scientific and Technical Journal Articles on the World's Income: Scientific Informatics and the Knowledge-Driven Economy The study concludes that web-based applications and their IMPACT positively contributed to an increase in the World's income, which confirmed the viability of web engineering in handling economic affairs and policy formulations.
Inventor bibliographic-patent-coupling analysis and inventor-patent-classification-coupling analysis: a comparative analysis based on NPE Therefore, The combination of the two methods for intellectual structure detection and analysis will be more effective, then more comprehensive and specific conclusions will be obtained.
Community dynamics and knowledge production: forty years of research in quantum computing These results have implications for the management and funding of research projects. The approach we adopted in our study confirms that communities play an important role in the knowledge production process, and that this meso-level is worth investigating (Lambiotte and Panzarasa, 2009). Finally, our results suggest some public policy and management recommendations.
The 100 most-cited and 100 most-mentioned COVID-19-related radiological articles: a comparative bibliometric analysis Significant differences were observed in publication date, country of origin, topic, and subspecialty of scientific knowledge related to COVID-19 in the field of radiology, between citation and public dissemination.
Global research trends related to coronavirus disease 2019 and the aged: a bibliometric analysis When observing the results of the present bibliometric analysis on scientific production related to COVID-19 and the aged, it is noted that the production of new articles increased from 2020 to 2021 but has already started to decrease. Further research should be conducted, mainly concerning vaccines and vaccination of the aged, owing to the need for and importance of immunization in this risk group, including assessing the long-term effects of vaccines.
The ASGLOS Study: A global survey on how predatory journals affect scientific practice The AGLOS Study clearly highlights the problem of academic e-mail spam by predatory journals and conferences. Our findings signify the importance of providing academic career-oriented advice and organising training sessions to increase awareness of predatory publishing for those conducting scientific research. Moreover, our study emphasizes the relevance of educating young researchers who, given a lack of curricular training and understanding, are prone to fall into the trap of predatory publishing.
Distrust in grant peer review-reasons and remedies In short, our analysis indicates that the field competence of the reviewers is of key importance for trusting peer review and that successful applicants to and insiders in the grant review arena are more trusting.
The Limited Role of Social Sciences and Humanities in Interdisciplinary Funding: What are Its Effects? "The findings show that, despite calls in research policy to strengthen the position of social sciences and humanities in interdisciplinarity, the problem concerning their poor support and status is persistent and ongoing."
Scientific collaboration formation: network mechanisms, bonding social capital, and particularized trust in US-China collaboration on COVID-19-related research This study sought to provide insight into relationship formation between US and Chinese scientists who collaborated on COVID-19-related research during COVID-19.
Publication and citation patterns of Austrian researchers in operations research and other sub-disciplines of business administration as indexed in Web of Science and Scopus Our study shows that Operations Research and Production & Logistics are those sub-disciplines with the highest proportion of researchers included in WoS and Scopus. This concerns Operations Research which is by nature close to mathematics, and which stands out in our results with its high coverage, its high number of publications per researcher, and its high self-citation rate. It follows that research performance rankings should be conducted for single sub-disciplines, and not for business administration as a whole.
Inside regular lab meetings: The social construction of a research team and ideas in optical physics Our findings suggest regular internal meetings, like shop talk, are constitutive of doing science by talking about ongoing research. In addition, more experienced scientists in the research team gain insights about approaches taken, pre- liminary findings, mentioned problems and outlooks, which they can deliberate on fur- ther and apply in their own research before publication. In this form of 'thinking through talk' (Amann & Knorr Cetina, 1989) and in particular by research implicatures, researchers take presented ideas and findings a step further and produce hints of signs for supplementary research.
Convergence Research as a System-of-Systems': A Framework and Research Agenda In this paper, we have presented a system-of-systems approach to illuminate more of what Convergence Research is and how it operates. The research agenda we have introduced contributes a foundation for investigating Convergence Research by drawing insights about three ancillary yet critical systems. Overall, our agenda outlines clearer pathways for expanding our knowledge of Convergence Research at multiple levels of analysis and for the furtherance of the policies and programs that nurture it.
An Empirical Study on Roles and Their Information Correlations for Interdisciplinary Peer Reviewer A scholar should not be restricted to working in only one role, and they should work in other academic roles and experience the differences between them. Being a reviewer and an editor can help a scholar get in touch with the most current hot spots in academic front lines, systematically learn about different literature review methods, hone their academic writing skills, and obtain knowledge from different academic viewpoints, their confluences, and sometimes their confrontations in live battles at professional knowledge production and validation. In this study, we mainly studied the relationships among the roles of a peer reviewer for interdisciplinary studies. For future work, we plan to conduct similar studies for different singular disciplines to find out the similarities between the relationships and possibly their new and/or distinctive features.
Research quality criteria in the Creative Arts This result suggests that when art is evaluated in the context of academic research, both the traditional indicators of artistic quality (art prizes, etc.) and the cognitive aspects of art are believed to be significant.
Analyzing research diversity of scholars based on multi-dimensional calculation of knowledge entities This study analyzes the diversity of scholars' research contents by taking the knowledge entity as a proxy.
Studying the gender gap in academic research production among Canadian university professors using the multilevel approach to gender inequalities framework Finally, a multiple linear regression analysis with 11 independent variables revealed a model that could explain 33% of the variance in research production. Building on the multilevel approach to gender inequalities in higher education, we emphasized the need to consider various levels of factors to account for their cumulative and interactive effects on research productivity. Our results also show that gender is associated with differences in academic research production, but that the proportion of variance explained by this variable is low. Thus, the gender gap is not adequately understood through the effect of gender as a stand-alone, dichotomic variable.
Listing quality: Chinese journal lists in incoherent valuation regimes Journal lists are a part of institutional evaluation regimes that the state (and research organizations) intends to use to redefine the quality of journals so as to assist reforms of evaluation protocols from quantitative to qualitative.
Citation count prediction using weighted latent semantic analysis (wlsa) and three-layer-deep-learning paradigm: a meta-heuristic approach In this paper, a new model for predicting the number of citations that a scholarly paper would receive in the future was proposed.
Understanding co-corresponding authorship: A bibliometric analysis and detailed overview As a means of sharing authorship credit, co-corresponding authorship is increasingly adopted. The widespread adoption of co-corresponding authorship emphasizes the urgent demand for the academic community to develop guidelines regarding the appropriate circumstances and methods for sharing credit among authors. Specifically, assessment agencies at the national level should refrain from a one-size-fits-all approach of solely rewarding the first-listed corresponding author while overlooking the contributions of other co-corresponding authors.
Foreign-educated academics: Assessing teaching quality and exploring teaching-related challenges The findings reveal that the returned doctorates have exhibited greater teaching performance in most aspects than their domestic counterparts. Implementing overseas mobility policies would only guarantee the intended benefits if addressing endogenous system challenges. The results also highlight the potential benefits of brain circulation and brain gain for countries that receive foreign-educated doctorates.
Collaboration and growth in a large research cooperative: A network analytic approach But understanding the factors that drive or inhibit the early formation of collaborative ties is important because these lay the foundation for future collaboration. Through the use of a whole-network survey, we were able to demonstrate the growth of collaborative ties in a new research network's initial year and further understand the key network positions that drive these collaborations.
Characteristics of papers that affect citations in the Journal of Fish Biology These findings suggest that papers that are more informative, have higher numbers of authors, and have more keywords are more likely to be cited.
A bibliometric analysis of Community Dentistry and Oral Epidemiology: Fifty years of publications This bibliometric study reviews CDOE's significant contribution to dental public health by identifying key research trends, themes, influential authors and collaborations. The findings provide insights into the need to increase publications from developing countries, improve gender diversity in authorship and broaden the scope of research themes. An emphasis on increased exposure and assistance for DPH-related research in African, South American and Asian countries is needed.
Research excellence and productivity for global impact at an African university The study established research articles as the main research output that Protea university was largely excelling in while FEBIT was the main disciplinary area where the university was strong pertaining to research productivity and research excellence. A research productivity and excellence framework that tackles individual incentives, group support, institutional capacities and international partnerships was developed to address the weak areas identified.
The micro-dynamics of scientific choice: research project motivations among public affairs academics My results identify three broad categories of major motiva-tions for research among public administration and public policy researchers: career advancement, topical importance, and personal curiosity. These motivations do not neatly align with proposed ideal criteria for scientific choice. Thus, such criteria must be translated to speak to researchers' personal interests to achieve expression in individual scientific choice.
Fake paper identification in the pool of withdrawn and rejected manuscripts submitted to Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's Archives of Pharmacology Our results reveal that paper mills take advantage of the fact that journals are unaware of submissions to other journals.
Incentivising interdisciplinary research collaboration: evidence from Australia If interdisciplinary research collaboration is desired, this gap between the perceptions of academics, who do the research, and university leaders, who control the resources, will need to be bridged. However, academic survey respondents and university leaders did not agree on appropriate strategies for encouraging interdisciplinary research collaboration. If university leaders genuinely want to advance interdisciplinary collaboration, they will need to seek common ground with research academics or else risk continuing the paradox of interdisciplinarity.
Exploring the relationship between traditional bibliometrics and Altmetric scores in the primary care literature This study quantified the association between Altmetric scores and traditional bibliometrics in primary care scientific journals. We observed that the findings for primary care research followed a similar pattern to wider scientific research and journal publication; higher Altmetric scores were associated with more citations. This paper shows that efforts and planning around research dissemination through social media and mainstream media could not only increase the wider public impact but can have a positive impact on citation counts.
Journal metrics of the top-ranked Orthopaedic, Medical, and Surgical journals - A cross-sectional, comparative study There has been a steady increase in the number of publications from post COVID-19 period.
Gsm_hdata: a bibliometric tool to analyze data from google scholar metrics With the detailed analysis of the functioning of the GSM it was verified that most of the limitations of the system mentioned in previous studies persist. The bibliometric tool Gsm_hsearch allows for overcoming a significant part of these limitations, in an automated way, with low computational cost and a high level of accuracy of results. With the improvements, this innovative bibliometric tool can be widely used, both for empirical research and by research funding agencies that define the h5 index as an indicator of journal impact in scientific production evaluation processes.
Author Country of Origin and Attention on Open Science Platforms: Evidence from COVID-19 Preprints Measuring rates of attention to preprints in the context of the first months of the COVID-19 pandemic, we find that the country of origin of preprint authors is a determinant of attention. Specifically, we find that preprints with Chinese based authors tend to receive less attention than would be predicted by the prominence of the eventual publication outlet of the article compared to those with authors from the rest of the world, even after accounting for measures including the social network of authors, the proximity of Chinese scientists to early COVID-19 cases, and the topic of the articles. The results suggest that geographic biases may persist or even be exacerbated on platforms designed to promote unfettered access to early research findings.
Organizational factors affecting higher education collaboration networks: evidence from Europe This study investigates the drivers guiding the network generation process in EU-funded projects and publications among European universities. Our findings provide novel evidence of a relevant and consistent role over years of homophily in research capability. Our findings have also some policy implications. As to the universities' internal organi-zation and strategy, doctoral students are an important determinant of collaboration ties also in projects network.
Peer review's irremediable flaws: Scientists' perspectives on grant evaluation in Germany In addition to the distinction that Barlösius and Philipps (2022) make between legitimate quandaries and illegitimate problems, our present study has incorporated a second one, that between remediable and irremediable defects.
Gender bias in team formation: the case of the European Science Foundation's grants Our findings speak to the current call for gender parity coming from multiple actors. The reduction of the gender gap we observed when looking at recently formed teams seems to witness the efficacy of those actions. However, further policy interventions can be implemented to accelerate the fulfillment of the gender parity goal. To conclude, our study has three potential limitations. One possible limitation is that we draw part of our control group of potential PIs, including former coauthors of the PL and scientists cited by the PL.
Research into journalism in Spain: Sizeable, but neither international nor impactful Spanish research into journalism is very productive but has little international presence, obtains few citations per paper, and shows no clear signs of progress towards greater international collaboration.
Examining knowledge entities and its relationships based on citation sentences using a multi-anchor bipartite network This paper proposes a novel approach for entitymetrics, which utilizes citation sentences so that we can measure the impact of knowledge entities and analyze the knowledge structure with a different perspective, compared to conventional approaches where abstract or full-text is utilized.
Why do older scholars slow down? The rate of slowdown in publishing with age is largely a linear function of an author's prior productivity, but the rate in mid-career is greater if an author's prior work has been less well-cited and written in a more positive but more tentative style. Having produced less top-flight research late in a career induces scholars to retire earlier, especially among those in more theoretically-based sub-fields. Understanding the causes of declining output with age among top academic researchers might lead to appropriate financial incentives, technological assistance, or some other such malleable factor, that could keep top-level output continuing.
A network coupling approach to detecting hierarchical linkages between science and technology This study describes a method that can be used for identi- fying the hierarchy coupling of the S&T knowledge net- work. Our research extends the mindset of S&T linkage measurement by identifying patterns and paths of the interaction of S&T hierarchical knowledge. Additionally, the hierarchical relationship within S&T does present specific patterns, such as the scientific network hierarchy being higher than the technological network and science creating more new knowledge, while technology prefers to reuse inherent knowledge.
'West is must, the rest is optional': epistemic injustice and positional good in international research collaboration To attain a more equal global research system, we not only need actions from those in traditionally central Global North/West countries, but also from those who are at a disadvantage but still have the agency to make a difference in the globally unequal research system. In closing, we would like to call for more studies in this line of research.
How Hartl exceeds Skiba: determinants of a successful career in academia But when one looks at the results of our model, one can see that one thing certainly also plays a large role for RFH's and other successful scientists' careers, namely the extent to which one finds joy from the fruits of one's own work.
The Role of Competitive Project-Based Funding in the Commodification of Academic Research: A Marxist Analysis This paper has demonstrated that CPBF deserves closer study and conceptualisation, since it opens the door for the unfolding of capitalist relations of production in academia, further reinforcing, but also substantially modifying and overdetermining, other dynamics of the commodification of academic science-for example, some funding agencies actively encourage partnerships between academia and business at the level of research projects' membership.
In pursuit of excellence: a historical investigation of scientific production in Indonesia's higher education system, 1990-2020 Our analysis presents several important findings. First, Indonesia's case calls for a balance in quantity and quality of scientific production. The next step might be to unpack its potential as a science system by reconsidering simplistic and penalty-motivated policies around rankings and incentives.
Why are these publications missing? Uncovering the reasons behind the exclusion of documents in free-access scholarly databases The results of this study allow us to conclude that, from the Crossref point of view, there are remarkable coverage differences between scholarly databases.
Monodisciplinary collaboration disrupts science more than multidisciplinary collaboration This study investigated whether multidisciplinary collaboration research is more disruptive than monodisciplinary collaboration research at the paper level. The results indicate that the articles with multidisciplinary collaboration are less disruptive than with monodisciplinary collaboration. Furthermore, we explored the mechanism for how different types of collaboration affect the disruption of research and found that the more multidisciplinary the references of the research, the more difficult it is to disrupt the references.
Academic Inbreeding at Universities in the Czech Republic: Beyond Immobile Inbred Employees? First, academic breeding is endemic to Czech higher education and deeply seated. It affects all Czech HEIs regardless of their size, type, orientation, and location. To conclude, the qualitative research presented in this paper suggests that progression towards less detrimental forms of academic inbreeding is possible, even in a country where academic inbreeding is otherwise widespread in higher education. In this way, further research into academic inbreeding in higher education will produce useful results for scholars and policymakers.
Targeted, actionable and fair: Reviewer reports as feedback and its effect on ECR career choices The provision of quality reviewer-reports-as-feedback to applicants, ensures that peer review acts as a participatory research governance tool focused on supporting the development of individuals and their future research plans.
Citation counts prediction of statistical publications based on multi-layer academic networks via neural network model Thus, this study provides a useful guide for researchers to predict citation counts and can be easily extended to other research fields.
Is communication a dependent or involuted discipline? A citation analysis of communication publications from 2010 to 2020 In the current study, we performed a citation network analysis of communication research and four other disciplines in 2010 and 2020 to evaluate the dependence or involution of communication, with the findings that contribute to the long-standing debate over the status of communication. One of the key takeaways of this study is how intellectually diverse Communication is, suggesting it has its own intellectual base, although the unbalanced citation exchange with others exists. More importantly, the results of this study contribute to the ongoing debate and provide some insights regarding the legitimacy of communication research.
Understanding Themes in Postsecondary Research Using Topic Modeling and Journal Abstracts Our study is a straightforward example of how to understand the knowledge generation and the breadth of research topics in a discipline or field and journals within the field.
Varieties of diffusion in academic publishing: How status and legitimacy influence growth trajectories of new innovations Our research adds empirical detail to the historic expansion of OA publishing in modern science, while also providing a case study to analyze how new ideas and products diffuse in science. These findings suggest that new OA journals tend to follow a core-periphery diffusion pattern.
New Arguments for a pure lottery in Research Funding: A Sketch for a Future Science Policy Without Time-Consuming Grant Competitions In the present article, I have argued against the modified lottery, because it is too much of a compromise and it fails to make a substantial difference for the research communities that need more time.
Bibliometric evaluation of Journal of Analytical Toxicology as a scholarly publication according to the Web-of-Science citation database Fifty years is a landmark for any scientific journal, and JAT is rapidly approaching a half century of scholarly publishing.
Returning home and becoming alumni faculty: dual academic networks and their impact on Chinese returnee faculty's professional development satisfaction This study highlights that maintaining strong and weak ties with role types in dual academic networks impacts returnees' professional development satisfaction.
The new needs friends: Simmelian strangers and the selection of novelty We uncover the value of seconded employees in fostering the selection of novelty, especially those that leverage external networks and understand the knowledge frontier.
Individual and organizational effects of international mobility policy: Effects of Mexico's Scholarship Program in nanotechnology This paper contributes to the evaluation literature on national research training programs and their influence on research capacity in two ways. First, it mobilizes a multilevel analytical approach to examine the effects of policies on individuals and organizations, offering a broader conceptualization of impact. Second, by introducing these individual and organizational effects, the paper provides insights into how effects are enacted and transferred. However, single policies alone, particularly in the context of developing countries, may have modest transformative ca-pacity at the system level, especially for strategic economic sectors like nanotechnology.
Determinants of Japanese-trained Chinese PhDs' academic career attainments The norm of universalism was found able to partially explain the PhDs' employment outcomes, broadly speak-ing.
What is going on with studies on financial speculation? Evidence from a bibliometric analysis Speculation is a key factor for society and represents a lot of lines of research that are in full development and growing exponentially. The main results obtained demonstrates the growing trend in the creation of articles with these concepts and the great acceptance it has in the academic environment, given that it has a high number of citations. The analysis provides several key insights into the research on financial speculation.
Interdisciplinarity of information science: an evolutionary perspective of theory application Based on theory co-occurrence network analysis and diversity measurement, this study found that IS is continuously absorbing and internalizing external theoretical knowledge, which has resulted in evident interdisciplinary characteristics in its knowledge composition.
Scholarly activity among economists at liberal arts colleges: A life cycle analysis Our data suggest LACs seem to be making good, predictive tenure decisions. We anticipate that our findings will interest economists at all types of institutions and LAC faculty members generally. We also think that our results and the public nature of our data will help inform LACs when it comes to tenure and promotion decisions.
Exploration of Interdisciplinary Fusion and Interorganizational Collaboration With the Advancement of AI Research: A Case Study on Natural Language Processing To summarize, as to academic contributions to technology management, we have shown, first, that we can capture these developments in the fast-changing field from the standpoint of “interdisciplinary fusion” and “open innovation," and second, that the framework of drilling down from “macro to semimacro to micro" is applicable to many other fields.
Research assessment under debate: disentangling the interest around the DORA declaration on Twitter Despite the results being confined to the Twitter universe, this platform has offered a granular and enriched vision of DORA, covering not only the main concerns around research assessment already covered in the literature but also other social aspects that help to understand the spread and interest of DORA in the research community. The results obtained may be of interest to research evaluation and Science studies scholars, to the promoters of DORA or other similar initiatives, as well as to the different evaluators and evaluated agents when it comes to knowing the interests and concerns of the scientific community around the reforms in the evaluation of science.
The decrease in uncited articles and its effect on the concentration of citations On the whole, our findings clarify current debates on citation concentration and show that, contrary to a widely-held belief, citations are increasingly scattered.
A Scientometric Overview of the Current Status and Trends of Holistic Nursing Studies This study reveals that despite being a widespread issue, the value of holistic nursing is not recognized by researchers. It was observed that holistic nursing studies, which were initiated around the turn of the century, are still in their infancy and have not yet reached their full potential. This study, which is the first bibliometric analysis study available on holistic nursing, may guide future studies.
From academic to media capital: To what extent does the scientific reputation of universities translate into Wikipedia attention? Our study contributes to a growing stream of work which conceives altmetrics as analytical tools to investigate science-society interactions.
The evolving landscape of publishing in the field of pain: An automated bibliometric analysis from 1975 to 2020 Over the last 45 years more than 60,000 pain related papers have been published. Papers develop over the years from mono-disciplinary to multi-disciplinary studies. The overall publication profile including preclinical, human (experimental/clinical), and translational papers were almost similar in Eur. J. Pain and PAIN®.
The legal foundation of responsible research assessment: An overview on European Union and Italy This paper shows that many are, at the moment, the efforts for the implementation of a 'soft governance' on RRA.
The impact of heterogeneous shared leadership in scientific teams Leadership is evolving from "individualistic, hierarchical, one-directional and de-contextualized notions" to shared leadership (DeRue, 2011, p. 125).
An automatic and association-based procedure for hierarchical publication subject categorization The results suggest that our procedure improves the homogeneity of the clusters, leading to a better classification. The obtained results suggest the consistency and suitability of our categorization procedure, which outperforms the results for the preassigned hierarchy it worked upon. However, our procedure could be applied to any other research area.
How "international" is international research collaboration? This article contributes to the debate by arguing that contradictory results may be due to the influence of non-conventional forms of IRC.
Estimating the size of fields in biomedical sciences In summary, we propose a bibliometric method for estimating the size of scientific fields and apply it to microbiology and several subfields. This method allows us to compare growth rates, workforce distribution, and the allocation of resources between fields to understand how scientific fields self-regulate. We are hopeful that this approach provides a useful tool for sociologists of science and policymakers for studying the structure of scientific fields.
Policy shaping the impact of open-access publications: a longitudinal assessment The current study found evidence for an “OA citation advantage” (OACA), for Israeli publications, every year from 2010 to 2020.
Universities as Anarchic Knowledge Institutions We have argued that universities are somewhat anarchic organisations, but only if we look at the situation from the viewpoint of organisational management logic.
You should reject this paper: Dynamic agency, sequential evaluation, and learning in academic publishing This paper studies the optimal evaluation policy for an academic journal – as well as for other similar settings – in a setting with binary evaluation and dynamic agency.
Assessing the Publication Productivity of Clinical Psychology Professors in Canadian Psychological Association-Accredited Canadian Psychology Departments: A 10-Year Replication Study The field of clinical psychology has flourished over the last decade, with regard to research and clinical training. The present study results suggest gendered differences are diminishing; however, academia still appears to follow a "rich get richer" model, and promoting early success will be imperative to truly engender equity. We highlight top producers across career stages and warn against using any single set of indicators for evaluating any type of professorial productivity.
A journey through the conceptual evolution of corporate entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial orientation: a comparative approach "Overall, this study strengthens the idea that the trajectories followed by the study of both concepts are different, and therefore, it is not appropriate to use EO and CE indistinctly to refer to the same phenomenon." "Potential future research directions could include exploring the interplay between EO and CE, investigating the impact of cultural and contextual factors on these constructs, and examining their practical applications in fostering innovation and competitiveness within organizations." "Additionally, longitudinal studies to further assess their evolving dynamics and their relationships with emerging entrepreneurial phenomena could offer valuable insights."
The young and the old, the fast and the slow: a large-scale study of productivity classes and rank advancement "Our research highlighted that rank advancement earlier in academic careers and productivity later in academic careers are strongly linked in ways that have not been discussed in the literature – through the two time-related dimensions of promotion age and promotion speed."
Co-authorship in chemistry at the turn of the twentieth century: the case of Theodore W. Richards And it appears that these collaborations benefited Richards, his collaborators, and the field of chemistry as a whole. I would not doubt that other chemists took notice of Richards' collaborative practices and the benefits they afforded, which may in turn have contributed to an increase in collaboration across the field of chemistry.
How do tweeters feel about scientific misinformation: an infoveillance sentiment analysis of tweets on retraction notices and retracted papers Due to the high rate of untweetedness observed for the retracted papers, Twitter, in its status quo, does not seem ready to act as a powerful monitoring mechanism to prevent the propagation of scientific (dis)misinformation.
Comparison of citation impact between pre-and post-publication peer-selected best papers: the case of Best Paper Awards recipients at computer science conferences The empirical results demonstrate that in computer science, the post-publication peer-selected best papers receive significantly more citations than their pre-publication counterparts, with an estimated probability of up to 0.79 (95% CI: 0.74~0.83).
Predatory journals and their practices present a conundrum for systematic reviewers and evidence synthesisers of health research: A qualitative descriptive study This study provides descriptive evidence of the thoughts, attitudes, and opinions about predatory journals from researchers who conduct evidence syntheses.
Alternatives to English only in scholarly publishing: Emerging trends of language policies among non-Anglophone journals? The article provides insights into the pros and cons of different language policies and how to select policies that best support journal survival and development.
Interdisciplinary Problem Solving in Hybrid Organizations: The Implications of Scientific Reputation and Disciplinary Knowledge Diversity These findings will help hybrid organizations such as universities and research institutes understand how individual attributes contribute to interdisciplinary research.
Characteristics of LIS research articles affecting their citation impact Our overall finding was that authors' disciplinary composition is significantly associated with citation impact scores. The differences in the scores between disciplinary compositions appeared typically within information retrieval and scientific communication. The main limitations of the present study – the unqualified citation data; which discipline brought which citation; which disciplines do the citing documents represent – suggest ideas for further studies to raise the level of explanation of citation impact.
Challenges posed by hijacked journals in Scopus The presence of hijacked journals in Scopus is a challenge for scientific integrity due to the legitimization of unreliable papers that have not undergone peer review and compromises the quality of the Scopus database.
The pediatric anesthesiology publication activity and landscape over the past two decades: A longitudinal scientometric analysis Publication activity in pediatric anesthesiology has increased from 2001 to 2020 and has become more geographically diverse. With the volume of international collaborations even outpacing this growth, it is hoped that this will gradually lead to a larger evidence base in pediatric anesthesia. The USA published the most and had the most collaborations, but China and other Asian countries are catching up.
Text-based paper-level classification procedure for non-traditional sciences using a machine learning approach This paper presented a methodology using a One-class machine learning classifier as a replacement for Subject Matter Experts (SME) for the problem of paper-level classification for niche scientific fields.
Analyzing the impact of companies on AI research based on publications Although the vast majority of publications are still authored by academics, we found that the citation impact of a paper is significantly higher when it is (co-)authored by a company, confirming previous studies.
The formation of a field: sustainability science and its leading journals Taken together, this study's findings have shown that Bourdieu's field theory and the correlated methodology of GDA can serve the purpose of “transdisciplinary bibliometric research," to use the term recently proposed by Kajikawa (2022).
ASEAN Library and Information Science (LIS) research (2018-2022): a bibliometric analysis with strategies for enhanced global impact This article presents a bibliometric analysis of ASEAN-based Library and Information Science (LIS) research from 2018 to 2022.
Potential determinants of research output: comparing economics and business This is the first study to identify potential determinants that make economics a more productive field than business and one of the first to compare economics and business.
The evolution of Journal Impact Factors and related scientific output in Soil Science (1997-2022) Here, we described in average and more specific terms how the JIFs and related data for journals indexed in Soil Science increased, during a 26-yrs period when global scientific publication underwent a remarkable growth.
On the Causal Effect of Fame on Citations A paper in finance, accounting, and economics, fields in which author order is typically alphabetical, is cited more if its most famous author appears first.
Metadata analysis of retracted fake papers in Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's Archives of Pharmacology For many of the characteristics we examined, the fake papers were inconspicuous and did not differ much from the papers in the reference group. That the fake papers in our dataset were able to pass peer review and get published shows that they were well fabricated. The features "countries,” “non-institutional email domains,” and “references to retracted papers" may be useful for detecting fake papers, but not as sole criteria. Since fake papers cause lasting damage, it is particularly important to detect them before they are published.
Research collaboration in development economics Our analysis suggests that specific policies or interventions that help connect researchers located in the developing and developed world may provide benefits to both scholars, and to the discipline itself.
Rescaling the disruption index reveals the universality of disruption distributions in science Through a rigorous examination of the proposed research questions, this paper aspires to yield profound contributions to the field of scientometrics. The ultimate goal is to pave the way for more comprehensive and reliable assessments of research impact within the aca- demic landscape, benefitting researchers, institutions, and policymakers alike. Crucially, RDI retains the core rationales of the Disruption Index, positioning it as an authentic, valuable, effective, and indispen- sable framework for evaluating the extent of paradigm shifting in scholarly papers.
Why do sociologists on academic periphery willingly support bibliometric indicators? In summary, the most important implication of this study is bringing the sub-discipli-nary cultures as a factor that affects variation in attitudes of scholars toward metric-based research evaluation.
The oligopoly of open access publishing However, this expectation has not been fulfilled as large commercial publishing houses have gained increasing control over the OA publishing market, which is moving towards an oligopoly market.
How is public discussion as reflected in WeChat articles different from scholarly research in China? An empirical study of metaverse The theoretical significance lies in combining social media studies of science with bibliometric analysis.
Writing matters We have shown that writing matters. Making the writing easier to understand causes economists to evaluate academic papers more positively. To improve your chances of publishing well, you can work on your writing by, for example, spending time polishing your paper and paying for language editing. These efforts are likely to be particularly valuable if you find writing challenging.
Author-level metrics dependent on time New time-dependent citation indexes have been introduced and illustrated, which take into account both the total number of citations of the articles concerned and the time of publication (expressed as the number of years between publication and the actual date of processing of the proposed indexes).
A Deep Multi-Tasking Approach Leveraging on Cited-Citing Paper Relationship For Citation Intent Classification In this work, we demonstrate, structural information related to a research paper with additional context (title information) of the cited article can be leveraged to classify the citation's intent effectively.
Tracking a "radioactive tracer": laziness in academia Our study contributes to the understanding of citation errors in academic literature and emphasizes the importance of meticulous referencing practices.
Exploring the impact of organizational characteristics on research agendas across scientific fields This study highlights the importance of promoting a collegial environment with a high degree of autonomy to foster discovery-driven research and underscores the potential risks of the “publish or perish” culture prevalent in academia.
Fine-grained classification of journal articles based on multiple layers of information through similarity network fusion: The case of the Cambridge Journal of Economics In the case of the Cambridge Journal of Economics, Similarity Network Fusion appears to be the best option.
Dr. Anonymous is still there: a revisit of legal scholarly publishing We are not requesting journals such as Harvard Law Review to change their ancient traditions in the name of transparency and accountability, however, the unusual and persistent phenom- enon of anonymous publishing of citable items and its impact on authorship-based research evaluation and scholarly communication deserves our attention more. Continuing the pioneering exploration of Shamsi and colleagues, this study found that anonymous citable items continue to exist in recent years, but the absolute number and relative proportion have declined. For the sake of better scholarly communica- tion, we also believe that all scientific contributions should not be anonymous.
Social Dynamics and the Evolution of Disciplines We conclude that a contagion of disrespect can emerge based on observed features of collaboration dynamics.
Open science policies as regarded by the communities of researchers from the basic sciences in the scientific periphery The main conclusion is the fact that open science policies should focus on the research process itself -rather than research outputs- in order to effectively tackle inequalities in science. Practical implication - Policymakers could use it to enhance current open science policies in the countries. As a result, in terms of practicalities, it is crucial for policymaking in the global south to adopt a strategic approach while debating and carrying out these open science policies.
An examination of retracted articles in nursing literature This study addressed a gap in knowledge about article retractions specific to nursing.
Delayed citation impact of interdisciplinary research Overall, our results suggest that governments, research administrators, and funding agencies should be aware of this general feature of interdisciplinary science, which may have broad policy implications.
Tissue engineering in otorhinolaryngology: A knowledge-based analysis The United States is the main country driving progress in this research area, housing the most notable institutions. However, significant collaborations between these research centers are currently lacking. Encouraging greater cooperation among these institutions and their researchers would promote the exchange of knowledge, ultimately facilitating and accelerating advancements in this field.
A menagerie of rankings: a look in RePEc's factory RePEc is a valuable source of information on researchers in economics, as it collects data on their publications and citations. However, the current data collection process could be improved to provide a better description of the registered authors. To incentivize authors to provide their data, RePEc could offer a new service called "RePEc C.V.", which would allow registered authors to generate a beautifully formatted curriculum vitae automatically.
A model of the interrelationship between research ethics and research integrity In conclusion, the article highlights the substantial positive effects that adher- ence to research ethics and integrity have on the academic well-being of scholars.
On the basis of research on 'green' in the disciplines of management and business This study is among the works that have as their main purpose to identify, visualize, and characterize –within a certain timespan– the research developed in a scientific discipline, disciplinary area or field by using bibliometric methods.
The agency-structure complex in international research collaboration: evidence from a Chinese elite university This study makes conceptual contributions to understanding how the agency-structure complex plays out in international research collaboration.
Untangling "Chinese characteristics": an examination of "the China Discipline Evaluation with Chinese characteristics" and what it implies Through a set of comparison and the analysis of the historical and social-political context of China, this paper demystifies one common terminology in the Chinese official language: the Chinese characteristics of the CDE.
Unveiling the impact and dual innovation of funded research Despite the uneven distribution of NIH and NSF funded research and inconspicuous heterogeneity across fields, the patterns of the impact and dual innovation of funded research are consistent across almost all fields. This research underscores the pivotal role of funding agencies in fostering scientific impact. By addressing these limitations and embarking on future research endeavors, we can further enhance our comprehension of the impact and innovation dynamics in funded research. This knowledge will not only guide funding decisions and resource allocation strategies but also foster scientific excellence and contribute to societal progress.
What Is Being Patented in Software Engineering?: Empirical Evidence From the US Patent and Trademark Office The SE patent landscape seems to follow a strong upwards trajectory, with increased patent grants and high-profile organizations actively engaging in patenting their inventions and securing the commercial exploitation of profitable technological areas. Furthermore, “software maintenance and management” seems like a domain that has gained interest for innovation during the last decade, and still seems to offer a fertile ground for further innovation. First, in our analysis we have only included patents from the USPTO and excluded other patent offices, thus possible skewness in results should be considered. The inclusion of other patent offices would certainly provide more comprehensive and generalizable insights, and thus is considered as interesting future work.
Structure, status, and span: gender differences in co-authorship networks across 16 region-subject pairs (2009-2013) Our findings of gender differences and similarities in network positioning provide insight into the international and interdisciplinary structure of scholarly collaboration.
Overcoming stigma: how academic ghostwriting companies neutralize their services in Chinese and English markets Our research provides insights into how ghostwriting sites devise market strategies based on cultural predispositions, shedding light on the complexities of the ghostwriting industry and its impact on the moral and educational landscape.
Mathematical informetrics: Hirsch-type equations and bundles The formalism x = m(f)T(f)(x) = A(x, 0) (5) defines a broad spectrum of bundles that can be used in the evaluation measurement (e.g., impact measurement) in informetrics, comprising all Hirsch-, Kosmulski- and g-type bundles.
Being together in place as a catalyst for scientific advance In summary, we find that for all fields, when focal paper authors share an institution with the author of a reference paper, the more intellectually distant the reference paper, the more influence that paper has on the focal paper.
Breaking free from academic scams: Five key reflections on the cloned journal conundrum To summarize, I have discussed five key pointers for identifying and avoiding cloned journals. Most importantly, when choosing a journal for submission, it is advisable to conduct a thorough investigation of the journal's genuine website in globally recognized databases, as cloned journals have no place in these databases. By closely monitoring these cloned journals and understanding their tactics (Asadi et al., 2017), we can better sensitize our academic community to identify these deceptive journals.
A contribution-based indicator of research productivity: theoretical definition and empirical testing in the field of communication In this study, we investigated how the use of multicriteria analysis techniques, specifically the TOPSIS method and the construction of composite indicators, can provide a contribution-based assessment of research among communication scholars.
Relationship between the principle of least effort and the average cost of information in a zipfian context Based on Zipf's work on text, we were interested in the notions of entropy and effort, and more particularly in minimising their ratio. We proposed a theorem that allows us to show an exponential distribution. This distribution is characterised by a parameter that minimises our ratio for any effort function. Future work will focus on a computational approach.
Current status of National Institutes of Health funding for thoracic surgeons in the United States: Beacon of hope or candle in the wind? Long-term structural changes must be implemented to more effectively nurture the next generation of Thoracic surgeon-scientists. The path to increased NIH funding for TS has been illuminated; it is up to us to follow the light.
Pathway to Independence Awards (K99/R00): Funding Dynamics and Prediction of Future National Institutes of Health Research Project Funding NIH investment in the K99 award pathway has substantially outpaced the NIH program-level budget increase, and there is a strong association between mean funding per year since the start of the ROO phase and time from ROO to R01 or R21.
In the eye of beholder? The notions of quality in the humanities These notions are interpreted as ideal types, which serve as a regulative ideas rather than objective representations of research evalua-tion reality.
Influence of Dervin's sensemaking methodology determined through citation context analysis, content analysis and bibliometrics This study identified the most influential concepts of the 34 SMM-related studies by Dervin. SMM has both theoretical and methodological characteristics and comprises several concepts. We verified that these concepts had increasing interdisciplinary influence.
Utilizing a composite citation index for evaluating clinical ophthalmology research: insights into gender, nationality, and self-citation among top ophthalmology researchers The c-score is an effective metric for assessing research impact in ophthalmology, as seen through its ability to predict Weisenfeld Awardees. By assessing the c-score's ability to predict Weisenfeld Awardees, we found that the c-score more accurately predicts peer-review-based awards compared to its constituent citation indices including the H-index, thus proving that the c-score has promise in accurately describing individuals’ research impact in ophthalmology.
Geographical and gender inequalities in health sciences studies: testing differences in research productivity, impact and visibility Our first contribution clearly shows that gender inequalities in terms of productivity are systematic at both the disciplinal and field level. In sum, female scholars are under-cited with respect to their male peers despite similar number of views. Notwithstanding these limitations, the study provides robust empirical findings that shed light on the geographical and gender inequalities in research productivity, impact, and visibility in Health Sciences.
On the state of financial research: Is it in a silo? In brief, despite citing more references over time, finance researchers continue to borrow nearly solely from economics (and econometrics for methods), and their borrowing is increasingly based on older economics knowledge. Our findings indicate a research silo condition in academic finance that has continued to prevail since the early 1990s. Finally, we propose that directors and faculty involved in doctoral programs can examine the curriculum and ensure that future finance scholars are trained in keeping up with and borrowing knowledge from related fields, such as strategic management, organizational behavior, psychology, and sociology (Corrado and Ferris 1997; Raineri 2015; Ryazanova and McNamara 2016).
The power of partnership: Exploring collaboration dynamics in US transplant research Our findings support the value of network analysis for describing scientific collaborations in the transplant field and the collective impact of organizational performance. Scientific collaboration is an important mechanism that enables knowledge exchange between institutions and countries, which promotes innovation, reduces costs, and increases research productivity. In our network analysis, the transplant research community formed by the five highest impact factor SOT journals shows a small but growing number of American institutions that collaborate with international institutions.
Networks as interpretative frameworks: using co-citation analysis to explore large corpora of early modern letters Historical documents offer a treasure trove of information that historians have increasingly tapped into using tools developed by data scientists for systematic mining and analysis.
Predatory journals in dermatology: a bibliometric review This study on PDJs was conducted on a large scale and investigated various aspects of PDJs. In addition, the study emphasized the need for global awareness, caution when citing articles and ongoing education to prevent the spread of PDJs within dermatology science.
Facilitating interdisciplinarity: the contributions of boundary-crossing activities among disciplines This study elaborates on how boundary crossing activities induce knowledge exchanges and diffusion and thus facilitate interdisciplinarity.
Mapping the German Diamond Open Access Journal Landscape This paper aimed to map the German Diamond OA journal landscape in two com-plementary ways.
Is there a "difference-in-difference"? The impact of scientometric evaluation on the evolution of international publications in Egyptian universities and research centres Going back to the starting point, the SE is not a fashion or a game. It has become an integral part of academia and its internationalization. It is proven that this evaluation has affected not only the SCUs that are subject to it but also other research producers in Egypt. Nationally, the indications presented can support leaders in HE&SR in developing policies that encourage institutions to promote their IP records, ultimately enhancing Egypt's position in worldwide rankings.
The accuracy of field classifications for journals in Scopus The results suggest that specialist, cross-field and general journals (as categorised from their Scopus classifications) do not always publish articles that match their Scopus classifications and probably also their declared aims.
Open access research outputs receive more diverse citations By shifting attention from counting cita-tions to assessing the diversity of citing outputs we have demonstrated that existing data can be repurposed to analyse different goals.
Dancing with the devil: the use and perceptions of academic journal ranking lists in the management field Scholars, academic administrators, and public policymakers should realize that journal ranking lists may serve as a useful tool when used appropriately, in particular when individuals themselves decide how and for what purpose to employ them to inform their research practices.
Verification of nucleotide sequence reagent identities in original publications in high impact factor cancer research journals Original papers with wrongly identified nucleotide sequences were therefore unexpectedly frequent in two high-impact-factor cancer research journals, highlighting the risks of employing journal impact factors or citations as proxies for research quality.
Mapping the landscape of research on insulin resistance: a visualization analysis of randomized clinical trials This comprehensive bibliometric analysis provides valuable insights into the global research landscape and trends concerning RCTs focused on insulin resistance. By utilizing co-occurrence analysis, three prominent research clusters were identified, emphasizing the significance of exploring lipid panels as indicators of insulin resistance, assessing the impact of diet composition and physical activity on insulin sensitivity in obese individuals, and investigating insulin resistance in patients with PCOS. This study serves as a foundational resource, guiding future research and promoting the use of evidence-based methods to address the complex world of insulin resistance.
Openness to international collaboration and tie strength in enhancing knowledge creation The results show that the ego's openness will enhance its knowledge creation, but the effect of openness is influenced by domestic tie strength and foreign tie strength.
Translation in action: Influence, collaboration, and evolution of COVID-19 research with Clinical and Translational Science Awards consortium support Our findings reveal how the CTSA consortium tackled the COVID-19 pandemic by supporting high-quality projects focused on human research, working collaboratively across hubs, and responsively advancing along the trans-lational spectrum. Findings validate CTSA hubs as criti-cal support structures during health emergencies. CTR is a prolonged process, and it will be many years before we fully understand COVID-19 effects or the role of NIH resources allocated to COVID-19 research.
Revision and academic impact: A case study of bioRxiv preprint papers In this paper, we investigated the characters of revision in different sections and time stages, and revealed the effectiveness of revision on enhancing academic impact. On the one hand, our research highlights the significance of manuscript revision through quantitative analysis, inspiring authors to focus on the writing and revision process after completing the scientific research. On the other hand, since effective revision stems from strict quality control, this study underscores the importance of journal peer review, providing insights for the development of journal publishers and preprint platforms in terms of paper quality control and influence enhancement.
Country names in journal titles: shaping researchers' perception of journals quality Overall, the study shows that journal titles and their characteristics including the pres-ence of country names in them do have an influence on researchers' perception of journals' scope, quality and readership. To address this issue, we can explore strategies for increasing awareness about the diversity of journals and their roles within the scholarly ecosystem. Instead of unnecessary standardisation, we should celebrate the distinctiveness of journals and support local and national journals, enhancing their sustainability in a glo-balised research landscape.
Benefits of international collaboration in computer science: a case study of China, the European Union, and the United States First, while China produces the greatest number of scientific articles about Computer Science, their impact is relatively low. Hence, as observed in our study, China could benefit from collaborating with the EU and the US by obtaining more relevance in the scientific community and getting more qual- ity in their publications. The EU can also take advantage of co-authorship with China by accessing the most productive region, in terms of the number of published papers, and keep developing the computer science subfields the EU is interested in. Lastly, the US can take advantage of collaborating with both China and the EU by accessing highly specialized research institutions, and in particular with the EU by creat- ing high-impact publications, increasing the relevance and importance of their institutions.
A multi-dimensional analysis of usage counts, Mendeley readership, and citations for journal and conference papers This study contributes to expanding the existing knowledge on the relationships among usage counts, Mendeley readership, and citations in journal and conference papers, provid- ing new insights into the relationship between the three metrics through mediation analysis.
Web of Science Core Collection's coverage expansion: the forgotten Arts & Humanities Citation Index? Different from the remarkable increase of annual publication volumes in SCIE and SSCI databases, we are surprised to find the near "stagnation" of annual publication volumes in the A&HCI database/all A&HCI journals over the past 20 years (all document types considered).
Collaboration and connectivity: Historical evidence from patent records Our findings show that lowering the cost of interacting with others can spur long-distance collaboration between inventors.
Sustainability-Driven Green Innovation: Revolutionising Aerospace Decision-Making with an Intelligent Decision Support System The article discussed the use of classification models and clustering techniques in the aerospace industry in relation to green innovation.
Scientometric rules as a guide to transform science systems in the Middle East and North Africa This study contributes to a broader understanding of the usage of scientometric indicators in the context of assessing research institutions and researchers based on their publishing activities. Related to these assessments, I also discuss how such data transforms and adapts local science systems to meet so-called ‘global standards'. Future research might seek to study the dynamic nature of 'global standards' in research assessment.
A simulation-based analysis of the impact of rhetorical citations in science Overall, rhetorical citing may help deconcentrate attention and make it easier to displace established ideas.
Toward a New Precedent in Open Grants: An Exploration of Shared Challenges and Benefits of Making Grant Proposals Open Access in the Academic and Public Spheres This paper has made a case for the potential value of making successful and unsuccessful grant proposals open access through online repositories.
Black, Indigenous, and Faculty of Color Awareness of Open Access This study serves as a snapshot of a turning point in the landscape of open access in the United States in 2020.
"I Create Open Access My Own Way": Perspectives on Open Access and Publishing Choices from Faculty at Regional Campuses at a R1 University This work attempts to fill a knowledge gap about prestige and scholarly publishing by start-ing to investigate the publishing practices, preferences, and realities of scholars on regional campuses of R1 universities.
Organizational Structures and Relationships in Canadian, Noncommercial Journals: Supporting Scholar-Led Publishing Based on the authors' interviews with their respective editors, there is no singular organiza-tional structure for these noncommercial Canadian journals.
AssignmentWatch: An Automated Detection and Alert Tool for Reducing Academic Misconduct Associated With File-Sharing Websites The proposed method of using SERP results to identify instances of uploaded assignments shows promise as an effective practice for combatting academic misconduct stemming from students' use of file-sharing websites. The developed tool has been made freely available, providing educators with the opportunity to use this in their own teaching practice. Future efforts to develop automated monitoring tools should be focused on addressing limitations in the current approach.
Effects of open access publishing on article metrics in Neuropsychopharmacology Overall, our results suggest that easily accessible article content is most often cited by readers, but that the higher APCs of Hybrid tier publishing may not guarantee increased scholarly or social impact.
Comparison of effect estimates between preprints and peer-reviewed journal articles of COVID-19 trials Effect estimates were generally consistent between COVID-19 preprints and subsequent journal articles.
International mobility characteristics, effects of, and effects on elite scientists The research reported herein bridges a preexisting gap in knowledge about international mobility characteristics and the effects of elite scientists.
The emergence of preprints: comparing publishing behaviour in the Global South and the Global North Minor interdisciplinary and regional differences were found in the motivations for posting preprints. The main differences between respondents from the GS and the GN could be observed in terms of compliance with institutional OA policies or funder mandates, where GS respondents more likely agreed to comply with policies and stressed that mandates could change publishing behaviour towards OA. This may change in the future, which is why further research is needed, for example on the opportunities and barriers of preprint posting. Overall, the emergence of preprints is a relatively new phenomenon in many disciplines and countries which calls for further studies to follow up on how publishing behaviour changes when the relevance of open access publications increases.
How can revivals of scientific publications be explained using bibliometric methods? A case study discovering booster papers for the 1985 Physics Nobel Prize paper As a result, we found two primary booster papers and three secondary booster papers that renewed the interest in the 1985 Physics Nobel Prize paper.
A decades-long partnership: examining the Cuba-China scientific collaboration The analysis of scientific collaboration between Cuba and China over the past three decades reveals a significant increase in joint publications across various domains (Fig. 1, and Tables 3, 4 and 5).
Analyzing journal category assignment using a paper-level classification system: multidisciplinary sciences journals Our research found that although the disciplinary diversity of multidisciplinary journals is generally larger than that of non-multidisciplinary journals, there are also some non-multidisciplinary journals having large disciplinary diversity values. Some non-multidisciplinary science journals have high macro-level and meso-level diversity, which suggests that these journals may be misclassified. Additionally, the inconsistency in diversity trends across classification systems found in this study warrants further investigation.
Universalism and particularism in the recommendations of the nobel prize for science The main findings imply apparent evidence for particularism, indicating the presence of bias in the recommendation process.
Is Living Easier With Eyes Closed? This calls into question not only the legitimacy of conclusions drawn from RCTs, but also the blinded observational stance of the RCT protocol (which currently justifies – and is justified by – a reductionist approach to the efficacy of complex therapeutic interventions).
Research across disciplines: influence of human resource management practices The findings indicate that multidisciplinarity has two different but related effects on researcher performance. The findings also provide support for the moderating role of HRM practices. The results indicated that multidisciplinary researchers perform better when developmental and collaboration HRM practices are implemented.
Digital Publishing and the New Academic Ecosystem: An ANT Approach to the Recent Disputes over a Chinese Journal Database Giant "As Zhu (2022: 45) bravely calls for 'stepping out the CNKI model to win the academic future', it is of great necessity and urgency to reconsider and revitalize the academic ecosystem, viewing it as a network where all relevant parties are actors exerting influence on each other and on the system as a whole. Thus, they all must take action to make progress in academic publication, dissemination, and evaluation."
A bibliometric and Altmetric analysis of the 100 top most cited articles on dentin adhesives According to this study, basic research and review articles garnered the most citations, respectively.
Identifying China's distinctive academic fields among the top 2% of influential scientists: A bibliometric analysis using Rasch KIDMAP "Despite trailing the US in global research achievements, China showcased pronounced expertise in specific scientific areas, such as the “Complementary & Alternative Medicine" subfield in 2022, when compared to China other subfields based on the level of academic performance (-3.09 logits). Future research could benefit from incorporating KIDMAP visuals to gauge other countries' strengths in various research sectors, expanding beyond the China-centric focus in this study."
Current status of dental journals published by Japanese organization The results of this study provide valuable insights into the current status of dental journals published by Japanese organizations.
Internationalization of the Brazilian groups dedicated to oral pathology and oral medicine In summary, we showed an important increase in indicators related to the internationalization of Brazilian PQ in OP and OM.
The impact of early debut on scientists: Evidence from the Young Scientists Fund of the NSFC In this study, we focus on the impact of an early debut on scientists, which is a concern for funders, academic managers and young scientists in academia's hyper-competitive environment.
Relationships among cost, citation, and access in journal publishing by an ecology and evolutionary biology department at a US university Overall, we advocate for greater cost-benefit transparency to help compare different journals and different journal business models; such transparency would help both researchers and their institutions in investing wisely the limited resources available to academics. Academics play a curious role in a world with many stakeholders and interests: academics produce the journal publications that are the currency of that world, and need access to the totality of journal publications for both publishing and reading. Our data show that, at least for the case of KU EEB, the most expensive journals are not necessarily those most cited or even, excluding a few outliers, those with highest impact.
What's next? Forecasting scientific research trends Our results suggest that scientific publication trends are predictable years in advance using historical data as well as patents and in-domain publication trends, such as the number of reviews relative to research articles.
Academic publishing behavior and pay across business fields In three empirical exercises, we reject the hypothesis of equality, and we conclude that academic finance sub-field faces fewer publication outlets for top-tier scholarship, raising its marginal value.
Mapping the landscape of immunonutrition and cancer research: a comprehensive bibliometric analysis on behalf of NutriOnc Research Group In conclusion, this bibliometric analysis offers a comprehensive overview of the scientific literature concerning immunonutrition and cancer research spanning the last 25 years.
How to measure the interdisciplinarity of library and information science courses? Based on empirical research at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill This study aims to provide constructive ideas for interdisciplinary curriculum design and talent cultivation in the field of Library and Information Science. In addition, the measurement and evaluation method can provide a reference for other disciplines.
Quantified academics: Heideggerian technology critical analysis of the academic ranking competition The study claims that it is important to look for other ways to evaluate researchers rather than trying to maximise research production, which has led to the flooding of articles that few have the time or interest to read.
Geography of authorship: How geography shapes authorship attribution in big team science Our analysis adds a geographic perspective to previous literature examining social determinants of authorship attri-bution (e.g., Haeussler and Sauermann, 2013; Jabbehdari and Walsh, 2017).
Developmental trends in academic emergency medicine journals, 2000 to 2019 In conclusion, the increased number, language diversity, and IF trend for EM journals indicates that the development of academic EM is a continuous international trend. In the past 20 years, the IF trend increased faster for EM journals with a higher initial IF. The overall performance of EM journals was non-inferior to other medical specialties.
A corpus-based bibliometric study of highly cited papers in sport sciences The results provide the most updated publication characteristics and hot topics of highly cited papers in sport sciences and offer insights for academic researchers in future research.
International research collaboration among the G-20 countries This study has analysed the international research collaboration among the G-20 countries by computing the indicators of rate of growth, proportionate share, RIC and boost in productivity and citations due to such collaborations.
Analyzing shifts in age-related macular degeneration research trends since 2014: A bibliometric study with triple-map Sankey diagrams (TMSD) This research highlights the efficacy of the FLCA algorithm and the DDPP analytics model in bibliometric studies, showcasing their ability to generate TMSDs and network charts, confirming the stability of AMD research trends since 2014.
Evaluating the dependability of reference-driven citation forecasts amid the COVID-19 pandemic: A bibliometric analysis across diverse journals Despite variations among journals, references effectively predict article citations during the COVID-19 era, underlining the importance of network density. Future studies should delve deeper into the correlation between network density and citation prediction.
Delving into the analysis of scientific production and communication in academic literature We conclude that academic publishing plays a vital role in the advancement of scientific understanding and knowledge. Therefore, it is necessary to continue research efforts in this field of research.
Influence of proximities and their interaction effects on scientific collaborations: the case of Turkish regions The study confirms previous findings as coauthorship chances increase when the interacting provinces are closer to one another spatially (Cao et al., 2019; Hoekman et al., 2010; Sidone et al., 2016).
Determinants of manuscript submissions to fully open access journals: elasticity to article processing charges However, this study reveals that manuscript submissions are insensitive to APCs, suggesting that publishers are able to easily raise APCs.
Co-citation analysis between coupler authors of a scientific domain's citation identity: a case study in scientometrics This research presented a continuation of the concept of relational co-citation analysis between authors, the co-citation analysis between coupler authors (CCA).
Characteristics of retracted research papers before and during the COVID-19 pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic does not seem to affect the retractions of research papers much.
A bibliometric study of research output of ISRO's space science and exploration missions Overall, the study can be considered as a comprehensive reference source for information on research trends related to the four Indian space science and exploration missions.
The Nobel family Chemistry (economics) laureates have the highest (lowest) number of Nobelists among their ancestors and descendants. Openness to other disciplines has not changed over time, but the familial concentration of Nobelists has fallen. For ambitious young researchers, the lesson is clear: Find an excellent mentor, preferably one who won the Nobel Prize, who has a good chance of winning one, or who has a strong Nobel descent.
Disciplinary and institutional shifts: decomposing deviations in the country-level proportions of conference papers in Scopus This study aimed to analyze country-specific deviations in the share of Conference Papers (CPs) in the total flow of publications indexed in Scopus. The deviation was decomposed into two components: a disciplinary shift, representing the difference between the disciplinary structure of national science from the global average, and an institutional shift, which is associated with factors determined by national science policy, the structure and pace of development of national science, and geographical features. For a more comprehensive understanding of the role and place of CPs in the structure of international scientific communications, as well as their disciplinary and regional features, further analysis is needed that takes these factors into account.
Normalization of direct citations for clustering in publication-level networks: evaluation of six approaches We conclude that the geometric approach has a similar performance as the fractional approach regarding ARI and silhouette width.
Dependency, reciprocity, and informal mentorship in predicting long-term research collaboration: A co-authorship matrix-based multivariate time series analysis In this study, we examined the roles of dependency, reciprocity, and informal mentorship in the prediction of long-term research collaboration in five disciplines.
Explaining academic researchers' performance from the Ability-Motivation-Opportunity (AMO) perspective This paper makes an essential contribution to the literature by showing the linear and nonlinear effects of AMO dimensions on academic researchers' performance.
Collaboration and topic switches in science "Collaboration allows scholars to deepen existing knowledge and be exposed to new ideas."
Understanding the growing contributions of China to leading international higher education journals This study provides a comprehensive analysis of China-affiliated articles published in three leading international higher education journals between 2000 and 2022.
How many authors are (too) many? A retrospective, descriptive analysis of authorship in biomedical publications Examining over 17 million PubMed articles in a recent period of 20 years, the study affirmed authorship proliferation in the biomedical literature. Given potential unethical practices, preserving authorship as a trustable indicator of scientific performance is critical. Achieving suc-cessful and enduring changes requires a joint effort of all stakeholders involved in schol-arly communication, knowledge dissemination, and funding, including scientists, authors, contributors, journal editors, publishers, funding decision makers and, finally, those we as authors primarily publish for—the readers.
The silver lining of COVID-19 restrictions: research output of academics under lockdown Our findings showed that mobility and anti-contagion restrictions had the positive effect of boosting manuscript submissions to journals and disrupting previous submission trends and their seasonality.
Ranking journals by voting with feet: a new method for journal evaluation Overall, the VFI presents a promising new approach to assess journal quality, addressing the limitations of existing methods.
Reference accuracy of primary studies about reference accuracy: A descriptive study Our finding that authors who publish primary studies about reference accuracy have an overall error rate of 21.2% leads to our conclusion that there may be author-related and systemic reasons that make it challenging to obtain complete reference accuracy.
Embedding models for supervised automatic extraction and classification of named entities in scientific acknowledgements With respect to research question 2, Flair Embeddings showed the best accuracy in training with corpus No.2 (and version 0.11) and the fastest training time compared to the other models; thus, it is recommended to further use the Flair Embeddings model for the recognition of acknowledged entities.
Repercussions of the Emergency neurological life support on scientific literature: a bibliometric study Although still low, the number of publications mentioning ENLS is increasing.
A bibliometric evaluation and visualization of global solar power generation research: productivity, contributors and hot topics This study facilitates a comprehensive understanding of the status and trends in solar power research for researchers, stakeholders, and policy-makers. Solar energy, a principal renewable energy source, has attracted significant attention from the global academic com-munity over the past two decades. Future focal points for researchers and institutions in the solar power domain will include new materials with higher efficiency and greater commercial availability and imple-menting improved operation strategies that integrate grid and storage systems.
Language inclusion in ecological systematic reviews and maps: Barriers and perspectives To improve language inclusion and reduce bias in systematic reviews and maps, our study suggests increasing language diversity within review teams.
The Evolution of Worldwide Nurse-Led Cancer Research in the Last 2 Decades (2004-2022) A significant increase in nurse-led cancer research over the past 2 decades is evident.
Mining technology trends in scientific publications: a graph propagated neural topic modeling approach In this paper, we proposed a novel dynamic topic model for technology trends mining, which can provide explorative and explainable results.
Bridging the gap: Towards guided plagiarism correction strategies In conclusion, this study presents a simple but useful and novel mathematical model that can be leveraged by the academic and scholars' community to correct plagiarism.
The scientific periphery and new flows of knowledge: the case of regional preprint servers There remains much to understand in terms of achieving optimal conditions to increase the visibility and impact of science from the periphery. Future research is needed to fill knowledge gaps and to develop empirically based theories that account for the changes in the scholarly publishing landscape and the consequences of those changes for the visibility of science from the periphery. Exclusively regional publishing initiatives risk being disconnected from the global science communication network and do not necessarily guarantee global visibility as the findings from this study have shown.
Accelerating the open research agenda to solve global challenges Our analyses revealed that journals, funders and societies (half of stakeholders) lack alignment in their mission and vision statements with open research vocabulary suggesting low priority in strategic planning.
Journal of Information Science: A gender-based bibliometric study (2015-2020) Our research into the state of affairs with regard to female LIS authors, based on a review of the scientific literature, has shown that few bibliometric studies have focused on gender issues. With respect to the author gender, our results in general show that male and female authors are not equally represented in the journal, with a great difference in the case of collective authorship that doubles the number of signers. It is recommended that scientific journals take editorial measures or introduce policies (such as ORCID codes, other permanent identifiers and the inclusion of the pronouns – she/her and he/his – in the authors’ section) to standardise signer names so that authors can be uniquely and exclusively identified.
The moderating role of personal characteristics of authors in the publications' quality for quantity trade-off Thus, it can be concluded that high average impact is indeed a bonus of scientific output that is low in quantity but concentrated on high scientific value (a research strategy summarized as "few works but good").
Changing structures in transnational research networks: An analysis of the impact of COVID-19 on China's scientific collaborations Specifically on the role played by China in the COVID-related research network, our results seem to point neatly towards a lower capacity of the Chinese research system to catalyze scientists from other countries to study COVID-related issues in comparison to the U.S.
Exploration, exploitation and funding success: Evidence from junior scientists supported by the Chinese Young Scientists Fund Overall, this work sheds light on the underlying patterns of individual careers and has policy implications in supporting junior scientists engaged in exploratory research. These insights advocate a reevaluation of current funding mechanisms to better support and incentivize explorative research strategies. Importantly, our study emphasizes the crucial role of exploratory research in scientific advancement, emphasizing the need to support and encourage it among junior researchers.
Open Access Publication in Total Knee Arthroplasty Is Associated With Increased Social Media Attention, but Is Not Associated With Increased Citations The OA publications in the TKA literature were associated with increased social media attention, but not overall citations. This association was not observed among the top 10 journals. Authors may use these results to weigh the relative importance of readership, citations, and online engagement to the cost of OA publication.
Publishing on Topical Subjects in Total Joint Arthroplasty Is Associated With Increased Social Media Attention Studies on COVID-19, race/ethnicity, randomized studies, and OA publication were associated with increased social media while those in top-10 orthopaedic journals had lower scores.
The Politics of STEMM Collaboration between Australia and China: National Security, Geopolitics, and Academic Freedom My findings illustrate that where there are greater security concerns about China, pressure grows on STEMM collaboration, and especially on disciplines with potential military use. Despite the prominence of its critics, this persistence in collaboration demonstrates that advocates of STEMM collaboration in Australia remain influential due to the scientific and economic opportunities that China presents. Based on these findings, a fruitful direction for further research would be to examine the impact of geopolitical competition in comparative perspective and how this shapes national responses, in both Western and non-Western contexts.
Ranking resilience: assessing the impact of scientific performance and the expansion of the Times Higher Education Word University Rankings on the position of Czech, Hungarian, Polish, and Slovak universities The findings of this research suggest that universities have to consider complex strategies to improve their ranking focusing on other activities than research such as reputation, internationalization, or industry income.
Can social media combat gender inequalities in academia? Measuring the prevalence of the Matilda effect in communication These results have implications for how science communities can effectively promote research on social media. By understanding and addressing these disparities, steps can be taken toward establishing a more equitable academic environment.
Two sides of the same coin? Citation obsolescence and impact of different publication types and subject fields The results of this paper indicate specific citation ageing patterns among document types and across fields.
Missing institutions in OpenAlex: possible reasons, implications, and solutions Our results show that the missing institution data is prevalent in OpenAlex, and journal articles with missing institutions distribute more in earlier years, research fields like Art and History and certain journals and publishers.
A Nationwide Evaluation of Cardiothoracic Resident Research Productivity I-6 trainees publish significantly more manuscripts during medical school and residency compared with their traditional colleagues. Trainees at institutions with T32 training grants and dedicated academic development time publish a higher number of manuscripts than trainees without those opportunities.
Online Attention of Uncited Articles in Information Science In conclusion, there are altmetric differences between cited and uncited articles; uncited articles tend to receive less altmetric attention than those with citations.
A Scientometric Analysis of Africa's Health Science Journals Indexed in International and Regional Databases: A Comparative Analysis The coverage of African health science journals by international citation databases is still limited which result in low scientific impact of many African health science journals.
Open access transition in obstetrics and gynecology journals-The international impact Flipping to open access in OBGYN journals is associated with a citation advantage with major authorship changes, leading to inequity. Publishers should consider the benefit from transforming to open access, as well as the equity gaps that could arise as a result of this transition.
Does open identity of peer reviewers positively relate to citations? This research makes contributions both in theoretical and practical contexts.
Recent temporal dynamics in economics: empirical analyses of annual publications in economic fields The current study focusing on economics found ‘Economic Development’ as the field with the largest paper output across the years. Only two economic fields have noticeable higher rates of changes: ‘Production and Organizations’ and 'Health'. According to Kelly and Bruestle (2011), these studies are important for "strategic planning, publication strategy, and curriculum design” (p. 658).
South African research contributions to Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 1973-2022 Overall, the results indicate that LNCS remains a popular publication outlet for Computer Science researchers in South Africa because it has gained and maintained a high scholarly status over the past 50 years.
Impact of medical technologies may be predicted using constructed graph bibliometrics The high performance of high impact research prediction using our proposed models show that machine learning technologies are promising algorithms that can support funding decision-making for medical research. As such we demonstrate the impact of the network framework in predicting high-impact publications. Beyond prediction of high-impact studies from bibliometrics, future research is needed to explore the potential to predict high-impact grants that can fund one or more studies.
Critical open access literacy as a strategy to confront the challenges in scholarly communication Despite many benefits and a growth in uptake, OA is in a crisis of sorts, still far from achieving its goals and grappling with challenges.
The Utrecht University Honours Program review project: example based scientific publishing training aimed at bachelor medical students All reviews that were written in the last decade were published and well cited. Therefore, this project is an addition to the scientific community.
Brand and addiction: A network analysis of scientific literature This study examines brand addiction in marketing, psychiatry, and transdisciplinary publishing.
Disruptive development path measurement for emerging technologies based on the patent citation network The research method proposed in the paper can provide powerful methods and technological support for the selection of R&D direction and the allocation of innovative resources for multi-dimensional innovation subjects, mainly manifested in the following three aspects.
Ambiguity in Ethical Standards: Global Versus Local Science in Explaining Academic Plagiarism This study was designed to determine the role of academic disciplines in addition to individual and organizational factors relevant for explaining the rate of plagiarism.
Unraveling Scientific Evolutionary Paths: An Embedding-Based Topic Analysis Consequently, this methodology can be used to improve decision-making processes in future innovation management.
How Competition for Funding Impacts Scientific Practice: Building Pre-fab Houses but no Cathedrals I suggest it may be time to move away from a focus on QRPs in connection with funding, and rather address the real problems.
Understanding super-partnerships in scientific collaboration: Evidence from the field of economics The findings confirm that, due to the influence of super-partners on scholars' career development, the for-mation of super-partnerships has improved scholars' sci-entific research performance, in terms of both productivity and citations. Overall, our findings provide quantitative insights into the characteristics of super-collaborative partner-ships in order to clarify the diversity of collaboration strengths. This paper also has implications for science funding and research management.
Lessons learned from ORCID DE-A project-driven initiative to promote author identification in Germany Since our first collaboration with ORCID in 2015, ORCID has established itself as the international de facto standard for researcher identification. Based on our lessons learned, we frame our efforts around the ACTION principles in promoting PID systems and apply them to the specific case of ORCID promotion within a national pro-ject. After the ORCID DE projects, the promotion of ORCID will be pursued by the members of the project consortium within the framework of the DFG project 'PID Network Germany' (Bertelmann et al., 2023).
Research output and economic growth in technological laggard contexts: a longitudinal analysis (1980-2019) by type of research Such results robustly suggest that even in technologically laggard contexts, scientific production is critical for economic growth, especially when aligned with changes in sectoral composition that favour industry.
Status and challenges of institutional repositories in university libraries in South-East Nigeria: Implications for visibility and ranking of Nigerian universities While many of the universities intend to develop institutional repositories, only a few of them have created enabling digital infrastructure that would support uptake of IR. This development calls for serious attention and interventions from funding bodies and university administrators.
Comparison of disciplines, topics, and methods in studies in Journal of Informetrics and Scientometrics from 2016 to 2020 This study compared articles published in Scientometrics and JOI over a 5-year period by combining a bibliometric analysis, author affiliation analysis, and content analysis. Our results can help scientometric researchers understand characteristics and trends in data sources, units of analysis, and methods used by other researchers. The advent of new tools and approach is expected to make notable contributions to scientometric research.
Can ChatGPT be used to predict citation counts, readership, and social media interaction? An exploration among 2222 scientific abstracts The findings highlight the potential of large language models in scientometrics and possibly pave the way for AI-assisted peer review.
Science's greatest discoverers: a shift towards greater interdisciplinarity, top universities and older age Overall, we find that those who make major discoveries are increasingly interdisciplinary, older and at top universities.
Bibliometric analysis of Sci-Hub downloads by Egyptian researchers Overall, this study offers valuable insights into Sci-Hub's role in supplementing Egyptian researchers' resource access and underscores the need for comprehensive resource coverage and accessibility enhancements.
Homophily and its effects on collaborations and repeated collaborations: a study across scientific fields This study contributes to the knowledge of homophily as an important aspect of scientific collaboration by expanding on previous analyses and the literature, along with bringing new perspectives and findings. The first noteworthy finding is that geographical attributes, specifically taking the form of physical proximity at any level (university, city, and country in our analysis), are the most important driver of collaboration in any field of science. Overall, this study underscores the complex ways in which ascribed, geographical, career, educational, and acquired attributes shape collaborations.
Gender differences in google scholar representation and impact: an empirical analysis of political communication, journalism, health communication, and media psychology With regards to our first research questions, we found that, compared to their male peers, highly cited female authors are underrepresented in all subfields and in the pooled sample, regardless of whether the field is one traditionally considered masculine or feminine. Fostering a mindful approach to citations is essential for advancing towards a more diverse and inclusive body of scientific knowledge. Therefore, we contend that these subfields ought to adopt a more inclusive stance towards women, acknowledging and valuing their scientific contributions to prevent overlooking their impact.
Researching the Research: A Central Banking Edition We identify significant heterogeneity among central banks from different regions.
Mapping the Relationship of Research and Development Expenditures and Economic Growth through Bibliometric Analysis: A Theoretical Perspective The findings of this study identify trends, gaps, and further theoretical prospects related to the relationship between R&D expenditures and economic growth. Our findings hold significance for empirical research, supporting policymakers in encouraging R&D expenditures for economic growth. Integrating technology through R&D and innovation can empirically and theoretically contribute significantly.
What is a high-quality research environment? Evidence from the UK's research excellence framework Assessing research environments will increase in importance in the next REF exercise and the insights found through our analysis may support reflection and discussion about what it means to have a high-quality research environment.
Scientists' disciplinary characteristics and collaboration behaviour under the convergence paradigm: A multilevel network perspective The results suggest that scientists' interdisciplinarity (including diversity and coherence), disciplinary composition and embeddedness characteristics are important influences on scientific collaboration under the convergence paradigm. In summary, collaborations under the convergence paradigm are characterised by the following: scientists with a more even distribution of competence across disciplines are very active in collaborations, while neither extreme specialists nor generalists are active in collaborations. Our study has several practical implications.
Towards a sustainable and responsible model for monitoring open science and research-analysis of the Finnish model for monitoring open science and research We acknowledge that the monitoring model raises important issues and incentivizes organisations into developing open science. However, as it is, the model is too detailed on what should be done and what should be aimed for, and therefore lacks incentives for the organisations to figure out for themselves what needs to be done, and what should be the aims in their own context. In addition, it lacks clear incentives for organisations to co-create and cooperate. In the future, we suggest a monitoring model that allows organisations to choose which indicators they wish to emphasize, based on their own strategic aims in regard to open science and research.
Do college anti-plagiarism/cheating policies have teeth in the age of AI? Exploratory evidence from the Internet The findings reinforce the view that policies to check plagiarism and cheating are likely to lack teeth and maybe a step behind the resources that facilitate unethical behavior.
Aging in style: Seniority and sentiment in scholarly writing With that caveat in mind, we have documented one possible source of the well-known slowdown of top-flight scholarly activity with age—the decreasingly warm reception paid by other scholars, due in small part to changes in the style of writing as a scholar ages.
Organizational changes and research performance: A multidimensional assessment We have analyzed the scientific production evolution of the research group of this institution, observing and comparing its performance with the series of structural, organizational and leadership changes it has been through during 34 years.
Do scholars' collaborative tendencies impact the quality of their publications? A generalized propensity score matching analysis This paper uses the GPSM method to study the relationship between the APTs in four different ACM and the PCN.
Global research trends on cardiac troponin and physical activity among pediatric populations: a bibliometric analysis and science mapping study The number of publications and the trend line show that research on this topic has not yet reached a stage of maturity. There are referent investigators, countries, and institutions that have laid the foundations for subsequent studies on the analyzed topic.
Possibilities for ranking business schools and considerations concerning the stability of such rankings This article presents different ways in which business schools can be ranked and shows which of these variants make sense from our point of view.
Unveiling the intrinsic interactions of science and technology in the fuzzy domain: A visual and quantitative analysis "The results further confirm the centrality of scientific studies in the fuzzy domain."
100 years of Chemical Reviews: contribution of the Indian chemists This scientometric analysis on a contribution made by Indian chemists to Chemical Reviews has shed light on the significant impact that they have had on the journal.
Configurational determinants of time-to-win in NSFC youth program funding: Insights from Chinese library and information science The findings elucidate the intricate interdependencies of factors influencing the time-to-win in science funding, offering valuable guidance for science fund managers and fostering the growth of emerging scholars.
Authorship regulations in performance-based funding systems and publication behaviour - A case study of German medical faculties This study has shown to what extent the authorship regulation proposed by the DFG in 2004 may have affected the number of co-authors and the author positions of medical publications. The DFG fractionalisation penalises researchers for increased collaborations and may foster the negative influence on researchers' behaviour to reduce collaboration in order to augment credit. Therefore, our findings suggest that the whole-counting regulation may be the better alternative.
Evolution of structural characteristics and its determinants of global human hair waste trade network based on temporal exponential random graph model In this study, complex network theory is employed to construct global trade networks of human hair waste spanning from 1991 to 2020. This study offers insights for businesses to navigate HHW markets and emphasizes the importance of this resource for a stable global supply chain, promoting a shift towards a circular development model. Governments with resource advantages should actively guide and vigorously promote waste hair utilization to transform waste into value.
Identification of the research themes of Chocó in the literature indexed in Scopus the most frequent words show that there is a concern for the study of mining, biodiversity, climate change, the tropical forest, the Pacific Ocean, etc.
Thirty years of climate change research: A fine-grained analysis of geographical specialization In this article, we provide evidence of a progressive decentralization of climate change research from leading countries to developing ones.
Toward scientific collaboration: A cost-benefit perspective Our results provide valuable insights into understanding the dynamics and complexities of collaborative behavior. This study has practical implications for guiding practice. Therefore, future research should delve deeper into the impact of these factors within various academic disciplines.
Gini-stable Lorenz curves and their relation to the generalised Pareto distribution Our result may thus shed a new light on the genesis of this family of distributions.
Data labeling through the centralities of co-reference networks improves the classification accuracy of scientific papers We proposed an optimization objective of graph-based models for the classification task: maximizing a proportion of papers with at least one neighbor having labels.
Exploring academic influence of algorithms by co-occurrence network based on full-text of academic papers In this work, we explore the influence of algorithms based on the algorithm co-occurrence network in the NLP domain. The results indicate regardless of the category to which the algorithms belong, influential algorithms within the algorithm community are often classical algorithms with numerous derivative counterparts, possessing sufficiently good performance to drive the development of algorithms in the same category. In the future, we plan to explore co-occurrence relationships at a more granular level, such as the sentence or section level, and study the semantic relationships between pairs of co-occurring algorithms.
The correlation between altmetric score and traditional measures of article impact for studies published within the Surgeon Journal The results of this study indicate that there is a weakly positive relationship between AAS and some bibliometric measures for articles published in the Surgeon Journal. This finding supports the idea that AAS provides a unique perspective on the impact of research, as it captures information not captured by traditional metrics. We suggest that using both altmetrics and bibliometrics to assess an article's impact is the best approach, as altmetrics can provide insight into the social impact of research and bibliometrics can provide insight into its academic impact.
Idea engines: Unifying innovation & obsolescence from markets & genetic evolution to science Thus, our framework provides a way of unifying innovation and obsolescence across fields.
Bibliometric Analysis and Applications of a Modified H-Index Examining the Research Productivity of Neurosurgery Faculty at High-Ranking Academic Institutions The h-index can be influenced by noncritical authorship, and hm, using critical contributions, can be used as a complement reflecting critical academic output in neurosurgery.
How transformative are transformative agreements? Evidence from Germany across disciplines The transformative vigor of these agreements in terms of publication behavior seems to be limited.
Research topic switch and its relation to appointment as university leader This suggests that as academics assume leadership roles, they develop an interest in higher education issues and incorporate their new expertise into academic knowledge. Productive leaders are more likely to adhere to their major research topic and avoid the risk of changing it. The appointment of university leaders has complex effects on publication patterns, as revealed by this study.
Measuring the evolving stage of temporal distribution of research topic keyword in scientific literature by research heat curve The heat of a research topic evolves over time. Measuring the research heat is helpful for locating the research hotspots and the evolving stage of the research over time.
Is ORCID a reliable source for CV analysis? Exploring the data availability of ORCID academic profiles Given the current experimental results, the answer to the question “Is ORCID a reliable source for CV analysis?” is negative.
Regional disparities in Web of Science and Scopus journal coverage In conclusion, this comprehensive analysis of the global landscape of journal coverage in Web of Science and Scopus compared with data from Ulrich's periodical directory high- lights the influence of North America and Europe on academic publishing and research assessment.
Do research assessment systems have the potential to hinder scientists from diversifying their research pursuits? Turning to our main research question, that is whether professors increased their degree of specialization as an opportunistic response to the introduction of the ASN, the answer is no, which is counter-intuitive.
Current situation and influence factors of scientific integrity in China: A multicenter survey We found that female, medical technology department, advanced education background, and advanced professional titles were significantly associated with a higher understanding of scientific integrity in research in China.
Dubious cross-national affiliations obscure the assessment of international research collaboration In this study, we highlight the prevalence of cross-national papers with dubious affiliations, which may not accurately reflect substantial research collaborations, and its potential impact on the assessment of IRC.
Heterogeneity of national accounting systems, world-class universities and financial resources: What are the links? In this paper, we answered to the research questions described in the Introduction.
Validity and bias of indicators of international collaboration: A theoretical analysis with an empirical study of Ukraine-Russia-United States and China-United States The OER was observed to fail Rousseau's criterion. It is meaningful as a statistic, but its distribution is not studied and there are not confidence intervals computed. It should be replaced by a standard well-understood statistic, which has content validity and does not suffer from the bias of failing Rousseau's criterion. We propose that statistic should be the ORC.
Citation Elites in Polytheistic and Umbrella Disciplines: Patterns of Stratification and Concentration in Danish and British Science The general conclusion from this study is that patterns of concentration and inequality on the three above-mentioned dimensions appear to vary greatly across disciplines and to a lesser extent across countries.
Comparative analysis of downloads of articles by Chinese and Russian researchers using Sci-Hub In conclusion, clustering of publications based on discussions around Sci-Hub has been done Sci-Hub, obtained as a result of a search through Google Scholar and Semantic Scholar. Six clusters of publications were identified, of which the largest were clusters of publications on the legitimacy, ethics, accessibility and countermeasures of Sci-Hub activity. Methods for implementing publishing and library measures to neutralize the activities of sci-entific piracy are proposed. The first measure was related to the dumping price for the sale of electronic copies of articles by publishers, and the second was related to the creation of an online platform for interlibrary loan of research articles.
Categorization and correlational analysis of quality factors influencing citation Conclusively, the quality of the research is better depicted using document quality related factors.
Charting mobility patterns in the scientific knowledge landscape In this study, we show that methods from mobility analysis applied to a low-dimensional representation of a knowledge space can help understand the scientific mobility of researchers.
Do scientific research funds support emerging topic research in Chinese humanities and social sciences? The results of this study suggest that funding policies have had varying effects on Chinese HSS by affecting the topics of projects and papers: (1) The NSSFC focuses more on funding emerging topic papers, while the NSFC prefers funding traditional topic papers. This study provides insight into the future relationship between scientific research policy and discipline development.
The publication facts label: A public and professional guide for research articles We would hold that the PFL offers just such a trust signal, capable of informing and encouraging both public and researcher engagement with this larger world of potentially trustworthy publications.
The bibliometric and altmetric analysis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy research: how great is the impact? This study presented bibliometric and altmetric overviews of CTE-linked literature and compared the most discussed articles on CTE, highlighting the similarities and differences in the understanding of CTE between the scientific community and the general public. This study, which combines altmetric and traditional metrics, may provide a more comprehensive description of scientific research output, offering a point of reference for future CTE research in the selection of study topics and directions.
What characterizes LIS as a fragmenting discipline? The seeds of disciplinary fragmentation in LIS were already sowed since 1950s.
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Factors as Motivation Roles in Scientific Research Activities of Professors at Several Vietnamese Universities Based on the research results, the authors make some suggestions to strengthen further the research activities of lecturers at universities in Vietnam.
Information accessibility and knowledge creation: the impact of Google's withdrawal from China on scientific research "In this paper, we employ Google's withdrawal from China in 2010 as an event that allows testing the impact of increased barriers to access information on scientists' publication output and impact. Our findings confirm that reactions to a positive and negative shock are not symmetric. The extension of our analysis to other science fields and other political and academic contexts is hence a straightforward avenue for future research."
Determining and weighting effective outputs of humanities research to meet scientific and professional goals: A study of language and literature fields What should be considered in the evaluation is the difference in scientific outputs and their evaluation criteria according to the nature and goals and approaches of each field.
Craft representation network and innovative heritage: the Forbidden City's cultural and creative products in a complex perspective The Forbidden City's cultural and creative products should continue to develop and enrich the multi-coupling innovation of craft elements, clarify and continue their own brand unique craft genes, and make full use of the network important nodes role.
Impact of Integrated Vascular Surgery Residency Training Pathway and Professional Development Time on Career Choice and Research Productivity IVSR and VSF graduates have comparable academic employment and research productivity. However, PDT during IVSR correlates with an eventual academic career and greater research productivity. This study supports the importance of continuing both training paradigms and providing PDT to develop academic vascular surgeons.
Uncovering power asymmetries in North-South research collaborations - An example from sustainability research in Tanzania The study revealed different forms of power and how they consolidate within the five aspects of the research collaboration.
Constructing a women-friendly academic ecology: understanding the push and pull forces on Pakistani women academics' research productivity Recognizing and addressing these factors can facilitate the creation of supportive environments conducive to enhancing the research skills, engagement, and performance of women academics, thereby promoting sustainable university development.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Women's Empowerment Studies Post Sustainable Development Goal Adoption Periods (2015-2022) In conclusion, this study provides an insight into the reality of scientific production on women's empowerment topics following the adoption of the SDGs, with recommendations for its future development and support for policymakers in initiating relevant policies for women's empowerment.
Higher-order structures of local collaboration networks are associated with individual scientific productivity The findings highlight the role of higher-order loops in shaping the development of individual scientists, thus may have implications for nurturing scientific talent and promoting innovative breakthroughs. Our findings have important policy implications for nurturing scientific personnel and accelerating innovative breakthroughs. Scientists need to carefully consider the structure of his/her collaboration network. It is crucial for scientists to strive for a well-balanced and properly disconnected or loosely connected local co-authorship network, which is crucial to high productivity.
Translating interdisciplinary knowledge for gender equity: Quantifying the impact of NSF ADVANCE These findings emphasize the significance of interdisciplinarity in problem-oriented knowledge production, indicating that specific forms of interdisciplinarity can lead to broader impact.
A temporal ontology guided clustering methodology with a case study on detection and tracking of artificial intelligence topics In this study, a temporal clustering method is devised to detect and track topics from scientific documents.
Evaluation Turkish Academic and Student Attitudes on Plagiarism: Validity and Reliability of the Plagiarism Attitudes Scale This study provides an evaluation of the adaptation process of the "Attitudes towards Plagiarism Scale" to the Turkish context, which was conducted using a sample from Türkiye. The Turkish version of the "Attitudes towards Plagiarism Scale", developed by Mavrinac et al. (2010), was found to be a valid and reliable tool for measuring attitudes towards plagiarism with a Turkish sample. Our findings suggest that the scale could be an effective tool for assessing attitudes towards plagiarism, for conduct- ing research on this element of research misconduct, hope- fully providing providing a valid and reliable instrument for future studies in this field.
Beyond Beall's list: The need for contemporary evaluation tools in predatory publishing research While Fahlevi et al. have made substantial strides in highlighting the discrepancies in publication qual- ity based on funding sources and collaboration within Indonesian aca- demia, incorporating a more current evaluation tool might refine their findings further. Such an adjustment could enhance the research's applicability and better guide policy and decision-making within aca- demic and funding institutions (Fahlevi et al., 2023).
The impact of funding on the 5G innovation ecosystem With this paper, we manage to shed light on the importance of public policy funds in the support of thriving OI-based ecosystems as enhancers of firms’ innovation performance.
Skewed distributions of scientists' productivity: a research program for the empirical analysis The use of the AKP for understanding success in publication outcome can yield important insights in success processes in science because it contradicts common assumptions linked to success (Bornmann & Marx, 2012).
Framework for scoring the scientific reputation of researchers This paper has presented the FRESA framework focused on estimating the reputation of researchers. Promising results have been accomplished in the experiments carried out to prove the viability of the proposal comparing it with alternative indexes. Thus, the proposal has shown that it is a more complete approach than the existing ones. FRESA has the potential to be used as a relevant tool for research agencies, expert evaluation panels, and the human resources sections.
Patterns of dissertation dissemination: publication-based outcomes of doctoral theses in the social sciences We conclude that a policy allowing doctoral candidates to write their dissertations in a cumulative format provides them with an opportunity to share the results of their research through publications in peer-reviewed journals.
Titles in research articles and doctoral dissertations: cross-disciplinary and cross-generic perspectives We examined four key features of RA and DD titles in soft and hard disciplines, namely, length, punctuation marks, structure, and content information, and the findings confirmed the disciplinary and generic variations.
A network-driven study of hyperprolific authors in computer science This article investigates how researchers' publication profiles, defined by the number of articles published over a period of time, are impacted by their collaboration pattern with other scientists, driven by the following research question: What is the role that coauthorships play in the publication profile of hyperprolific researchers, notably those exhibiting very off-the-pattern profiles?
Scaling up open access publishing through transformative agreements: Results from 2019 to 2022 R&P has been most effective where consortia have presented TAs collectively to a large group of institutions at once, as was the case in the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. The evidence presented in this case study has strengthened the society's commitment to facilitate more institutionally funded OA models, enabling ever more of our authors to publish OA fee-free. Where these conditions do not exist alternative models will be needed to complement R&P-in our case we plan to implement Subscribe to Open from 2025 onwards.
Does it pay to pay? A comparison of the benefits of open-access publishing across various sub-fields in biology Based on our findings of access type and other model parameters, we suggest that, in the case of the 152 journals we analyzed, paying for open access does confer a citation advantage.
Countries' research priorities in relation to the Sustainable Development Goals Our conclusions, underscore the need for research priorities to be more aligned with national SDG challenges, and advocate for more research funds to be directed towards low and lower-middle income countries.
Scholarly accomplishments: a United States survey of academic psychologists Overall, the present study represents an important update and extension on the topic of scholarly productivity amongst academic psychologists across institution types throughout the United States.
How to design bibliometric research: an overview and a framework proposal To fill this gap, the paper first described methodological stages and steps for how researchers can design bibliometric research.
Conservatism and representativeness heuristic in peer reviews: Evidence from the finance literature 1946-2020 This study shows that the Yule-Simon distribution is an excellent prescriptive model for publications in the finance literature: it almost perfectly explains the actual distribution of authors by the number of publications for many individual journals and all sample journals combined.
Investigating academic nurse researchers' knowledge, experience, and attitude toward predatory journals Publishing in a predatory journal, whether done knowingly or unknowingly, can harm authors' reputations as academics, their capacity to submit to other journals, and the quality of their work. According to the results of our study, many researchers still lacked a thorough understanding of the predatory journal publishing model, which is a phenomenon that demands an increasing amount of research, despite hearing about the phenomenon of a predatory journal and having previously attended training.
Citations of Publications on Foreign Direct Investments into Agribusiness: Nature, Variability and Drivers "The main contribution of this study is to explain the variability in the observed citations of FDI into agribusiness."
Can ChatGPT identify predatory biomedical and dental journals? A cross-sectional content analysis ChatGPT can accurately distinguish predatory and legitimate journals with a high level of accuracy. While some false positive (29%) and false negative (7.5%) results were observed, it may be reasonable to harness ChatGPT to assist with the identification of predatory journals. The potential utility of large-scale language models in exposing predatory publications is worthy of further consideration.
Textual features of peer review predict top-cited papers: An interpretable machine learning perspective This study presents a framework that combines machine learning models with XAI techniques to analyze textual features extracted from peer review reports for predicting scientific impact, as measured by TCPs.
Is gold open access helpful for academic purification? A causal inference analysis based on retracted articles in biochemistry Overall, the study revealed that Gold OA has a general positive impact on academic purification.
Research productivity of ophthalmology residents and its relationship to academic career outcomes Greater scholarly activity in residency corresponds to more academic and subspecialized practices but is not associated with type of fellowship.
"I'd like to publish in Q1, but there's no Q1 to be found": Study of journal quartile distributions across subject categories and topics The apparent inequality between disciplines unveiled in our study offers a new perspective to argue against the use of quartile metrics, at least in a straightforward manner, when evaluating performance and shaping science policies. Our study reveals new and wide inconsistencies in the quartile methods and benchmarks which should be taken into account, even when one resorts to using them as a “necessary evil”. As one of the ways to develop the study, we plan to transform the journal-quartile into the paper-quartile method.
Rank analysis of most cited publications, a new approach for research assessments Although further research is needed, rank analysis of the most cited papers is a promising approach for research evaluation.
Do universities support solutions-oriented collaborative research? Constraints to wicked problems scholarship in higher education The paper concludes by reflecting on the paper's findings, particularly in terms of what the data tell us about higher education as a place that fosters wicked problems scholarship, while also highlighting the study's limitations.
Which international co-authorships produce higher quality journal articles? Although not definitive and oriented on the United Kingdom, the results give the first large scale direct science-wide academic evidence that journal articles written by international teams tend to be higher quality (from a UK Global North perspective) than national research, even after accounting for team size. From a pure research quality perspective, as judged by Global North standards, collaborations with lower research expenditure countries are not optimal for research quality, as judged by REF experts. In terms of research policy implications, the results suggest that funders and research managers should continue to generally encourage international collaborative research because the journal articles produced tend to be higher quality.
Reluctance to pursue breakthrough research: A signaling explanation Despite these limitations, the paper draws attention to the inefficiency amplifying mechanism of imitation, in a context where scholars with varying skill levels can publish in high-quality journals.
The role of institutional policies in the sustainability of institutional repositories in Africa: A reflection from Ghana "The study showed that institutional IR policies guided the operation, management and submission of content to repositories at public universities in Ghana.
Dermatology journals from India: A critical appraisal of the journal metrics We conducted a detailed bibliometric analysis of key dermatology journals from India to objectively assess their average bibliometrics and to ascertain if the growth of our speciality journals have kept pace with other Indian journals. Although a meteoric rise has been observed in the impact factor of IJDVL, which is the leading journal of IADVL, this impression is not borne out by other metrics. Theses indices (other than JIF) suggest that IJDVL is currently trailing behind other main dermatology journals from India and global dermatology journals, indicating potential for further growth of journal influence.
Scientific publications clustering using textual and citation information In this paper, we presented the Multi-view Mixture of von Mises-Fisher distributions (MMvMF) model, a hybrid generative model that combines citation analysis and text analysis for the identification of scientific topics, i.e. for the unsupervised classification of scientific publications.
Iranian Journal of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology: A Bibliometric and Altmetric Analysis from 2005 to 2022 This study aids researchers in exploring and identifying emerging trends in the fields of allergy, asthma, and immunology. In conclusion, since IJAAI is an important ISI-indexed journal in the field of asthma, allergy, and immunology, this study provides an excellent and helpful reference for researchers and stakeholders interested in conducting research in these areas. In other words, this bibliometric analysis serve as a roadmap for IJAAI officials.
Using automated analysis of the bibliography to detect potential research integrity issues In isolation, any of the individual issues discussed here might not raise a red flag.
Group authorship, an excellent opportunity laced with ethical, legal and technical challenges This paper is intended to be a call for the cautious exploration of group authorship within the current agent-centered scientific paradigm to make this mode of recognition a viable alternative for researchers who wish to emphasize the colla-borative nature of their work. Group authorship provides unique opportunities that would hardly emerge under the conventional agent-centered authorship model. While addressing all these challenges might be exceptionally difficult, there are possible solutions that could improve group authorship attributions.
Assessing the Use of Scholarly Communication Platforms in Zambia This research on assessing the use of scholarly communication platforms in Zambia has implications that extend beyond the borders of the country.
Understanding scholar-trajectories across scientific periodicals Overall, our framework discovers intricate structures in large-scale sequential data and provides new ways to explore mobility and trajectory patterns.
Does the handling time of scientific papers relate to their academic impact and social attention? Evidence from Nature, Science, and PNAS Our study contributes in three ways to the literature.
Influence of cultural and socioeconomic factors on scientific production: a statistical analysis of the h-index The higher GDP, Individualism and number of researchers, the higher h-index is. Therefore, certain cultural variables such as individualism and masculinity are associated with the h-index of countries. Future work in this domain could explore refining the integration of cultural dimensions into bibliometric indicators, considering a more extensive set of cultural variables and employing qualitative methodologies to capture the intricate interplay between culture and scholarly impact more accurately.
The generation mechanism of research leadership in international collaboration based on GERGM: a case from the field of artificial intelligence In this study, we investigated the dynamics of research leadership in international scientific collaborations by designating the corresponding author as the leader. Utilizing the GERGM, we revealed intricate endogenous and exogenous factors shaping the leadership network in international research collaborations.
Public funding accountability: a linked open data-based methodology for analysing the scientific productivity and influence of funded projects In conclusion, funding agencies' experts and analysts will find that this methodology gives them a valuable instrument for boosting the quality and efficacy of their activities, complying with transparency and accountability requirements, and quantifying the scope of funding results.
On the peer review reports: does size matter? These results not only confirm the initial hypothesis that longer reports indicate requested improvements, thereby enhancing the quality and visibility of articles, but also underscore the importance of timely and comprehensive reviewer reports.
Priorities of health research in India: evidence of misalignment between research outputs and disease burden In this study we found that de facto research priorities, as revealed by the amount of publications, are poorly correlated with disease burden in India.
Identification and causal analysis of predatory open access journals based on interpretable machine learning By identifying anomalous OA journals, academic reputation risks can be effectively avoided to the benefit of publishers and authors. In this study, we propose an interpretable prediction model based on machine learning for identifying predatory OA journals and validate the effectiveness of the model by analysing selected medical OA journals. In the future, we will consider combining Altmetric social impact indicators to carry out more comprehensive OA journal early warning risk prediction model experiments.
Mathematical Patterns in Fuzzy Logic and Artificial Intelligence for Financial Analysis: A Bibliometric Study Our comprehensive bibliometric analysis sheds light on the evolving landscape of fuzzy logic and artificial intelligence in financial analysis from 1990 to 2023. This underscores the increasing relevance and adoption of these mathematical models in the financial domain. Future studies could delve deeper into the qualitative aspects of influential research in fuzzy logic and AI, examining the practical applications and real-world impact of these mathematical models in financial decision-making.
Analysis of the growth, trends and prevalent topics in Geotechnical Engineering (1998-2022) using topic modelling The number of articles published per year in geotechnical engineering has grown exponentially over 25 years.
Interdisciplinary research attracts greater attention from policy documents: evidence from COVID-19 Our findings indicate that there is a positive correlation between the interdisciplinarity of scientific publications and the attention they receive from policy documents in almost all fields.
The role of research funders in providing directions for managing responsible internationalization and research security The empirical findings suggest the need for a more granular view on how security, competitiveness issues, and openness can be managed.
Steering at a distance: research centre funding schemes as instruments for university change This paper is based on the widely accepted notion that governments and funding agencies seek to influence, guide, and steer scientific organizations as well as the activities of scientists, and one of the ways is with funding instruments (Braun 1993).
Proximity still matters in research collaboration! Evidence from the introduction of new airline routes and high-speed railways in China Efficient public transportation connections, by reducing travel time, can significantly enhance collaboration across broader spatial areas within the knowledge production sector.
Assessing Research Productivity and Quality Across Disciplines in the School of Arts and Sciences at the Lebanese American University Our findings clearly indicate that academics in hard disciplines exhibit higher research productivity and citation rates, but both hard and soft disciplines demonstrate comparable quality of research in terms of targeted journal quartiles.
Resistance and Power in Irish Higher Education: ORCID and the Monitored University Given the general and perhaps passive acceptance of at least the introduction of ORCID, the main challenges highlighted by this research relate to communication within research organisations across all roles about ORCID and particularly what it is, what it is aimed to achieve, and to have clarity about any benefits and weaknesses. The question remains as to how any new career structure for the TU/IoT sector will focus on ORCID based publication metrics, or on more meaningful factors.
Automatically listing senior members of departments as co-authors is highly prevalent in health sciences: meta-analysis of survey research The practice of automatically assigning senior members of departments as co-authors on all submitted manuscripts may be common in the health sciences, with those admitting to this practice finding it unjustified in most cases. These findings, when replicated in high quality surveys, are worrisome and require an effective response, most likely in the realm of the academic reward system.
Academic publishing requires linguistically inclusive policies Overcoming language barriers in academic publishing is feasible and necessary, but it requires an understanding of the issues faced by scholars with limited English proficiency and a firm commitment from publishers, journals, and scientific societies to develop and implement linguistically inclusive policies.
To preprint or not to preprint: A global researcher survey Our survey results show that researchers have mixed opinions on preprinting.
Exploring the Landscape of Research on Enterprise Green Environments Through Science Mapping Analysis In culmination, the comprehensive science mapping analysis conducted on enterprise green environment research has yielded a tapestry of invaluable insights.
Does academic engagement with industry come at a cost for early career scientists? Evidence from high-tech enterprises' Ph.D. funding programs Practical and policy implications are discussed for entrepreneurs and science policymakers to favor scientific knowledge production and transfer by strengthening science-industry relations between high-tech enterprises and early career scientists. Our findings provide evidence that corporate financial support can lead to substantial improve-ment in academics' follow-on research direction without diverting their previous scientific exploration trajectory. Future studies need to investigate multiple datasets, utilize other alternative indicators such as altmetrics, and employ more sophisticated methods such as machine learning, to enhance the precision and robustness of measuring research per-formance.
Practicing responsible research assessment: Qualitative study of faculty hiring, promotion, and tenure assessments in the United States Responsible metrics is an ongoing reform movement with a concern to make academic 'citizens' more responsive to concerns about (mis)uses of bibliometrics.
Worldwide research trends on tumor burden and immunotherapy: a bibliometric analysis In conclusion, relationship between tumor burden and immunotherapy has grasped increasing attention and relevant researches are in a highly developing stage.
When career-boosting is on the line: Equity and inequality in grant evaluation, productivity, and the educational backgrounds of Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions individual fellows in social sciences and humanities Our conclusion is that the geographic diversity among the awardees should be developed and that the evaluation process should focus on pre-MSCA performance to support the most promising applicants.
A multiple k-means cluster ensemble framework for clustering citation trajectories A detailed comparative study reveals our proposed methodology can detect all distinct trajectory classes.
Biomedical engineering research in Chilean universities - A bibliometric analysis The results indicate that BME research areas in Chile initially focused on bioinstrumentation/ biomedical electronics and systems physiology but later expanded to include medical imaging, clinical engineering, and biomechanics. This work not only offers crucial insights into BME research in Chile, providing a roadmap for future research collaboration and guiding students in introductory BME courses but also emphasises the importance of expanding BME horizons through advanced technologies and cross-disciplinary collaborations to enhance healthcare innovations.
A figure of merit that includes 5 distinct performance indicators to improve research evaluation of academic scholars' In this paper, we have proposed a novel figure-of-merit as a potential complement of the h index to evaluate research performance for academic scholars.
Evaluation of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Pathway to Independence Award (K99/R00) Program Our results suggest that the NCI K99/R00 award is an important component for training and retention of the next generation of independent cancer researchers and to increasing the percentage of women and promoting the diversity of the cancer research workforce.
Retractions in arts and humanities: an analysis of the retraction notices In this article, we investigated the retraction phenomenon in the arts and humanities domain through a special focus on the retraction notices—a formal document which states the retraction and its reasons for a specific publication. Since the following work has been done on a few hundred of cases of retraction (i.e. 343), we consider it a pilot and an important first approach towards understanding retractions and the nature of the retraction notices in the arts and humanities domain. Yet, a larger study should be conducted to confirm and investigate our findings deeper.
Teamwork Coaching in the Research Development Process This study provides several contributions to the team science literature by applying the concept of teamwork processes to team coaching and subsequently examining the role of teamwork coaching in the RD process.
Analyzing the bibliometrics of brain-gut axis and Parkinson's disease This study examined current trends and hotspots in the bibliometric landscape of the brain-gut axis and PD research.
Information disclosure, spillovers, and knowledge accumulation This study examines the relationship between information disclosure and knowledge accumulation using CIE's 2016 information disclosure policy as an exogenous shock. Information disclosure promotes the knowledge spillover of existing knowledge and the generation of new knowledge. Moreover, information disclosure is more conducive to knowledge production by disadvantaged researchers than advantaged groups, which results in the democratization of science (Nagaraj et al., 2020).
Bibliometric analysis of horticultural crop secondary metabolism As part of the study, bibliometric analysis of Web of Science database papers on secondary metabolism in horticulture plants was done. The analysis discovered that academic works completed between 2010 and the present were grouped into a total of 4 clusters. The cooperative structure of exceptional works, journals, and authors of horticulture plants secondary metabolism may be thought of as a roadmap that will serve as a starting point for future study.
Letter to the Editor: Open access transition in obstetrics and gynecology journals-The international impact Flipping to open access in OBGYN journals is associated with a citation advantage with major authorship changes, leading to inequity.
A Scientometrics Analysis of Cybersecurity Using e-CSTI In this study, we focus on cybersecurity as a research area that is handled by scientometrics analysis and analyze four representative research clusters (cyberattack, cryptography, authentication, and blockchain) and 55 research sub-clusters in the cybersecurity area using e-CSTI.
Detection of plagiarism among rhinology scientific journals In conclusion, this study highlights a concerning prevalence of plagiarism, primarily self-plagiarism through text recycling, within rhinology journals. These results emphasize the need for heightened awareness and vigilance among authors, reviewers, and editors to uphold ethical research standards. Additionally, the study underscores the potential utility of plagiarism detection software as a screening tool but cautions against overreliance on automated methods and emphasizes the importance of human oversight and judgment.
Using scientometrics to mapping Latin American research networks in emerging fields: the field networking index This study's contribution will help develop scientific metrics for funders, policymakers, researchers and universities (especially those interested in emerging fields) to identify, map, and evaluate researchers working in an interdisciplinary field, their interests and theo- retical contribution to it.
Compliance with open access mandates and its effects on research visibility: the case of the Spanish National Plan of R&D Our results about the degree of compliance of CKG's projects (RQ1) are consistent with previous studies regarding open access mandates in Spain, particularly in R&D projects (Borrego, 2016). Regarding the benefits of publishing in OA for researchers (RQ3), the results show that gold OA is negatively related to citation count. Further research at the faculty or departmental level might help discern the best strategies to encourage open-access publishing.
Star help and knowledge transfer: an event study analysis of star interactions observed from acknowledgement texts Overall, we find supporting evidence for hypothesis (1a) that there is a contemporaneous increase in the citation-weighted publications from star help.
The impact of researchers' perceived pressure on their publication strategies Our empirical analyses of academics working at HEI in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland indicated that scholars do not seem to pursue either strategy exclusively.
Publish or perish in paediatric ophthalmology and strabismus - where do we stand? These observations on this unique group may inspire others to excel.
Factors Associated with Citation of Colombian Biomedical Articles: Analysis with Machine Learning These characteristics are relevant to the ar-ea of interest and can provide context for future analyses, always considering that what should be relevant about an article is not how many citations it attracts but whether it helps to fill gaps in knowledge.
International journal of information security: a bibliometric study, 2007-2023 To conclude, this study not only carried out bibliometric analysis of research published in the International Journal of Information Security in the past 15 years to investigate the underlying research topics and sub-topics published so far, but also provides a summary of how these topics had pro-gressed over the years.
Controlled experiment finds no detectable citation bump from Twitter promotion Therefore while discussing science on social media has many professional and societal benefits (and has been a lot of fun), increasing the citation rate of a scientist's papers is likely not among them. However, tweeting did not result in significantly higher citation counts—one indicator of the scholarly impact of a scientific paper—within three years. Instead, higher citation counts of highly tweeted papers reflect the underlying value of important papers being recognized both by scientists and by social media users (i.e., "good papers are good").
Blinding reduces institutional prestige bias during initial review of applications for a young investigator award We therefore conclude that there was an institutional prestige bias in our review process, and that blinding helped to reduce the impact of that bias.
Assessing journals through a three-dimensional framework based on article citation, author and institution influence The effectiveness and validity of this method is demonstrated from three aspects, that is, mechanism analysis, theory analysis and contrastive analysis.
Manual versus machine: How accurately does the Medical Text Indexer (MTI) classify different document types into disease areas? Our overall assessment is that MTI is a potentially useful tool for researchers wishing to classify texts from a variety of sources into disease areas.
An Early Evaluation of the Long-Term Influence of Academic Papers Based on Machine Learning Algorithms Our findings may offer guidance for research management and decision-making.
Publishing during a sociology PhD in Australia: Differences by elite and non-elite universities and gender Several explanations might be tentatively advanced to at least partially account for why there was a broad similarity between sociology PhDs from elite and non-elite Australian universities in overall publication counts and in publishing in high-impact journals.
Examining the structure of MPs in the UK-China relationship using speech-word pair bipartite networks This paper analyses the correlation structure between MPs in the UK-China relationship using MP-word-pair bipartite networks. By calculating MPs' correlation network indicators and visualising their topological structure, the results provide insights into the distribution of MPs; correlation structure; MP factions; and their status, evolution and trends.
Tracing the trajectory of literacy warrants: A trends study on the emergence of digital literacy and digital competency The findings underscore the growing interest in the intersection of education and technology, particularly concerning digital literacy and e-learning. The study provides insights into the evolving landscape of education and digital literacy research and contributes to understanding these topics.
Against "silent" retractions in neuroscience Although this phenomenon does not seem to be common in the neurosciences, we consider that any opaque corrective measures in journals whose papers could be cited may negatively impact the wider neuroscience literature and community. Instead, we encourage transparency in retraction to promote truthfulness and trustworthiness. "Silent" retractions in neuroscience do not constitute ethical behavior from editors, who must strive to be truthful about the kind of editorial practices they engage in, particularly when it relates to information that may directly affect patient well-being.
Impact of gender composition of academic teams on disruptive output "The results show that compared with single-gender teams, moderate inter-gender collaboration has a greater potential to produce disruptive knowledge and must be adopted by scientific teams."
Early identification of breakthrough research from sleeping beauties using machine learning This paper contributes to the early identification of breakthrough research, evaluating academic results, and exploring research frontiers.
Authorship conflicts in academia: an international cross-discipline survey Our results combine to suggest a complex, arguably disturbing, multifaceted picture.
Bibliometric Analysis of Surgical Publications from Asian Countries Even with these limitations, our study provides an analysis of the current state and trajectory of surgical research in Asian countries.
Anomalous citations detection in academic networks Detecting anomalous citations carry profound significance for academic fairness. In this work, we propose a novel framework, namely ACTION, to detect anomalous citations across heterogeneous academic networks. ACTION can make full use of multiple types of relationships among different academic entities.
Internal factors promoting research collaboration problems: an input-process-output analysis We discuss that these problems are often rooted in the science system itself and provide important guidelines and implications for stakehold-ers, funding bodies, and involved researchers on how to reduce collaboration problems in research collaborations.
Why so few Ps become As: The character, choices and challenges of South Africa's most talented young researchers This research holds at least three implications. One, the importance of institutional posture (attitude) towards and targeted support for talented young researchers.
A reviewer-reputation ranking algorithm to identify high-quality papers during the review process Our findings can help improve the impact of scientific journals, thereby contributing to academic and scientific progress.
Global characteristics and trends of researches on watermelon: Based on bibliometric and visualized analysis The results highlight the future paths for study in the field of watermelon and provide useful information for researchers interested in the topic.
Developing a novel algorithm for comparing cluster patterns in networks on journal articles during and after COVID-19: Bibliometric analysis This research effectively created and utilized CPCA to analyze cluster patterns in bibliometrics.
Education journal rankings: a diversity-based Author Affiliation Index assessment methodology Overall, the AAID is an alternative indicator for evaluating the prestige of journals from a new perspective.
Science as exploration in a knowledge landscape: tracing hotspots or seeking opportunity? Our study deploys quantitative analysis methods to investigate scientists' topic selection and transitions, offering insights into the underlying mechanisms at the group level. We find that scientists' movements within the knowledge space exhibit heterogeneity, char- acterized by an overall log-normal distribution of OD flow distances. It indicates that, in essence, most scientists tend to make prudent and short-range transitions in their re- search interests. Understanding this conservative strategy reveals valuable insights into the dynamics of scientists' knowledge- creation in the innovation system, and provides empirical support for science policy- makers. In future research, we plan to refine existing population-level models by incorporating additional factors that influence scientific mobility, such as individual career aspirations, hotspots' knowledge structures, and the evolving landscape of scientific research, opti- mize model performance by exploring various machine learning algorithms, and investi- gate the nuances of scientific mobility across diverse disciplines and career stages, utilizing academic datasets spanning a broad range of fields and historical periods.
Navigating the Science System: Research Integrity and Academic Survival Strategies Based on the analysis, we conclude by proposing some concrete ways in which institutions and academic communities could try to reconcile epistemic and social uncertainties on a more collective level, thereby reducing incentives for researchers to engage in misconduct.
How do life sciences cite social sciences? Characterizing the volume and trajectory of citations Our results show that natural science publications in our dataset are not only citing social science knowledge but also directly citing their journals and researchers. Through empirical evidence from publications, we discuss the diverse contributions from social sciences to life sciences and the growing affinity between the two branches. In future research, we may expand our analyses to other branches of natural science and depict more interesting aspects of interdisciplinary flow, such as the qualitative/quantitative orientations of the citing and the cited publications, and the exact trajectory and actor of knowledge diffusion.
Life scientists' experience with posting preprints during the COVID-19 pandemic We concluded that the sustainability of preprint publishing practices is more strongly influenced by disciplinary norms and practices than by external shocks as the COVID-19 pandemic.
Scholar's Career Switch from Academia to Industry: Mining and Analysis from AMiner In this work, we have proposed a method that analyzes and reveals the laws and principles behind the phenomenon.
Exploring and evaluating the index for interdisciplinary breakthrough innovation detection In summary, the key findings of this study are as follows: Sensitivity analysis demonstrates the favorable sensitivity of the constructed DDiv index. Comparison analysis between the DDiv index and the DI index demonstrates the superior recognition accuracy of the constructed index in identifying interdisciplinary breakthrough innovation.
Invisible Publications: A Study of Academic Productivity in the Web of Science Database The study's results highlight the pressure to publish, academic productivism, the use of citations as a metric, the problems of the academic publication system, and also uncited or poorly cited articles (invisible or almost invisible). Considering the importance of the journals included in the studied database and that, of the 256524 articles analyzed, 51.24% were not cited or rarely cited, we conclude that the results reflect the paradigm of academic productivity. This paradigm creates a vicious cycle in which a study's references are chosen based on a high ranking in the struggle for privileged editorial space and, thus, are more likely to be cited.
Five decades of research on immediate implant therapy: A modern bibliometric network analysis via Altmetric and level of evidence mapping The focus of research on IIP has been evolving as indicated by an expo-nential growth rate in this study.
Key developments in global scholarly publishing: Negotiating a double-edged sword It was established that although key transformations in global publishing are significant and mostly commendable, the second edge of the sword should not and cannot be ignored if integrity of publishing is to be preserved.
Trends of impact factor contributors to the Injury Journal: A bibliometric analysis Utilizing the journal impact factor to assess research performance at the individual, institutional, or national levels appears not to be the most appropriate method.
Who cites the contributions by information science? Our results show that disciplines external to IS favor to cite contributions by their own colleagues published in IS journals. This suggests that within some main topics of IS research goals and methods are differentiated between disciplines and thus forming specialties, which focus on specific sub-topics and methods. This development corroborates the idea that IS as a discipline is fragmenting due to the differing interest of other disciplines in its research topics, which diverge from those of IS scholars.
Development of an index system for the scientific literacy of medical staff: a modified Delphi study in China This study developed an evaluation index system using the Delphi method to assess the scientific literacy of medical staff in China.
A global landscape analysis of the impact, trends, and dissemination in oral and maxillofacial surgery research The findings underscored potential global discrepancies in OMFS research, both geographically and in terms of topics covered.
Apportioning the Cost of a Full-Text Database Among the Journals in the Database: A Comparison of Six Methods By that criterion, the best ap-proach is to use the JIF percentile method described here— to apportion the total database price in accordance with the JIF percentile scores of the wanted journals included in the database. If citation data are unavailable, then price (equal value) is a good alternative to price (JIF percentile). The results for all six price variables are consistent with earlier reports that for a typical master’s university, the journals acquired through commercial publishers’ databases cost less than those acquired through the databases of scholarly societies, universities, other non-profits, and library vendors.
Faculty Publication Patterns over 25 Years at a Large Public University: Correlations with Literature Use The findings of this study demonstrate a relationship between availability of online journals and an increase in the use of literature in faculty publications, as illustrated by the increase of references in papers. This study also suggested that as the size of the journal collections increased, so did faculty productivity. The next steps are to explore more recent data with other ARL libraries with different budgets, collection size, and grant funding to further explore how the size of journal collections may impact the use of the literature in publications, and potential faculty productivity.
Beyond open access: Book publishing in a metric culture On that front, the issue of UKRI's open access mandate is a distraction from the neoliberalisation of academia and the entrenchment, rather than augmentation, of already existing inequalities.
Effect of Scientific Collaboration on Interdisciplinarity in Climate Change From a Scientometric Perspective Our results showed an increasing trend in interdiscipli-narity over time and the dominant role of scientific colla-borations in the field of climate change.
To move or to be promoted: Examining the effect of promotions and academic mobility on professors' productivity and impact This paper found that promotions add more value to a researcher's career as their post-promotion productivity increases while citation impact is the same.
Reality or Illusion: Comparing Google Scholar and Scopus Data for Predatory Journals The findings of the current research reveal that the number of authors who published in predatory journals is significantly higher in the South Asian region compared to that of other regions of the world. Statistically significant, strong, and positive correlations show between the two databases concerning the variables: number of articles, number of citations, and h-indices. The findings of the current study will be useful for the administrators and academics of higher education institutions who make decisions about the career progression of employees based on their research performance.
A Programmatic Approach to Journal Use and Citation Analysis Analyzing citations in doctoral dissertations provides important insight for the library subject specialist into research patterns in their discipline. This study offers methods for identifying those patterns through a programmatic approach that offers a way to explore and compare the nuances of the discipline. A multi-institutional approach can provide further insight into the use of journals by graduate students in sociology.
Applying LibrarianCreated Evaluation Tools to Determine Quality and Credibility of Open Access Library Science Journals This comparative analysis of results from applying the Open Access Journal Quality Indicators and the Journal Evaluation Rubric to library science journals shows that evaluation tools contain variations that impact both the end-result decision on a journal's quality or credibility as well as the experience of applying the tools.
Unlocking the hidden realms: analysing the Ukrainian journal landscape with Ulrichsweb Drawing upon the example of Ukrainian journals, this study has demonstrated the utility of Ulrichsweb as a tool for investigating national journals, albeit with acknowledged limitations. Concurrently, even within the confines of incomplete data, this study illuminates clear influences of external factors, encompassing socio-cultural and historical dimensions, on the state and dynamics of scholarly communication within countries that remain underrepresented in widely acknowledged international citation databases.
Sustainability and the Food Industry: A Bibliometric Analysis This study carried out comprehensive bibliometric research in the field of sustainability in the food industry. The multidisciplinary aspect of this topic was further highlighted by an understanding of the theme clusters and their co-occurrences, which could encourage researchers to investigate synergies with adjacent fields, including agriculture, agroecology, and environmental engineering. Studying the research topics found in the thematic map analysis, such as the effect of a sustainable diet on the food chain and the relationships among the agri-food system, sustainable agriculture, sustainable food systems, and sustainability of the food chain, is recommended for future research.
Carrying out research in Nepal: perceptions of scholars about research environment and challenges Our findings showed a significantly high proportion of scholars stationed in Nepal had an unfavourable view about Nepals research environment. It is crucial to address funding challenges and foster a supportive research culture to enhance the research environment in Nepal. A research-conducive environment is not simply related to legal, administrative, and financial resources, it also incorporates a research culture with high academic integrity embedded in the institutional system.
Is interdisciplinarity more likely to produce novel or disruptive research? In summary, it can be concluded that interdisciplinarity is more likely to produce novel or disruptive research.
The influence of geopolitics on research activity and international collaboration in science: the case of Russia Our results confirm our hypothesis that geopolitical conflicts only marginally affect long-term patterns and trends in international scientific collaboration. Russian science is to a high degree integrated in global science, and the relative intensity of collaboration in bilateral relations remains relatively stable. We also see an exception from the general confirmation of our hypothesis: Scientific collaboration may be negatively affected in fields of research demanding large international infrastructures and where exchange of new knowledge is sensitive from a security and defence perspective.
ORCID identifier adoption in Spanish scholarly communication: A macro and micro level perspective This study reveals a high percentage of Spanish articles with at least one ORCID-iD in WoS but limited ORCID coverage of authors, indicating that the implementation of this personal identifier is not yet firmly established.
Coronavirus disease-2019 and orthopedics: A bibliometric analysis of the literature This study provides a perspective on the development of orthopedic publications during the COVID-19 pandemic and evidence for researchers worldwide to strengthen global cooperation in fighting the epidemic.
Research Productivity and Publishing Trends in Publicly Funded Social Work and Psychology Schools in India: A Bibliometric Analysis Implications point to developing appropriate workshops and training to provide hands-on experience to improve quality research among academicians.
Scientific commentaries are dealing with uncertainty and complexity in science By comparing large-scale commented papers set over all papers set in PubMed, we conclude that scientific commentaries deal with the uncertainty and complexity of science. The inherent importance, uncertainty, and complexity of scientific claims in commented papers trigger constructive discussions. Commented papers and their accompanying comments may provide a corpus for argument mining on uncertain and complex topics to support more informed and unbiased decision-making.
Online attention versus knowledge utilization: Exploring how linguistic features of scientific papers influence knowledge diffusion This study aims to investigate the role played by designed linguistic features in knowledge diffusion, particularly in terms of knowledge utilization and online attention of scientific papers. Our research results further explain the role of language styles in knowledge diffusion and would have a certain practical implication on knowledge management.
The impact of open access on citations, Pageviews, and downloads: a scientometric analysis in Postgraduate Medical Journal The study highlights a significant and independent association of OA publishing with increased citation counts, page views, and PDF downloads in PMJ, suggesting that OA articles have broader reach and greater visibility. These findings suggest a considerable advantage of OA publishing in increasing the visibility and impact of research. However, further research with randomized controlled designs and across diverse journals is necessary to corroborate these findings and understand the nuances of OA publishing’s impact.
Identifying knowledge evolution in computer science from the perspective of academic genealogy Knowledge units provide a micro-level representation of scholars' knowledge, which constitutes a comprehensive disciplinary knowledge system through continuous inheritance and mutation within the academic genealogy.
Assessing quality of selection procedures: Lower bound of false positive rate as a function of inter-rater reliability We outlined an approach for evaluating ratings-based selection procedures in a binary classification framework.
How do authors' perceptions of their papers compare with co-authors' perceptions and peer-review decisions? This work highlights the perception gap in the peer-review process, between authors, co-authors, and reviewers.
Modeling citation concentration through a mixture of Leimkuhler curves This paper proposed a new method for parameterizing the citation distribution using a mixture of Leimkuhler curves, which provides a more flexible and accurate framework for modeling citation distributions. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method and highlight the importance of considering measures of concentration and inequality in bibliometric analysis and other fields. These findings hold significant implications for comprehending the dynamics of scientific knowledge productivity and dissemination, thereby making a valuable contribution to the field of bibliometrics.
The Network Structure of International Research Collaboration in Secondary Batteries These findings provide valuable insights into the dynamics of collaboration and can inform policy efforts to promote international collaboration in secondary batteries.
Impact of transition of medical journals from print to online-only on their scholarly performance A positive impact on citation patterns, such as JIF and Immediacy Index, of online-only publication supports the benefits of transitioning medical journals from print and online to online-only publication. Transition to online-only publication has the advantage of ease of accessibility and immediate dissemination of research with a potential to reach a wider audience.
A field- and time-normalized Bayesian approach to measuring the impact of a publication The proposed Bayesian Impact Score is increasing and concave with the number of cita- tions received and decreasing and convex with the age of the publication.
On the causes and ramifications of multi-authorship in science The survey responses highlighted several important causes of multi-authorship in medi-cal physics. First, having multiple authors helps increase scholarly output (number of publications) of individual researchers. Third, pressure from administrators can lead to inclusion of researchers as co-authors with little or no contribution to the study.
The true latency of biomedical research papers The present study aimed to address this gap by integrating multiple data sources in order to reconstruct the complete history of each manuscript, from its initial deposit to a pre-print repository to its completion of the peer-review process and final publication in a journal. This method provided a reliable estimate of the median publication time for papers across all biomedical areas of 199 days, based on the analysis of 78,412 manuscripts, showing an increasing trend over time. This discrepancy arises because submission-to-publication data are not meant to account for the manuscript's potential rejections before acceptance.
A method for identifying different types of university research teams Distinguishing different research teams constitutes the foundational stage in conducting team science research.
State of open science in cancer research There has been an increase in oncology publications in Open Access.
Benefits of open access to researchers from lower-income countries: A global analysis of reference patterns in 1980-2020 This study has shown that the evolution of OA has been accompanied by changing citation behaviour, with the main finding being that the reference practices of researchers from lower-income countries have become more similar to those of researchers from more wealthy countries due to a relatively stronger increase in lower-income countries with regard to the number of references. In sum, these findings support the notion that OA has played a positive role in lower-income countries' access to scientific literature. Our study points to OA as a successful tool in reducing the traditional cleft between regions based on economic wealth in terms of (1) number of references, (2) the age of references and (3) the share of references from WoS-indexed scientific papers.
An empirical analysis of individual and collective determinants of international research collaboration Considering the mentioned findings, it can be concluded that in a way, individual factors-e.g., human capital and motivation, and even leadership—seem to be insufficient for establishing international connections to collaborate, i.e., a potential collaborator may have outstanding abilities as a star researcher or demonstrate deep motivation to collaborate, but according to our results, more complex aspects are needed to develop efficient and productive IRC.
Do research collaborations age like wine? Absolute and relative measures of CANZUK research partnerships' strength since the 1950s In conclusion, the present study aimed to find out how the RCs of CANZUK countries have developed over time.
Is the scientific impact of the LIS themes gender-biased? A bibliometric analysis of the evolution, scientific impact, and relative contribution by gender from 2007 to 2022 These results highlight the significance of the themes addressed by each gender and their scientific impact, introducing a debate on societal and structural factors that may influence the selection of research fields and themes, as well as the broader implications of gender disparity in science, emphasizing the necessity for more inclusive practices. Nevertheless, this study contributes to understanding the complex relation between research themes, gender contribution within these themes, and their scientific impact achieved over time.
Understanding differences of the OA uptake within the German University landscape (2010-2020): Part 2-repository-provided OA The aim of this article is to answer the question as to what extent the disciplinary profile, local infrastructures and services and transformative agreements of the project DEAL determine the repository-provided OA share of German universities. The results show that the two repository OA types, subject repository OA (SR OA) and institutional repository OA (IR OA), follow different logics. Regarding the SR OA share of universities, the regression analyses convincingly show that the composition of the disciplinary profile with a stronger or lesser affinity towards OA is decisive and explains as much as 93.2% of the variance for the period 2010–2020. With respect to the IR OA share, the composition of the disciplinary profile is again the most determining factor, but the explained variance is lower than in the case of IR OA. For 2020, the decrease of the variance explained by the disciplinary profile of the university to 13.1% suggests that a change is taking place regarding the determining factors for universities´ IR OA share. Further research is well advised to consider such collection and aggregation activities that university libraries undertake when aiming to explain differences in the IR OA share of universities.
A statistical approach to law school citation rankings Except for the highest-ranked faculties, citation rankings provide little information on the relative quality of faculties.
Do thematic funding instruments lead researchers in new directions? Strategic funding priorities and topic switching among British grant recipients Our findings suggest that while thematic funding induces scientists to shift their topic focus in the short term, the longer-term effects are negligible.
The quality landscape of economics: The top five and beyond We argue that the quality landscape is structured as a quality hierarchy with a focus on the core 'general interest', and suggest the notion of ordinalization (the process of rank ordering) as an organizing principle linking the quality landscape to the field's socio-epistemic conditions.
Influence of political tensions on scientific productivity, citation impact, and knowledge combinations Our study contributes to the understanding of the complex interplay between political dynamics and scientific progress, highlighting the importance of an open academic environment in an era of geopolitical challenges. Leveraging large-scale bibliometric datasets spanning from 2010 to the end of 2020, we find robust evidence of the significant adverse effects of political tension between China and the United States on Chinese scientists collaborating with U.S. counterparts. Despite the termination of the “China Initiative” in February 2022, its long-term impacts may persist.
National research impact is driven by global collaboration, not rising performance The analyses in this paper support neither of these propositions. Citation impact changed at much the same time across countries irrespective of assessment (and other) policies.
Publication authorship: A new approach to the bibliometric study of scientific work and beyond Publication authorship proves a point in displaying a more detailed picture of research than bibliographic coupling.
Attitudes and practices of educational researchers towards the use of social media to disseminate science Overall, this study provides new insights into social media's impact on education academics and highlights the key variables that facilitate or limit the academic community's use of social media.
Paradigm Shifts in Vascular Surgery: Analysis of the Top 100 Innovative and Disruptive Academic Publications DS was weakly correlated with CC and captured a unique subset of literature that created paradigm shifts in vascular surgery. Disruptive studies were found to be poorly correlated with highly cited studies. Disruption score should be utilized as an adjunct to CC to avoid overlooking impactful research and influential researchers, and as a measure of true academic productivity.
Green gross domestic product: A bibliometric analysis More importantly, this study offers valuable insights into the growing body of literature on GGDP, while emphasising the need for greater geographical representation and col- laboration to advance the field. Future research should incorporate underrepresented countries to provide a more accurate understanding of GGDP.
GK index: bridging Gf and K indices for comprehensive author evaluation In conclusion, we introduce the GK index, a novel metric devised by amalgamating the top disjoint pair, consisting of the gf index and the K index.
Examining retraction counts to evaluate journal quality in psychology There is very minimal correlation observed between the number of retracted articles of a journal and its bibliometric indicators, which indicates that the adoption of a retrac-tion policy will not impact the journal ranking, whereas it gives a good impression on the journal's reputation and rigorous post-publication scrutiny policy, thus improves journal prestige among the scholar community.
Assessing Authorship Rates over Time in Original Radiologic Research Publications "An increase in authorship rate was observed in the radiologic and general medical literature between 1998 and 2022, and the number of authors per article was independently associated with later year of publication."
Publishing Economics: How Slow? Why Slow? Is Slow Productive? How to Fix Slow? The long lags hurt the profession and, as we have shown, are at least partly unrelated to the amount of attention that articles receive from other scholars.
Towards higher standardization of funding acknowledgements in scientific publications: Current status in the case of a national and a European research fellowship scheme Our study suggests that using normalized structured nota-tions for grants can be a valuable practice, because it helps improve both comprehensiveness and standardization of funding data, since it can ensure the full citation of grants in a normalized way. Further standardiza-tion of funding data in acknowledgements is needed to optimize their use in science policy studies.
Contrasting cross-correlation: Meta-analyses of the associations between citations and 13 altmetrics, incorporating moderating variables In conclusion, our meta-analyses identified positive relationships between several altmetrics indicators and citations.
How metric-based performance evaluation systems fuel the growth of questionable publications? Our study illuminates the substantial influence of current academic performance evaluation systems on shaping researchers' preferences for questionable journals.
Examining the influence of women scientists on scientific impact and novelty: insights from top business journals Our analysis reveals an inverted U-shaped correlation between the proportion of women scientists and scientific impact.
Unveiling the dynamics of team age structure and its impact on scientific innovation This study delves into the pivotal role of age composition within scientific teams in shaping team performance and scientific impact.
How biomedical papers accumulated their clinical citations: a large-scale retrospective analysis based on PubMed This study examined the time required for biomedical papers to receive their clinical citations from two perspectives, i.e., the clinical citation level (i.e., highly, medium, and lowly) and the translational science (i.e., ACH categories). Our study revealed the temporal characteristics of how different categories of biomedical papers accumulate their clinical citations based on a large-scale dataset. What's more, the current research results could be interesting for young scholars in biomedicine to get more attention from clinical science and to obtain success in their scientific careers, especially for those in basic science.
Citation Forecasting with Multi-Context Attention-Aided Dependency Modeling In this article, we present a neural network model for forecasting citations of scientific publications.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Text Mining: Exploring the Use of Natural Language Processing in Social Media Research The manuscript’s primary intent was to bring to the fore a comprehensive bibliometric analysis, including multiple points of view, on a topic of great relevance nowadays, namely, natural language processing in social media research. Therefore, NLP is an extremely significant contribution in online discourses, helping researchers to monitor these events and develop optimal strategies for combating these phenomena, as well as increasing people’s safety, improving their lifestyle and happiness. Regarding future studies, the authors encourage future researchers to delve even deeper into this topic, to include wider datasets, as well as exclude the use of filters as much as possible.
Teaching as part of open scholarship: developing a scientometric framework for Open Educational Resources The OER statistics framework aims to make teaching activities visible and to value them within the Recognition and Reward System and RRA.
Stranger things: the vanishing of the Altmetric Attention Score values in information and library science Our results highlight the existence of fluctuations in the AAS, something that has been evidenced in 6275 papers (23.7% of the total analyzed) during the observation year. This fluctuation phenomenon carries significant implications for the use of altmetrics in evaluative contexts. It is necessary to have not only an image of the prevalence or current situation of the attention but a complete view of the entire historical mentions activity, for example, as is done with disappeared sources like Google+, or by applying a blockchain system where attention is reflected transparently.
Analysis of the retraction papers in oncology field from Chinese scholars from 2013 to 2022 In the field of oncology, the annual distribution of retracted papers from Chinese scholars exhibited first an increasing and subsequently a decreasing trend, reaching a peak in 2019, indicating an improvement in the status of retraction after 2021. The main type of the retracted papers was research article, and the main reason for retraction was academic misconduct. However, continuous efforts are warranted, and Chinese scholars need to enhance their innovative awareness, prioritize innovation in their research work, and consistently elevate their research capabilities.
Biomedical retractions due to misconduct in Europe: characterization and trends in the last 20 years In conclusion, this study shows that the main reason for retraction in Europe is research misconduct, and that the causes of such research misconduct changed over the last 20 years. Currently, duplication and unreliable data are the main reasons for research misconduct in Europe. Having such information is essential for implementing mechanisms of control, surveillance and discipline that would ensure scientific research fulfilling the highest quality standards.
Information and communication technology in smart agriculture: A scientometric review Comprehensively, an intellectual view of the agriculture domain is presented as a scientific field in this article.
Cybercrime: Understanding the Current State of Literature and Issues Facing CISOs In sum, this research sought to explore the knowledge structure of cybercrime research through a biblio-graphic analysis.
Two sides of the same coin: a taxonomy of academic integrity and impropriety using intellectual virtues and vices As we have described them, academic integrity and academic impropriety are two sides of a coin.
Sneaked references: Fabricated reference metadata distort citation counts This article showed evidence of an undocumented vulnerability affecting the process of metadata registration for academic works.
Dissemination of scientific information through open access by research scientists in a developing country The scholarly profession has undergone a paradigm shift as a result of open access publication, where knowledge is now more widely accessible. It can be demonstrated that scientists have a clear understanding of open access as a means of unfettered dissemination of knowledge. However, there are some barriers to open access, and they are evident in high article processing charges (APCs), which emphasize the financial constraint, particularly in developing countries.
Gatekeeping should be conserved in the open science era Instead, good, integrous gatekeeping should be conserved as a part of scientific professionalism, and as an ally of the goals of open science.
25 years of Clinical Implant Dentistry and Related Research (CIDRR): A modern bibliometric and Altmetrics network analysis The examination of the journal's initial 25 years highlighted that CIDRR has surpassed similar dental research journals in publishing a greater number of high-level evidence articles. It also showcased diverse country- and author-collaboration networks. However, the journal's social media presence is still evolving.
Policy variation in the external evaluation of research for tenure at US universities In many ways, the underlying issues for peer review in tenure procedures are like those leading to debates about blinded vs. open review practices and the use of author-selected reviewers by journals and funding agencies.
Text mining and network analytics for literature reviews: Exploring the landscape of purchasing and supply management research This article provides an exploratory scientometric analysis of PSM research, in order to illustrate the use and usefulness of text similarity analysis for our field. Based on the network of 3477 PSM publications, the cluster maps provide interesting and fresh perspectives on the structure and nature of the research field, as illustrated in the previous section. In concluding, the most important recommendation would be that in conducting literature reviews, text similarity and network analysis is used to augment decision and analysis, not to automate: manual review remains an essential part of the process.
Graph-based algorithm for exploring collaboration mechanisms and hidden patterns among top scholars In the network, top scholars' scientific research collaboration exhibits obvious regional clustering characteristics.
The role of thematic specialization in international scientific collaboration: the case of Chagas research We understand that our paper contributes to the literature on international scientific collaboration in three ways: (1) conceptually, bringing upfront the role of countries’ thematic research specialization as an important driver for international collaboration; (2) empirically, using a bibliometric database to study the particular context of Chagas research where centre-periphery interactions are important; and (3) methodologically, designing a strategy to test the hypotheses empirically for the first time by exploiting the panel structure of our data, which allows us to control for all factors at the country-dyad level that are constant over time. Given the importance for scientific productivity of participating in international research networks (Persson, Glänzel, and Danell 2004; Wagner and Jonkers 2017), the policy implications of this research are rooted in the area of science policy and science diplomacy (Echeverría-King et al. 2023).
New fractional classifications of papers based on two generations of references and on the ASJC scopus scheme We have presented a set of methods for classifying papers based on their references in which each publication can be assigned up to 5 weighted categories of the ASJC scheme without the Multidisciplinary area or the miscellaneous categories. Most of the methods yielded categories that were slightly more homogeneous in citation habits than those of the ASJC, and that had a granularity comparable (slightly lower) with that of the ASJC and an order of magnitude greater than that reported by Milojević (2020) in what was also a reference-based classification but based on the WOS scheme. Among them, we would highlight the one that uses two generations of references and averaged computation (M3-AWC-0.8), which in our opinion, although it is not the best in all areas, shows the most balanced results on average.
Using Reference Publication Year Spectroscopy (RPYS) to analyze the research and publication culture in immunology What emerges from this study of the research literature in immunology is that there are two broad types of contributions that become highly referenced in immunology.
Beyond borders: Examining the role of national learned societies in the social sciences and humanities This study provides valuable insights into the status and dynam- ics of national learned societies in SSH.
Research practice, satisfaction, motivation, and challenges among university academics in Kurdistan Region of Iraq The academics at universities in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are passionate about their role as researchers, but face many challenges in conducting effective research.
Librarians and Academic Libraries' Role in Promoting Open Access: What Needs to Change? Librarians referred in this study to several stakeholders who can promote open access: at the state level, at the universities management level, and at researcher, and academic library level.
Rethinking the author name ambiguity problem and beyond: The case of the Chinese context Once fully implemented, ORCID can effectively address the issue of author name ambiguity, thereby enabling efficient researcher-centric retrieval of bibliometric data and thus facilitating the evaluation of research performance at the micro level of individual researchers.
To academia or industry: Mobility and impact on ACM fellows' scientific careers Together, these results imply the changing structure of ACM fellows' mobility networks over time and underscore the profound implications of mobility paths on their subsequent scientific careers.
Research alignment in the US national park system: Impact of transformative science policy on the supply and demand for scientific knowledge for protected area management Our results indicate an optimistic scenario where most of the research in parks is aligned, and the pool of under-researched topics corresponds to idiosyncratic, complex and generally demanding problems that one might intuitively expect to be misaligned based upon the considerable resources required to address them (e.g. knowledge regarding “Paleoclime and paleoecology”).
Influence of interdisciplinarity of scientific papers on the durability of citation diffusion: A perspective from citation discontinuance Firstly, combining the theories review with the citation diffusion context, this study introduces the concept of citation discontinuance (CD) in the analysis framework of citation diffusion, and finds that CD generally exists in the citation diffusion of scientific papers.
Decoding the writing styles of disciplines: A large-scale quantitative analysis This study provides profound insights into the understanding of scientific writing and norms, which further helps develop useful tools for academic text analysis, foster interdisciplinary communication, and assist educators to construct discipline-specific writing guidance.
Top 100 highly cited sustainability researchers The study offers an exhaustive examination of the contributions of the top 100 highly influential sustainability researchers, herein referred to as HCSRs, in the context of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
International mobility matters: Research collaboration and scientific productivity Our results also provide a deeper understanding of how international mobility shapes individuals' research output, pointing to the need for policy adjustments to provide female researchers with more support and encouragement to engage in international mobility.
A bibliometric and systemic literature review of biodiversity finance We advocate for recognising finance's pivotal role in tackling biodiversity challenges, emphasising capital access facilitation and risk mitigation.
Halt the ongoing decoupling and reboot US-China scientific collaboration US-China scientific collaboration generates better science and more influential research for the global scientific community.
Cross-disease spillover from research funding: Evidence from four diseases This study provides two main findings. First, cross-disease spillover publications are common. Secondly, there is variation across diseases in the frequency and direction of spillover publications.
The forced battle between peer-review and scientometric research assessment: Why the CoARA initiative is unsound The aim is to clear up common misunderstandings and offer insights to policymakers and decision-makers in charge of defining how research should be evaluated.
*READ**THIS*!! Spam as a threat for open science This paper adds another challenge to this list: misappropriation of OSI.
Interdisciplinary Dynamics in COVID-19 Research: Examining the Role of Computer Science and Collaboration Patterns In this paper, our study explores the application and challenges of interdisciplinary research in addressing health-related issues, particularly in the context of COVID-19 research. From a practical standpoint, the findings of our study hold significant implications for public health policy formulation, large-scale health crisis management, and fostering collaboration between disciplines. Our findings also contribute to raising public awareness and understanding of large-scale health crises, especially in areas such as vaccine hesitancy, psychological support, and health information dissemination through social media.
Multilingualism in Scientific Literature Communicated by Journals from the SciELO Brazil Collection The internationalization that has enhanced the visibility and impact of journals and communicated research, as measured by accesses and citations received, was practically induced by the indexing criteria of the SciELO Brazil collection.
Does Granger causality exist between article usage and publication counts? A topic-level time-series evidence from IEEE Xplore Our study finds that nearly 80% of the topics exhibit significant usage-publication interactions from a time-series perspective. The results of this study have important implications for predicting research trends. Our findings suggest that dynamic usage data can serve as a valuable supplement for predicting research trends.
Understanding the keyword adoption behavior patterns of researchers from a functional structure perspective This study conducted a comprehensive examination of keyword adoption behavior patterns from a functional structure perspective.
Different open access routes, varying societal impacts: evidence from the Royal Society biological journals Upon compiling all the findings, we firstly arrive at the conclusion that OA policies will contribute to amplifying the societal impacts of scientific articles by attracting public attention in social networks.
Tracking changes in CNCI: the complementarity of standard, collaboration and fractional CNCI in understanding and evaluating research performance The standard CNCI indicator provides only a snapshot of an institution's performance hiding underlying factors.
One index, two publishers and the global research economy The immediate future for academic publishing will be shaped by a growing divide between commercial and 'community-owned' open science infrastructures.
Is there a secular decline in disruptive patents? Correcting for measurement bias Our results suggest caution in using the (Park et al., 2023) patent findings and conclusions as a basis for research and decision-making in public policy, industry restructuring or firm reorganization aimed at altering the current innovation landscape. Our analysis is important for the research community that may work with biased data or overlook measurement issues-either via the CD index or other related measures. Our analysis suggests, perhaps more importantly, caution against overt policy interventions, regulatory changes, or substantive industry and firm reorganizations that seek to improve or disrupt the innovation status-quo based upon the Park et al. (2023) results.
The fading of status bias during the open peer review process This study indicates that papers with both prestigious and less well-known authors are treated equally during the open peer review process, which contributes to the ongoing discourse on the fairness of peer review within the scientific community. The results show no obvious evidence of status bias occurred during the first round of peer review process. Our analysis provides insights into the best practices implemented to minimize the impact of prestigious authors' identities on the peer review process.
Medical magnetic resonance imaging publications in Arab countries: A 25-year bibliometric analysis This bibliometric analysis uncovered a strong growth in research characteristics, collaboration patterns, and trends of the MRI research in Arab countries between 1988 and 2022. Despite these developments, the results of this study suggest that there is still room for MRI research in the Arab region to advance. This can be achieved through increasing international collaboration and multidisciplinary work.
Improving the efficiency of research proposals evaluation: A two-stage procedure Our findings suggest that a two-stage procedure can substantially improve the efficiency of grant writing and review, without harming the reliability of the evaluation.
The path of economics research production: Insights into the seesaw between theory and empirics This paper constructs a theoretical model to understand the incentives of researchers to focus on the production of theoretical versus empirical papers. The model, showing the tradeoff between empirical and theoretical papers, has two equilibria, one with a higher proportion of theoretical papers and another with a higher proportion of empirical papers. Curiously, the equilibrium with a higher proportion of theoretical papers is stable, while the one with more empirical papers is a saddle point. These novel findings have implications for the allocation of research resources as well as for the dissemination of knowledge over time.
What is the impact of legal strategy? We conclude that LAS has a promising future with the potential for a wide range of applications that address significant challenges facing law and business. Building on these findings, we recommend pathways for future LAS research, including more cross-disciplinary scholarship, a closer engagement with the related stream of proactive law, a deeper inquiry into ethics, more systematic theory building and empirical work, and a global perspective that tests the boundaries of LAS beyond fully developed markets.
The road to sustainability: Examining key drivers in open access diamond journal publishing This study has analysed the factors of sustainability of OA diamond journals.
Comparing semantic representation methods for keyword analysis in bibliometric research In summary, although there are variations in the performance of different methods, none stands out as entirely superior.
Research impact assessment: Developing and applying a viable model for the social sciences The viable research impact assessment model was demonstrated to be useful and cost-effective; thus, with adaptations and improvements, it may be used by other institutions, particularly those with internal research funding programs.
Determinants of Operations Management Faculty Salary: Is Publishing in "A" Journals the "Bottom Line"? Our analysis indicates the answer is not a simple yes or no. The results show show that the determinants of faculty salary are publishing in “A” journals, serving in certain administrative roles, moving schools with a rank of Associate or Full, being recognized as a fellow in POMS and, to a lesser extent, a fellow in INFORMS. Our models estimate that each "A" publication translates to $1358 in base salary and over $2000 in total annual salary.
The dual dimension of scientific research experience acquisition and its development: a 40-year analysis of Chinese Humanities and Social Sciences Journals Self-accumulation is progressively diminishing.
Unbiased evaluation of ranking algorithms applied to the Chinese green patents citation network The findings demonstrate that the normalized method effectively solve the problem of age distribution bias caused by external information, so as to obtain an unbiased evaluation of the data. Furthermore, this study utilized the SIR model to test the robustness. The results indicate that the approach of integrated the rescaled method and the AttriRank algorithm can effectively identify important patents.
Natural capital accounting for sustainability: Bibliometric analysis and explainable artificial intelligence modeling for citation counts Our analysis identifies the overall trends and factors that influence citations to papers on natural capital accounting and provides a snapshot of current research and emerging developments in this field, capturing the dynamics of academic discourse and practical applications in environmental accounting.
Benchmarking Scholarship in Consumer Research: The p-Index of Thought Leadership Our analyses contribute to this transparency by reporting detailed statistics on how an important sample of consumer researchers, the primary gatekeepers of the field, are distributed along a variety of scholarship metrics.
Do grant proposal texts matter for funding decisions? A field experiment We conclude that panelist assessment of an application changes little when the proposal text is omitted from it.
Recent Applications and Developments of the Cobb-Douglas Function: From Productivity to Sustainability Our paper concludes that the Cobb-Douglas contribution has strong potential to address these related challenges in economic research, modeling, and application policy.
Social network analysis of a decade-long collaborative innovation network between hospitals and the biomedical industry in China In conclusion, a collaborative innovation network between hospitals and biomedical enterprises in China demonstrated high dispersion and poor development levels.
Trends and Patterns in the Key Attributes of the 24 Top Business Journals: 2001-2021 Together, these findings pave the way for future studies to develop a better understanding of the production function of science and help identify the determinants of research productivity in top journals.
Remote sensing for UN SDGs: A global analysis of research and collaborations Our findings show that the use of bibliometric analysis and science mapping tools are useful for revealing the systematic patterns, which may not be possible with manual efforts given the exponential rise in the number of studies.
An artificial intelligence tool misclassifies sport science journals as predatory Building on earlier evidence, and based on a very highly thematically specific group of journals, namely of sport sciences, the most striking con-clusion is that there is the possibility that 47 (i.e., 37.9%) of the 124 most highly ranked journals – at least according to SJR – are being misclassified as SPJs, when they are likely NJs, i.e., the AJPC System is not, based on this evidence, and in our opinion, a reliable tool to assist sport scientists in dif-ferentiating scholarly from unscholarly journals. The AJPC System is thus misleading sport scientists.
Impact of Open Access status on journal metrics in infectious diseases and clinical microbiology - A cross-sectional study While FOA ID/CM journals have lower APCs, they also lower academic impact compared to hybrid journals.
Comprehensive analysis of publication of physical medicine and rehabilitation theses in Türkiye between years 2010 and 2020: Academic productivity and related factors Although approximately one-third of the theses defended were published, this rate is insufficient for sharing the knowledge. Considering that publishing their theses affected the residents' current academic careers positively, supervisors should provide the residents supportive facilitation to give the knowledge in research and publish their theses.
The practicalities of a partial lottery to allocate research funding "After our experiment with a partial lottery and everything considered, we are very positive about implementing a partial lottery for grant allocation."
Money Talks: The Shifting Effect of Limiting Monetary Incentives for Urology Resident Research Unlimited monetary incentive resulted in a significant increase in average resident primary and overall au- thorships for publication listings in PubMed. The limited monetary incentive model resulted in a significant decrease on resident publication and participation in research compared to unlimited incentives. However, limited monetary in- centives have a positive, though restricted, effect on Urology resident publication and partici- pation in research compared to no incentive.
Productive scientists are associated with lower disruption in scientific publishing Our findings highlight the potential risks of pursuing productivity and aim to encourage more thoughtful career planning among scientists.
The 100 Most Impactful Articles on Total Shoulder An Altmetric Top articles on TSA, as defined by high AAS, mostly comprise original clinical research performed in the United States or Europe. The presence of a conflict of interest and open access status is associated with an increase in AAS, but there was no association between AAS score and citation rate.
Can document characteristics affect motivations for literature usage? Overall, different literature usage behaviors can be triggered and driven by the distinct values of research articles.
The prominent and heterogeneous gender disparities in scientific novelty: Evidence from biomedical doctoral theses This study reveals a declining trend in the scientific novelty of doctoral theses, which applies to different genders and affiliations with varying research intensities.
A scientometrics-based journal Management framework: A strategic move The proposed framework by this article was tested with the ESMQ and found to be a feasible tool for managing scientific journals and expanding the boundaries of knowledge.
Assessing the influence of bibliometric factors and organizational characteristics on the centrality degree of inter-university collaborative networks: a neural network approach The study found that the research output and impact are the most important factors in predicting the centrality degree of a university in a collaborative network. This suggests that policies to increase the research output and impact of a university are likely to result in a more central position in the network. The findings of this study contribute to the understanding of the collaborative behaviour of universities in innovation systems.
Training in open access for doctoral students: results of a survey of current and recent students and supervisors This study has shown that mandatory training in open access is or was a requirement for only 14% of the 1,569 respondents to our survey, with only 27% of respondents believing that the current provision of open access training for doctoral students is sufficient.
A Comparison of Plastic Surgery Authorship Trends Under Single Versus Double-Blinded Review While associated with greater female first authorship suggesting potential efforts toward gender equity in academia, SBR of plastic surgery articles tends to favor authors from institutions with higher National Institutes of Health funding and disadvantage authors from international or lower-resourced programs. Careful consideration of current peer-review proceedings may make publication opportunities more equitable. Implementing DBR in plastic surgery journals may make opportunities for publication more accessible and equitable for those from smaller, less reputable, and lower-funded institutions, as it allows reviewers to focus on the merit and content of submissions irrespective of author or institutional prestige.
Listening to the Past, Predicting the Future: A Bibliometric Exploration of Hearing Loss Publications Over Four Decades The bibliometric analysis results clearly indicate significant progress in the field of hearing loss over the past 40 years.
Trends and Future Directions in Research on the Protection of Traditional Village Cultural Heritage in Urban Renewal This study employed bibliometric methods to comprehensively analyze the literature concerning the preservation of traditional village cultural heritage in urban renewal.
Defining "Ethical Mathematical Practice" Through Engagement with Discipline-Adjacent Practice Standards and the Mathematical Community "These results suggest that the community perceives a much wider range of behaviors by mathematicians to be subject to ethical practice standards than had been previously included in professional organization codes."
From Effects of Governance to Causes of Epistemic Change Among the many fruitful analyses of changes in the governance of science that have been conducted in the last decades, one strand appears to have failed to achieve the goals it set itself. Applying the new strategy of causal analysis would also require a significant change of research practices.
On weighted two-mode network projections In the paper, we derived the results in terms of the binary authorship network WA and the weighted network WC. The results hold in general for similar weighted two-mode networks such as (journals, universities, number of published articles of authors from the university u in the journal j in the selected time interval), (territorial units, universities, number of students from the territorial unit t studying this year at the university u), (web resources (movies or music tracks), types of resource, number of times the resource r of type t was downloaded in the selected time interval), (retail chain customers (chain card owners), (types of) products, the value of the product p bought by the customer c in the selected time interval), etc. An application of the proposed projections in an analysis of a large real-life data set will be published in a separate paper.
Research funding in the Middle East and North Africa: analyses of acknowledgments in scientific publications indexed in the Web of Science (2008-2021) The findings of this study contribute to a better understanding of the funding structure in MENA countries and provide insights to funders and research managers to evaluate the funding landscape. Finally, the results of this study open doors to new research opportunities. This study also reveals that funding acknowledgments data is a valuable starting point to understand funding structures and funding mechanisms.
Scientific text citation analysis using CNN features and ensemble learning model Citation sentiment analysis has emerged as an attractive solution to complement the limitation of quantitative measures like citation count, h-index, etc. This research endeavors to resolve the issue of dataset imbalance by using SMOTE and improved accuracy results using CNN for feature extraction and a voting classifier for classifying sentiments of citation text. The future work of this research work is the ensemble of machine-deep learning models with a feature fusion of hand-crafted and word embedding techniques.
A memory-theoretic account of citation propagation The primary finding derived from our simulations is that highly cited articles can arise from a noisy memory retrieval system characterized by information loss.
Exploring the impact of cardiologists expertise on publication metrics This study underscores the influence of expertise in interventional cardiology on publication peaks but suggests that citation peaks and career progression velocity remain unaffected by expertise type. Furthermore, it highlights that holding multiple areas of expertise slowers the attainment of career peak for scholarly authors.
Experiences with pre-graduate research among Danish medical students and doctors Pre-graduate research provides a conducive environment for medical students to engage in scientific research.
Tackling illegitimate intertextuality through socialization - An action research project These results have implications for the training of graduate students in writing in their disciplines, suggesting it may be better to start with the "why" of citation, before moving on to the "what" and the "how."
When colleges graduate: Micro-level effects on publications and scientific organization Our results indicate that additional resources to institutions that historically received insufficient investment unlocked the research potential of aspiring researchers. The results of this paper indicate that increasing basic funding for individuals who previously had a low publication rate could lead to substantial increases in the rate of publication. This paper suggests that channeling resources to small institutions might benefit research, because the funding would have a proportionately large impact.
Open peer review correlates with altmetrics but not with citations: Evidence from Nature Communications and PLoS One The results of this study indicate that the performance of OPR articles regarding citations and altmetrics was diametrically opposite, confirming the differential performance induced by OPR on different readerships and fostering a deeper understanding of this phe- nomenon.
Revisiting delayed recognition in science: A large-scale and comprehensive study Foremost, our detailed analysis of delayed recognition and the evolution of sleeping beauties offers a fresh perspective on the temporal dynamics of scientific impact. It underscores the limitations of focusing solely on short-term impact metrics while emphasising the significance of long-term influence.
The impact of affiliation naming proximity on the retrieval efficiency of Chinese universities-affiliated retractions in the Retraction Watch Database This study has identified 206 potentially affected Chinese university names, with 96 of them being affected to varying extents as of 31 December 2022.
Supercomputers and quantum computing on the axis of cyber security The results contribute to the literature by highlighting the underlying constructs of research in supercomputers and quantum computing in the area of cybersecurity.
How can societally-targeted research funding shape researcher networks and practices? This paper has examined how societally targeted funding shapes research towards the achievement of societal objectives.
How nobel-prize breakthroughs in economics emerge and the field's influential empirical methods All major discoveries in economics that have won a Nobel prize have been driven by developing new research methods that are used to make the discoveries, and most discoveries since 1975 were made within 5 years of developing the needed method. The best way we have to make new economic breakthroughs and open new research fields is by developing entirely new research methods and adopting new empirical and experimental methods from other human sciences. Especially by fostering such new and improved methods we can help drive the next major economic breakthroughs.
75 years' journey of malaria publications in English: what and where? This research concludes a disproportional contribution of malaria research and publications between endemic and non-endemic countries with many times higher number of publications from non-malaria endemic countries.
Defining quantitative rules for identifying influential researchers: Insights from mathematics domain The findings reveal that within the first category, total citation counts hold significant relevance.
A decadal study on identifying latent topics and research trends in open access LIS journals using topic modeling approach The study observed that the majority of prominent research topics in LIS are also preva-lent in OA LIS research published from 2013 to 2022 in selected OA LIS journal outlets.
Towards a new approach to analyzing the geographical scope of national research. An exploratory analysis at the country level This study looks at knowledge production by focusing on local and global topics of interest within a group of countries in the Latin American and Caribbean region (LAC), considered to be on the scientific periphery, as compared to countries at the forefront of WORLD mainstream science (including non-English speaking countries).
Elevating international collaboration and academic outcomes through strategic research funding: a bibliometric analysis of China Scholarship Council funded publications Overall, this study highlights the pivotal role of the CSC in internationalizing China's research system, positioning the CSC as a model for policymakers who aim to leverage government funding to promote academic achievement through global collaborative research activities. The quantitative evidence demonstrates the positive impact of funding policies that strengthen international exchanges of scientific researchers on improving the impact of academic research and amplifying knowledge sharing worldwide. Therefore, the CSC serves as an exemplary model for policymakers from other countries to draw upon.
What's the Point of Authors? I have suggested that we take the second option, and have offered a revisionary proposal – the CWSG proposal – which replaces authorship with the roles of contributor, writer, spokesperson, and guarantor, dividing up these functions between the different roles.
Streetlight effect in PubPeer comments: are Open Access publications more scrutinized? These results suggest that the process of scientific self-correction operates independently of publication access status.
The disciplinarity of finance journals First, and as far as the author is aware, no work related to the diversity of disciplinarity among finance journals has been reported.
Characteristics of the top 100 cited electroencephalography articles on aging: a bibliometric analysis In conclusion, this study provides a comprehensive overview of the trends in scientific literature on EEG in aging over the past decade. Authors and institutions from North America, Europe, and East Asia led in contributions. Degenerative neurological diseases and cognitive impairment were prominent topics, suggesting future studies should explore EEG's diagnostic utility for these disorders.
Trajectories of biomedical research leading to Nobel Prize-winning discoveries This research identified the productivity and collaboration characteris-tics of 21st-century pre-Nobel laureates contributing to the literature by comparing the productivity of current Nobel laureates to that of current NIH-funded investigators of equivalent age and gender.
The misuse of the nonlinear field normalization method: Nonlinear field normalization citation counts at the paper level should not be added or averaged The above three research works provide a further theoretical basis for the proper use of field normalization methods in research evaluation in the future, avoiding the continued misuse of nonlinear field normalization methods in academic and evaluation practice circles.
Do more heads imply better performance? An empirical study of team thought leaders' impact on scientific team performance This study advances scholarly understanding of thought leadership in scientific teams and provides valuable insights for policymakers and team managers. This study provides new empirical evidence to understand the number of thought leaders within scientific teams and its impact on two aspects of team performance: team impact and disruptiveness. If the team aims to achieve breakthrough innovation, a small number of thought leaders is preferable.
Research on scientific knowledge evolution patterns based on ego-centered fine-granularity citation network This study investigates the evolution patterns of scientific knowledge from a novel perspective. ERGMs are employed to investigate the factors influencing the edge formation of the egocentric citation network of scientific knowledge. The findings of this study not only help to improve the performance of citation prediction but also enhance the performance of citation recommendation systems at the fine-grained knowledge unit level.
British education research and its quality: An analysis of Research Excellence Framework submissions Our predicted output GPAs were strongly correlated with the output GPAs assigned by the 2014 subpanel, suggesting (i) that the two panels made their judgements based on largely similar criteria and (ii) that topic modelling is able to successfully predict the research quality judgements of collections of manuscripts made in a separate exercise.
Evaluation and Comparison of Academic Impact and Disruptive Innovation Level of Medical Journals: Bibliometric Analysis and Disruptive Evaluation The results of the study show that research evaluation based on innovative indicators is detached from the traditional impact evaluation system.
Transdisciplinary fine-grained citation content analysis: A multi-task learning perspective for citation aspect and sentiment classification In this paper, we proposed an MTL method based on a deep learning framework to improve the performance of automated transdisciplinary citation (CA and CS) analysis tasks.
Development and validation of a questionnaire about reasons for academic cheating by nursing students: A cross-sectional study Therefore, the RCS is a valid and reliable tool for assessing cheating behavior among nursing students.
Funder strategies for promoting research addressing societal challenges: thematic, impact, and collaboration targeting Our findings shed light on the practical levers that public funders use to influence research.
Can GPT embeddings enhance visual exploration of literature datasets? A case study on isostatic pressing research This paper investigates the potential of GPT's text embeddings to facilitate the semantic visual exploration of literature datasets.
Can You Pay Your Way to Readership? Free to Publish Open Access Formats Receive Greater Readership and Citations Than Paid Open Access Formats in Total Knee Arthroplasty Literature In open access TKA literature, free-to-publish open repositories had the greatest mean citations and readership.
Mapping soft skills and further research directions for higher education: a bibliometric approach with structural topic modelling In conclusion, our research contributes to both theory and practice. Our findings indicate that learning and teaching in higher education play a pivotal role in the development of soft skills and their close relationship with various disciplines. We suggest that future research should focus on the effective use of technology for the teaching of soft skills in higher education.
The impact of patentees assessment based on the heterogeneous patent innovation network Hence, the implementation of the above assessment algorithms is advantageous in identifying the crucial technologies and primary patentees who have made outstanding contributions to sustainable development in China.
Societal interaction plans-A tool for enhancing societal engagement of strategic research in Finland In this paper we have investigated how societal interaction plans (SIP) can help orient research activities to respond bet- ter to the grand challenges of society. Our results sug- gest that their main benefits lie in better legitimacy, strategic planning and more effective mobilization of academic and non- academic resources, without compromising research integrity. The Finnish SRC and its experiment with SIPs provided guidelines and conditions, while leaving room for creative solutions to define the topic and interaction approach.
The usefulness of personal publication lists in research evaluation This study overall shows the influence of the used data source on the results of a research evaluation.
Accelerated acceptance time for preprint submissions: a comparative analysis based on PubMed This study investigates whether preprint submissions confer an advantage in terms of acceptance time compared to non-preprint submissions. The results indicate that pre-submission preprints had significantly shorter acceptance time compared to non-preprint papers submitted to the same journal within the same month and year. These findings strongly support the idea that the visibility of preprints before submission to a journal significantly reduces the acceptance time.
An open-source tool for merging data from multiple citation databases The tool developed has practical implications for bibliometric studies.
Neuro-ophthalmology output in high-impact clinical ophthalmology and neurology journals Our study found that there was a lower prevalence of neuro-ophthalmology papers published as original articles and reviews in high-impact-factor general clinical ophthalmology and neurology journals over the last 10 years. It is important to have good representation of neuro-ophthalmology studies in general ophthalmology and neurology journals to advance the field and promote best practices among all care providers who encounter neuro-ophthalmic disorders.
Are the bibliometric growth patterns of excellent scholars similar? From the analysis of ACM Fellows In summary, excellent scholars in the field of computer science generally exhibit common patterns in the trajectory of their bibliometric indexes.
An Analysis of Solicitations From Predatory Journals in Ophthalmology "Unsolicited requests to publish occur frequently and may diminish the quality of the scientific literature. We encourage individuals in ophthalmology to be aware of these trends in predatory publishing. Consideration of development of a database of legitimate and predatory publishers in ophthalmology by a coalition of reputable publishers and journals as well as leading societies would help to preserve the scientific integrity of our field."
The promotion and implementation of open science measures among high-performing journals from Brazil, Mexico, Portugal, and Spain Limitations withstanding, this study has implications for the expansion of OS measures among Ibero-American journals.
Heteroptera research in Latin America and the Caribbean (Insecta, Hemiptera): status and perspectives in the 21st century Our analyses show that the research productivity on true bugs from LAC, measured as published research, has constantly been increasing, supported by collaborative networks of institutions and researchers interacting within and among countries from LAC and other geographic regions. We emphasize the need to keep working on Heteroptera taxonomy because it will allow further advances in other areas such as phylogenetic analyses, biogeography, ecology, and natural history, among others. We highlight the opportunities we have identified by the categories analyzed.
The role of organisational- and country-level factors in the volume and public visibility of business and management research "Our work shows the multi-level nature of factors leading to spatial inequality in the distribu- tion of research outputs, and the important role of both organisational- and country-level pre- dictors in determining research performance." "Importantly, this finding points to the value of understanding the role that country-level context plays in fostering research performance overall, which is often ignored in individual- level analyses." "In general, while this connection certainly deserves further research, the preliminary evidence presented here raises an important normative and political question: if researchers produce more articles in lower quality-of-life environments, is the trade-off ultimately worth it?"
Arbitrariness of bibliometric parameters: a case study on leading scientists in the German Society for Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology (DGPT) Our study highlights that there is no 'perfect' bibliometric parameter for ranking of scientists.
Unpacking inconsistencies in the NIRF rankings While the NIRF rankings have certainly proven to be a valuable tool for assessing and comparing educational in-stitutions in India, a cautious and discerning approach is essential.
The Chinese Early Warning Journal List: Strengths, weaknesses and solutions in the light of China's global scientific rise We welcome the introduction of any list which has the objective of providing information to scholars, enabling them to avoid predatory journals. If the scientific community can agree that any list of predatory journals/publishers should be VACUP-compliant, that would make any list, we would argue, more robust than those currently available. This issue is important to academic librarians because they can use EWJL in the process of collecting library funds and providing library information, and advice, to researchers.
Impact of Open Access Policy on Brazilian Science and Global Trends To maximize impact, Brazilian authors should prioritize Q1 journals regardless of OA status.
MAATrica: a measure for assessing consistency and methods in medicinal and nutraceutical chemistry papers The development of MAATrica represents a significant step forward in the evaluation of research papers within the fields of medicinal and nutraceutical chemistry. The metric serves a dual purpose: first, it provides a novel systematic approach for assessing different methodologies employed in scientific studies [57-60]; second, it may help streamlining the review process and supports reliability by helping to uncover methodological diversity and potential lack of consistencies in research documentation. In conclusion, the MAATrica tool further extends and refines the evaluation of scientific documentation an era of information overload and increasing hetero-geneity of scientific reports and their quality.
Health sciences faculty publication patterns and related information-seeking behavior The study highlights the changing publication patterns and productivity of health sciences faculty, as well as the role academic libraries play in supporting their research and publishing activities. Online access to information has been effective in facilitating use of information, as indicated by the greater incorporation of references in publications. Although multiple variables influence faculty access to and use of information, faculty attitudes towards the library and use of the library are related to faculty research and productivity.
Attitudes on data reuse among internal medicine residents The survey reflects that residents believe secondary data analysis is worthwhile and this highlights opportunities for data librarians. As current residents matriculate into professional roles as clinicians, educators, and researchers, libraries have an opportunity to bolster support for data curation and education. Finally, it stands to reason as residents move into roles as clinicians, educators and researchers, the interests and views they hold today may shape clinical research in the future.
The level of evidence in prosthodontics in relation to author's characteristics: An analysis of three leading prosthodontics journals The number of authors, CA degree, and CA origin had a significant association with the LOE of included prosthodontic studies.
Study on the use and perception of Sci-Hub among Korean researchers The findings of this study elucidate the pervasive challenges researchers encounter in accessing academic information, thus revealing the limitations of traditional library services. The presence of Sci-Hub provides evidence that the scholarly communication environment, which should facilitate the progress of academia, has instead become an obstacle to the free dissemination of scholarly information. Therefore, in academic communication, innovative approaches that meet the demands of researchers, who function as both producers and consumers, must be swiftly established.
Research trends in library and information science research in Tanzania, 1990-2023 The study brings attention to the dynamic nature of the LIS research trends in Tanzania, shedding light on the changing nature of research focus.
VIBRANT-WALK: An algorithm to detect plagiarism of figures in academic papers The proposed algorithm has been able to recognize image plagiarism in almost all the cases and has recorded an astounding accuracy of 0.948.
Studying the linkage patterns and incremental evolution of domain knowledge structure: a perspective of structure deconstruction This study proposed an integrative framework to study the linkage patterns and evolutionary domain knowledge structure.
A deep learning-based method for predicting the emerging degree of research topics using emerging index Theoretically, this study provides valuable idea and method on measurement and predic-tion of emerging research topics by combining a deep learning-based model with heteroge-neous networks.
Scientific production in Latin American physics: a bibliometric analysis The main conclusion emerging from this bibliometric analysis is that Brazil is the most influential country in the Latin American scientific production. Not only it has a high GDP investment on research and development (relative to its Latin American neighbors), but also, it counts on the University of São Paulo as the most productive research institution in the region as well as the one with the highest number of citations. Finally, a comparative study between the scientific production in the fields of Physics and Engineering might be considered in the near future, with the aim to contribute and demonstrate the current situation and impact of both fields.
Uncovering milestone papers: A network diffusion and game theory approach Our work makes three contributions to the literature on ranking algorithms and the identification of significant papers in large-scale citation data.
Predicting Scientific Breakthroughs Based on Structural Dynamic of Citation Cascades The main contribution of this paper is proposing a novel method for creating citation cascades in chronological order and confirming the significance of predicting breakthroughs from a dynamic structural perspective.
Research performance of higher education in OECD countries: A hybrid multi-criteria decision-making approach This study aimed to analyse the research performance of 38 OECD countries over the last 10 years using MCDM methods. The findings revealed that the number of publications in the top 1% and the IRW impact indicator is important and distinguishing criteria in the research performance of countries. In addition, this study shows how to use MCDM, a part of operations research, to measure research performance using various objective methods.
Simple Journal Adviser for Scientific Articles Efficient management and retrieval of scientific information are crucial in the era of big data and machine learning.
Collaboration-based scientific productivity: evidence from Nobel laureates This study delves into the question of whether and how Nobel Prize-winning researchers in the sciences can enhance their productivity through collaborative efforts within their specific research domains. The findings highlight the collaborative relationships among Nobel laureates (Jin et al., 2021) and suggest that collaborative relationships act as a mediator in the link between the breadth of their research areas and their overall scientific productivity. Our research highlights the utility of diverse research areas.
Implications of Publication Requirements for the Research Output of Arab Academics of Library and Information Science in Scopus in 2011-2022 (Bibliometric Study) the study findings highlight, that research evaluation policies are required to contain not only quantitative but also qualitative criteria.
The mediating impact of citation scope: Evidence from China's ESI publications The finding worthy of note is that the citation scope of geography plays a mediating role in boosting academic impact measured by two periods of cumulative citations as they "assimilate in the scientific community" (Richards, 2005). Secondly, the consistently negative, even statistically insignificant correlation between interdisciplinarity and the likelihood of becoming highly influential hints at the penalty, rather than the premium, of interdisciplinary research on impact measured by the ESI indicator and accumulated citations. Whether the conclusions also hold for other fields and developed economies is worthy of further exploration.
The dynamics of issue attention in policy process scholarship Our data suggest PSJ has, for the most part, done a strong job of representing a wide scope of potential topics, as well as an increase in theory development addressing no single topic.
Foundations of Narrative Bibliometrics This paper synthesises key developments in scholarly evaluation, drawing on influential manifestos such as DORA and CoARA, alongside contemporary scientific policies.
Mexican Scientific Production on Artificial Intelligence: A Bibliometric Analysis Findings reveal a broad local scientific structure with significant international collaborations.
A commentary on 'Worldwide research trends on tumor burden and immunotherapy: a bibliometric analysis' This is quite different from Zhang et al.'s research.
Scientometric analysis of research hotspots in electrochemical energy storage technology In conclusion, this paper underscores the dynamic nature of the electrochemical energy storage field and its pivotal role in the global transition to sustainable energy. By continuing to explore and invest in this area, the scientific community can provide critical support for the ongoing energy revolution, paving the way for a more sustainable and efficient future. Future research should broaden the temporal and geographic scope, incorporate diverse bib-liometric methods like citation and co-authorship analysis, and delve deeper into underrepresented technologies and interdisciplinary inte-gration.
Sleeping beauties in finance After discussing the SB phenomenon, it must be mentioned that it is a very rare event in the scientific community.
MRET: Modified Recursive Elimination Technique for ranking author assessment parameters This study involved a thorough analysis of author assessment parameters, encompassing sixty-three different parameters categorized into four distinct categories.
Evaluation of Rretracted Aarticles in the field of emergency medicine on the web of science database This study provided an examination of retracted articles in the field of emergency medicine, high-lighting a noteworthy increase in retractions due to various reasons.
Impact of academic title structure of university research teams on research output: evidence from 30 Chinese universities There are three important implications in current study: (1) It provides a basis for improving the research evaluation system and reforming the conferring of academic titles. (2) It provides a clear path for university researchers to enhance their research output. (3) It contributes modestly to the enrichment of related theories.
The enhanced research impact of self-archiving platforms: Evidence from bioRxiv In summary, the increased visibility on the Internet in terms of longer exposure and broader reach are the main mechanisms through which self-archiving platforms enhance research impact. The findings of this paper provide incentives for skeptical scholars to publish their work early as preprints on self-archiving platforms. Overall, this study expands our understanding of how research is disseminated in the era of Internet platforms.
Surveying the landscape of environmental social science: a bibliometric and network analysis Through a field-to-field network, where nodes are fields and ties are weighted by the number of co-occurrences in journals, we unveiled four distinct communities: environmental studies, environmental sciences, environmental health, and engineering. Over time, research in all four communities has grown, consistent with increased environmental concern and consciousness in public and policy spaces. Future research should continue to explore dynamic aspects of ESS, specifically focusing on how subfields have changed over time.
The dark side of publishing: Unveiling the deceptive tactics of cloned journals in India This study of cloned journals provides a comprehensive understanding of their patterns, tactics and impacts within the scholarly publishing landscape. The proliferation of deceptive entities such as cloned journals under the guise of legitimate scientific publications poses a significant threat to the integrity of scholarly research. This study provides valuable insights into the deceptive strategies employed by cloned journals prompting stakeholders to take concerted action to protect the credibility and quality of scholarly research.
Science and the nation-state: What China's experience reveals about the role of policy in science Since 1979, China put in place the mechanisms of state science policy-intellectual property protection, mobility and skill-building, and procurement-that proved sufficient to grow a highly successful science and technology.
Local impact of books: A comparison of libcitations from research-oriented and public libraries Our results indicate that 1) More than half of SSH-authored books in Flanders are held in local libraries, but most books can be found in research-oriented libraries. Meanwhile, books held in local libraries are often non-peer-reviewed and written in Dutch, and 2) Libcitations of local public and local research-oriented libraries point to different aspects of societal/cultural impact. Consequently, books available in public libraries are more likely to attain a direct and unmediated societal or cultural impact, at least in so far as it concerns cultural influence derived from the public's direct engagement with the text. For future research on the subject, it would be interesting to take into account the acquisition policy of the libraries.
Online survey exploring researcher experiences of research funding processes in the UK: the effort and burden of applying for funding and fulfilling reporting requirements Through this study, we were able to identify funding processes that are considered by some to be effortful, but necessary, as well as those that were perceived as unnecessary, complex and repetitive, and may waste some researchers time and effort and impact on well-being. Possible solutions to increase efficiency and enhance value in these processes were identified. Finally, this study highlights the processes which may require review and how processes can potentially be made more streamlined, aligned and proportionate.
Trends in emerging topics generation across countries in life science and medicine Finally, we discuss the foundational issues that gave rise to homogenized science, the impact on scientific innovation, and what policies might be necessary to repair the scientific innovation-generating engine.
A citation analysis examining geographical specificity in article titles This study sheds light on the nuanced influence of title specificity, through geographical names, on scholarly communication and citation impact, indicating a slight preference for broader title phrasing in garnering citations. Overall, there does not seem to be a geographical bias against specific countries in our data. Further research might explore other potential factors that influence citations to articles with place names.
Quantifying advances from basic research to applied research in material science Our methodology extends the boundary of assessing scientific research on its proximity to real-world applications and provides a tangible measure for funding agencies managing to fund or design research environments.
Gender assignment in doctoral theses: revisiting Teseo with a method based on cultural consensus theory After reevaluating the problem of gender imbalances in the doctoral system we can conclude that it's still evident although the trend is clearly set for its reduction. Finaly, specific problems related to some disciplines, including STEM fields and seniority roles are found to be worth of attention in the near future. The impact of this on interpreting the research results is modest if we look at the general distributions and trends in data.
The many publics of science: using altmetrics to identify common communication channels by scientific field These findings are useful for the development of science communication policies and strategies. The results can be useful to guide researchers and managers on identifying the most appropriate channels to disseminate research or developing communication policies and strategies adapted to specific fields and audiences. We can conclude that a research dissemination plan or a transfer plan should be adapted to the area in which researchers publish.
Are the confidence scores of reviewers consistent with the review content? Evidence from top conference proceedings in AI This indicates that current overall assessment of the paper's content and quality by the experts is reliable, making the transparency and fairness of the peer review process convincing. Our research findings indicate a high consistency between confidence scores and the expression of review texts at the word, sentence, and aspect levels. In conclusion, the confidence scores provided by the peer reviewers are relatively relia- ble.
Closer in time and higher correlation: disclosing the relationship between citation similarity and citation interval This study provides compelling evidence of a significant, albeit nuanced, link between citation similarity and the citation interval, thus illuminating the dynamics of scientific progress and knowledge dissemination.
Collaboration at the phylum level: coauthorship and acknowledgment patterns in the world of the water bears (phylum Tardigrada) This research used a 4-time-period collaboration and personal acknowledgments analysis to explore the tardigrade literature over the years 1980–2023 (June). It sought ways to connect WHAT (acknowledgments made in the literature) with WHO (the recipient of the acknowledgments) and from WHOM (the article authors) at a level of detail not reported in previous acknowledgment studies. It does demonstrate what one CAN learn with a closer, more detail-rich examination of personal acknowledgments data in a coherent research literature, connecting WHO, WHAT, and from WHOM while taking account of WHERE.
Open Science Practices Used by Colombian Researchers of the Humanities Field Como conclusión destacamos el fortalecimiento de competencias en este grupo de investigadores para un uso mucho más situado e intencionado de las tecnologías, guiadas por principios de apertura del conocimiento, colaboración e inclusión. Luego del análisis y discusión productos de la aplicación de la encuesta y del cotejo teórico, es posible señalar que los investigadores del área de las humanidades presentan características particulares en cuanto a las prácticas de ciencia abierta que han venido apropiando. Finalmente, salta a la vista la gran capacidad que las humanidades tienen para recuperar la noción del conocimiento científico como bien común y el afianzamiento de la ética e integridad científica como aspectos fundamentales para que otros campos de conocimiento se vean beneficiados de estos dos elementos clave de la ciencia abierta.
Visualising the academic mobility of Nobel laureates This trend could be attributed to the de-spatialisation of scientific knowledge and the de-centralisation of scientific infrastructure in the digital age, along with geopolitical forces and migration policies aimed at retaining NLs.
Exploring motivations for algorithm mention in the domain of natural language processing: A deep learning approach This study explores the authors' motivation for mentioning algorithms in academic papers, focusing specifically on the field of NLP.
Geographical inequalities in global forest science: A bibliometric perspective In the light of the bibliometric results presented, a brief answer is as follows: global forest science is structured by geographical inequalities in terms of scientific, collaboration and funding capital, with a disparity between regions and countries endowed with high levels of capital and those endowed with natural forest resources.
Predicting citation impact of academic papers across research areas using multiple models and early citations Different from previous studies, this paper applies multiple models to predict the citation counts of papers in the next couple of years, and each model fits a special research area and early citation history of the paper in question. As our future work, we would incorporating other types of information such as publication venues and author information. Then, prediction performance can be further improved. Secondly, we plan to explore using some deep learning methods for research paper classification.
Is Management and Organizational Studies divided into (micro-)tribes? If we interrelate all the evidence, a dichotomy between a more interconnected center and a periphery of bodies of knowledge emerges, which becomes more and more pronounced over time. This picture runs counter to the assumption that MOS is breaking up into ever smaller micro-tribes (Alvesson 2012; Alvesson & Sandberg, 2014; Barley 2016; Huzzard et al. 2017; Tourish, 2019). Despite these limitations, our study largely debunks the myth, repeated in several recent high-profile publications, that MOS is experiencing increasing (micro)tribalization.
Achieving research impact in medical research through collaboration across organizational boundaries: Insights from a mixed methods study in the Netherlands Research collaboration between non-academic hospitals and UMCs, particularly where this also involves international collaboration, pays off in terms of publications and impact. The TopCare hospitals used the program's resources to perform boundary work aimed at becoming an attractive and credible collaboration partner for academia. Increased coherence between the different forms of boundary work led to productive research collaborations and generated research impact. To meet future requirements, such as regionalization, further boundary work is needed to create long-term collaborations and new ways of rewarding research collaboration within organizations.
Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the Scientific Production of Physical Education Researchers: A Five-Year Follow-Up Study The findings suggest a potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the scientific production of Brazilian researchers in the field of physical education.
Drivers of citations in social pharmacy and practice research articles The number of references, the year of publication, social media mentions and the topic area of research, namely pharmacy services and medication adherence, were associated with citations above median in the leading journals of social and administrative pharmacy research.
The orthodontic research trends in Arab League Nations from 2002 to 2021: A bibliometric appraisal The orthodontic research productivity of Arab League Nations has enhanced over the past 20 years and Saudi Arabia emerged as the most prolific country. The constructive evolution of orthodontic literature with international collaboration display an ambitious approach by Arab countries.
Identifying interdisciplinary emergence in the science of science: combination of network analysis and BERTopic As science continues to expand its research output, the science of science emergence provides an opportunity to understand where new knowledge-the source of innovation-originates from by examining global interdisciplinarity.
Taking it back: A pilot study of a rubric measuring retraction notice quality Our research provides preliminary data about trends in retraction styles.
Data Analysis of Global Research Cooperation Patterns in the Secondary Battery Industry These results provide insights into the establishment of research and development (R&D) cooperation strategies by countries and pre-planning by companies in the battery industry.
Bibliometric Analysis of Trends and Future Directions of Research and Development of Seed Orchards The increased number of publications in recent years indicates there is continued interest and investment in seed orchard research, which we expect will continue into the future.
A co-citation approach to the analysis on the interaction between scientific and technological knowledge Our study delved into the evolution of the interaction between scientific and technological knowledge, with a specific focus on characterizing their convergence in the innovation process.
Spatiotemporal mobility network of global scientists, 1970-2020 In this study, we reconstructed the spatiotemporal mobility network of scientists in geography among institutions around the globe over the past half century from mas-sive literature metadata. Our findings enrich the fine-grained and comprehensive perception of spatiotemporal mobility of scien-tists, meanwhile has a guiding significance for practice like talent policies.
Computational analysis of knowledge and complexity trends in educational technology research titles from 1927 to 2023 The study provides a comprehensive historical overview of educational technol- ogy research, revealing its evolving focus, growing complexity, and the stable rate of knowledge obsolescence compared to the SciEng field. It offers data-driven insights into the coevolution of education and technology. The similarities in citing patterns between the two fields show that research in educational technology is keeping up with the pace of incorporating new knowledge.
The indexation of retracted literature in seven principal scholarly databases: a coverage comparison of dimensions, OpenAlex, PubMed, Scilit, Scopus, The Lens and Web of Science "We concluded that any study about retracted papers needs to use more than one source in order to get a trustworthy picture about these publications because of the coverage gaps between databases."
Hedgehogs, foxes, and global science ecosystems: Decoding universities' research profiles across fields with nested ecological networks In this paper, we investigated what nested ecological networks can tell us about patterns in global science.
Co-evolution of international scientific mobility and international collaboration: a Scopus-based analysis First, both the mobility network and collaboration network exhibit characteristics of co-evolution, showing a trend of global connectivity and development. Third, the globalization flow and collaboration network jointly exhibit characteristics of the "Matthew effect" from the layer network analysis. Finally, it finds that scientific mobility expands over time, particularly between devel-oping countries and lagging regions, alongside an increasing importance of interna-tional collaboration in scientific research. Based on the theoretical research conclusions outlined above, this study provides practical recommendations for implementation. First, the results highlight the pivotal role of scientific mobility in fostering international collaboration and knowledge dissemination, guiding policymakers to consider strategies for optimizing the international movement of researchers.
A validation test of the Uzzi et al. novelty measure of innovation and applications to collaboration patterns between institutions These findings offer valuable insights into identifying hot and frontier topics, bolstering the credibility and application potential of the NoveltyU method, aligning with the broader objective of establishing valid measures of innovativeness in research.
Policy citations of scientometric articles: an altmetric study The coverage of scientometric articles in policy documents was 16.67%.
Citation advantage of positive words: predictability, temporal evolution, and universality in varied quality journals In conclusion, our investigation into the impact of positive words on paper citations, considering predictability, temporal trends, and universality in journals of varied quality, has yielded several significant findings. First and foremost, our study establishes that the utilization of positive words significantly influences the citation counts of scientific papers. Furthermore, it is crucial to note that the citation advantage associated with positive words is undergoing a discernible decline over time. Future research endeavours may consider expanding the lexicon used for sentiment analysis, thus facilitating a larger-scale examination of the citation advantages associated with linguistic positivity.
Gender of gender studies: examining regional and gender-based disparities in scholarly publications The present study offers valuable insights into the domain of gender studies within the social sciences, foregrounding the pivotal roles played by female scholars and identifying the nuanced challenges they face in the academic landscape.
What traits of collaboration networks are associated with project success? The case of two CGIAR agricultural research programs for development The structure and impact of collaboration networks in agriculture for development are key to research success.
Recent trends: Retractions of articles in the oncology field Scientific and systematic analysis of retracted articles is conducive to improving the quality of papers, raising the level of human research, and cleaning up the research environment. This study could guide significance in maintaining academic integrity and establish a scientific, reasonable and targeted scientific research standard system.
Comparison of datasets citation coverage in Google Scholar, Web of Science, Scopus, Crossref, and DataCite Among the five bibliometric sources considered, GS provides the largest fraction of total citations (70%) and the most unique citations (19%) compared to the other sources. Crossref was examined as a potential source for obtaining linked content and was found to contain records for 99% of all citations and 95% of all references. In summary, this study underscores the significance of ongoing endeavors to enhance the accuracy and comprehensiveness of dataset citations.
How co-authorship affects the H-index? To tackle the weakness of HI, we proposed metrics, i.e HI/co, and HI/(coy). The results of simulations indicated that they can tackle these problems, i.e. equally strong researchers that have dedicated the same amount of effort, obtain the same values, independently of how many friend researchers they have. If we want to use a single metric, then we suggest using HI/co. Finally, if we want to compare two or more researchers of different academic age, with a single metric, we suggest HI/(coy).
Gender and the h-index in epidemiology Although women now earn the majority of doctoral degrees awarded by U.S. universities, a gender gap remains in both program prestige and in certain quantitative disciplines (Weeden et al., 2017). While over the span of an academic career, gender bias in metrics like the h-index may be attenuated, differences in earlier stages of career likely still mean that women are less represented in positions like academic leadership where their voices are needed to assure continued gains by early-career faculty.
Retracted papers originating from paper mills: a cross-sectional analysis of references and citations Retracted papers originating from paper mills frequently reference and are cited by papers that are later retracted for having originated from paper mills, displaying inter-relationships.
Overcoming the Tropical Andes publication divide: Insights from local researchers on challenges and solutions Addressing challenges faced by experienced professionals in the Tropical Andes by understanding individual needs, fostering support, and demystifying the publication process offers a promising path to closing the publication divide and unlocking the region’s valuable scientific contributions. By identifying and addressing specific regional needs, we can bridge the gap between knowledge creation and dissemination, empowering all researchers and unlocking the full potential of the global research community. Future initiatives should focus on equipping researchers with the necessary tools, skills, and support to effectively navigate the publication process.
Structured peer review: pilot results from 23 Elsevier journals Our preliminary results indicate that reviewers successfully adapted to the new review format, and that they covered more topics than in their traditional reports. Individual question analysis indicated the greatest disagreement regarding the interpretation of the results and the conducting and the reporting of statistical analyses. In conclusion, this pilot study has shown that structured peer review uptake was very high among reviewers and that agreement rates were higher than in the traditional approach.
Impact as equalizer: the demise of gender-related differences in anti-doping research "The results from this study showed that the gender gap observed in anti-doping sci-entific outputs wanes for research impact."
Promotion standards to discourage publishing in questionable journals: a follow-up study This study finds that after implementing the new promotion guide-lines, researchers applying for promotion at KNUST submit more pub-lications that are published in one of the recommended publication outlets.
Global and LMIC insights into Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT): A bibliometric study from 1998 to 2023 In conclusion, this bibliometric analysis of 1,458 global and 287 LMIC publications spanning the past 25 years has identified the current publication state, impact, and evolution within the field. It also uncovers underlying themes and potential directions for future investigation and highlights knowledge gaps that LMIC-affiliated authors can address within their settings.
Development and application of a comprehensive glossary for the identification of statistical and methodological concepts in peer review reports Our study showed that an analysis of peer review reports based on a glossary of statistical and methodological terms may be useful for studying the content of peer review reports and for understanding how authors can be helped to write manuscripts in a way to increase the clarity of their methodological and analytic approach.
Original Article A bibliometric study on research trends and hotspots of recurrent aphthous stomatitis This report would offer profound insight into the current status of RAS research and serve as a reference source for anyone planning to enhance the quality of future work.
A bibliometric study related to the treatment of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion Injury Over the past 20 years, research on MIRI therapies has made significant strides.
Exploring publications in 3 major orthodontic journals: A comparative bibliometric analysis of two 10-year periods (2002-2011 and 2012-2021) Bibliometric analysis of publications in 3 major ortho- dontic journals over two 10-year periods revealed a trend of diversification in countries and institutions participating in publishing, international collaborations, and collaboration networks among authors in the field of orthodontics during the 2 decades.
The significant yet short-term influence of research covidization on journal citation metrics The results highlight a “gold rush” pattern in which early entrants establish their citation advantage in research hotspots and caution against using citation-based metrics for research assessment.
Use and Importance of Library Resources to Support Faculty Research and Productivity Faculty use of the library collection and the importance of the library collection for research is highlighted through the findings of this study. Print books, as well as subject and course guides, were found to be negatively correlated with faculty research productivity, whereas journal and database use was found to be positively correlated. As academic libraries are pressured to demonstrate the library's impact and value for our users, it is possible to look at other outcomes such as grant submissions (accepted vs. not funded), number of research projects in progress, the number of reports and white papers deposited in the institutional repository, and so on.
All for one and one for all? Exploring the nexus of land administration, land management and land governance It also investigates the concepts of land administration, management and governance and highlights their differences and similarities. It posits that researchers and others working in or identifying with these concepts are working under an umbrella domain which is ill-defined. At the nexus of land administration, management and governance (question 3) lies a concern for sustainability concerning land, the associated resources, and the rights and interests therein.
Medical researchers' perceptions regarding research evaluation: a web-based survey in Japan Despite recommendations from the Declaration on Research Assessment and the Leiden Manifesto to de-emphasise quantitative indicators, this study found that Japanese medical researchers have actually tended to prioritise the journal IF and other quantitative indicators based on English-language publications in their research evaluation.
SEA GRANT RESEARCH FUNDING ADVANCING THE SCIENTIFIC DISCOURSE BY ADDRESSING LOCAL RESEARCH PRIORITIES Sea Grant research has contributed to the scientific literature across a variety of topics and disciplines.
Exploring scholarly perceptions of preprint servers This study offers an exploratory analysis of scholars' views and perceptions regarding the role of preprint servers. These findings emphasize the growing, yet diverse, role preprint servers play in scholarly communication and their differential impact across academic disciplines. Nonetheless, the lack of peer review remains a significant concern, though emerging practices in commenting and open peer review are beginning to address this challenge.
Journal self-citations trends in sport sciences: an analysis of disciplinary journals from 2013 to 2022 In the first comprehensive overview of self-citation rates in sport sciences journals, we found relatively low rates of JSC compared to the broader literature. However, over the last decade JSC rates increased significantly by~10% per year, which may indicate increasing rates of publication malpractice in the field. Conversely it is also possible that increasing JSC rates are related to the relative novelty of the field, whereby as specific sport-science topic areas become more established, they naturally result in more self-citations due to an increasing body of literature.
Overcoming alphabetical disadvantage: factors influencing the use of surname initial techniques and their impact on citation rates in the four major disciplines of social sciences Ultimately, surname techniques are a significant issue in the academic world, with varying techniques employed across different departments and an increasing tendency towards these techniques due to multiple influencing factors.
Evaluation of clinical psychology research through bibliometric and altmetric analyses Clinical psychologists can leverage the findings of this research in several ways.
Mapping the research landscape: A bibliometric analysis of e-learning during the COVID-19 pandemic The bibliometric analysis conducted revealed a significant increase in the volume of publications, reflecting the rapid adoption and adaptation of e-learning technologies in response to global educational disruptions.
Gender dynamics and academic rank in emergency medicine collaboration networks: A social network and gender propensity analysis Our study aims to use network analysis and gender propensity to identify patterns of collaboration.
'Special issue-ization' as a growth and revenue strategy: Reproduction by the "big five" and the risks for research integrity This underlies the threat that "special issue-ization" presents to research integrity. It highlights the risks posed by the guest editor model, and the importance of extending this analysis to long-existing commercial publishers. Our analysis of the three case study journals examined exhibited a similar trend: the adoption of guest edited special issues as a growth and revenue strategy by long-existing commercial publishers. Special issues pose new risks for research integrity as it can be a relatively easy target of large-scale fraud. In this paper, we have shown how the "special issue-ization” of journal publishing is reshaping business models, reinforcing the influence of the citation economy (Cranford 2020), and putting the whole publishing system under pressure.
Exploring the relationship between team institutional composition and novelty in academic papers based on fine-grained knowledge entities This paper explores the relationship between the team institutional composition and the novelty of academic papers and reveals the importance of cooperation between industry and academia through fine-grained novelty measurement, which provides key guidance for improving the quality of papers and promoting industry-university-research cooperation. For future research endeavours, we aim to expand the data set by potentially incorporating patent data sources to enhance the precision of our analyses. Additionally, we seek to optimize our novelty measurement metrics by firstly enhancing the accuracy of scientific entity recognition and secondly integrating structural elements, such as document sections, into the assessment of academic paper novelty to capture more refined measures of novelty.
Assessing citation integrity in biomedical publications: corpus annotation and NLP models We presented the first publicly available corpus that focuses on citation quotation errors and reported NLP models for this task.
Research performance of higher education institutions in Türkiye: 1980-2022 In this study, the research performance of higher education institutions in Türkiye was analysed by using Web of Science-based data covering the period between 1980 and 2022 based on productivity, publication impact and publication collaboration.
Prevalence, Characteristics, and Trends in Retracted Spine Literature: 2000e2023 The rate of retractions has been increasing over the past 23 years, and clinical studies have been the most frequently retracted publication type.
Industry support for dental implant research: A metatrend study of industry partnership in the development of new technologies Industry support for dental implant research was closely aligned with the continent of origin, interinstitute collaboration, type and topic of research, and the h-index of the corresponding author.
RefCit2vec: embedding models considering references and citations for measuring document similarity "The LIS intellectual structure in terms of venues are sketched by RefCit2vec, a document embedding method inspired by word2vec."
Purchase and publish: Early career researchers and open access publishing costs The overarching finding is that, while there is undoubtedly more interest, more outlets and more OA paper publishing, everything has become more complicated, confusing and, seemingly, less satisfying; so much so, that Governments are getting involved through directives and the like.
University students' knowledge of potentially predatory journals: A focus group analysis The most important thing is to continue to teach students to think critically about research, especially in the age of AI. To teach them how knowledge is transmitted in different disciplines, how article structure is unique in those disciplines. How existing knowledge connects to their discipline and what contributions they can make to it. And to start talking more about OA and PPJ. If we incorporate critical thinking skills with an expanded knowledge of OA and PPJ, students will gain another tool to use when determining if they should use a particular article.
Factors influencing research productivity among Syrian medical professionals amidst conflict: a case-control study Research productivity of early-career medical professionals in Syria exhibits a positive correlation with their knowledge and favorable attitudes towards medical research.
Promotional language and the adoption of innovative ideas in science With the incidence of promotional language in science steeply rising, and the pivotal role of grants in converting promising and aspirational ideas into solutions, our analysis provides empirical evidence that promotional language is associated with effectively communicating the merits of innovative scientific ideas.
Public policies on human rights to water in informal settlements: a bibliometric analysis To understand the evolution and state-of-the-art public policies on human rights to water in IUS, we used a holistic approach that includes a bibliometric literature analysis, between 1978 and 2023, and a scientometric analysis through the thematic evolution over the timespan, identifying the research hotspots and trends. Consequently, to achieve effective public policies on human rights to water in IUS, it is essential that adaptive and inclusive planning is adopted to ensure equitable access to clean water for all residents. The contribution of this paper is manifold. First, it highlights the research pathway in this humanitarian and social inequity, presenting the evolution and the state of the art in scientific research. Second, the applied methodology can serve as a guide for the development of research involving extensive and varied literature supporting but not replacing the literature review phase. Concerning the context of each study, the explanations presented for our research goals can be applied to other research fields.
A career in numbers: A citation network analysis of the work of RP Millar and his contribution to GnRH research What should be apparent from this analysis is that it makes no sense to conceive of the citation impact of an author in isolation; it depends on the existence of a receptive community that is alert to the potential utility of papers from that author, and which uses, amplifies, extends and qualifies the contents of their papers-activities that entail reciprocal referencing and citation between authors.
One hundred years of Ecuadorian biomedical scientific output and its association with the main causes of mortality: a bibliometric study In one century, Ecuador produced 3,225 articles in biomedicine, according to our criteria. 18.54% of the total produced is aimed at solving the main causes of mortality in the country. Private universities are the leaders in scientific production related to health in Ecuador. Despite this, there is still a significant mismatch between the burden of disease and local scientific production.
Clarifying middle authorship contributions to reduce abuses in science publishing and assessment of top-ranked SJR biochemistry and pharmacology journals' authorship criteria In conclusion, middle authors, alongside the first, CA, and senior authors, play a necessary role in the production of academic content, but their role is fundamentally ambiguous.
Readiness of Pakistani journals for open access publishing The respondents of all the HEC-recognized journals of Pakistan were neutral and were not of the view that they had sufficient financial, human, technological/infrastructural resources and technical expertise to continue/initiate an OA journal.
Academic inbreeding reduces the scientific performance of ecologists These findings suggest that academic inbreeding can negatively impact research careers and scientific output. Raising awareness of this issue may help discourage this practice in academic culture and highlight the importance of mobility and building professional networks outside one's home institution. Understanding the underlying causes and consequences of academic inbreeding represents the initial crucial step toward implementing strategies aimed at reforming the hiring practices within both institutions and among researchers themselves.
Content-based quality evaluation of scientific papers using coarse feature and knowledge entity network * Through feature analysis and case studies employing SHAP interpretable methods, we demonstrate that the proposed features enhance the performance of machine learning models in scientific paper quality evaluation, offering interpretable evidence for model decisions.
Are reviewer scores consistent with citations? Our study found that although there is a positive correlation between peer-reviewed results and citation metrics, they are not sub- stitutable relationships for each other. Peer review remains the most crucial component of the current research evaluation system. Therefore, a comprehensive scientific research evaluation system should be based on the quality assessment provided by qualitative peer review while integrating bibliometric indicators to form a balanced evaluation model that combines subjective and objective aspects.
Linguistic perspectives in deciphering citation function classification The first point is that this work is an essential step to show that our approach can handle larger datasets with a scientific discourse analysis constraint based on linguistic approaches.
The cost of open access: comparing public projects' budgets and article processing charges expenditure Finally, publication intensity, funding attraction, and the availability of OA journals are highly correlated with the investment in APCs in different fields. These results show that the current APC framework affects disciplines differently and raises questions about alternative publishing and funding models. Future research could also consider developing surveys to learn more qualitatively about researchers' habits when publishing in OA, also considering field specificities.
From informal to formal: scientific knowledge role transition prediction The phenomenon of role transition occurs in the process of scientific knowledge evolution.
Exploring the critical years for interdisciplinary citations Our results suggest that policy shifts and societal needs are pivotal in driving the formation of interdisciplinary collaborations, as exemplified by the surge in mutual interdisciplinary citations in response to China's poverty alleviation efforts and western development policies.
Analyzing collaboration and impact: A bibliometric review of four highly published authors' research profiles on collaborative maps The study successfully demonstrates that RSRP and IBPs can be effectively used to analyze and profile the research output of highly published authors through collaborative maps.
How to measure interdisciplinary research? A systemic design for the model of measurement This study offered a design that, given access to data and chosen a taxonomy, allows to compute statistics for a very wide array of research questions concerning IDR.
Twenty-five years of the Journal of Risk Research: a bibliometric overview To celebrate this anniversary, this paper presents a bibliometric overview of the leading trends and the most significant results that have occurred in the journal during the period from 1998 to 2023.
Bibliometric and scientometric analysis of PSMA-targeted radiotheranostics: knowledge mapping and global standing This research contributes to the enrichment of knowledge on PSMA-targeted radiotheranostics through detailed global bibliometric and scientometric analyses.
A global perspective on social stratification in science Our results show that a stra- tified system in terms of bibliometric performance exists in all macro fields of science, and it is as strong as fields' stratification by academic age.
The punishment intensity for research misconduct and its related factors: An exploratory study on hospitals in Mainland China In summary, this study provides the first evidence from a large cross-sectional dataset to uncover factors associated with the handling of RM incidents in hospitals across Mainland China.
Analysis of biomedical and health research in the Eastern Mediterranean Region Biomedical and health research publication increased unevenly across the EMR countries during the study period.
A bibliometric analysis of health systems research in Pakistan This bibliometric analysis provides insight into the status and trends of health systems research and publications in Pakistan. It helps in understanding the existing research and identifying directions for future reform. There was an acute dearth of health systems research and publication at the beginning of the previous decade, but a few medical institutes are now taking the lead in health systems research in the country.
Citation network analysis of retractions in molecular biology field This paper takes the high-retraction field of molecular biology as an example and employs bibliometrics, social network analysis, and other methods to study the characteristics of retracted academic papers in this field and the relationships between them. The results reflect the detrimental effects of academic misconduct on the academic ecosystem and propose policy recommendations accordingly.
The role of non-scientific factors vis-à-vis the quality of publications in determining their scholarly impact While the quality of scientific products typically plays a significant role in scholars' choices, other factors also exert influence. As demonstrated in this study concerning scientific articles, factors such as the reputation of authors and the publication venue, alongside quality, shape their utilisation by the scientific community for advancing knowledge. Embracing bibliometric methods, which effectively measure scholars' citations as “consumer purchases,” could advance policymakers' shared objec-tives.
Letter to the editor of Heliyon re: Mapping sustainability reporting research with the UN ' s sustainable development goal. Heliyon 9 (2023) e18510 Despite the presence of an error in the CAGR calculation, the study's results remained unaffected. Academic writing requires that researchers demonstrate a thorough and systematic approach to gain valuable insight from the errors highlighted in the conclusion and to use this understanding to prevent similar errors in future cases. It concludes by emphasizing the importance of a systematic approach in academic writing to learn from errors and avoid similar mistakes in the future.
Research integrity in Instructions for Authors in Japanese medical journals using ICMJE Recommendations: A descriptive literature study Although the topics in the JAMS English-language journals resembled those in the ICMJE member journals, the median value of ICMJE-related topic inclusion was approximately one-third lower in JAMS Japanese-language journals than in ICMJE member journals. It is hoped that Japanese-language journals whose conflict of interest disclosure policies differ from ICMJE standards will adopt international standards to deter misconduct and ensure publication quality.
Weighted degrees and truncated derived bibliographic networks Although the notion of truncated networks was presented in the context of bibliographic networks the results can be applied also in other fields described by collections of networks.
Using citation-based indicators to compare bilateral research collaborations Country-level fractionalisation is recommended for the comparison of country pairs but as this approach is associated with considerable work in SciVal and Excel, a second-best approach using all co-publications with maximum 10 co-authors is also suggested. Elsevier and other providers of tools to study publications should help their users understand the potentially misleading results of the standard approach to study international collaboration and introduce better alternatives. This study illustrates some important aspects to have in mind. The choice of approach depends on the purpose of the study and the resources available.
Ten year citation prediction model for systematic reviews using early years citation data This study provides an approach for predicting of future citations of SR based exclusively on citation counts from the previous years, with the models developed displaying an encouraging accuracy and agreement.
Investigating clinical links in edge-labeled citation networks of biomedical research: A translational science perspective These findings afford us a deep and specific understanding of how clinical citations operate within the context of biomedical papers, thereby serving as a crucial guide for effectively promoting the clinical translation of biomedical research.
Unraveling retraction dynamics in COVID-19 research: Patterns, reasons, and implications The findings in this study sheds light on various facets of retractions in scholarly publications, particularly focusing on journal impact, retraction reasons, retraction time, country collaborations, and authorship patterns. The results of the current study suggest that maintaining a high standard of ethics in professional endeavors is now more crucial than ever for scientists and researchers, as these difficulties will have a major impact on the reproducibility of research by authors and institutions.
Imitation versus serendipity in ranking dynamics We find that society reaches a higher payoff when imitation prevails, but at the cost of higher inequality. Moreover, in this scenario, we find no correlation between an agent's accumulated payoff and their fitness. On the contrary, when decisions are left to chance, outcomes become more serendipitous.
Citation network analysis for viewpoint plurality assessment of historical corpora: The case of the medieval rabbinic literature In this paper, we proposed and implemented a novel analytical framework and methodology to assess viewpoint plurality of historical corpora.
Bilateral flows and rates of international migration of scholars for 210 countries for the period 1998-2020 We expect that the publicly shared dataset will enable researchers to further study the causes and the consequences of migration of scholars to forecast the future mobility of academic talent worldwide.
Comparing patent in-text and front-page references to science This paper assessed the differences between patent in-text and front-page references to science: (1) how they are different in terms of basicness, interdisciplinarity, novelty, and scientific citations, (2) whether they lead to the same results when analyzing the association between patent value and characteristics of referenced science, and (3) how different types of in-text references are more likely to be listed on the front page of the same patent. Using a dataset consisting of 33,337 USPTO biotech patents and their 860,879 in-text and 637,570 front-page references to Web of Science journal articles, we find that in-text references are more basic and highly cited in science than front-page references. However, using front-page references cannot replicate all these results. Results are substantially different, especially for patent citations.
Correlation Between H-Index, M-Index, and Academic Rank in Urology The h- and m-indices of academic urologists positively correlate with their academic rank. These metrics may serve as an additional tool in measuring an individual's academic productivity in consideration of job hirings, positional promotions, societal memberships, achievement awards, research grants, and more. When applied to urologists at academic programs in the United States, the h- and m-indices appear to correlate significantly with an individual's academic rank, demonstrating higher research productivity and impact for individuals in higher academic positions.
Unveiling the loss of exceptional women in science These findings highlight a more nuanced gender-based phenomenon, extending beyond the commonly observed lower proportion of female scholars or higher female dropout rates.
Do papers of high interdisciplinarity have an advantage in terms of citations? A case study of the top five Economic journals This study confirms the complex relationship between the interdisciplinarity and the number of citations on the basis of controlling the discipline and quality of the paper and also further identifies the sources of citation advantage of papers with high interdisciplinarity.
The impact of being selected as a cover paper: Evidence from high-impact materials science journals Our findings indicate a positive correlation between 'being selected as a cover paper' and scholarly online attention, while its impact on academic influence is insignificant.
Research on interdisciplinarity of five-metrics in China based on Chinese Citation Data under the background of open science Third, the interdisciplinarity of Five-Metrics publications is high, and the interdisciplinarity of cited references and citing articles is higher, which to some extent shows that Five-Metrics research can integrate and diffuse knowledge to a greater extent.
Journal of Librarianship and Information Science (JOLIS) from a bibliometric perspective (1991-2023) In all, JOLIS is an international journal with contribution from the authors and research institutes all over the World.
Bibliometric Analysis of Remote Sensing over Marine Areas for Sustainable Development: Global Trends and Worldwide Collaboration Our findings reveal a shift towards automated analysis and processing of RS data using machine learning techniques to integrate large datasets and develop robust scientific solutions. As technology advances, new challenges will include managing big data, ensuring the reliability of ML algorithms, and integrating diverse datasets for comprehensive analyses for robust scientific solutions like Ocean Digital Twins. This bibliometric analysis points out the research gap in real- or near-real-time support systems for disaster management utilizing ocean RS data. Moreover, future research could address ocean RS for specific SDGs, which would point out gaps and barriers in achieving particular goals.
Bibliometric Insight Into Thyroid Cancer Research: A Comprehensive Review and Future Directions This study guides resource allocation towards impactful journals for thyroid cancer researchers, helps identify key contributors for collaboration or mentorship, and provides a framework for similar analyses in other fields.
Evolving patterns of extreme publishing behavior across science The current analysis of the Scopus database has documented a massive increase in the number of authors who exhibit extreme publishing behavior in recent years in fields out- side the discipline of nuclear and particle physics that has been well-known to operate with large-scale collaborations resulting in massive co-authorships of published articles. Extreme publishing behavior has become worryingly common across scientific fields with rapidly increas- ing rates in some countries and settings and may herald a rapid depreciation of authorship standards. This monitoring should allow careful in-depth assess- ments of extreme patterns for single authors, teams, institutions, and countries.
Research-targeting, spillovers, and the direction of science: Evidence from HIV research-funding First, our results support the notion that cross-disease research spillovers exist. The results show that HIV research targeting delivered outputs not only in relation to HIV/AIDS but also to other disease areas beyond HIV/AIDS.
SMIAltmetric: A comprehensive metric for evaluating social media impact of scientific papers on Twitter (X) The proposed SMIAltmetric provides a more comprehensive understanding of a paper's social media impact, enhancing the evaluation of scientific discourse and its engagement with society.
The determinants and impact of research grants: The case of Brazilian productivity scholarships In summary, the CNPq Research Productivity Grant has been deemed a success.
Measuring the global and domestic technological impact of Chinese scientific output: a patent-to-paper citation analysis of science-technology linkage These empirical findings are important because it suggests continuous and longitudinal evidence on the domestic and global technological impact of science produced by China, a typical developing country but with an ambition in frontier innovation.
Through the secret gate: a study of member-contributed submissions in PNAS These analyses help us further understand the implications of this privileged route to publication for NAS members and the epistemic and social aspects of this publication process. We have shown that articles via the contributor track have a distinct profile in terms of contributorship and impact, which implies they are being used in a particular way by a subset of NAS members. Regarding impact, our results suggest the opposite; regarding incentives, while that may be so, our finding that these articles have such a distinct contributorship profile, raises further questions whether an expedited pathway into an elite journal is a healthy incentive for journal engagement, considering the multiple side effects it may have for wider academic assessment.
Breach of academic values and misconduct: the case of Sci-Hub Our results suggest that policies restoring academic values might also address research-related misconduct.
Why do some academic articles receive more citations from policy communities? In conclusion, our study employs the citations by policy documents to stimulate and provide a foundation for evaluating the policy impact of scholarly articles.
Title, abstract and keywords: a practical guide to maximize the visibility and impact of academic papers These recommendations to editors are designed to improve article engagement and facilitate evidence synthesis, thereby aligning scientific publishing with the modern needs of academic research.
Research paper recommendation system based on multiple features from citation network Therefore, the current research emphasizes on developing support system as a research recommendation system that provides important and useful papers with top ranked authors.
Clubs and Networks in Economics Reviewing Our results show strong and robust evidence that network connectivity and match significantly influence editor decisions and reviewer recommendations in publishing.
The Prize Winner Index (PWI): A proposal for an indicator based on scientific prizes Therefore, measured by established indicators for research performance, the new PWI indicator seems to be convergently valid and, therefore, might be a possible alternative for established (bibliometric) indicators with a focus on prizes.
Predicting the technological impact of papers: Exploring optimal models and most important features This research assists inventors and companies in the field of AI in their early assessment of the potential AI technological impact of scientific research papers.
The scientific standing of nations and its relationship with economic competitiveness While assessing a country's scientific standing is crucial for governments, businesses, and funding agencies as they determine their scientific priorities and allocate resources, it is also interesting to judge the extent of association between scientific standing and i) propensity to invest in research and ii) economic competitiveness. Robust scientific ecosystems attract talent, encourage innovation, and provide a knowledge base for further research. Finally, strong scientific capabilities often lead to economic diversification.
Understanding delays in publishing interdisciplinary research Secondly, we find that high interdisciplinary papers consistently experience longer waiting periods in the prepublication process.
Challenges with measures used for assessing research impact in higher education institutions We have reported on the challenges with quantitative indicators used to evidence the impact of research using UCT as a case study.
A recommendation approach of scientific non-patent literature on the basis of heterogeneous information network Empirical experiments on DrugBank dataset indicate that our approach is able to recommend scientific NPL for a focal patent with a satisfactory performance.
Factors influencing university teachers' research productivity in North American universities First, there is a significant imbalance in research pro- ductivity among LIS teachers in North American. Second, higher academic degrees play a significant role in enhanc- ing research productivity. Last, the educational background neither sig- nificantly promotes nor inhibits research productivity.
Unsolicited scam invitations from predatory publications and fraudulent conferences: Radiology-in-training experience Trainees in radiology receive many unsolicited invitations to publish papers as well as to present at meetings that are not accredited. This could lead to wasted time and financial resources for unsuspecting trainees. Caution is recommended when considering the offers made in these solicitations.
On journal rankings and researchers' abilities Our paper looks into the role of rankings of academic journals in incentivizing the efficient dissemination of research output through publications.
Bibliometrics beyond citations: introducing mention extraction and analysis The above examples only provide rough quantitative analyses of the changes that occurred in philosophy during the first half of the twentieth century, but they showcase EDHIPHY's potential as a database, and the potential of mention analysis overall.
Quantifying cohesion in high citation research article titles: a cross-disciplinary and diachronic investigation Quantitative characterization of cohesion in HCRA titles shed light on how expert writers coherently organize titles to maximize informativeness and research impact, thereby contributing pedagogically to academic writing for English for Academic and Specific Purposes, and empirically for the research on the predictability of citation impacts. In conclusion, the present study provides empirical insights towards Biber et al., and and's (2021; 2016) theoretical assertion of rising grammatical complexity in all genres of academic writing, and towards Aiza et al.'s (2024) comprehensive bibliometric review highlighting features and techniques in terms of authors' constant endeavour in maximizing their research impact while upholding disciplinary conventions in the context of globalized academia. Future studies might explore cohesive relations in low/none citation research article titles, or compare the cohesive patterning of high- and low-citation research article titles.
The evolution of order of authorship based on researchers' age Placing these results though an ethical practices framework, we interpret them as a growing ten- dency of more fairness within scientific teams.
Distribution by country, region, and publisher in environmental engineering journals in SCImago Journal and Country Rank database (1999-2022) This study was set out to find out if global science has fulfilled its promise of a more diverse and inclusive landscape in academic publishing in environmental engineering that benefits developing countries.
An investigation of country-scale collaboration patterns of digital humanities through dual perspectives of bibliometrics and altmetrics The above findings and suggestions provide not only favorable support for the main viewpoint of collaboration enhancement from most DH scholars but also specific implementation of cooperative strategy.
Academic publication uncertainty and research behavior Adding some formal insights into the impacts of publication uncertainty on the quantity and quality of research, this paper studies the probabilistic nature of peer reviews in published academic research, and its impact on the quantity and quality of publications and on citations.
Towards Scientists and Researchers Classification Model (SRCM)-based machine learning and data mining methods: An ISM-MICMAC approach This study contributes to the theoretical understanding of academic evaluation systems and offers practical insights for universities that aim to implement sophisticated data-centric classification models.
International collaboration leading to high citations: Global impact or home country effect? The study confirms the pivotal role of international collaboration in research impact and highlights the significance of network building. This study clarifies the relationship between collaboration and research impact, adding to our understanding of how citations accumulate. It sheds light on the distinct factors that influence domestic and international citations, providing a nuanced perspective on citation patterns. To summarize, this study confirms the quality attributes of international collaboration and also highlights the importance of the domestic research community in shaping research impact.
Equivalence of inequality indices in the three-dimensional model of informetric impact Overall, we obtained a good fit to our theoretical derivations. For data approximately following our model, we may approximately assume that when we consider vectors of similar lengths, the choice of the inequality measure is secondary, as the indices can be considered functions of one another.
Influence of automated indexing in Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) selection for pharmacy practice journals Articles indexed using automated MTI have less MeSH than manually indexed articles.
Factors influencing the research impact in cancer research: a collaboration and knowledge network analysis To enhance cancer research capacity and impact, non-leading countries should take measures to enhance their international collaboration status. For early career researchers, increasing the number of collaborators seems to be more effective. Insights gained through this study provide recommendations to research workers or administrators for the design of research directions through a knowledge network perspective.
A cross-domain analysis of research performance: Conventional and altmetric indicators in Medicine, Physical Sciences, and Social Sciences Discouraging performance comparisons based on raw indicator values can protect researchers from inaccurate assessments, enabling them to fully realize their potential for conducting cutting-edge research.
A comparison of the top 500 papers in Clinical Nutrition ranked by citation and Altmetric Attention Scores Correlation between CS and AAS was weak.
Tree knowledge structure for better insight: Capturing biomedical science-technology knowledge linkage with MeSH This study contributes to the S&T knowledge linkage measurements by integrating semantic relationships between knowledge elements, a dimension often overlooked in previous studies. Overall, this study improves the understanding of S&T linkage and lays groundwork for future research and applications across domains. Future work can be improved by incorporating the dynamic changes of concept semantic structures when constructing timely knowledge trees and designing a more refined method to measure knowledge linkage.
The impact of winning funding on researcher productivity, results from a randomized trial "The results of this first randomized trial of funding were equivocal."
AN IVORY TOWER OF BABEL? THE IMPACT OF SIZE AND DIVERSITY OF TEAMS ON RESEARCH PERFORMANCE IN BUSINESS SCHOOLS First, we document a non-linear (inverted U-shaped) relationship between the size of the team and the prestige of the research produced (i.e., its chances of being published in a top journal). Second, we show that diversity of the team in terms of internationality and knowledge affects the relationship between team size and research performance in different ways. Moreover, they illustrate the complex trade-offs in terms of balancing size and diversity within teams when targeting research prestige or impact.
Does science disrupt technology? Examining science intensity, novelty, and recency through patent-paper citations in the pharmaceutical field Our study contributes to the existing literature by introducing the disruptive impact of science on technology. The empirical results indicate that appropriate (moderate science intensity) and reasonable (moderate science novelty) knowledge coordination between science and technology could contribute more to technological disruptiveness. Recent published scientific knowledge always provides novel insights and open new solutions for technological development, therefore promote technological disruptiveness.
ICA fellows' networking patterns in terms of collaboration, citation, and bibliographic coupling and the relevance of co-ethnicity The results indicate highly significant relationships among collaboration, citation, and bibliographic coupling and weak relationships with co-ethnicity. This suggests a degree of intellectual cohesiveness within communications science, at least among its elite scholars. The findings indicate a US-centric composition among ICA Fellows. They also suggest the potential for ethnicity-based col-laboration and knowledge-sharing practices. Future studies should thus expand the database of named entities associ-ated with recognized ethnicities.
How bibliometric evaluation makes the academia an 'Iron Cage': Evidence from Chinese academics Our comprehensive interviews with 15 Chinese university academics across diverse fields reveal that the misuse of bibliometric evaluation significantly disrupts the fabric of academic pursuits. This disruption manifests through the erosion of research autonomy, detachment of self-efficacy, diminishment of the drive for innovative research, and the promotion of opportunistic behaviors. It is suggested that adopting a nurturing, nuanced approach to bibliometric evaluation is imperative for maintaining a harmonious academic ecosystem and fostering genuine societal advancement.
Who gets the grant? A persona-based investigation into research funding panelist preferences Based on the cumulative findings of both the quantitative and the narrative persona analyses, this optimal candidate is a mid-career prolific researcher with a respectable number of published articles among which a notable number—roughly a quarter—were solo-authored, a reasonable number of citations received, and previous experience with research projects.
Quantitative Analysis of Scholars' Topic Switching Behavior in Computer Science: A Two-Dimensional Metric Approach Employing these new two-dimensional indicators to measure scholars' topic switching behavior and exploring its relationship with research performance contribute to advancements in technology within the field of computer science.
Quality from within: Entry points to research quality in the humanities By identifying and analysing a number of empirical entry points where it is possible to discern field-type quality notions of the humanities, we have drawn a map—or, at least pro- vided some pointers for future possible studies on the emer- gence of research quality notions within the humanities. Following our entry points, future research on this topic will enable an understanding of quality based on rich, context- based empirical materials. We have outlined how an empirically grounded research agenda around this object can be fruitfully pursued, offering perspec- tives rooted within the humanities.
Asset Pricing and Portfolio Investment Management Using Machine Learning: Research Trend Analysis Using Scientometrics In conclusion, this research has contributed signifi-cantly to the expanding knowledge base on asset pricing and PM through porous materials.
Visualization and Analysis of Hotspots and Trends in Seafood Cold Chain Logistics Based on CiteSpace, VOSviewer, and RStudio Bibliometrix Through bibliometric analysis, this study not only provides insights for constructing modern agricultural product cold chain logistics systems but also promotes the development of the fisheries industry. The application of big data technology and advanced management models ensures the freshness and timely delivery of seafood. Future researchers can explore reducing fuel consumption, multi-objective optimization problems, addressing new situations in electric vehicle routes and cold chain logistics, and studying more complex multi-level supply chain network design issues, such as location-route, inventory-location-route, and production-inventory-location-route problems.
Perceptions of the Research Integrity Climate in Egyptian Universities: A Survey Among Academic Researchers Academic leaders should set fairer expectations for research and funding for their researchers, ensure junior researchers are socialized into research integrity practices, and promote effective RCR training and availability of RCR policies. We identify specific targeted interventions to enhance the research integrity climate within these institutions. Our study demonstrates that the SOuRCe tool is effective for evaluating research integrity climates across diverse faculties and departments within universities.
Citations to the Publications of Male and Female Political Scientists Revisited As cohorts of women mature in the profession, they dramatically reduce the citation gender gap in both datasets.
The unprincipled principal: how Romania's inconsistent research reform impacted scientific output In conclusion, these findings underscore the importance of clear and consistent govern- ment policies in supporting research activities.
Spotting potential reviewers for interdisciplinary research: insights on active reviewers from Publons Our study investigates the characteristics of active interdisciplinary reviewers who are keen to engage in reviewing activities.
Revealing dynamic co-authorship structure in the social sciences through blockmodeling: the Slovenian case (1991-2020) From a methodological point of view, this paper shows that existing SBMs for dynamic networks can yield diverse results, thus corroborating the results of previous simulation studies (Cugmas & Žiberna, 2023).
How interdisciplinary is it? A new method for quantifying interdisciplinarity in student teams & examination of a large project-based program This study proposes use of the Rao-Stirling diversity index to quantify interdisciplinarity in educational contexts. In this analysis, the index provided a more comprehensive measure of interdisciplinarity than number of majors or number of colleges. The index also indicated higher interdisciplinarity in more teams and in comparatively smaller teams than number of majors would imply.
Characteristics of retracted articles in ophthalmology In conclusion, our study provides extensive insight into retracted literature in the field of ophthalmology. It also highlights solutions that could be implemented simply to limit the citation of retracted articles, and thus limit the propagation of scientific errors in the ophthalmologic literature. Improving the labelling of retractions is needed to reduce the citation of articles after they have been retracted.
Dispelling the myth: comparable duration and impact of research training for MD-PhD and PhD graduates The results highlight that despite the seemingly shorter PhD durations of MD-PhD graduates based on graduate program enrollment period, research training is on par with their single-degree peers, rendering MD-PhD graduates well equipped to become successful scientific investigators. Our results highlight that the research training MD-PhD and PhD students receive is largely indistinguishable. Taken together, these results indicate that the rigor and impact of the PhD phase of MD-PhD training match that of single-degree programs, yielding physician-scientist graduates who are well equipped to become successful independent investigators.
Behavioral consequences of second-person pronouns in written communications between authors and reviewers of scientific papers This work examines the correspondence in the peer review process and finds that when author responses use (vs. do not use) second-person pronouns (e.g., “you”), reviewers ask fewer questions, provide briefer responses, and offer more positive and fewer negative com-ments.
Evolutions of semantic consistency in research topic via contextualized word embedding "Overall, this study sheds light on the evolution law of topics, and helps researchers to understand these patterns from a geometric perspective."
Errata and Corrigenda in the OHNS Literature A multitude of errors exist in the otolaryngology field.
A framework for predicting scientific disruption based on graph signal processing Predicting scientific disruption has been proven to be extremely challenging, as highlighted in previous studies. This study identifies the power of GSP technique for modeling scientific evolution and predicting disruption.
Social capital in academia: Measuring researchers' collaboration habits versus preferences At the University of Copenhagen, academics from the six faculties (Health and Medical Sciences, Science, Social Sciences, Humanities, Law and Theology) confirmed that they are less concerned with the structural aspects of social capital, in favor of internal cognitive and relational ones. Another key finding was that collaboration habits 'with people from non-academic organizations (business/public sector)' was not a prevalent response choice. Finally, the weak correlations between preferences and habits suggest that only a few elite or 'star' academics at the university have been able to manifest social capital preferences to achieve desired collaboration outcomes.
The academic Great Gatsby Curve Finally, we demonstrated the existence of an 'academic Great Gatsby Curve', i.e. of a positive relationship between academic impact inequality and intergenerational persistence, in analogy with the Great Gatsby Curve observed between income inequality and intergenerational persistence in the social sciences.
How are global university rankings adjusted for erroneous science, fraud and misconduct? Posterior reduction or adjustment in rankings in response to retractions and invalidation of scientific findings In the absence of a transparent corrective system, GURs will be further criticised for being unfair, biased and not reflective of an evolving and unstable academic publishing ecosystem.
The interaction of inter-organizational diversity and team size, and the scientific impact of papers First, we found that as inter-organizational diversity increases, the negative relationship between team size and disruption of papers is mitigated. Second, we found that as inter-organizational diversity increased, the positive relationship between team size and the citations of papers published by the team is somewhat amplified. Our findings and the mechanisms we have proposed offer practical insights into effective collaborative practices among researchers for generating high-impact outcomes.
Examining the transition from print to electronic journals through the lens of sustainability E-Journals have transformed the manner in which academic research is conducted, accessed and disseminated (Table 1). In a culture that is increasingly cognisant of the significance of sustainability and inclusion, E-journals represent a step forward in academic research.
Impact of research characteristics and methodologies used in LIS articles on citation count The results showed that period of publishing, authorship patterns, publishing channels and use of methodologies influenced citation scores. The current study has theoretical and practical implications. Future studies should widen the sample to other countries by making comparison.
Spanish scientific research by field and subject. Strategic analysis with ARWU indicators In the first place, a method has been shown to conduct a strategic analysis of scientific research by field and subject with data supplied by ARWU.
Mapping scholarly books: library metadata and research assessment Overall, while WorldCat and MARC21 are valuable resources for book-level research assessment, their limitations regarding peer review, genre, and open access information should be considered in future research and development efforts. Ultimately, collaboration among researchers, librarians, publishers, and metadata providers is crucial for developing and implementing effective standardised solutions for completeness of book metadata suitable for research assessment. By fostering such collaboration, we can build a more robust and informative publishing landscape, empowering researchers and evaluators to make informed decisions and transform book evaluation practices.
Rationalizing risk aversion in science: Why incentives to work hard clash with incentives to take risks Our analysis here suggests that this state of affairs can be explained at least in part by the interaction between two key structural elements in science: the unobservability of risk and effort on the one hand, and the self-organized nature of science on the other.
Prevalence of plagiarism in hijacked journals: A text similarity analysis First, the study provides evidence supporting the hypothesis that papers from hijacked journals exhibit a significant prevalence of plagiarism.
Competing for research funding: Key elements impacting the evaluation of grant proposal Our research highlights the factors that ensure success in research funding competitions, both from the applicant's perception and the evaluation grid.
The South-South Dimension in International Research Collaboration Inter-regional collaboration shows a higher impact than collaboration within a region. Each region displays different scientific production and impact profiles, with the Global North collaboration being necessary for all regions regarding results and financing. The data analysed can be used for orienting South-South scientific collaboration programs, focusing on pre-existent synergies and on where policy changes and results can be maximised.
Comparative Bibliometric Analysis of Established and Emerging Databases on Salivary Biomarkers for Early Oral Cancer Diagnosis Scopus and Dimensions vary in their scope, volume of data, and coverage policies.
Being internationally mobile while keeping domestic social capital: how postdocs from China manage precarity Based on a 4-year longitudinal research on ten postdocs, in this paper, we analysed the interactions between postdoc-toral international mobility and the doctoral mentor's role.
Institutional 'gaming' involving staff turnover during recent research evaluation exercises by UK Russell Group universities Institutional 'gaming' therefore seems to have been absent during the most recent REF. The results from estimating the model showed, after taking account of the importance of other covariates, strong evidence of a 2008 and (in particular) 2014 cycle, but no evidence of any upturn in overall hires (or declines in exits) in the immediate period preceding the 2021 REF census date. In conclusion, this study provides useful implications for policymakers. To prevent gaming practices in the research evaluation system, institutions and authorities do indeed have recourse to actions and measures to eliminate selective hiring practices aimed at artificially boosting evaluation outcomes.
Motivating innovation: The impact of prestigious talent funding on junior scientists Our empirical findings offer valuable insights for funding agencies seeking to optimize their allocation of resources to junior scientists.
Research topic displacement and the lack of interdisciplinarity: lessons from the scientific response to COVID-19 To summarize, compared with other medical emergencies, the volume of publications related to the COVID-19 pandemic has developed unusually strongly.
Quantifying attrition in science: a cohort-based, longitudinal study of scientists in 38 OECD countries Our cohort-based and longitudinal study revealed that, behind aggregated changes at the level of all the STEMM disciplines combined, widely nuanced changes occurred, with various intensities at the discipline level and over time.
Gender differences in research fields of bioeconomy and rural development-based on sustainable systems in Latin America and Africa regions From our findings, we can suggest that the women in rural development and bioeconomy sciences were under-represented.
'Fund people, not projects': From narrative CVs to lotteries in science funding policy In summary, I have argued that we should evaluate people, especially their virtues, and this should be done in the context of research ecosystems that they hope to conduct research within. One way this might be accomplished fruitfully is by using narrative CVs. While this approach is susceptible to the problem of biased evaluations, I argue that this isn't a fatal problem insofar as its practice is complemented by other funding mechanisms that overall contribute to an equitable funding ecosystem.
Setting off the dominoes: a theory of change for scaled interdisciplinarity at a Sino-American joint-venture liberal arts and sciences University in China For like-minded institutions and researchers of interdisciplinarity, this inquiry recommends a roadmap with four signs.
Open access availability patterns of Indian research publications during the last two decades The article presents a quantitative analysis of OA availability of research publications from India during 2001-2020.
Overcoming recognition delays in disruptive research: The impact of team size, familiarity, and reputation Our study offers a quantitative exploration of the intricate relationship between the Sleeping Beauty Index and the Disruption Index, revealing a positive correlation suggesting that more disruptive studies often undergo a latency period before sudden recognition. Our study significantly advances the theoretical understanding of recognition dynamics in academic research, particularly in the context of disruptive innovations. Practically, our findings offer valuable guidance for researchers, institutions, policymakers, and funding bodies.
Tweeting and retweeting scientific articles: implications for altmetrics Overall, the findings suggest that the attention scientific articles receive on Twitter may have more to do with human interaction and inclusion of visual content in the tweets, than the significance of or genuine interest towards the research results.
The dynamics of Cuban international scientific collaboration: a scientometric analysis over a century The results back previous results on the pivotal role of scientific collaboration in bolstering research capabilities, particularly for emerging economies such as Cuba.
Path of excellence: A co-authorship network analysis of European Research Council grant winners in social sciences "The ERC grant serves different functions for the winners of three different categories: for the Starting Grant winners, it offers the possibility to kick off and establish their research group, for the Consolidator Grant winners, it opens up new opportunities to extend their co-authorship network, and for the Advanced Grant winners, it offers the chance to start a new collaboration."
Behavioral finance in a hundred keywords In this study we conducted a keyword analysis and examined five leading journals in behavioral finance to provide quantitative insights into the structure, impact, and evolution of this scientific field during the 21st century. This intriguing finding highlights a research avenue to explore the impact of behavioral finance beyond its traditional boundaries, and to explore its interactions with the broader domains of finance and economics. Reciprocally, it would be valuable to explore how the keywords identified in this study stand out in other finance journals as well.
Indicators and factors related to one-year improved SCImago journal rank in nursing journals: A bibliometric analysis This study analysed the bibliometric data of all nursing journals in various fields including basic research, specialized applied research, skills and the practice of professional nurses.
Regional spillover effect of 2022 sanctions against Russia on scholarly publications Our study has pointed to the possibility that economic sanctions might have externality effects on research production in neighbouring countries.
Revalidation of the applicability of Altmetrics indicators in article-level evaluation: An empirical analysis of papers of different types of citation trajectories The applicability of Altmetrics for evaluating papers with different citation trajectory types should be judged carefully. At the same time, it is suggested that robust Altmetrics (such as save) can be applied to assess the quality of papers and characterize the citation life cycle.
The impact of the Pitching Research Framework on AFAANZ grant applications: A pre-registered study Interviews with 46 accounting and finance academics in New Zealand and Australia has illuminated the benefits and utility gained from using the PRF in the AFAANZ grant process. These findings provide practical implications for prospective assessors, applicants, the AFAANZ grant-awarding committee, and other grant-awarding bodies across Australia, New Zealand, and the globe. We argue that the adoption of the PRF provides a valuable approach towards achieving an efficient, fair, and effective grant process, ultimately contributing to building a strong research community and advancing innovative research frontiers.
Open Science Under Debate: Disentangling the Interest on Twitter and Scholarly Research The results show that there were different needs for open science from the public and researchers though they are both interested in open science knowledge and infrastructure.
Is open access disrupting the journal business? A perspective from comparing full adopters, partial adopters, and non-adopters The findings reveal that both full-OA adopters and partial adopters exhibit greater market power than non-adopters. This suggests that OA disrupts the market power of both incumbents and traditional businesses. Through this transition, established incumbents extend their market power from traditional business to an innovative paradigm, securing monopolistic rent in academic publishing.
Global research trends and hotspots on smoking and lung cancer from 1994-2023: A bibliometric analysis The findings of our study revealed key areas for focus in smoking and lung cancer research, having a view of supplying important data and motivation for further investigations.
The rise of teamwork and career prospects in academic science Our results demonstrate that academic science has not adjusted its reward structure, which is largely individual, in response to team science.
On the emergence of interdisciplinary scientific fields: (how) does it relate to science convergence? In this study, we showed that literature streams about the evolution of a new scientific field and science convergence describe two interre-lated processes.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Post-COVID-19 Syndrome Utilizing bibliometric analysis, the study highlights the detrimental impact of mental health issues on Post-COVID-19 patients' quality of life, emphasizing the urgency for further research and treatment. The sheer scale of COVID-19 cases underscores this need, while international collaboration emerges as a pivotal tool for advancing our understanding and addressing this challenge.
Big Tech influence over AI research revisited: Memetic analysis of attribution of ideas to affiliation Our study suggests that the notion of Big Tech's dominance over AI research is overly simplistic, advocating for a more nuanced understanding of the roles played by Big Tech companies, corporations, and Academia in shaping the future of AI.
The anglicization of science in China The findings underscore the risk of underestimating China's scien-tific output by only counting English-language publications. We highlight the importance of creating a comprehensive multilingual database and the significant role of non-English-language research in global scientific discourse.
COVID-19 literature in Elsevier finance journal ecosystem Through a bibliometric analysis of 1238 documents on COVID-19 published in the EFJE, we provide data description and embark on a visual odyssey, mapping the interconnected networks of journals, authors, and papers engaged in exploring the COVID-19 financial issues and impacts. Furthermore, content analysis based on the bibliographic coupling of 71 documents provides insights into four thematic clusters and orientations for future research in the domain of post-pandemic strategy in economy and finance.
The multifaceted factors affecting the publication times of pediatric ophthalmology and strabismus articles: what has changed in two decades Importantly, this study revealed that publication times have become shorter in all 3-time intervals over the past 2 decades. This report may assist authors to have realistic expectations regarding the submission process in leading journals publishing POS articles. Furthermore, the journal's editorial department may identify areas for further improvement of journal submission and publication systems.
Defining the early career researcher: A study of publication-based definitions Defining early career researchers through proxies may influence the outcomes of the study, emphasizing the importance of thoughtful consideration when formulating the definition.
How fast do scholarly papers get read by various user groups? A longitudinal and cross-disciplinary analysis of the evolution of Mendeley readership The findings highlight Mendeley readership as a rapid and substantial altmetric, yet they also emphasize the need to inter- pret the nature of the attention captured by Mendeley readership with caution, considering its potential biases introduced by the varying engagement levels of different user groups across disciplines.
Understanding author choices in the current conservation publishing landscape Overall, different demographics had different preferences for journals and were limited in their selection based on attributes such as open access policy.
Global Ranking of Expertise about Russia In this paper, we introduced the bibliometric-based ranking focusing exclusively on the scientific performance of organizations whose research enriches our knowledge of Russia.
Is orthodontic research falling prey to obscure and predatory journals? A bibliometric study The majority of orthodontic articles were published in non-orthodontic journals. In addition, approximately one in five orthodontic studies were published in presumed predatory journals or in journals of uncertain legitimacy. Studies with higher levels of evidence were more likely to be published in established orthodontic journals.
Current status and trends of urinary incontinence research in recent 10 years based on VOSviewer visualized analysis: An observational study This study demonstrates that Ul research is more advanced in Europe and North America and that Neurourology and Urodynamics is the most influential journal in the field. In addition, epidemiology, treatment, and male Ul will continue to be prominent topics. Our study contributes to a more comprehensive understanding of the current state of Ul research and provides insights into future research directions in the field.
Identifying authorial roles in research: A Kano model-based bibliometric analysis for the Journal of Medicine (Baltimore) 2023 The Kano model serves as an effective tool for uncovering the diverse contributions of authors in medical research.
Disruptive content, cross agglomeration interaction, and agglomeration replacement: Does cohesion foster strength? The agglomeration size acts as a partial intermediary in the Multi Size Dkc index from the dual perspective and as a full mediator in the Flow Size Dkc index from the disruptive perspective, but only with a direct effect from the consolidative perspective. The stepwise regression results indicate that a larger agglomeration size results in a Dkc index closer to zero (i.e., a lower ability to drive disruptive and consolidative innovation).
Keywords, citations and 'algorithm magic': exploring assumptions about ranking in academic literature searches online In this study, we sought to understand the assumptions that academics – as users of online scholarly databases – hold about the role that algorithms are playing, as intermediaries between their search terms and the ranking of results.
Sharing endodontic research on social media platforms: Is it effective? A 10-year timeline analysis Our data suggest an increasing positive correlation between social media mentions and article citations over the years.
Decoding National Innovation Capacities: A Comparative Analysis of Publication Patterns in Cybersecurity, Privacy, and Blockchain This research provides insights for policymakers and institutions aiming to enhance research capabilities in these critical areas of technology. Across all the fields, economic resources emerge as a dominant predictor of publication output, with GNI per capita consistently showing the strongest positive effect. Building on the current study, future research could extend our understanding of scientific productivity at the country level in several ways.
Publication pressure and questionable research practices: a moderated mediation model This study expands understanding of the relationship between publication pressure and QRPs from the viewpoint of moral self-regulation. Building upon the identified positive relationship between publication pressure and QRPs, this study reveals that moral disengagement serves as a full mediator in this relationship. These findings also have implications for science management and policy.
Independent Russian medical science: is there any? The analysis of data from three international databases indicates a significant growth in the number of Russian medical papers published in foreign journals in recent years. In essence, international cooperation emerges as one of the primary drivers of top-level Russian medical publications. Given that 81% of the most productive authors participate in international projects and the recent suspension of many ties and collaborations with foreign scientists, we expect a significant decline in Russia's presence in core medical journals in the near future.
Seed-based information retrieval in networks of research publications: Evaluation of direct citations, bibliographic coupling, co-citations, and PubMed-related article score In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that CC is a better choice than BC and DC for seed-based information retrieval, but combining the approaches increases the retrieval effectiveness. We suggest that future research use more structured approaches to evaluate methods for seed-based retrieval of publications, including comparative approaches as well as the elaboration of common data sets and baselines for evaluation.
Describing the Landscape of Medical Education Preprints on MedRxiv: Current Trends and Future Recommendations Medical education research is being deposited as preprints, which are promoted, heavily accessed, and subsequently published in peer-reviewed journals, including medical education journals. Considering the benefits of preprints and the slowness of medical education publishing, it is likely that preprint depositing will increase and preprints will be integrated into the field's discourse. The authors propose next steps to facilitate responsible and effective creation and use of preprints.
A Machine Learning and Large Language Model-Integrated Approach to Research Project Evaluation This paper presents a machine learning and large language model integrated approach to research project evaluation.
International publication activity in orthopaedic surgery over a ten-year interval International publishing activity in orthopaedic surgery has increased substantially over the last 10 years.
Top 100 cited articles related to EUS: A bibliometric analysis Our analysis provides an insight into the top 100 articles in the field of EUS, revealing EUS-guided FNA, tumor staging, and transluminal drainage as the major advances in the past 35 years.
Unveiling novelty evolution in the field of library and information science in China This study investigated the topic distribution of research papers in the field of LIS in China from 2000 to 2022, calculated the novelty of each paper, analysed the distribution characteristics of novelty across different research topics, explored the evolutionary relationship of novelty over time and finally analysed the impact of collaboration pattern on novelty.
Declining planetary health as a driver of camera-trap studies: Insights from the web of science database This study assesses ecological and conservation informatics and provides a reference to scholars, policymakers, and decision-makers.
Science of science: A multidisciplinary field studying science Taking an integrated perspective to the field of science of science can offer answers to fundamental questions about science: its origins, evolution, foundations and constraints.
Unleashing the potential: a quest to understand and examine the factors enriching research and innovation productivities of South Asian universities The results revealed that the factors found to be enriching research productivity, though the impact is negligible, are patent rights, funding for tertiary education, information technology, and publications, but tertiary school enrollment is not.
Exploring Generative Artificial Intelligence Research: A Bibliometric Analysis Approach "Based on the findings from this study, we conclude that generative AI research in the past ten years has been highly technical, with most research focusing on developing deep neural networks and related techniques and their application to image processing, pattern recognition, and computer vision."
The importance of international and national publications for promotion and the impact of recruitment policies This study examined to what extent publications in international or local outlets affect the time to promotion, variation in impact across different categories of scientists, the impact of a new academic incentive in 2015, and new promotion regulation introduced by the gov-ernment in 2016, which gave more emphasis to local articles. One important implica-tion is that similar policies may encourage researchers to publish in substandard journals and engage in questionable publication behaviour (Matumba et al., 2019) and that interfer-ence with performance evaluation carries the risk of reducing performance. Some limitations and venues for future research should be mentioned.
Do research universities specialize in disciplines where they hold a competitive advantage? Providing such data to research managers and policymakers can help inform strategies to enhance both micro- and macro-level efficiency.
What we should learn from pandemic publishing Domain-informed scientific collaboration is the key to preparing for future crises. Amid rising concerns about reproducibility and retractions, knowledge transfer between subject matter experts and non-experts is essential to ensure the quality and relevance of publications—particularly during crises like the COVID-19 pandemic. Going forward, we hope the combination of scientist-led initiatives, technology-based solutions, editorial policies, and funding initiatives proposed here will encourage interdisciplinary research collaborations and help rebuild trust—both within the scientific community and with the public.
How Do Authors Choose Keywords for Their Theses and Dissertations in Repositories of University Libraries? An Introspection-Based Enquiry This study concludes that author keyword assignment was guided by concepts fundamental to the representation of the meaningful content of the text, and that keywords were ordered based the main theme of the research, as well as an awareness of the need for visibility and retrieval. Finally, this study's results show that authors act as domain expert indexers, but are unaware that keyword assignment is an indexing process that requires representation by controlled vocabularies. The better option is a hybrid information representation and retrieval system which allows keywords and controlled vocabulary indexing terms to coexist.
PUTTING SCHOLARLY IMPACT IN CONTEXT: IMPLICATIONS FOR POLICYMAKING AND PRACTICE Our study contributes to policymaking and practice by improving the theoretical conceptualization of scholarly impact; offering a metric for comparing the impact of individual scholars, research groups (e.g., teams, centers, and institutes), and business schools; aiding funding agencies in making informed decisions; assisting in the training and development of faculty and doctoral students; supporting policies for review, promotion, and tenure; and providing critical information for talent management practices including selection, succession planning, and rewards.
Profiling team exploration strategies of collaborating authors from artificial intelligence in computer science In this study, we have investigated the exploration profiles of authors by developing a theoretical framework utilizing configuration values of ego networks measured via WSCC and WCC.
The 100 most cited articles about orofacial trauma in children and adolescents: bibliometric analysis This quantitative and qualitative bibliometric analysis can be useful for clinicians, researchers, and public policy development. The findings demonstrated the need for studies focused on improving the treatment of orofacial trauma.
Don't be abstract: Crafting an impactful abstract for educational technology research These findings can be used by authors to structure an impactful abstract and also highlight elements (e.g., theoretical framework, sample size and context) that should be included to improve discoverability of published work. Therefore, our advice is to spend time on your abstract, rather than it being an afterthought in the writing process, to make your work as impactful as possible.
An ESTs detection research based on paper entity mapping: Combining scientific text modeling and neural prophet This research proposes a novel framework for detecting ESTs that combines scientific text modeling with trend prediction and clustering models. Overall, this study provides the theoretical contribution to detection studies of ESTs and the practical advice for scientific and technological development.
Examining uncertainty in journal peer reviewers' recommendations: a cross-sectional study Reviewers commonly experience some uncertainty when peer-reviewing journal articles. This uncertainty is part of the variability in peer reviewers’ recommendation.
Exploring team creativity: The nexus between freshness and experience Utilizing a comprehensive dataset comprising more than 5 million medical papers spanning the years 1980 to 2021, our study delves into the intricate dynamics of team freshness and its relationship with career ages. Our study has important implications for the strategic formation of scientific teams. Future research may employ quasi-experiments in specific contexts to uncover causal relationships and shed light on these mechanisms.
Beyond declarations: Metrics, rankings and responsible assessment Despite the significant momentum of responsibility in research evaluation, extant literature presents limited evidence on the extent to which responsible assessment outcomes depart from metric indicators of quality in the post-DORA era.
Are you aware of your citations? A cross-sectional survey on improper citations of retracted articles in assisted reproduction Correcting publications that contain references which are subsequently retracted is significant for systematic reviews, meta-analyses and guidelines.
Investigating the causal effects of affiliation diversity on the disruption of papers in Artificial Intelligence In this work, we first explore the impact of affiliation diversity on the disruption of papers in the field of AI based on PSM methods.
Supply chain management research productivity and topics: 2020-2022 The results above effectively achieve the research objectives specified in the Introduction, depicting the persistent evolution and dispersion of supply chain research authorship. Ultimately, this growth of authorship bodes well for scholarly innovation in supply chain. We voice concerns, however, about both the supply of new supply chain scholars and the decreasing authorship of industry practitioners that had been a staple of our applied field.
Assessment of h-index and associated demographic and academic parameters for academic hematologists in Canada This study provides details on the h-index curve/parameters for academic productivity of hematologists in Canada.
A Qualitative Study on the Relationship between Faculty Mobility and Scientific Impact: Toward the Sustainable Development of Higher Education In conclusion, through Spearman's rank correlation coefficient analysis, we can draw two conclusions. Firstly, regardless of the discipline, there is a low negative correlation between the frequency of faculty mobility and the change in citation counts before and after mobility. Through the Wilcoxon signed-rank test analysis, we find that across all disciplines, regardless of mobility frequency, there is a significant decrease in citation counts after mobility compared to before.
Does social media contribute to research impact? An Altmetric study of highly-cited marketing research The positive correlations observed underscore the critical role of diverse social media engagement in boosting both immediate visibility and longer-term academic impact.
Measuring hotness transfer of individual papers based on citation relationship In this paper, based on the idea of hotness transfer, we propose a PageRank-like algorithm which is an iterative algorithm to quantify the degree of hotness transfer of a single paper. This method can not only measure the degree of hotness transfer when a paper is pub- lished, but also the degree of hotness transfer after accumulating a period of citations. We also find that the research fields, team size, and the number of references can have an impact on the perfor- mance of the hotness transfer indicator, which reminds us that we need to control these fac- tors when comparing the hotness transfer scores of different papers.
Measurement of disruptive innovation and its validity based on improved disruption index Overall, we addressed the possible biases of existing indices and developed a superior evaluation metric in terms of accuracy, comparability, convergence, and predictive validity.
An integrated indicator for evaluating scientific papers: considering academic impact and novelty In this study, an integrated indicator is constructed to evaluate papers in terms of impact and novelty. Our findings reveal no positive correlation between these factors, emphasizing the necessity of a multifaceted approach in evaluating scientific papers. In future research, additional factors can be explored, such as the disciplinary attributes, novelty, and social impact of papers.
Mapping scientific mobility in leading Eurozone economies: insights from ORCID data analysis "This analysis of researcher mobil- ity in the Eurozone allows us to track migratory flows, identifying both sending and receiv- ing countries."
The impact of China's "double world-class" policy on the scientific research outputs of basic disciplines in universities First, the DWC policy has significantly promoted the scientific research outputs in relevant universities of China; however, this promoting impact is significantly observed only when the number of publications is considered, but insignificant when it comes to the relative terms.
A multicriteria approach to ranking Latin-American universities based on region-specific criteria This study analyzed various aspects that significantly impact the positioning of universities in the region within global rankings.
Evaluating the wisdom of scholar crowds from the perspective of knowledge diffusion This work provides a new perspective for expanding the 'wisdom of crowds' theory and a novel method for evaluating knowledge diffusion and the wisdom of scholar crowds.
The use of bibliometrics in nursing science: Topics, data sources and contributions to research and practice Bibliometric studies have proved useful to map nursing research. These studies have been relevant to quantify the scholarly output in the field, to understand the social structure of the scientific community that engages in knowledge creation, and to assess the maturity of the discipline. Further research is still needed to explore the coverage of the nursing literature by new bibliographic data sources and to explore topics such as gender imbalance in research, an issue of great relevance in nursing science.
Publication productivity of pathology residents: a nationwide cohort study in France The mandatory medical thesis provides a valuable opportunity for pathology residents to engage in research and may be the first step towards publication productivity.
A Bibliometric Analysis and Visualisation of Digital Teaching and Learning Publications From Southeast Asia Countries The number of publications related to digital teaching and learning conducted by scholars from SEA countries was limited before 2019; however, in the last 5 years, there has been a significant increase in the number of publications, with approximately 86% of the publication collection being published during this period (Figure 2). To keep up with the rapid growth of this research area, scholars from other Southeast Asia nations must focus more on this field to improve their scientific productions. Therefore, on the one hand, it is essential for SEA scholars working in digital education to improve their internal and external collaboration networks to increase their scientific output. On the other hand, SEA scholars must also focus on enhancing the quality of their future publications.
Transformative agreements, publication venues and Open Access policies at the University of Milan The findings of our analysis reveal that when assessing the potential of various publication types within a specific academic context, one must consider the regulations governing the career trajectories of the authors of those publications. Both Italian regulations regarding scientific careers and university policies that indiscriminately favour all Gold open access journals risk promoting a significant number of scientifically irrelevant publications.
Status of peer review guidelines in international surgical journals: A cross-sectional survey Key contents of peer review guidelines for the reviewers of surgical journals not only include items relating to reviewing research methodology, statistical methods, figures, tables and data, research innov-ation, ethical review, but also cover items concerning reviewing surgical videos, surgical database research, surgery-related outcome measure-ments, instructions on how to write a review report, and guidelines on how to assess quality of peer review. The future development of peer review guidelines by surgical journals should focus on the above content and academic review. At the same time, accurate peer review guidelines are devel-oped for various levels of reviewers, including junior and senior reviewers, professional reviewers and patients or public reviewers, as well as for different types of manuscripts, such as original articles, reviews, case reports, and surgical database researches.
Determining research priorities using machine learning We have found there is potential to utilize Machine Learning (ML) to aid in science planning and prioritization.
Behind the Curve but Moving Ahead Advocating for an Open Access Policy as a Late-Stage Adopter Open access policies that require authors on campus to deposit scholarly work in a university's institutional repository have become commonplace over the last fifteen years at research-intensive institutions. Although universities that do not yet have an open access policy likely face structural or cultural constraints that have prevented progress on this front, they are also in a unique position to leverage the wealth of knowledge and best practices available on developing and implementing an open access policy. We hope the roadmap we have provided in this case study will help other libraries begin the process of successfully passing open access policies on their campuses and grow the availability of open research online.
Exploring a Read and Publish Agreement The Three-Year Taylor & Francis Pilot The pilot read and publish agreement between Ohio State and Taylor & Francis enabled us to meet several goals established in the TSPE strategic initiative. Fifth, we enabled the publication of 346 open access articles at no expense to our authors, waiving a total of $1,057,370 of list price APCs. Lastly, we learned how to work together differently and were able to share lessons learned with our institution and with our consortial partners.
Are Transformative Agreements Worth It? An Analysis of Open Access Publication Data at the University of Kentucky Overall, the data showed that there was consistent growth in OA publishing at each of the institutions analyzed in this project. Equipped with the estimated OA publishing data from this project, UK Libraries are able to utilize additional data points in evaluating TAs and any OA proposal from publishers. As of right now, the data has helped to inform UK Libraries' decision not to pursue any TAs from the large commercial publishers because they are, at the present and in their current form, not worth it.
Breaking the Mold of Promotion and Tenure Polices that De-Incentivize Open Access Publishing A Case Study of an LIS Faculty SLIM is proud of having accomplished the strong, positive inclusion of OA in its promotion and tenure criteria and policy.
A Census of Institutional Repositories at Regional Public Universities This study provides a census of IRs at RPUs in the United States and its territories. RPUs were unique in the prevalence of student works, special collections, and archival materials found in their IRs, as they are more likely to hold these objects than other institution types reported on in previous censuses. The large number of student works held in IRs at RPUs illustrates a successful model for recruiting student content that could serve as a model for other types of institutions looking to grow in this area.
Navigating Open Access and Transformative Agreements A Case Study of the University of Maryland "Ultimately, each institution must assess the economic and political implications of the agreement they are entering into in relation to their specific requirements and priorities."
Growing an Institutional Repository Leveraging a Citation Database as a Tool for Sourcing Deposits and Conducting Outreach Encouraging engagement with institutional repositories is something of a perennial problem. At Atkins Library, establishing a mediated deposit workflow that leverages existing citation data, along with batch processes for crosswalking metadata and ingesting works, has helped populate the repository and engage faculty members and researchers. Atkins Library has seen success in using existing metadata and batch processes to expedite repository deposits, both demonstrating the value of an institutional repository to faculty and researchers and contributing to a more active culture and practice of open access.
Interdisciplinarity in cultural gerontology and geriatric medical humanities - a bibliometric survey Our study indicates that single authorship is the most frequent mode of peer-reviewed publishing in cultural gerontology, whilst acknowledging that some authors may have scholarly training in multiple fields but are listed as unidisciplinary.
An effective framework for measuring the novelty of scientific articles through integrated topic modeling and cloud model In this study, we combined topic modeling and cloud models to measure the novelty of scientific articles. The results show that our method has a significant positive correlation with various types of novel papers, and can measure the novelty levels of papers reasonably accurately using only the title information. These findings not only contribute to improving the efficiency and quality of paper reviews, but also provide valuable insights for the application of novelty prediction techniques in scientific paper evaluation.
COVID-19 and diabetes research: Where are we now and what does the future hold? A bibliometric visualization analysis The results will help clinicians to understand the current state of research and the latest trends on COVID-19 and DM. We have identified three main directions for future research in this area. This study will contribute to understanding its clinical features, prognosis, prevention, and treatment and provide additional attention and support to such patients.
Global Scientific Overview of Dermatology Related to COVID-19: A Bibliometric Analysis Articles related to dermatology and COVID-19 are mostly published with American and Italian affiliations. In addition, there has been an increase in the distribution of articles published in the first quartile, which would reflect a growing interest in the community. Publications with international collaboration reported the highest impact, so future authors should take this into account.
Referee quality and article citations: a case study of a finance journal Overall, we provide insights which are of interest and relevance across higher education research.
Comparative analysis of factors and barriers intervening in research participation among romanian and international medical graduates from one romanian medical faculty across three generations The findings of this study offer important perspectives into the involvement of medical undergraduates in research during medical school, as well as the factors and barriers that interfere with research participation.
Exploring Academic Networks in the Fields of Cybernetics and Economics: A Bibliometric Analysis of the Economic Computation and Economic Cybernetics Studies and Research Journal This study provides an in-depth look at the development of research in cybernetics and economics, highlighting the impacts and upcoming trends in this area of study. Our research in this study focused on exploring trends, priorities and changes in academic research, contextualising its evolution considering the events and challenges of the analysed periods. Next, we will highlight the impact of these findings on the understanding of the evolution of research in the fields of cybernetics and economics, and we will discuss their implications for the future directions of academic research in this field.
A study on citation impact with age diversity among disciplines This study contributes to a deeper understanding of age-related dynamics in scientific collaboration.
Mapping the paths of highly cited researchers: a comprehensive look at the 2023 cross-field distribution This work first allowed us to note that handling researchers who publish numerous highly cited articles without reaching the category thresholds required to appear on the list has long been a challenge for its designers.
"Insert witty catchphrase here!": do title elements influence engagement and citation?- examining highly-cited research articles in media, communication, and related disciplines Theoretically, our findings partially support scientometric theoretical frameworks suggesting that publication metrics are influenced by universalist and presentation elements. Practically, we provide scholars, especially young and early-career ones, with valuable suggestions on how to come up with effective titles. Publication metrics should merely be part of the assessment process.
"The Best Home for This Paper": A Qualitative Study of How Authors Select Where to Submit Manuscripts This study provides an international perspective on the factors and signals that medical education researchers consider when selecting a journal for their research. Participants in the study demonstrated a thoughtful and nuanced approach considering various journal's impact, audience, and accessibility, and made decisions based on the alignment between the journal and their research goals and values.
Mapping the evolution of ethical standards in trading: A bibliometric analysis In conclusion, the study highlights the critical importance of ethics in trading and provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of research in this field.
Article ranking with location-based weight in contextual citation network This study provides a multidimensional framework to assess the impact of academic papers, suggesting that future evaluations should consider not only the number of citations but also their context.
Scientific misconduct responsibility attribution: An empirical study on byline position and team identity in Chinese medical papers Authorship exerts a pronounced influence on the attribution of accountability in scientific research misconduct, particularly evident in the heightened risk of severe penalties confronting first and corresponding authors owing to their principal roles.
Intelligent recognition of high-quality academic papers: based on knowledge-based metasemantic networks This paper proposes a method for constructing an academic paper knowledge element semantic network based on SciBERT. The model considers the journal impact factor and the paper's weighted average citation indicators to distinguish between high and low-quality academic papers. In future research, the temporal characteristics of knowledge elements could be incorporated into the model.
The emergence and evolution of ambiguous ideas: an innovative application of social network analysis to support systematic literature reviews This article advances the use of SNA methods in systematic literature reviews by demonstrating how more advanced applications of SNA tools can be deployed to understand the evolution of ambiguous ideas that transverse knowledge communities. Finally, when descriptive network statistics are applied to the longitudinal MMSNA protocol, emergent findings surface, such as clear mechanisms for writers gaining influence (i.e. persistence and saturation).
Is there a sufficient supply of clinical academics for UK medical schools? A retrospective cohort study Either clinical academic trainees do not find jobs at medical schools, or they do not want the jobs that are available. These results are indicative but not conclusive as generalisation is compromised by inconsistent disclosure of data by medical schools. We need to look to improve clinical academics workforce data collection to enable a more comprehensive match against other data sources, look at variations in academic trainee progres-sion into clinical academic positions by medical school, specialty and postgraduate training programmes.
Machine Learning on 50,000 Manuscripts Shows Increased Clinical Research by Academic Cardiac Surgeons Academic cardiac surgeons are performing less basic or translational research relative to clinical research than ever before. Research endeavors over the past 40 y have spanned the breadth of adult and congenital cardiac surgery, while most publications did not involve multi-institutional collaboration. Future efforts should focus on fostering impactful clinical research and increasing collaborative basic and translational science.
Addressing authorship dilemmas in scholarly publications: a solution-oriented study The main aim of the proposed quantification approach is to support the qualitative discussions among potential authors regarding authorship, helping them reach a consensus on authorship and authorship order. This helps prevent injustices and ensures that all contributors have a voice, regardless of their power and influence.
Cost, Advocacy, and a Mechanism for Transformation The Proposed Power of Open Access Funds Based on these parameters, our OA Author Fund is a successful project.
Exploring the applicability of large language models to citation context analysis Our research indicates that, at least in its current version, (i.e., gpt3.5-turbo-0310), it is not feasible to rely solely on LLM to create data for citation context analysis, that is, annotation, because the LLM annotation results have lower predictive performance than those from human annotators. However, given the higher consistency of LLM annotation results compared to the human annotation results, LLM can be used to enhance a specific aspect of the data preparation process, which is determining the data that will ultimately be used in the analysis. These findings have implications for researchers who wish to conduct citation context analysis that requires large data sets, such as inter-disciplinary comparisons.
The current state of institutional repositories in universities of Türkiye: An applied research study The findings of this study identified several areas of need specific to the problems and needs of institutional repositories in Türkiye. This study contributes to the literature by providing a comprehensive analysis of institutional repository prac-tices in Turkish universities, filling a notable gap in scholarly research. Future research might focus on several crucial areas to enhance the effectiveness of institutional repositories.
Evolution of topics and trends in emerging research fields: multiple analyses with entity linking, Mann-Kendall test and burst methods in cloud computing Results can support scientific and technological forecasting in emerging research fields for effective decision-making in directing R&D investments towards fruitful scientific and technological change.
(Dis)harmonic styles of valuation: A study of academic justification across research domains and levels of assessment Our analysis offers an approach for comparing across fields that can be utilizable in a broader discussion on disciplinary styles of valuation and their relation to organizational changes and policy initiatives. Thus, when developing insights on 'quality understandings' and their operationalization through styles of valuation—in academia we need to put less emphasis on their origins and rather focus on how they come to travel between and co-exist within specific evaluative contexts.
Where do field-specific notions of research quality come from? First, researchers in both fields use a large variety of quality criteria that are im- possible to subsume under the common general notions of originality, rigour, and validity. Second, the quality criteria used in the six hundred assess- ments I studied do appear to be situative enactments of col- lective frames. Third, the existence of field-specific quality frames can be explained by their relation to field-specific research practices and their epistemic properties.
Funding lotteries for research grant allocation: An extended taxonomy and evaluation of their fairness In this study we introduced an expanded taxonomy of selection procedures in science funding systems. The simulation results show that the big distinction in epistemic and ethical considerations of fairness may not distinguish between traditional peer review and funding lotteries overall, but rather between low- and strong-randomness Types. Another unexpected finding that deserves discussion is the large variation in the performance of partial lotteries with by-pass (Type 2) which are being run by several funders.
Views of a non-probability sample of corresponding authors with retracted publications in biomedical fields about the impact of different types of retractions on researchers' careers Overall, our results suggest that for these researchers publishing in the biomedical sciences, recognition for publications in high-impact-factor journals continues to be the main source of credit and rewards in the research system, although the number of publications, irrespective of journal, has a relevant role in gaining such recognition.
Enabling preprint discovery, evaluation, and analysis with Europe PMC Europe PMC offers a single search for life science journal articles and preprints. This improves preprint visibility, aided by preprints' default inclusion in search results.
Ethics statements in Rheumatology journals: present practices and future directions This paper underscores the importance of a strong ethics statement in rheumatology research for maintaining high ethical standards, credibility, and reproducibility. New chal-lenges, such as the use of social media and AI in research, pose new ethical questions and warrant further clarifica-tion and standardization of practices.
Public interest in science or bots? Selective amplification of scientific articles on Twitter Our work proposes a machine-learning model to interpret the public interest in any scientific article by predicting the possibility of bot activity in the article's dissemination.
Research progress and evolutionary trends in landscape pattern under a carbon-neutral context The study of landscape patterns in the context of carbon neutrality is in a stage of systematic develop-ment, and research in this field can be divided into three periods: germination (2001–2007), fluctuation (2008-2019), and rapid development(2020-2024).
Faculty scholarly productivity in APA-accredited counseling psychology programs: gender and racial disparities This study contributes the following major conclusions, which can inform, policy, practice, and future research: (1) average h-indexes were highest among full professors, followed by associate professors, and then assistant professors for all faculty academic ranks, (2) perceived gender was a significant negative predictor of the h-index, h-index norm, and papers per author, (3) perceived BIPOC status was also a significant negative predictor of h-index, h-index norm, papers per author, and a positive predictor of authors per paper, and finally, (4) the interaction of perceived gender and perceived BIPOC status was not significant, but perceived BIPOC women faculty tended to have lower h-indexes, normed h-indexes, and papers per author than their White male counterparts.
Machine learning misclassification networks reveal a citation advantage of interdisciplinary publications only in high-impact journals Our results show that (1) a misclassification network, though similar to a citation-based map of science, reveals markedly different proximities of disciplines (e.g., much stronger links between social sciences and humanities and a much weaker coupling of biochemistry and medicine), (2) misclassification is related to interdisciplinarity, and (3) interdisciplinarity has a clear positive impact on the success of an article only at the top-ranked journals, while at all others it either has no or even a negative impact.
The Top 100 Most-Cited Articles on Religion from 2010 to 2023: A Bibliometric and Altmetric Analysis To our knowledge, this is the first study to use the altmetric attention score as a supporting indicator to analyze the top 100 most-cited articles on religion based on traditional bibliometric analysis. The results show that the AAS is weakly positively correlated with the_AIS (r = 0.285), and weakly negatively correlated with the NYsP (r = -0.233), but is not significantly correlated with the II, TC, ACpY, Nor-EF, and IF. As a supporting metric of traditional bibliometrics, we believe that the importance of AAS may increase over time as the influence of social media continues to expand.
Do Changes in Journal Rank Influence Publication Output? Evidence from China Employing the DID model, this study contributes to the empirical estimation of the effect of journal rank changes, as reflected in a nationally prominent list, on the pub-lication output of Chinese researchers.
Comparative science mapping: a novel conceptual structure analysis with metadata In this paper, we analysed the research positioning of the different Italian public IRCCS specialising in oncological research.
Assessing main paths by uncovering their coverage with key-node path search In summary, the concepts and methodologies disclosed in this study ensure the accuracy and reliability of findings and conclusions drawn from MPA. The primary MP captures the most prominent trajectory within this densely connected portion and should not be casually dismissed despite its lim-ited coverage. Regarding future studies, the key-node path search offers some promising directions.
How has scientific performance of distinguished young scholars in China changed compared to their early careers? The findings showed that: a) early successful research experiences significantly impact their emergence as outstanding scientists. While a low correlation exists between publication ages and awards, perseverance proves crucial for later-stage academic achievements; b) productivity increases before awards, with notable variations between first-author and non-first-authored publications; c) collaboration intensifies before awards, particularly in non-first author roles. This study could offer a reference for formulating well-founded talent training programs and reward mechanisms.
The relationship between coauthorship and the research impact of medical doctoral students: A social capital perspective This study defines nine independent variables from doctoral students' coauthorship network based on three dimensions of social capital theory and examines how these indicators interact, influence, and predict doctoral students' h-index. The results show that utilizing social capital from coauthorship networks, especially betweenness centrality, student-mentor coauthorship count and the partnership ability index, is an effective way to increase the research impact of medical doctoral students. Most importantly, they provide several strategies for harnessing social capital for relevant organizations, mentors and doctoral students who want to increase medical doctoral students' research impact.
A clustering approach for classifying scholars based on publication performance using bibliometric data We have concluded seven academic profiles of scholars based on their research performance characteristics, showcasing different profiles within the sample population.
One-Bit In, Two-Bit Out: Network-Based Metrics of Papers Can Be Largely Improved by Including Only the External Citation Counts without the Citation Relations This shows that it is possible to enhance the effectiveness of a network-based metric calculated on a relatively small citation network by including only the additional data of the citation counts, without the additional citation relations.
The Performance and Qualitative Evaluation of Scientific Work at Research Universities: A Focus on the Types of University and Research The main goal of this study is to fill the gap for the lack of knowledge on the assessment of the university research quality, with a focus on the university type and research type.
The international dissemination of China's English academic journals on Twitter: Structure, theme and impact The following conclusions were drawn from the analysis of the diffusion structure and characteristics of China's English academic journal papers on Twitter by means of social network analysis, content analysis and scientometrics: (1) There is a strong positive correlation between the diffusion structure and network size (number of nodes) in journal articles from the fields of natural sciences and engineering as well as humanities and social sciences.
On the temporal diversity of knowledge in science Collectively, this study elucidates the dynamics of temporal diversity and its implications for innovation, providing new frameworks in the science of science and evidence on how innovation is driven by the temporal diversity of knowledge. This paper contributes to the field of science of science and innovation by advancing our understanding of temporal diversity in scientific knowledge and its implications for scientific impact and innovation. Thirdly, the study identifies that the observed positive association between temporal diversity and disruption can be primarily attributed to the use of older references.
Cultural distance, gender and praise in peer review In summary, these discoveries contribute valu-able insights for the development of a constructive peer review process and the establishment of a more inclusive research culture.
Exploring the connection between EU-funded research and methodological approaches: insights from a retrospective analysis These insights highlight a correlation between methodological choices and the translational potential of research outcomes, suggesting the need for a reconsideration of research strategy planning in future framework programs.
A new approach to computing the distances between research disciplines based on researcher collaborations and similarity measurement techniques In this paper, we propose a novel approach to create the distance matrix which represents an important input in scientometrics for research assessment.
Interdisciplinarity and expert rating: an analysis based on faculty opinions In conclusion, although interdisciplinarity enhances citation impact, it appears to be underappreciated in Faculty Opinions.
Status compensation effect in grant applications: applicants of lower status create longer titles for their grant proposals in China Findings of this study illustrate the preva-lent status-induced compensatory behaviors in grant applications, which contribute to research on the compensation effect and bear practical implications for the scientific community.
Success and opportunities of the American Academy of Pediatrics Marshall Klaus research grant program in neonatal-perinatal medicine In conclusion, our study highlights important trends in the Marshall Klaus perinatal research funding program.
Field-specific gold open access dynamics in the Chinese mainland: Overviews, disparities, and strategic insights The findings underscore the importance of developing tailored strategies to address field-specific challenges and promote gold OA dynamics in the Chinese mainland; while prioritizing high-quality gold OA journals is essential for fostering gold OA development in the rest of the world.
The impact of COVID-19 on the debate on open science: a qualitative analysis of published materials from the period of the pandemic The pandemic was a period characterised by an intense focus on science and on its links with society. Our findings suggest that the crisis seems to have created conditions for greater attention on openness, specifically on what its advocates see as its role in improving the scientific process and connecting science with society. What that means for policy and practice will become increasingly apparent as we move into the post-pandemic period.
A new method of calculating the disruption index based on open citation data Given the broad disciplinary coverage of COCI, although it has not yet been able to fully replace the function of commercial citation databases in research assessment, it can undoubtedly serve as an important source of citation data for further the disruption index and other scientometrics research thereafter.
Mapping the trends and impact of research collaboration between countries in oral implantology publications: A bibliometric analysis from 1999 to 2019 The findings revealed that some parameters related to the study, authors, countries, and journals were statistically associated with the presence of collaboration between countries. However, the bibliometric parameters showed different trends when countries of different incomes established collaboration.
A multi-entity reinforced main path analysis: Heterogeneous network embedding considering knowledge proximity The introduction of a multi-entity reinforced MPA model signifies a theoretical advancement in the field. By incorporating knowledge graph embeddings, this study expands the scope of traditional MPA, enabling a more comprehensive understanding of knowledge relationships within a heterogeneous network. This study has practical implications for knowledge extraction in real-world applications.
Effects of research funding on the academic impact and societal visibility of scientific research Our study demonstrates that funded research tends to have lower societal visibility, as measured by AAS, than those without any research funding.
The gender productivity gap in Biochemical and Biophysical sciences. Some evidence to solve the productivity puzzle The article provides evidence on the gap in STEM fields for a Latin American country, which is key to design and implement gendered S&T policy.
core_api_client: An API for the CORE aggregation service for open access papers This paper has presented the CORE API Client library for simplifying access to the extensive repository of open-access scholarly papers aggregated by CORE. In conclusion, the CORE API Client is a valuable addition to researchers' tools, facilitating easier and more efficient access to research literature, thereby contributing to the advancement of knowledge and innovation in various scientific fields.
Demystifying multilingual LIS journals in Scopus: Languages, coverage, metrics, and implications However, it is crucial to recognize the importance of preserving multi- lingualism to promote diverse perspectives and ensure the development of academic knowledge, thereby fostering a more inclusive and globally relevant scholarly landscape.
MeSHelper: Predicting the evolution of Medical Subject Headings based on knowledge graph dynamics The findings of this work aid both in constructing an automatic update model for domain thesauruses and in detecting evolutionary trends of the domain knowledge system. This study primarily aims to predict the evolution of MeSH based on knowledge graph dynamics. The experimental results showed that the Random Forests model was both suitable and effective for predicting the two tasks for MeSH evolution.
Global retractions due to randomly generated content: Characterization and trends These results suggest that the number of retractions due to randomly generated content is on the rise, highlighting an urgent need to establish guidelines for the responsible and transparent use of AI tools and implement disciplinary measures.
Errors of measurement in scientometrics: classification schemes and document types in citation and publication rankings In this article, we have assessed the magnitude of these errors occurring in two recurring situations: (1) considering the document type and (2) considering different classification schemes. The value of the CNCI can vary from 1.5 to 5%. The findings underscore the importance of responsible metric use in research evaluation, providing valuable insights for both bibliometricians and consumers of such data.
Analysis of journal rankings confirms that more cited articles contain more references The negative slopes of the fitted lines express that the number of references is proportional to the citation impact of journals and, in turn, of the articles published in them. Since the high-ranked journals have been publishing more articles than the low-ranked ones this relationship was explained by the combined journal-article-level Matthew effect. Simply saying, the authors prefer to read the high-ranked journals and then cite their articles.
Artificial intelligence alphafold model for molecular biology and drug discovery: a machine-learning-driven informatics investigation In conclusion, through the machine-learning-driven informatics methods, this scientometric analysis offers an objective and comprehensive overview of global AlphaFold research, identifying critical research clusters and hotspots while prospectively pointing out underexplored critical areas.
Crossing Between Clinical Work and Scholarly Publishing: Early-Career Neurosurgeons as Clinician-Researchers Empirical evidence collected during the fieldwork is presented regarding their adoption of three different hybrid solutions when navigating how to connect the two systems (Li, 2014a). Examining the strategies employed and challenges overcome by medical professionals, the study establishes a foundation for future empirical research and interventions aimed at supporting global clinician-researchers in attaining a balanced and successful professional and academic career.
Research Output, Key Topics, and Trends in Productivity, Visibility, and Collaboration in Social Sciences Research on COVID-19: A Scientometric Analysis and Visualization The aim of this investigation was to provide scientific output, highlight key research themes, emerging trends, and patterns, dynamics, and trends of scientific colla-boration at both institution and country levels in COVID-19 research within the social sciences domain.
Trade literature provides a path from research to practice In this study, we established that the trade literature contains several genres of periodicals with greater and lesser connections to the research literature. The trade literature has institutionalized a mechanism of indirect linkage between research and practice. This suggests that making that linkage more visible via indexing the trade literature could provide a useful service for research institutions seeking evidence of the societal impact of their research.
Top research performance in Poland over three decades: A multidimensional micro-data approach Our results show that, in statistical terms, the role of top performers as knowledge producers has been surprisingly stable over the studied three decades, The role of top performers emerges from our research as fundamental today as it was 10, 20, and 30 years ago. First, the model for the top 10% identifies three important predictors that increase the chances of membership in the top 10%: gender, academic age, and publishing patterns. As part of our current research agenda, we are also examining the role of the various classes of top performers globally and across 38 OECD countries; however, this research is in its early stages of data extraction and preprocessing.
Open access improves the dissemination of science: insights from Wikipedia Our findings reveal that OA articles are increasingly cited over time, with their proportion on Wikipedia significantly exceeding that in the broader scientific literature. Moreover, OA articles enjoy a citation advantage on Wikipedia, with a greater likelihood of being referenced compared to similar paywalled articles. These results underscore the importance of OA in broadening the dissemination of scientific knowledge, especially on influential platforms like Wiki- pedia, where newer and more impactful articles are more likely to reach a wider audience.
Development trends and knowledge framework of artificial intelligence (AI) applications in oncology by years: a bibliometric analysis from 1992 to 2022 The investigation of Artificial Intelligence (AI) applications in the field of Oncology is still in its early phases especially for genomics, proteomics, and clinicomics, with extensive studies focused on biology, diagnosis, treatment, and cancer risk assessment. This bibliometric study offers a comprehensive overview of AI in Oncology research, focusing on the discipline's current state. These findings could prove beneficial for both researchers and policymakers seeking to navigate this field.
The trend and ripple effects of retractions in primary health care: A bibliometric analysis Retractions resulting from scientific misconduct in primary health care are increasing, with a substantial portion of such work continuing to be cited. This trend underscores the urgent need to improve research ethics and develop mechanisms that help primary care physicians discern reliable information, thereby reducing the reliance on compromised literature. Besides reinforcing research ethics, publishers and organiza-tions must develop strategies and tools to provide primary care physicians with credible sources of information, which includes minimizing references to retracted studies and enhancing the overall integrity of scientific literature in pri-mary health care.
Exploring the potential of disruptive innovation in the social sciences: A quantitative study of its impact on societal visibility Innovation plays a crucial role in driving societal development, this study aims to investigate the promotional effects of disruptive innovation on societal visibility.
A study of interdisciplinarity in Chinese higher education research: a citation analysis This study launched two holistic investigations into the interdisciplinarity of Chinese HER using citation analysis. Accounting for the COC and Brillouin's index collectively, the study revealed that the interdisciplinarity of international HER is better than that of Chinese HER, which remains in the primary stage (Mingzhong, 2013). In summary, HER has interdisciplinarity as its genotype, but its phenotype varies greatly in different national contexts. Future researchers can explore various aspects of interdisciplinarity by employing alternative bibliometric techniques such as co-authorship analysis.
Factors associated with scientific production conditions among dental students from the Peruvian capital: an analysis under a multivariable regression model A minority of dental students reported favorable conditions for scientific production.
Role of low-impact-factor journals in conservation implementation Our results suggest that academic RPT may undervalue taxa- and region-specific science supporting conservation imple- mentation because of its publication in low-IF journals.
The Influence of Open Access on Institutional Scientific Research Output in MENA Countries: A Comparative Analysis The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between university and research center rankings in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries and their publication practices in open access models, specifically gold and platinum open access. Our study also discovered that MENA countries with higher numbers of published documents in open access had a greater number of institutions ranked in these prestigious rankings. Additionally, we believe that the findings of this study can be applied to other countries globally.
How can we make 'research quality' a theoretical concept? I proposed a definition and theoretical positioning of research quality that appear to align with previous ideas, ground the concept in social theory, and link it to the knowledge production processes of scientific communities.
Altmetric.com or PlumX: Does it matter? In conclusion, our study underscores the importance of carefully selecting alternative metrics data providers based on the specific research context and attention metrics of interest. The findings suggest that researchers should be aware of potential variations in data captured by different alternative metrics platforms. Additionally, interpreting alternative metrics data requires caution, considering the research fields and the specific platform used.
A Decade of the Database Systems Research with the Lens of PODS, SIGMOD, TODS, and TKDE: A Bibliometric Perspective "This study conducted an in-depth bibliometric ana-lysis of the publishing directions in database manage-ment system literature using metadata and article texts from two major database system conferences and journals."
Bibliometric study of BioImpacts using a technological impact approach Based on the present research findings, the technological impact of BI is considerable; so, it is important to present information about this issue on the journal's website and adopt appropriate policies for further development of BI in this field. The present research used the index of patents' citations to scientific articles to examine the technological impact of BI. It was revealed that BI has an appropriate technological impact, and the impact of BI's articles is geographically distributed, indicating its significant visibility and accessibility.
An Investigation of Current Research Support Services in Hungarian Academic Libraries In this study, based on website analysis, we identified that the libraries of selected Hungarian universities are currently offering research support on open-access publication and access to online electronic scientific resources. However, from the current layout of most libraries' homepages, the practice of bibliometrics and research data management services is rarely indicated. We suggest further study investigating the reasons behind the lag of some Hungarian university libraries in offering well-established bibliometric and research data management services that can easily be searchable on library websites.
Citation analysis on publications from Academia Sinica Over the past four decades, both publications and citations at Academia Sinica have increased significantly.
Co-authorship Networks in Left-Behind Children Research in China: A Social Network Analysis The findings underscore the need for targeted support mechanisms for pivotal institutions and advocate for cross-cluster collaborations to enhance research cohesion and impact.
Publish or perish? Innovative models for scholarly publishing in Zimbabwe This paper explored the innovative models implemen-ted in the publishing of scholarly works by scholarly publishers in Zimbabwe. Through implementing a variety of publishing models and embracing new innovative approaches to producing and disseminating scholarly works, Zimbabwe's scholarly publishers are adapting to the changing landscape of scholarly publishing. We rec-ommend that these publishers actively pursue collab-orative publishing opportunities with other academic institutions, scholarly societies, and publishing part-ners.
Global Research Trends on Colorectal Cancer (2014-2023): A Scientometric and Visualized Study With a leading count of 46674 articles, China dominated CRC research, particularly highlighted by the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China. The primarily obtained keywords were CRC, cancer, prognosis, rectal cancer, and colon cancer. Despite the presence of global collaborations, there is a pressing need for increased research funding and support in the CRC, especially within developing nations.
Open access publications drive few visits from Google Search results to institutional repositories In light of our results, we conclude that Spain's institutional repositories need to improve their visibility in Google Search so as to facilitate the findability of publications.
Bibliometric Analysis of Meningiomas from 2001 to 2023: Focus on the Top 100 Most Cited Papers Our findings may provide insights into the evolution of meningioma research and its scholarly impact. The analysis underscores the pivotal contributions of top authors and institutions, outlines thematic research trends, and highlights areas of significant interest and growth in the field. Our study may contribute to understanding the landscape of meningioma research, guiding future research directions and collaborations.
Editors-in-chief publishing in dental journals: Concerns in self-publishing Considering the findings of this study, a potential conflict of interest was determined for EICs publishing in their journal during service.
From bench to bedside: determining what drives academic citations in clinical trials "Our study enhances the understanding of how research is integrated into clinical trials, offering valuable insights for elevating the translational potential of scholarly articles and facilitating their inspirational role in clinical application."
Predicting the emergence of disruptive technologies by comparing with references via soft prompt-aware shared BERT This study proposes a novel model, namely soft prompt-aware shared BERT (SPS-BERT), for forecasting the disruptive potential of scientific technologies.
Are open science practices in dentistry associated with higher Altmetric scores and citation rates? "The adoption of OSPs demonstrated a partial correlation with citation rates and Altmetric scores in RCTs on dental caries; however, these effects are complex and seem more related to the journal's impact factor."
Alternative metrics and social impact of research about Social Sciences in Cuba Our study provides important implications for creative individuals.
Enhancing peer review efficiency: A mixed-methods analysis of artificial intelligence-assisted reviewer selection across academic disciplines The study concludes that while Al shows promise in enhancing reviewer selection efficiency and broadening the reviewer pool, it requires human oversight to address limitations in understanding nuanced disciplinary contexts.
Open Access Publishing Metrics, Cost, and Impact in Health Professions Education Journals Results of this cross-sectional study suggest that adoption by HPE journals of an OA publishing model was high but access to APC waivers or discounts was limited.
Global Research Trends in Predatory Publishing: A Bibliometric and Topic Analysis The findings and suggestions of this study may provide scholarly publishers, journals, researchers, funding agencies, and policymakers with a comprehensive overview of predatory publishing. They can support policymakers, university libraries, and funding agencies in gaining insight and making decisions on predatory publishing. Additionally, they are expected to make researchers and stakeholders more aware of the issue of predatory publishing.
Exploring the changing landscape of medical imaging: insights from highly cited studies before and during the COVID-19 pandemic Over the past four years, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to changes in the research output, international collaborations, and hotspots within highly cited medical imaging studies. Navigating the post-COVID era, it is imperative to continue fostering international collaboration, prioritize resource allocation to refocus on overlooked research areas, and develop long-term strategic plans to prepare for and mitigate the impact of future public health crises.
The Swiss National MD-PhD Grants Programme: an analysis of the career trajectories of grant recipients between 1992 and 2021 The data collected for this study confirm that the competitive Swiss National MD-PhD Grants Programme excels in supporting promising physician scientists who remain active in both research and clinical contexts in the long term.
The impact of the internationalization of political science on publishing in two languages: the case of Japan, 1971-2023 The process of internationalization within Japanese political science had advanced; however, this progression might have accentuated the dichotomy among Japanese political scientists.
Research on bibliometrics and the World's leading universities The study confirms the thesis of Fassin (2022): contrarily to the case of the major scientific fields, it is not the leading universities in the world that were instrumental in the development of bibliometrics towards a new scientific field. The study also confirms the importance of idea champions in the university environ-ment: individuals who started developing and applying bibliometrics in their field, some-times besides their major research area. A recommendation for university deans and administrators and policymakers could be to allow more freedom to young scholars with new ideas to explore new (sub-)disciplines and to support initiatives from 'idea champions'.
Understanding scientific knowledge evolution patterns based on egocentric network perspective By statistically analyzing the fitting results of ERGMs based on the 10,462 sample networks, we found that the preferential attachment mechanism has a positive and stabilizing effect, whereas transitivity mechanism has a less stable effect on the evolution of scientific knowledge; the adoption behavior and domain impact of authors positively influences the evolution of scientific knowledge respectively in 93.5% and 80.8% sample networks; As for homophily mechanism, the knowledge type as well as the journal rank has an influence on the evolution of knowledge network.
Systematic bias in citing practices: evidence from accounting journal additions to the FT list Our study finds a systematic bias in the citation of prior sci-entific research in these two journals in the post-2010 period, indicating a tendency among authors of those journals to disproportionately reference the journals' prior work.
An Online Model for Neurosurgical Research in Developing Countries: A One-Year Experience in Mexico and Latin America This online-based neurosurgical model contributed to 3.4% of the neurosurgical research productivity in Mexico.
Promising the earth: Forms of capital promised and pursued in Australian-Chinese research collaborations Our study highlights the need for Australia to consider future strategies in IRC to sustain its position in global science and its own knowledge economy. The importance of IRC is only increasing, and the forms of capital that bring partners together are being gradually redistributed, not least through IRC itself.
How do museums and galleries help academics create societal impact? An analysis of the UK REF2021 impact case studies Overall, the study demonstrates the importance of museums and art galleries for helping many arts and humanities scholars to generate societal impacts.
Quantifying the Global Research Effort on Bioactive Compounds: A Scientometric Analysis (1989-2023) By analyzing research publications on bioactive compounds from 1989 to 2023 using the WoS database, this study sheds light on the growing interest and advancements in this area over the past three decades.
Crossing disciplinary boundaries: An ethnographic exploration of academic publishing invitations Navigating this landscape requires careful discernment, commitment to academic integrity, and reflexivity about one's positionality.
Spanish participation in the social science and humanities research projects within the 7th European Union Framework Programme (2007-2013) In this way, a significant increase has been found in the leadership and prominence of Spanish institutions compared to FP6-SSH.
An analytical framework for the study of geographical places in the scientific literature This work has proposed a Scientometrics-inspi-red framework for integrating different studies of geographical place in the scientific literature (i.e., extended spatial Bibliometrics).
PTNS: patent citation trajectory prediction based on temporal network snapshots This paper proposes a patent citation trajectory prediction model based on time-series network snapshots (PTNS) to assist in predicting emerging patent technologies.
AI Leads, Cybersecurity Follows: Unveiling Research Priorities in Sustainable Development Goal-Relevant Technologies across Nations This study presents an analysis of global research priorities for technologies relevant to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Understanding the relationship between team diversity and the innovative performance in research teams using decision tree algorithms: evidence from artificial intelligence The research demonstrated a U-shaped correlation between the combination of research interest diversity and member diversity and innovation performance in terms of “nov- elty" innovation performance.
A gender gap in the manuscript review time of Turkish national journals? This research documents female author and editor representation in a large dataset of Turkish national journals, with a focus on the effect of author gender on review time. The overall solo gender gap is 11.1 days and team gender gap is 24.1 days, equivalent to 9.7% and 17% slower acceptance for female authors, respectively. Overall, results show that double-blind review, the standard practice in Turkish national journals, does not fully prevent gender bias. An implication for researchers is that they may want to consider the gender effect on review time before venturing into teamwork and weigh up the benefits of collaboration against the costs.
Revisiting R&I policy assessment in the EU: a semantic analysis of ERAWATCH and RIO reports By showing that semantic analysis of recurrent and cross-country qualitative assess-ments of EU R&I policies provide a clear added value to the understanding of the main challenges faced in this field, we recommend the crea-tion of a renewed EU research and innovation observatory.
Noted, but not decisive. A cross-disciplinary analysis of metrics usage in Polish evaluative cultures The diffusion of metrics-based reasoning varies significantly across disciplines. Even if metrics are considered complementary, policymakers should reconsider the requirement for metrics-based criteria in reviewer evaluations. The absence of a system-wide framework allows for inconsistent interpretations of indicators, their scope, and the values deemed sufficient in a given case.
Altmetric and impact analysis of randomized clinical trials in dentistry An interplay among article-, author-, and journal-related variables collectively influenced the online attention, citations, and impact of dental RCT articles. Understanding the factors that influence the visibility and impact of dental RCTs can guide researchers in improving the design, reporting, and dissemination of their studies, ultimately enhancing the quality and reach of dental research. However, no significant differences were found across RCTs from different dental fields, leading to the retention of the null hypothesis.
H-Type Indices With Applications in Chemometrics: h-Accuracy Index for Evaluating and Comparing Errors in Analytical Chemistry Data analysis indicated that the HAI was a reasonable, robust, easy-to-compute, and comprehensive index for evaluating and comparing errors in analytical chemistry.
Comprehensive Statistical Analysis of ISSN Records In conclusion, two linear regression equations were constructed between ISSN/10 thousand people and GDP per capita (the second taking into account statis- tical outliers for data for Luxembourg and Ireland) with moderate values of the correlation coefficient, which indirectly confirms the Constancy Hypothesis (McCombs, 1972; Scripps, 1965), as we show in the last subsection. Further research to assess the information potential of countries around the world may be associated with aggregating data on ISSN records with other country information indicators (ISBN records, indicators of publication activity and citations, altmetrics) and cal- culating correlations between them.
Detecting New Hijacked Journals by Using a List of Known Hijacked Journals and the Diagnosis of Web Domain Data This study analyses the articles of a total of 85 journals in the field of LIS using techniques related to scientometrics and visualisation software and draws the following conclusions: in terms of annual distribution, the number of annual publications in the field of LIS has been on an overall upwards trend from 1900 to the present day, and some of the annual intervals have been growing at a relatively fast rate, which proves that the field of LIS has been developing significantly during this period. Hot topics in LIS mainly include five clusters: Internet technology, social media, library services, bibliometrics and qualitative. However, this article uses the scientometric method to carry out primary status research and theme exploration with all articles from 85 journals in LIS and lacks more in-depth research and mature countermeasures and expects to carry out an in-depth exploration of specific contents in this discipline in the future.
The global research landscape and future trends in healthcare Total Quality Management This article reveals the research themes and trends related to TQM in the healthcare background using bib-liometric methods. It describes that the research field of TQM is still led by the USA and European countries, and discovers that Canadian research institutions have the largest cross-institutional cooperation and scholar groups. Based on mapping, this study identifies six major clusters of TQM medical research, discovers that quality management and TQM implementation are the main topics that have already been studied, and finds that the latest focus is on hospital quality management models such as EFQM and indicator systems, which may also shift to research on quality climate researches.
Authorship and Citizen Science: Seven Heuristic Rules We have argued that considerations of desert, transparency and fairness speak in favor of including CS participants as authors, and that this is compatible with the Vancouver guidelines whenever CS participants do fulfil the authorship criteria. Thus, we do not propose radical reform of existing authorship guidelines. We propose seven heuristic rules to help deal-ing with authorship issues in citizen science.
China-US scientific collaboration on sustainable development amidst geopolitical tensions Despite geopolitical tensions, China and the U.S. are at the center of international collaboration in the area of sustainable development with growing collaboration between the two countries.
Human Capital and Productivity in Surgery Research Across the Globe: A Big Data Analysis Using Artificial Intelligence Our findings underscore the US dominance in surgery research.
International research collaboration in personalized medicine between Europe and Latin America and the Caribbean This research provides specific information of considerable interest about research collaboration in the field of PerMed between EU and LAC countries.
Why summing up bibliometric indicators does not justify a composite indicator We conclude that a much more constructive scholarly approach and discussion of bibliometric composite indicators is possible when psychometric measurement concepts are employed.
Interdisciplinary hierarchical diversity driving disruption The study discoveries offer decision-making and policy guidelines for the collaborative patterns and funding strategies in interdisciplinary research for disruption.
Why do some retracted articles continue to get cited? Epistemic harm resulting from retracted publications demands a nuanced approach. In cases of continuous citation dynamics, our evidence shows that the analyzed citation trajectories are less problematic than generally assumed and suggests that citing authors weigh epistemic risk and informational values. To conclude, our results challenge the frequently narrow focus on the retracted publications.
A mixed-methods survey and focus group study to understand researcher and clinician preferences for a Journal transparency Tool Our findings suggest that the JTT would be valuable for both researchers and clinicians. The outcomes of this research will contribute to developing and refining the tool in accordance with researchers and clinicians. Further, the findings from this study will contribute to refining the JTT and ensuring that it effectively addresses the requirements of the researcher and clinician communities as a means of increasing transparency and open practices within the scholarly community.
Formal authorship in the wake of uncertain futures: the narrative of publish or perish in the humanities My aim with this article was to draw attention to the narra-tive construction of POP.
Beamtimes and knowledge production times: how big-science research infrastructures shape nations' domestic and international science production Our analysis shows that SSRF can significantly enhance the production of high-impact scientific publications in disciplines that utilize the facility, particularly for national science conducted by domestic researchers.
An analysis of the effects of sharing research data, code, and preprints on citations In summary, our study contributes to the growing body of literature on the effects or impacts of Open Science by quantifying the citation impact of data sharing, code sharing, and preprint posting. We advocate for further empirical research to build on these findings, particularly work that focuses on causal mechanisms, discipline-specific effects, and broader impacts beyond citation metrics.
The scientific reward system from the perspective of Open Science: evaluation dimensions, characteristics and challenges As challenges, the need for more research based on metrics that support a reward system, studies that address the influence of social factors and phenomena in this system, as well as those that consider the reality of peripheral countries in the face of a system based on practices were identified. of Open Science.
Territorial Inequalities and (de)Concentration of Public Investment in Science: A Study on CONICET (Argentina) and the Tensions Between Academic Excellence and Equity In its current configuration, the CIC represents an incoherent set of layers, rationales, objectives and impacts, which counteract each other and tend more to perpetuate than to diminish territorial inequalities or, more precisely, to reduce them at an extremely slow and insufficient speed given the magnitude of these gaps.
Top cited articles about the stress urinary incontinence: A bibliometric analysis We suggest that the most-cited articles commonly conducted in the high-income countries, mostly published between 2014-2018.
Does the use of unusual combinations of datasets contribute to greater scientific impact? By conducting a meticulous analysis of a curated dataset comprising over 30,000 papers and over 5,000 datasets, we have found that the combination of datasets, particularly those that are not typically combined, is associated with an overall higher citation rate (an 18.4% increase per one SD difference).
Exploring Core Knowledge in Interdisciplinary Research: Insights from Topic Modeling Analysis This study employs LDA topic modeling to analyze highly cited interdisciplinary research articles from the Web of Science Core Collection, identifying four core knowledge topics: interdisciplinary research methods and frameworks, multidisciplinary approaches in cancer treatment, covid-19 multidisciplinary care, and AI optimization in industrial applications. These topics highlight the theoretical and practical contributions of interdisciplinary research in addressing global challenges.
Scientometric Analysis: An Emerging Tool in Veterinary and Animal Scientific Research It is suggested that the results show a trend of including scientometrics analysis as part of the work in the primary fields of scientific interest of researchers.
How qualitative criteria can improve the assessment process of interdisciplinary research proposals This study shows that bibliometric indicators that reflect the variety, balance and disparity of research proposals correlate with the interdisciplinarity of the research output, suggesting a predictive value.
Data inaccuracy quantification and uncertainty propagation for bibliometric indicators This method has the potential to improve the reporting of bibliometric indicator values and thus the interpretation of the results of bibliometric studies.
The Landscapes of Sustainability in Library and Information Science: Diachronous Citation Perspective The shape of the lifecycle of papers published in the discipline under study, along with the cited half-life and the price index calculated for them, shows greater similarity to cycles typically observed in the hard sciences than in the social sciences. This indicates a dynamic development of the discipline, during which older content is rapidly pushed out of the scientific community's perception. It can be also inferred that sustainable LIS is a well-established discipline that has moved beyond the initial formation and consolidation of its research focus. Although the vast majority of information exchange occurs within the discipline, there are strong and numerous connections with various other disciplines, some of which are significantly different in terms of subject matter and research focus.
Identifying disruptive papers in pharmacy literature that changed clinical practice: 1954-2014 The disruption score identified an innovative body of landmark papers whose legacy will remain solidified in pharmacy practice.
Over two decades of scientific misconduct in India: Retraction reasons and journal quality among inter-country and intra-country institutional collaboration The current investigation of retracted publications with Indian affiliations provides valuable insights into the types of retractions and the institutions involved. The primary reasons for retraction are fake peer review, followed by data integrity and plagiarism. Private institutes ought to alleviate the pressure of “publish or perish” linked to annual performance evaluations, thereby reducing the temptation to engage in fraudulent practices such as fake peer review for expedited publications or the fabrication of data to produce extensive papers.
Researcher identities and values in the impact agenda: the case of artificial intelligence academics The study highlights the importance of flexible approaches to research policy and govern- ance that are based on a deeper understanding of what motivates researchers, and that take into account academics' educational role.
What is 'high-risk research'? Comparing the social sciences and humanities and the natural sciences Drawing on eighty grant proposals that have been submitted to a funding program dedicated to high-risk research, this con-tribution reveals both remarkable similarities and important differences in how applicants in the SSH and the NSC mobilize notions of risk.
Mapping the composite cattle worldwide using bibliometric analysis This bibliometric analysis provides a basic worldwide overview of research publications on composite cattle by revealing key trends and networks within the field.
The social space of Italian leading sociology journals: A network and field-theoretic analysis of sociologists' interlocking editorships "We interpret this participation as a form of 'position-taking' in Bourdieu's sense, reflecting the adjustment of boards' composition to meet the recent demands of the journals' accreditation system."
Can peer review accolade awards motivate reviewers? A large-scale quasi-natural experiment The academic community should reassess the existing incentive strategies for reviewers. Overall, based on our findings, the academic community needs to rethink the peer review accolade awards and their designs. Peer review accolades can lead to a negative awarding effect. After receiving the 2018 Publons Global Peer Review Award, there is typically an average reduction of about four reviews in Publons.
Team science in interdisciplinary health professions education research: a multi-institutional case study This study provides a blueprint for interdisciplinary researchers indicating that successful collaboration starts with transparent, distributed leadership.
Level of evidence and characteristics of clinical studies published in leading prosthodontics journals Although the number of HE studies in 3 leading prosthodontic journals has increased over time, the total number was still limited compared with LE studies. A further improvement in the overall LOE of clinical studies in prosthodontics is needed. Clinical studies conducted in South America or Europe and receiving funding were more likely to have HE.
Mid-career pitfall of consecutive success in science This insight holds profound implications for the development of policies and initiatives aimed at bolstering innovative research and discovery. This pattern indicates that mid-career researchers lack both intimate relations and resources to keep big projects, leading to "mid-career pitfall" of consecutive success. The "mid-career pitfall" may be attributed to the loss of these two factors.
Academic Development of Chinese Social Psychology: A Citation Analysis of Social Psychology Articles Published by Chinese Scholars During 2006 to 2015 Overall, from the results of citation analysis, it can be found that Chinese social psychology in general shows improved research quality, rapid development, forma-tion of research trends and hotspots, and maintaining an open attitude during 2006 to 2015 compared to 40 years ago, as reflected in (1) a higher increase in the number of citations and an increase in the depth of research ques-tions (2) far more citations in English than in Chinese, indicating an openness to international research (3) jour-nal citation rate meets the standard; (4) citation timeli-ness is better than English citations and the timeliness of the whole Chinese psychology, indicating faster develop-ment than the average level of domestic psychology; (5) preference for articles by domestic, sociocultural and cross-cultural psychology-oriented researchers, indicat-ing that domestic researchers research initiatives form a socio-cultural psychology trend. (6) There is an increase in the degree of author collaboration. In conclusion, the development of Chinese social psychology should be based on the social reality of China, with an interna-tional perspective, to continuously improve the level of research and eventually produce research results that are identified both domestically and internationally. The development of Chinese social psychology remains restricted by Western studies, but the orientation of indi-genous and social cultural psychology is a bright road that may deeply influence the structure of Chinese social psychology in the next several years.
A matter of time: Publication dates in Scopus First, one obvious consequence of the inconsistent publication year information recorded in the Year of Publication and Date of Publication fields in Scopus is that two publication year search strategies will yield inconsistent search results. First, Scopus should distinguish different versions of publication dates and disclose its handling rules to the users publicly and transparently. To be a truly responsible database provider, it is time for Scopus to take action to address these fundamental issues [27–29].
Time to Publication in Medical Education Journals: An Analysis of Publication Timelines During COVID-19 (2019-2022) Longer publication time was most pronounced for COVID-overlap articles. Publication timelines for COVID-endemic articles have shortened. Future research should explore how the shift in publication timelines has shaped medical education scholarship.
Measuring qualities needed for interdisciplinary work: The Intellectual Virtues for Interdisciplinary Research Scale (IVIRS) The investigation presented in this article elucidates the intellectual character of interdisciplinary researchers by analyzing the intellectual virtues that they must possess to work effectively alongside colleagues from diverse fields.
How the pandemic affected psychological research Is there reason to believe that COVID-related psychological research is of lower quality than non-COVID or pre-COVID research published in psychological journals? According to the findings presented here, the answer is no.
Overseas Experience and Elite Scientists' Career Mobility: A Case Study from China The research concludes that, compared with the local, those with overseas experience are more likely to choose job hopping.
A Marxist Analysis of the Metrification of Academic Labor: Research Impact Metrics and Socially Necessary Labor Time This paper represents a significant contribution to the Marxist conceptualisation of research impact metrics.
Hydrogen Utilization as a Plasma Source for Magnetohydrodynamic Direct Power Extraction (MHD-DPE) In the current study, we explored the utilization of hydrogen (particularly green hydrogen) in the concept of magnetohydrodynamic direct power extraction (MHD-DPE) through system-level modeling.
Bibliometric analysis of research hotspots and global trends in patient safety education for nursing students This bibliometric analysis provides a comprehensive overview of the most important developments and major trends in patient safety education for nurses between 2013 and 2023.
An interlinked dynamic model of timber and carbon stocks in Japan's wooden houses and plantation forests Notably, despite the widely different settings of the various scenarios, our results exhibited narrow variances in future potential carbon storage in Japan. This can be explained by the unique population characteristics and building demographics of Japan.
Testing for reviewer anchoring in peer review: A randomized controlled trial Our main analysis did not find evidence of the existence of reviewer anchoring effects in peer review.
Examining the Research Performance of Universities with Multi-Criteria Decision-Making Methods With the methods proposed in this research, the research performance of researchers, countries and academic units as well as universities can be analyzed.
Measuring diversity in Hollywood through the large-scale computational analysis of film Our work illustrates the affordances of the data-driven analysis of film at a large scale.
Two paths of balancing technology and ethics: A comparative study on AI governance in China and Germany Taking China and Germany as examples, the development of AI governance has experienced exponential growth in recent years. AI policies have switched from mere strategies shaping AI into more nuanced ethical and security regulations of new technology (Zhang et al., 2022). We argue that the dynamic process of AI governance has shaped a utilitarian approach in China and a right-based approach in Germany.
Investigating academics' attitudes towards ChatGPT: A qualitative study Overall, academics emphasised that ChatGPT could and should be used as a tool to augment work but not to produce work itself.
Cutting corners as a coping strategy in information technology use: Unraveling the mind's dilemma This study reveals that employees resort to cutting corners while using complex technologies to cope with the distress and its outcomes in these situations.
The Inclusion of Neologisms in the Revision of the Grand Dictionnaire Chinois-Français Contemporain The application of these criteria helps achieve a more objective, more precise inclusion and a more comprehensive description on the neologisms in bilingual dictionaries, forming a complete syntactic and semantic network centering on the neologism or the core concept.
ADA Digital Accessibility on Academic Library Websites The outcomes of the study suggest that academic libraries around the world should continue improving their website accessibility. This study's findings confirm and reinforce the necessity of digital accessibility in today's ever-changing digital ecosystem, where it is required, achievable, and possible. Additional longitudinal studies revisiting the same data set in the future would be valuable and advantageous by comparing data from the studies in a quantitative way over time.
Relationships between Journal Publication, Citation, and Usage Metrics within a Carnegie R1 University Collection: A Correlation Analysis The analysis found an overall strong positive correlation between journal usage, in the form of full-text downloads, and locally cited journal titles. It would appear that multiple metrics may need to be employed to make definitive statements about journal publication, citation, and usage relationships and interactions. It is also clear from the study that a more nuanced profile of user publication, citation, and usage activity than some other measures, such as the commonly quoted cost per use metric, are possible and desirable.
Research Trend and Future Perspectives of Traditional Chinese Medicine for Atopic Dermatitis from 2004 to 2023: A Bibliometric Analysis TCM intervention has become a mainstream complementary and alternative therapeutic option and has been widely used in the clinical treatment of AD, honored for its individualized therapeutic concepts of evidence-based treatment. The academic community must form a continuous and deep-going pattern to achieve higher international influence and a stronger research degree in this field. Based on this research, those following topics are profiled for future study: (1) to explore the treatment guidelines and management systems of integrated Chinese and Western medicine, especially in the treatment of refractory atopic dermatitis, (2) to develop TCM external preparations for infantile acute paroxysmal rash and TCM internal preparations for children's allergy improvement, and (3) to clarify the advantages of TCM characteristic technologies in the treatment of AD and obtain high-level evidence-based clinic data, including pediatric massage, acupuncture, fire needle, moxibustion, cupping and so on.
Applying computational methods to analyze trends and themes in Library and Information Science Education The study's results reveal a positive correlation between the frequency of digital library keywords and clustering patterns, reflecting a growing focus on digital information management within LIS.
The plurality and contexts of research quality notions Our examination of notions of the 'best research' in cardi- ology, economics, and physics brings two main conclusions.
China and the US produce more impactful AI research when collaborating together Our findings imply that the movement of AI scientists between the U.S. and China fosters fruitful collaborations that can be advantageous to both countries. These findings suggest that instead of suppressing cross-border migration and collaboration between the two nations, the science could benefit from promoting such activities. Nevertheless, despite potential spillovers that might work against national interests, such collaborations can also be viewed from a perspective that transcends political agendas-a global perspective where the emphasis is on the advancement of knowledge for the benefit of all.
Simulating waste plastic flows in Australia The results of this study show the extent to which plastics waste remains a problem in Australia.
A Bibliometric Analysis of Research in Forensic Linguistics The findings of this study reveal that forensic linguistics research has gained substantial growth in the last two decades. This paper also highlights forensic linguistics as a significant field of research, education, and professional practice worldwide as this study has implications for researchers, linguists, lawyers, higher education policymakers, and university administrations. Considering the circumstances discussed in this research, it is advised to the governments, institutions, funding agencies, and researchers to take necessary steps to promote the field taking into consideration the crime rate and judicial systems which are in critical need of all kinds of experts to bring the crime rate down and prevail legitimate justice all over the world.
Evaluating science: A comparison of human and AI reviewers The results indicate that AI could become a prescreening tool for scientific abstracts. LLMs will undoubtedly impact the scientific peer review process, and our results suggest that the impact is likely to be positive and useful for the scientific reviewing system. In sum, at its current state, LLMs have a lot to offer to the scientific review process, both in terms of publishing efficiency and diversity of the author pool.
What makes econometric ideas popular: The role of connectivity A key takeaway from our research is that, all else being equal, a publication aiming to be impactful should bridge various knowledge domains and be produced by scholars who are well-recognized and connected within the scientific community.
Predicting scholar potential: a deep learning model on social capital features Our findings indicate the fundamental role of cognitive capital features, and incorporating structural and relational capital significantly enhances the LSTM model's performance in both the short and long term, especially in improving precision metrics. Notably, relational capital features play a more pivotal role in identifying potential scholars than structural capital features.
Does interdisciplinarity improve research performance? An empirical study of faculty members at Chinese universities In conclusion, despite the considerable focus on fostering interdisciplinary research within higher education institutions in China, the relationship between interdisciplinarity and scientific research is complex, even on prestigious interdisciplinary research platforms in Chinese universities. This complexity highlights the urgent need for institutions to engage in thoughtful reflection on effectively leveraging interdisciplinarity to advance scientific research. Drawing upon the findings of this study, we provide several policy implications to foster the development of interdisciplinary research.
Seventeen Years of the ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications and Applications: A Bibliometric Overview The key findings from the bibliometric analysis are presented as follows:
Data-driven evolution of library and information science research methods (1990-2022): a perspective based on fine-grained method entities The research findings suggest that data resources are the primary driving force behind scholarly research, and the development of research methods in the LIS field exhibits a cyclical process of "emergence period-stable period/practice period".
Perceptions of grant peer reviewers: a mixed methods study This study found that negative comments predominated among experienced grant peer reviewers. Reviewer negativity had implications for evaluation outcomes: negativity was associated with worse scores for the hypothetical proposal. The regular solicitation and incorporation of reviewer feedback could inform revised processes and decrease the negative emotions associated with reviewing, leading to increased willingness to review and other salutary outcomes for reviewers, applicants, and funding agencies.
Unveiling research productivity barriers via fuzzy AHP: a case of management faculty in India This paper emphasizes the importance of management research and its implications for individuals, institutions, industries, and society.
Identification of retracted publications and completeness of retraction notices in public health The observed inconsistencies and incomplete notices pose a threat to the integrity of scientific publishing and highlight the need to better align with existing best practices to ensure more effective and transparent dissemination of information on retractions. Our study highlights inconsistent identification and incom- plete notices for retracted publications in public health.
Evaluating a National Biomedical Training Program Using QuantCrit: Revealing Disparities in Research Self-efficacy for Women of Color Undergraduates We contend that disaggregated and intersectional analyses of sub-populations are necessary for improving understanding of program interventions and identifying areas where systems of exclusion may continue to harm students from minoritized backgrounds. We provide recommendations for future quantitative program evaluation practices and research in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and medicine (STEMM) equity efforts. The BUILD program and corresponding national evaluation, with its diverse programmatic approaches, settings, and large sample sizes (Guerrero et al., 2022), provides an opportunity to quantitatively disentangle what works, for whom, and under what contexts through a QuantCrit approach.
The distribution of scientific project funds model based on adaptive similarity fitting and NSGA-II In summary, our work contributes to the field of funds allocation for technological projects by offering a more efficient, data-driven, and adaptable solution compared to traditional methods. Our method demonstrates significant advantages over peer review in terms of effectiveness, objectivity, system burden, innovation facilitation, reliability, transparency, and clarity of goals and evaluation criteria. We intend to incorporate these risk assessments as additional indicators in our future multi-objective optimization-based funding allocation processes.
Two fast algorithms for computation of h-index Two algorithms based on estimated h-index are devised in this work as modifications of two existing algorithms for computation of h-index (i.e. naïve approach and binary search approach), namely modified naïve approach and modified binary search algorithms.
Understanding the social and political dimensions of research(er) assessment: evaluative flexibility and hidden criteria in promotion processes at research institutes Our results testify to core tensions in the ongoing quest to find the most appropriate ways of assessing research and researchers.
A study on the knowledge, attitude, and practice of research integrity among medical professionals in Ningxia, China The study recommends implementing multifaceted measures to enhance the ethical awareness and attitudes of researchers. This study provides a scientific basis for formulating policies to improve research integrity. Future research, building on these findings, can further delve into the issue of academic misconduct to promote the development and maintenance of research integrity.
Sustainability-driven regime shifts in Complex Adaptive Systems: The case of animal production and food system This study illustrates how systems science and futures research approaches can be used in tandem to expose the evolution of complex adaptive systems.
Debunking revolutionary paradigm shifts: evidence of cumulative scientific progress across science We observe that scientific methods and resulting discoveries are highly cumulative across fields and time. New and continually improved methods and tools of science better explain scientific progress than new revolutionary, paradigm-changing ideas and theories that result from those improved methods and tools.
Hierarchical Bayesian model to estimate and compare research productivity of Italian academic statisticians Our study confirms that among Italian academic statisticians, men publish more than women, but we provide insights into gender disparities, showing that women, especially those in the lower tiers of the academic hierarchy, generally exhibit higher and more consistent scientific output over time compared to their male peers.
A Bibliometric Analysis of the Supercritical CO2 Extraction of Essential Oils from Aromatic and Medicinal Plants: Trends and Perspectives The bibliometric analysis presented in this article has provided a detailed exploration of the scientific literature surrounding the use of supercritical CO2 extraction for essential oils from aromatic and medicinal plants.
The Coupling Coordination Relationship and Driving Factors of the Digital Economy and High-Quality Development of Rural Tourism: Insights from Chinese Experience Data From a national perspective, the coupling coordination degree between the digital economy and HQDRT, as well as their relative development degree, have been continuously increasing, primarily due to the rapid development of the digital economy.
Awareness of Jordanian Researchers About Predatory Journals: A Need for Training In conclusion, Jordanian researchers use valid strategies to avoid predatory journals.
Exploring research quality and journal representation: a comparative study of African Journals Online, Scopus, and Web of Science This article has examined the inclusion criteria of AJOL, Scopus, and WoS (the latter through the analysis of the JPPS system) and studied the representation of African-based journals in the three indexes.
An Empirical Analysis of the Characteristics and Determinants of the China-ASEAN Science and Technology Cooperation Network: Insights from Co-Authored Publications This study conducted an in-depth analysis of the science and technology cooperation network between China and ASEAN countries from 2003 to 2022, revealing the evolution characteristics and key influencing factors of this cooperation network under the influence of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). Co-authored papers, as an important form of science and technology cooperation, have effectively facilitated the flow and complementarity of innovation resources between China and ASEAN countries, thereby improving the efficiency and outcomes of regional science and technology cooperation and providing a solid foundation for achieving the sustainable development goals (SDGs). By implementing these policy measures, we can provide theoretical and practical references for regional science and technology cooperation, supporting the sustained development of regional economic integration and contributing to the achievement of global sustainable development goals.
The Integration of ICT in the Sustainable Educational Processes of Children's Emotional Self-Regulation: A Study Contextualised in Pandemic and Post-Pandemic Times The content analysis allowed us to determine that emotional self-regulation is a process of awareness and regulation, modifiable according to the people who are involved in the accompaniment process, that is, the ecological environment that underlies the student's training, which plays an important role in the determination and confrontation of their emotions, becomes a process aimed at the education of citizenship skills, where a child who regulates their emotions develops assertive communication skills, respect for differences, and empathy.
Energy Citizenship in Energy Transition: The Case of the Baltic States This research offers valuable insights into the landscape of energy citizenship in the Baltic states, highlighting a diverse range of initiatives that extend beyond individual households to community and national levels.
Data literacy in flux: Perspectives of community college librarians on evolving educational demands and library capacities The study findings highlight the importance of identifying the roles and contributions of community college librarians in empowering and enhancing students' data literacy needs.
Identifying fabricated networks within authorship-for-sale enterprises We have demonstrated an approach to identifying paper mills that complements existing methodologies. Our model has different scalability characteristics, which is helpful as a complement to existing strategies. We believe that swift action is needed to change publishing methodologies to ensure that we make the establishment of these profiles more difficult.
A cross-disciplinary research framework at institution level and beyond In summary, cross-disciplinarity is a valuable approach to scientific research, enabling the transfer of ideas across fields and creating new solutions to complex problems critical to society.
Bibliometric analysis on physical ergonomics: A visual mapping approach The research results provide comprehensive information to the relevant literature, and define global research focuses and future scopes.
Measurement of new qualitative productivity kinetic energy from the perspective of digital and green collaboration--comparative study based on European countries Based on the interpretation of the formation mechanism of NQPKE, this paper characterizes the NQPKE by the coupling coordination degree of digital productivity and green productivity, constructs the indicator system from the two dimensions of digital productivity and green productivity, and adopts the entropy weight TOPSIS method and the coupling coordination degree model to measure the improvement of NQPKE in 21 European countries, from 2009 to 2022.
How artificial intelligence affects international industrial transfer - Evidence from industrial robot application The empirical results show that the application of artificial intelligence promotes a country or region to undertake international industrial transfer.
100 volumes of Mathematical Methods of Operations Research: a bibliometric overview The findings reveal that MMOR has shown significant improvement through time. The most frequent keywords published in MMOR are diverse and engaging, covering a wide range of topics including optimization, programming, decision making, and game theory. However, it is worth noting some limitations. First, the results are dynamic through time. Therefore, in the future, these results may change with new variables becoming more popular.
A perspective on integration and outreach: Guiding concepts in the evolution of health informatics Conclusions: Outreach and integration have been formative in the evolution of health informatics and will continue to hold their power. These visions re-affirm the relevance of integration and outreach and "the importance of interconnecting people, processes, and technology to provide needed information" [1, p.37] as the field of health informatics evolves to become biohealth informatics.
Bibliometric analysis of the Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica from 2013 to 2022 Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica (AOTT) has emerged as one of the leading journals in orthopedics, with a notable increase in international publications in the last decade.
THE ROLE OF FOREIGN-EDUCATED FACULTY IN FOSTERING RESEARCH INTERNATIONALIZATION IN PAKISTAN HIGHER EDUCATION Our results highlight the vital role of returnee academics in promoting research internationalization within their home universities. Organizations such as the Higher Education Commission (HEC) should continue offering doctoral scholarships abroad. This study offers valuable insights and evidence about emerging research areas examining the impact of foreign PhDs on the internationalization of higher education research and factors influencing returnee research internationalization.
Slow convergence: Career impediments to interdisciplinary biomedical research Our results, based on researchers with PhDs in biomedical fields, are consistent with interdisciplinary researchers often falling through disciplinary divides, thus discouraging convergent research and reducing the pool of talent to train future generations of interdisciplinary researchers.
Mapping the philosophy and neuroscience nexus through citation analysis Our results show that both the visibility of neuroscience in philosophy and the visibility of philosophy in neuroscience have increased significantly since the turn of the century, albeit the latter remains an order of magnitude lower than the former.
Retraction handling by potential predatory journals Retraction is a crucial post-publication quality control mechanism for academic journals, and retraction handling should be considered an essential criterion when evaluating editorial practices. This study proposes four criteria for assessing the retraction handling performance of PPJs, arguing that a journal’s legitimacy can be determined in part by how it handles retractions. Therefore, a holistic approach, considering both pre- and post-publication quality control measures, is necessary for a comprehensive evaluation of academic journals.
Becoming an Impact-Driven University: A Socio-Technical Analysis of the Reconfiguration of Relevance During Institutional Transformation Ultimately, the site-specific case also includes bottom-up problematizations of impact that lead us to reflect on the limitations of a policy instrument approach and stress the importance of addressing the politics of the social relations of 'relevant' scien- tific work. An instrumentation approach to the third mission helps in explicating unintended and emergent affordances of policy choices and has demonstrated the value of analyzing the problematization and design phases of instruments for making power relations explicit. To avoid the predominance of centralized policy imaginaries, it is impor- tant that scholar-practitioners are openly reflexive about the politics of their own situation in organizational change.
Do Editorial Members of Otorhinolaryngology Journals Publish Their Own Work? An Analysis of Editorial Self-Publication Practices in Otorhinolaryngology Journals To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate editorial self-publishing practice in otorhinolaryngology journals and to demonstrate that the prevalence of being an EAA varies widely among otorhinolaryngology journals. Further studies investigating the editorial self-publication practice of otorhinolaryngology journals will enhance transparency and promote mechanisms for self-regulation to address ethical considerations.
Gender Gap in Academic Surgery: Disparities in Early-Career Scholarly Productivity Sets the Stage for Unequal Academic Advancement The gender gap in academic advancement for early-career faculty can partially be explained by the lower number of publications produced by women faculty.
A bibliometric analysis using a newly developed model and a customizable research tool: A case study of researcher mobility in Sweden With the help of our advanced model, we present a detailed picture of mobility in Sweden and demonstrate the power of this customisable tool.
Mapping retracted articles and exploring regional differences in China, 2012-2023 There is a discernible spatial clustering among these retractions, with a gradual increase in the number of retracted articles from west to east. Shandong, Jiangsu, Shanghai, Henan, and Anhui are the hotspots for retractions.
A long-term assessment of the multidisciplinary degree of multidisciplinary journals In conclusion, while a strong bias remains in favor of highly citable areas, multidisciplinary journals are progressively increasing their degree of multidisciplinarity in recent years.
Instant prediction of scientific paper cited potential based on semantic and metadata features: Taking artificial intelligence field as an example Aiming to predict paper's potential to become high-level cited, this paper proposes a technical framework for predicting high citation potential. Our predicting framework demonstrates promising predictive performance in classification experiments and case studies, indicating the efficacy of the proposed method.
Achieving Digital Transformation: The Effect of Open Innovation Strategies at Different Stages of SME Development in an Emerging Market The findings suggest that, to achieve digital transformation, early-stage SMEs' managers should practice external technology acquisition; once SMEs mature, they should engage more in external technology exploitation. Likewise, as firm size does not moderate the effect of external technology acquisition on digital transformation, even small SMEs can attain digital transformation by effectively acquiring external technology. Our study has practical implications for SMEs' managers as follows.
Brazilian authorship gender trends on academic surgery: a bigdata analysis This study suggests the persistent underrepresentation of Brazilian women in surgical journal authorship. Local policy changes should be considered to encourage greater diversity and inclusivity in surgical research. Future research should explore the factors limiting women's engagement in surgical research and assess potential strategies to enhance their leadership in surgical publications.
Nanoscience or Nanosciences? - The Interdisciplinary Discipline At the moment it seems that not enough criteria are fulfilled to regard nanoscience as a full discipline (at least in the sense of Bechtel), but this is open for change in the future.
Prevailing predatory publishing: a critical evaluation of publications from Pakistan's physical education and sport science domains Predatory publishing affects the credibility of the researchers engaged, posing a threat to the nation's scientific reputation in the PESS arena.
The Presence of Predatory and Open Access Journal Publications Among Canadian Plastic Surgery Residency Applicants These findings stress the importance of raising awareness within the plastic surgery community, including medical students, about the deceptive nature of predatory journals. Further research that explores publishing practices among medical trainees will be necessary to clarify potential drivers of these practices.
Exposure of Academic Misconduct and Universities' Innovation Output: Evidence from Retractions in China The study draws the following conclusions: (1) Exposure of academic misconduct significantly reduces the innovation output level of the involved universities.
The benefits of social insurance system prediction using a hybrid fuzzy time series method In conclusion, enhancing the accuracy of predicting social insurance benefits in Egypt has far-reaching implications for countries around the world.
Investigation of authors' self-citation in contemporary forensic odontology literature Based on the literature, this study represents the first scientific work into self-citation within FO.
Regional price differences of medical services: evidence from China Regions in China had significant gaps in medical service price levels.
Pre-Service Science Teachers' Intention to use Generative Artificial Intelligence in Inquiry-Based Teaching A contribution of this study is that it enables us to under-stand more clearly the intentions of pre-service teachers to use AI in supporting inquiry-based teaching. In exploiting the use of AI to drive inquiry, the findings of this study provide some insight into possible enablers and inhibitors in the use of AI for inquiry. From a practical perspective, these findings could inform teacher educators on issues they may engage pre-service science teachers when discussing the uses of AI.
Human intelligence versus artificial intelligence in classifying economics research articles: exploratory evidence To conclude, generative AI systems can augment human intelligence in choosing the JEL codes by providing reasoned suggestions based on the article abstracts only.
Protecting the health of children with universal child cash benefits In summary, this study has shown that the median SCR was 4% and that in 13% of the journals, one in five references was a journal self-citation.
Enhancing social acceptance of women's mobility for equitable transport: Behavioural theories driven approach The outcomes of this study hold significant implications for transport planners and decision-makers, offering valuable insights for the provision of equitable transport services for women.
Mapping publications by sustainable development goal at the faculty level to highlight inter-faculty collaborations Not only does the complexity of sustainable development call for more interdisciplinary research, but as the incubators of the ideas of tomorrow, universities are called on to re-combine their faculties to be more cross-disciplinary so as to be more effective in conducting SDG-related research. The contributions of McMaster researchers in achieving SDG targets are highlighted. This report can serve as a baseline for the institution in measuring its progress towards those goals.
Which review aspect has a greater impact on the duration of open peer review in multiple rounds? -Evidence from Nature Communications Thus helping authors make targeted revisions and optimizations to their papers while reducing the duration of peer review, which enables authors' research findings to reach the academic community and public domain more rapidly. This helps improve the efficiency of peer review from the perspectives of authors, reviewers and editors. The main conclusions of this study are as follows: Firstly, there is a significant negative correlation between review aspect sentiment and the duration of peer review, but the correlation is very weak.
Future Installation, Production and Global Trade of Clean Energy Technologies Based on our results, we identify low carbon leakage as a more significant risk in the context of newer technologies.
Enhancing Peer Fairness via Data-Driven Analysis for Outlier Detection In conclusion, the DCASP method has been validated through empirical testing on two distinct datasets, demonstrating its efficacy in enhancing the integrity and fairness of peer review systems.
AI ethics as a complex and multifaceted challenge: decoding educators' AI ethics alignment through the lens of activity theory "The use and integration of AI in educational activities is a complex and multifaceted ethical issue."
Why aren't published works cited? Exploring the influences of bibliographic characteristics on uncitedness phenomenon in social sciences and arts and humanities The findings have a few implications for arts and humanities and social sciences scholars regarding their strategy to avoid uncitedness. First, to increase the influence of their work, scholars in both disciplines should consider publishing their work as full research articles in journals. Therefore, scholars are advised to prioritize citing current and highly relevant references to enhance the discoverability and citability of their research.
Clinical Neurology Research Output From Türkiye: A Bibliometric Analysis Clinical neurology is a rapidly expanding research area and attracting more and more attention from the authors.
Big Data Analysis of Policy Coordination Paths Based on Latent Dirichlet Allocation Model and Fuzzy-Set Qualitative Comparative Analysis Method The results demonstrated that the LDA model effectively classi-fied topics such as fiscal incentive policies, innova-tion talent policies, government project policies, in-novation platform policies, technology transfer poli-cies, and intellectual property policies. Meanwhile, the fsQCA method effectively analyzed the configura-tion of policy elements that drives enterprise innova-tion across different regions. This study provides a useful reference for the government to use big data to improve the level of gov-ernment science and technology governance, establish a mechanism for big data to assist scientific decision-making and science and technology governance, and promote the process and model innovation of govern-ment innovation policy making.
Empirical comparative study of similarity indexes in scientometrics co-authorship analysis Empirical results revealed that some indexes produced similar predictions for similarity scores based on theoretical calculations, while others showed no clear relationship.
Government document citations in top nursing journals: A bibliometric analysis Nursing researchers frequently cite government information in their work.
Scientific contribution of the Brazilian CNPq Research Productivity fellows in dentistry Our findings show that Research Productivity fellows in Dentistry who are recipients of CNPq productivity scholarships are a group with high scientific productivity, as ascertained by modern indicators of research performance. The data produced in this study contribute substantially to the dental field, boosting the advancement of scientific knowledge and highlighting the importance of the Brazilian dentistry area in the research scenario. However, a comparison with similar groups in other countries is difficult owing to the scarcity of studies in this field.
THE TREND TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE TRAIN TRAVEL AMONG THE YOUNG GENERATION Z: MARKET ANALYSIS IN ROMANIA This study makes several important contributions to the literature in the fields of transportation and tourism.
Competitive performativity of academic social networks: the subjectivation of competition on ResearchGate Thus, ResearchGate encourages competitive relations between its users. Second, the high share of researchers using ResearchGate indicates that ASNPs play an important role in contemporary academia, with the humanities being an exception. Even more striking and statistically highly significant are our results concerning competitive subjectivation and age: Younger researchers tend to engage more on ASNPs, perceive a stronger competitive pressure and also show higher levels of competitive subjectivation than their older colleagues.
Gaps between Open Science activities and actual recognition systems: Insights from an international survey Our study also showed that Open or FAIR data management and sharing, an effort-intensive OS activity, stands out as particularly deserving of explicit rewards and credits. Thus, the findings of our study can contribute to OS theory and practice by suggesting OS rewards terminology and can inform a broad range of stakeholders, e.g., involved in research and innovation systems, in implementing OS rewarding schemes. In doing so, our work paves the way for broader, more robust quantitative studies in the future.
Opening the black box of article retractions: exploring the causes and consequences of data management errors Based on our findings, we propose that researchers revise their data management workflows as a whole, instead of focusing on certain aspects of the process, with special emphasis on tasks vulnerable to human fallibility.
An experimental study of simulated grant peer review: Gender differences and psychometric characteristics of proposal scores Experienced grant peer reviewers are relatively reliable with each other and with themselves over a two-week period when they evaluate a proposal without weaknesses. Peer reviewer reliability suffers, however, when evaluating proposals with weaknesses. Evidence of systematic differences in proposal scores based on investigator and reviewer gender may also indicate the usefulness of calibration and training.
Building Energy Efficiency Design and Energy Consumption Analysis Based on MOEA/D Algorithm "The energy-saving design idea proposed in the study can effectively analyze building energy consumption, reduce calculation cost, and provide technical references for the optimization design of green building schemes."
Assessment of End User Computing Satisfaction (EUCS) of Electronic Hospital Management Information System (eHMIS) in Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar Pakistan Majority of our consultants were satisfied with the Electronic Hospital Management Information System(eHMIS) most of the time to almost always and most were using it several times daily. This application had fulfilled user satisfaction by fulfilling their desired requirements and can be used in other tertiary care public hospitals with full confidence and success of implementation ensured. Further studies are therefore recommended.
A Framework for Predicting the Impact of Game Balance Changes Through Meta Discovery In this paper, we introduced a framework for evaluating changes to game balance via meta discovery. Our results show that the framework is effective in approximating the results of balance changes to the metagame.
The role of TikTok in user well-being and education: a study on psychological effects on learning during COVID-19 The study delivers valuable empirical insights into how TikTok affects user well- being and educational results, particularly in the context of the COVID-19 pan- demic.
Bibliometric Study of 40 Years of Research in Chinese Music Archaeology Based on a bibliometric analysis using knowledge graphs and specific literature studies, this study comprehensively and objectively reveals the current status and future prospects of music archaeology research over the past 40 years.
Trends in scientific publication among dental students at a private Peruvian university: a seven-year characterization The seven-year analysis reveals significant challenges in converting undergraduate dental research at a Peruvian university into published scientific literature, with low rates of research documents achieving publication in scientific journals. The higher publication success rate among collectively prepared documents suggests the value of collaborative research experiences during undergraduate education. These findings highlight the importance of implementing targeted institutional policies and support mechanisms to enhance research productivity and dissemination, thereby contributing to the advancement of evidence-based dentistry in Peru and Latin America.
Canadian Perspectives: A Content Analysis of Selected English Language LIS Research This analysis of selected English language LIS research articles revealed substantial Canadian presence in terms of research focus and author affiliation.
Long COVID Discourse in Canada, the United States, and Europe: Topic Modeling and Sentiment Analysis of Twitter Data Our study combines natural language processing techniques, including contextualized topic modeling and sentiment analysis, along with domain expert input, to provide detailed insights into public health monitoring and intervention.
Top 1000 Most Cited Papers in World Neurosurgery This study underscores WN's significant role in advancing neurosurgical research over the past 5 null decades. The findings highlight the journal's evolution, its expanding global influence, and the key contributors to its success. This study reinforces the journal's importance in disseminating critical neurosurgical innovations and guiding future research directions.
The use of OpenAlex to produce meaningful bibliometric global overlay maps of science on the individual, institutional, and national levels Most concepts shown on the overlay maps can be well associated with the unit's research areas and thus provide helpful guidance in interpretation of the units' research. The main advantage of our approach to consider OpenAlex data to produce overlay maps is that the underlying data can be used without any restrictions. We think, e.g., that it would be interesting to consider a broader set of overlay data.
Comparison of journal and top publisher self-citation rates in COVID-19 research In summary, this study has shown that the median SCR was 4% and that in 13% of the journals, one in five references was a journal self-citation.
USING BAYESIAN NETWORKS FOR COGNITIVE DIAGNOSIS ASSESSMENT OF UPPER- SECONDARY SCHOOL STUDENTS UNDERSTANDING IN REDOX REACTION In this study, Bayesian networks were utilized to analyze the cognitive structures underlying students’ understanding of redox reaction.
A proposed framework to address metric inflation in research publications We propose a method to renormalize research metrics. Our renormalized metrics aim to remove the incentive for researchers to prioritize quantity or resort to unethical practices to boost their metrics.
Analysis of the Impact of the Post-Consumer Film Waste Scenario and the Source of Electricity on the Harmfulness of the Mass Packaging Process The future of film packaging used in bottle transport requires the implementation of modern materials (e.g., biodegradable) and a circular economy in the post-consumer management of film waste.
Academic stratification and faculty hiring networks: analyzing the hierarchical structure of schools of education in China (1982-2022) The results show that the recruitment structure of the academic labor market of education in China is highly hierarchical, reflecting an inherent academic stratification system, influenced by both the symbolic “recognition” posited by signal screening theory and the “academic relationship" understood in class theory.
The Scholarly Impact of Industrial-Organizational Psychologists in Academia: Normative Data and Construct Validity First, acknowledging that the data were based on SIOP membership, we provide empirically derived norms for I-O psychologists in academia that can be used to interpret impact, which at the minimum complement or maybe even replace intuitive approaches that are often used to evaluate impact metrics.
A randomized controlled trial on anonymizing reviewers to each other in peer review discussions Overall, this experiment reveals evidence supporting the advantages of an anonymous discussion setup in the peer-review process, in terms of the evaluation criteria considered herein.
Do conference-journal articles receive more citations? A case study in physics First, for papers originating from the same conference, conference-journal articles receive more citations than conference proceedings papers. Second, compared to general journal articles in the same journal, conference-journal articles tend to receive fewer citations. This research provides valuable insights for academic conference committees, journal managers, and conference participants.
Does vocational education pay off in China? Evidence from city-level education supply shocks In contrast, our IV results indicate that for individuals who at most complete secondary education, vocational education was a better choice with respect to earnings in early career.
From Code to Ratings: Converting Programming Data to Enhance Collaborative Filtering in Educational Online Judge Systems In this study, we proposed different approaches to improve the recommendation of programming problems on an Online Judge (OJ) platform.
Research on the Structure of Disciplinary Knowledge Systems from the Perspective of a Knowledge Behavior Strategy This study, from the perspective of coexistence between autonomous learning and collaborative learning behaviors among researchers, builds basic knowledge system and knowledge network system structures of disciplinary knowledge based on knowledge structure theory and ecosystem perspective.
Exploring the Evolution of Nanotechnology Education: Insights from Bibliometric Analysis The insights derived from this analysis suggest strategic directions for enhancing nanotechnology education programs including integrating hands-on learning, early education, and interdisciplinary collaborations. In conclusion, the centrality analysis of the co-word network in nanotechnology education reveals a well-structured field where core concepts like “nanotechnology” dominate the discourse, practical and advanced educational methods are prioritized, emerging trends in early education are recognized, and interdisciplinary connections are vital. This comprehensive approach will ensure that education keeps pace with technological developments, ultimately benefiting society by equipping individuals with the necessary skills and knowledge to navigate and shape the future of nanotechnology.
Research and Prediction Analysis of Key Factors Influencing the Carbon Dioxide Emissions of Countries Along the "Belt and Road" Based on Panel Regression and the A-A-E Coupling Model This study used statistical data on 54 countries from the World Bank along the Belt and Road from 2005 to 2020 to build a dataset, described the carbon emissions of different countries by establishing a multidisciplinary indicator system, classified countries, and determined the key factors affecting the carbon emissions of countries in the region based on panel econometric regression.
Leadership in Scholarship: Editors' Appointments and Scientific Narrative We find that topic frequencies that are observed in the AER align with those observed in editors' own publications while being an editor, but are not much driven by editors' publications before becoming an editor. Instead, the AER appears to align its publications with broader field trends as represented by the other Top 5 journals. Our findings also imply that editors of the AER do not typically drive radical content changes.
Interdisciplinarity in the Built Environment: Measurement and Interdisciplinary Topic Identification This study examined the interdisciplinary situation in the field of the built environment in great detail, identifying cross-disciplinary topics and analyzing their evolutionary trends.
The use of bibliometrics for ranking the all-time greatest music artists The use of evaluative bibliometry provides a straightforward, quantitative approach for ranking the greatest music artists of all time. It is unbiased in that no subjectivity is involved in the ranking, yet it still incorporates productivity and impact aspects that are inherent in conventional bibliometrics. Furthermore, the approach presented would likely be useful for other non-scholarly applications.
Mapping Malaysia's contribution to Gold Open Access: Growth patterns, disparities, and policy implications The analysis reveals positive trends, indicating that Malaysia is making significant strides toward embracing OA publications, particularly gold OA.
Coverage of Malaysian Scholarly publications in the Directory of Open Access Journals: An exploratory study In conclusion, this study provides a comprehensive analysis of the 101 Malaysian journals in DOAJ, alongside comparisons with WoS, Scopus, and MyCite.
Public Perceptions of Male Hormone Levels and Prostate Health: A Text Mining Analysis of South Korean Media and Online Communities This study highlights the significant roles that news and online communities play in shaping social perceptions of male hormone levels and BPH. The findings indicate that news platforms and online communities work complementarily to raise social awareness and interest in male hormone level and BPH. This study has utilized news and community data analyses to uncover key issues and public concerns regarding male hormone levels and BPH, offering insights into social perceptions.
Breaking down the relationship between disruption scores and citation counts Our results reconcile the seemingly contradictory conclusions between Wei et al. [30] and Zeng et al. [47].
Homecoming After Brexit: Evidence on Academic Migration From Bibliometric Data Our analysis points to a compositional change in the academic origins of the researchers entering and leaving the UK as one of the first impacts of Brexit on the UK and EU academic workforce. This trend has the potential to make British academia more insular unless it is addressed by future academic migration policies. To counteract this trend, explicit changes in science collaboration policies between the UK and the EU are needed.
Global Trends in Studies on the Presence of Demodex spp. in Patients Diagnosed with Blepharitis The results of this bibliometric analysis conducted by us reveal global trends in the presence of Demodex spp. in patients diagnosed with blepharitis and provide important information for future directions of research. Our study shows global trends in the presence of Demodex spp. in patients diagnosed with blepharitis and provides insight into future research trends in this area.
Material Deconstructions of Time: Posthumanist Interventions Through Media Art We close with a discussion on how these themes intersect with the current discourse on unmaking in HCI and reflect on challenges and opportunities for design and theory.
Surveying knowledge production in New Zealand ecology: towards a resilient publication system We conclude by considering some potential challenges that local journals face in the current publishing environment, and how a more resilient local ecological publishing community might be developed.
Unmaking Electronic Waste Drawing from the findings of our study, we reflect on how the HCI community can engage with and be inspired by the processes of unmaking e-waste.
Perceptions of research integrity and open science practices: a survey of Brazilian dental researchers In conclusion, while Brazilian dental researchers perceive which research activities are more closely aligned with science advancement and the generation of science with social impact, they emphasize that their activities on the most traditional practices based on the number of publications and journal impact metrics are more important for their career.
STS and science education: the impact of geology workshops on children's perception in Paraguay Despite some variations, the findings support the effectiveness of practical workshops in enhancing children's perception and interest in science.
Developing Person-Centered Metadata: A Case Study of The Behaviours in Dementia Toolkit This case study describes the process and outcomes of navi-gating the complexity of creating, refining, and implement-ing person-centered terminology in the context of the Be-haviours in Dementia Toolkit. Our process for moving beyond stigmatizing terminology to human-centered language may be adapted to future projects in other contexts across the library and in-formation, health care, and knowledge mobilization fields. We suggest that the con-cept of person-centered warrant should be the subject of further scholarly attention and practical application, espe-cially in health information libraries.
Two Sides of the Same Coin: How to Integrate Social Network Analysis and Topic Detection to Investigate Shared Contents and Communicative Interactions in Social Representations We contend this methodology proves to be a fruitful theoretical-methodological link between SNA and SR theory, as it detects both facets of the relationship between SRs and groups: the shared contents and the communicative interactions between individuals.
Learning From Countries on Measuring and Defining Community-Based Resilience in Health Systems: Voices From Nepal, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Ethiopia Despite varying definitions and understanding of the concept of resilience, community-centred responses to shocks were key in building resilience. Metrics and definitions could assist policy-makers, researchers, and practitioners in evaluating the readiness of systems to respond to shocks and to allow comparability across health systems. We must build health systems that ensure quality, equity, community-focused care, and engagement that can continue to function regardless of the pressures put upon it.
PREPARING THE FINAL NAILS TO SEAL THE COFFIN OF GENUINE SCIENCE Based on trends observed over the last 10-15 years, it is likely that the integrity of science will continue to erode unless a model with real publication fees is introduced, one in which reviewers are also compensated, even symbolically, for their efforts.
Measuring Science: Performance Metrics and the Allocation of Talent Overall, our results demonstrate how the availability of citation metrics shapes modern science.
The fate of manuscripts rejected by the Turkish Journal of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Our study results showed that a high percentage of the articles rejected by the Turk J Phys Med Rehab found a place in another journal later, and that non-specialty journals that accept general articles were more prominent in the selection of journal. The fact that an article rejected from a journal can be corrected and amended in accordance with valuable reviewer comments by improving its academic quality and seeking success in other journals may be promising for researchers who submit their articles to journals.
What predicts citation counts and translational impact in headache research? A machine learning analysis In this study we demonstrate that machine learning models may predict the citation count of headache research papers with good accuracy. Bibliometric data such as high page count, many authors, many references, first and last authors with many citations and high author h-index seems to be among the most important predictors for high citation counts. We argue that citation counts alone as a metric of the importance of a scientific work must be used with caution, whereas models incorporating publication content could be used to guide researchers, editors, and funders in iden-tifying the most relevant and potentially impactful sci-entific works.
The top 100 most-cited total knee arthroplasty publications The 100 most influential publications on total knee arthroplasty were cited a total of 35,399 times. The most used study designs were case series and cohort studies. This publication serves as a reference to direct orthopaedic surgeons to the 100 most influential studies in total knee arthroplasty.
Visualizing the construction of subject librarianship in chinese higher education libraries: A knowledge graph-based analysis This bibliometric analysis provides a comprehensive over- view, conducting knowledge graphs and exhaustive analy- ses over the past 25 years (1998–2023) based on 504 papers. The research elucidates the development trend, encom- passing initial, developmental, and mature stages. The knowledge graph-based exploration of subject librarianship holds substantial implications for libraries further constructions, particularly in enriching content and enhancing quality, aligning with the criteria of the new education public policy outlined by the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China.
Assessing Interdisciplinary Research Within an Emerging Technology Network: A Novel Approach Based on Patents in the Field of Bioplastics This article contributes to the foundations of emerging tech-nologies [14], [18] by showing that knowledge integration within IDR leads to interlinkages between diverse knowledge areas which, as a result, link up to form a technology network, resulting in an emerging technology (as illustrated in Fig. 1).
Investigating country-focused studies in Library and Information Science journals By analysing the degree of country-focused studies across journals, we were able to show that there are distinctive subject category characteristics regarding country-focused studies.
Citations of microRNA Biomarker Articles That Were Retracted A Systematic Review In this study, retraction was not associated with a reduction in citations of retracted articles, but articles that cited retracted publications had higher odds of later retraction.
Hidden in the light: Scientists' online presence on institutional websites and professional networking sites Our results show a high proportion of rudimentary online presentations by faculty members on institutional domains. Regardless of discipline and academic position, in our sample, it appears that faculty members are more often fully represented on professional networking sites. Further research should investigate what factors condition this rudimentary online presentation of academic staff on institutional websites.
An improved author-topic (AT) model with authorship credit allocation schemes As a core module of personalised academic recommendation systems, the author interest discovery task [39,40] is considered a case study in this article to obtain insights about authorship credit allocation schemes and provide guidelines for further practical applications.
Can we use link-based indicators to find highly cited publications? The case of the Trust Flow score This study has carried out a large-scale analysis of URL-based DOIs to obtain evidence of the capacity of the TF score to identify influential publications. The TF has been proved to be a discovering tool with potential to be used in webometric studies aimed at finding influential publications. However, this study has shown there is need to avoid or minimize certain limitations (e.g., multiplicity of publication URLs, data variability and obsolescence, reliance on private data providers, dependence on the referring domains industry), which jeopardize the general applicability of the TF for publication-level research evaluation.
In-Cites research fronts and its relationship with citations per document and highly cited papers: Spanish universities as a case study The results show there are statisti-cally significant differences between the coincidences per paper in the full output and in the HCP and, in all the cases, the medians are greater for the HCP output (e.g. UPF and UAM).
The Matilda Effect in Communication Research: The Effects of Gender and Geography on Usage and Citations Across 11 Countries Based on our findings, we can delineate a model of how gender inequalities work among the most prolific scholars in communication.
Industry-research fronts - Private sector collaboration with research institutions in Latin America and the Caribbean Finally, we identified several unexplored research fronts, particularly in health (e.g. care planning) and the social sciences and humanities (e.g. demography).
Whistleblowing legislation and reporting on research misconduct: A case for mutual learning This article concludes by calling for a clarification of the legal regimes governing whistleblowing in relation to scientific misconduct in order to reconcile the best procedural guarantees and protections for whistleblowers with proper consideration of the particular character of reporting inappropriate research practices.
An empirical note on university rankings Based on Figure 1 and Section II's empirics, our con- clusions are: (a) a university's individual rankings by the five agencies can be highly diverse; (b) the extent of disparity is greater for the lower-ranking universi- ties; and (c) if two agencies employ similar indicators, their rankings are highly correlated. When taken together, these conclusions urge caution when inter- preting the ranking announcement on a university's website. The key takeaway from the preceding reasons is that one should not blindly use the arithmetic average rankings as the primary basis for iden- tifying the world's top 100 universities, notwith- standing that such readily available rankings are arguably easy to understand by international users (e.g. high school students in China inter- ested in attending highly ranked universities in foreign countries).
The evolution and development landscape of scholarly communication based on the analysis of published articles Through co-citation analysis, keyword co-occurrence networks, thematic evolution analysis, and examination of seminal works, we have elucidated the evolutionary process of primary research content and identified key topics and hotspots in the field of scholarly communication. Overall, from 1996 to 2021, the research hotspots in scholarly communication indicate a development toward networking, socialization, openness, enhanced accessibility, and globalization. In conclusion, the landscape of scholarly communication is undergoing a transformative shift from a closed, publication-centric model to an open network that promotes the generation and dissemination of knowledge.
Extent of publishing in predatory journals by academics in higher education institutions in Zimbabwe: A case study of a university It can be concluded that some researchers were publishing in predatory journals because of a lack of knowledge and skills on how to evaluate journals, while others ignored the importance of publishing in authentic journals. The authors recommend that researchers be able to evaluate the journals before submitting their manuscripts for publica-tion. Academic librarians should also roll out workshops, seminars, and other discussion forums to create awareness about the dangers of predatory publishing and its effects on authors.
Growth and aging study on literatures of information science & library science based on SSCI data Based on the review of Library and Information Science (LIS) through literature reading, it is found that LIS has a relatively short history of development compared to other mature disciplines and has a distinct interdisciplinary char-acter.
Are the lists of questionable journals reasonable: A case study of early warning journal lists Our findings suggest that EWJLs may have employed inconsistent criteria when assigning warning levels.
Mechanisms for Employee Mobility Between Organizations: A Network Analysis of Faculty Turnover in Communication, 2013 to 2022 The empirical investigation of the theoretical mechanisms for the initiation of mobility events between organizations provides a basis for understanding the redistribution of knowledge-based resources through employee mobility.
Affording excellence: What does excellence funding do for researchers? Our analysis opens up the possibility to conceptualize excellence funding as a task that could be approached via a portfolio of different instruments, which bundle modalities in specific ways in order to promote excellent research.
Exploring factors influencing the use of open access resources in India: A novel perspective on Indian researchers The study emphasizes the importance of formulating OA policies, promoting awareness and understanding, and addressing copyright concerns to facilitate the effective use of OA resources, thereby benefiting knowledge dissemination and scholarly communication.
Exponential Authorship Inflation in Neuroscience and Psychology From the 1950s to the 2020s These findings suggest troubling implications for research reproducibility, innovations, equity/diversity, and ethics, calling for policy deliberations to address potential negative ramifications. What to do with the exponential authorship inflation and its concerning implications? Teamwork is not just inevitable but a necessity in contemporary science.
Trends in Brain Research: A Bibliometric Analysis Despite data-related limitations, our findings provide a large scope snapshot of the evolution of brain research and its funding which may be used as a baseline for future studies on these topics.
Exploring the role of student authors in the Journal of Librarianship and Information Science: Patterns, collaborations, and methodological insights In conclusion, this study enhances understanding of student authorship and its implications for academic publishing in the Library and Information Science field.
Scientific misconduct: A cross-sectional study of the perceptions, attitudes and experiences of Spanish researchers To conclude, our results indicate that scientific misconduct may well be common in Spanish research: 70% of Spanish researchers know of at least one case of scientific misconduct and 40% have engaged in scientific misconduct. Furthermore, our study identified unethical practices, such as false authorship, which have become completely normalized in the research world, as well as new forms of scientific misconduct that have spread to Spain, such as the use of paper mills. The results of this and previous studies suggest that a shift in research culture toward scientific integrity is essential, and highlight the need to set up control mechanisms and disciplinary sanctions for scientific misconduct, already previously proposed in the Spanish context (50) and similar to those already in force in other countries.
Factors related to the severity of research misconduct administrative actions: An analysis of office of research integrity case summaries from 1993 to 2023 Overall, our findings suggest that ORI has acted fairly when imposing administrative actions on respondents and has followed DHHS guidelines. Despite the limitations noted above, our results provide reassurance that the ORI policies and practices in place for the past three decades are not associated with significant bias. The issue of whether race/ethnicity has any effect on actions taken by ORI (or academic institutions) requires further study.
Do LIS experts select more appropriate journals than journal finders? A study about LIS journals? Experts were more successful than Manuscript Matcher in target journal selection.
Inverted U-Shaped relationship between team size and citation impact: Mediating role of responsibility diffusion We verified an inverted U-shaped relationship between team size and academic impact and further demonstrated the partially mediating role of responsibility diffusion.
Interdisciplinary Research, Tenure Review, and Guardians of the Disciplinary Order First, while interdisciplinarity continues to be promoted by policymakers, funding agencies, industry partners, and universities (e.g., Borrego et al., 2014; Frickel et al., 2016; Hackett, 2000; Harris, 2010; Holley, 2009; Sá, 2008), our findings in the context of a prestigious private university suggest that tenure and promotion norms in academic departments have remained mostly unchanged.
Mega-authorship implications: How many scientists can fit into one cell? The examination of 5,533 items flagged by InCites as having 500 or more authors found that 91.13% of the items were from physics, with medicine and other science disciplines falling at an extreme distance. Many of these items were found to be related to the Large Hadron Collider, with the progression of events at the LHC corresponding to points of interest in the graphs related to the quantity of publications and average number of authors for the 500+ author works. Ideally, solutions will become more commonly implemented to detail people's specific contribution and unblur the lines between author and contributor.
Turning Social Capital into Scientific Capital: Men's Networking in Academia The article shows that journal lists, and the forms of strategic networking these lists are associated with, represent a new doxa in academia, a conglomerate of ideals and practices that is more or less taken for granted by the participants.
Evolving trends in vertebrate palaeontology (2013-2022): a bibliometric analysis using DeepBone and Web of Science databases Our bibliometric analysis (2013-2022) reveals an increase in vertebrate palaeontology research activity and publications, highlighting the evolution of vertebrate palaeontology from basic descriptive studies to more sophisticated, integrated approaches that integrate various data types.
Balancing Relevancy and Rigor: Exploring the Impact of Scholarly Books on Knowledge Formation in Business Research In this study, we examined the impact on knowledge formation that occurs when scholars such as Kouzes and Posner choose to publish their research in books rather than peer-reviewed, academic journals.
Interacting Barriers: How Barriers Compound Across Levels of Analysis to Affect Teams Our data highlight the importance of considering longitudinal, strategic support for targeting cross-barrier inter-actions when seeking to intervene in collaborations.
Stars in Their Constellations: Great Person or Great Team? In sum, our study highlights the importance of looking at highly qualified human capital in the context of their collaborations.
The structure and evolution of social psychology: a co-citation network analysis Our co-citation network analysis identified six large article clusters and one small, recently emerging cluster dominated by research on the COVID-19 pandemic.
Are disruptive papers more likely to impact technology and society? By shedding light on these dynamics, our study seeks to enrich discussions regarding the recognition and role of disruptive scientific endeavors in shaping our world.
A spatial scientometric analysis of urban planning publications from 2010-2020: geographic disparities in urban planning knowledge production This paper highlights significant disparities in scholarly planning knowledge production, particularly regarding authorship diversity and geographic representation. The dominance of Northern American and Northern European authors and the underrepresentation of planning researchers from the Global South may indicate a persistent polarization in the production of urban planning scientific publications. The findings also establish the emerging role of Northern America as a major collaborator in inter-country and inter-regional research collaborations.
Quantinar: a blockchain peer-to-peer ecosystem for modern data analytics We propose a P2P platform, Quantinar, designed to accompany all players in the education and research system in their knowledge accumulation.
Twelve tips for strengthening global equity in health professions education publication These recommendations are a call to achieve authentic global diversity in the community of readers, researchers, practitioners, and people. This article is a call for every stakeholder including publishers, editors, reviewers, but also deans, chairs, and anyone in a position of power to introspect and have an open mind, and to take a stand for global social justice, higher-quality research, and better rep-resentation in HPE publications.
Thirty Years of Legal Research: An Empirical Analysis of Outputs Submitted to RAE and REF (1990-2021) Overall, as in all things, it seems that balance and moderation in output profiles is best, both for the researcher in terms of their own development and well-being, and for the institution in terms of its submission profile.
Trends in Individual Career Development Awards from National Institutes of Health to Physicians in Departments of Psychiatry (2013-2022) The number of NIH career development awards has increased NIH-wide, and for non-physician faculty but not for physicians in departments of psychiatry. These trends raise concerns for the future of psychiatrists in academic research. Our results suggest that the current approaches to research training for psychiatrists have not substantially altered the number of physicians in departments of psychiatry receiving an individual NIH career development award from 2013 to 2022.
How to Measure the Researcher Impact with the Aid of its Impactable Area: A Concrete Approach Using Distance Geometry However, in this paper, we found a formula for deriving the true distance (or at least a distance closer to the real distance) between articles/researchers and proved that, at least for mathematical disciplines, distances between articles/researchers may rather be variable.
Identifying hotspots and emerging trends in innovation determinants: a bibliometric analysis in the context of entrepreneurship and resource-based view In conclusion, this study sheds light on the intellectual structure of Innovation Determinants (ID) within the context of Entrepreneurship and Resource-Based View (RBV). Overall, this study contributes to the understanding of emerging issues, new trends, and innovative decision support tools within the realm of Entrepreneurship and Resource-Based View, providing valuable insights for researchers, practitioners, and decision-makers in the field of innovation. Moreover this study enable to solve business and economic problems researchers by providing a better understanding of the firm creativity and innovation (Ettlie et al., 2014) because such capabilities and resources are the sources of sustainable competitive advantage (Barney, 1986, 1991).
Token-based reviewer economies: Proposed institutions for managing the reviewer shortage problem In writing this opinion paper, I have attempted to bring multiple streams of understanding together to address the problem of managing reviews in the information systems academy. I first demonstrate that our present review system is unsustainable. Our review system is strained, if not broken.
Disclosing the fates of rejected papers: A possible measure to enhance review ability Returning to our proposal, recognizing the fates of reviewed manuscripts could enhance our overall review ability. This is particularly true for Opinion pieces, which are often challenging to assess. While our proposal may seem peripheral to the broader discussion of the peer review system, we believe that the insights of experienced reviewers can be valuable for improving the review process, thereby contributing to the academic publication world.
Between Delivery and Luck: Projectification of Academic Careers and Conflicting Notions of Worth at the Postdoc Level In this article, I have explored how early career academics experience and navigate project-based careers.
Resistance and collaboration within the panoptivarsity: differing views of ORCID in Ireland This project critically examined of perceptions of ORCID IDs in Ireland’s TU sector. The results show a significant difference in perceptions of ORCID between academic faculty and librarians.
Bibliometric articles in business and management: Factors affecting production and scholarly impact Based on different views on theory building and research publishing, we examined all 835 bibliometric articles contained in the Social Sciences Citation Index of the WoS database from 1981 to 2022. Our examination aims to extend previous methodological contributions regarding bibliometric analysis (Mukherjee et al., 2022), from a pragmatic but also philosophical approach, providing conclusions about debates, production drivers and impact. As future research lines, management theorists may evaluate whether the popularisation of bibliometrics is a fashionable practice or rather the normal diffusion of a methodology.
Assessing the influence of research quality on policy citations: Quantitative analysis finds non-academic factors more likely to influence how papers get cited in SDG policy We found that traditional metrics like academic citation counts, journal CiteScore, author h-index and mentions only modestly correlate with policy citations.
Leading researchers in the leadership of leading research universities: Meta-research analysis In conclusion, leading research universities have a dearth of leaders who are high-impact researchers. This should raise discussion about what universities and their leadership stand for.
Lack of self-control and online academic dishonesty in an extended TPB model: A PLS-SEM approach In conclusion, it is recommended that interventions targeting factors like lack of self-control, subjective norms, PBC, intention, and justification be considered to mitigate OAD. Furthermore, it is recommended that future research explore additional latent factors such as conscientiousness, ethical belief, and past behavior to enhance our understanding of the factors influencing behavioral intentions towards OAD across different scenarios.
Endogeny in measuring research excellence. In-house publishing and conflict of interests in Polish science evaluation We conclude that domestic publishing, while by itself needs not to be criticized, is a biased measure of research excellence because it is heavily endogenic and, to a large degree, a derivative of administrative decisions.
Assetisation as a means to solve public problems: the research excellence framework and competitive future-making In this paper, we have suggested that UK research assessment through the REF has introduced and continues to introduce asset-based changes.
The role of online search platforms in scientific diffusion Overall, we observe empirical evidence that validate both Hypotheses. In other words, discoverability, initiated by lower search costs, boosted overall citedness of papers and in particular beyond their own field.
Quantifying the degree of scientific innovation breakthrough: Considering knowledge trajectory change and impact Results demonstrated that the DIB indicator we proposed outperforms single metrics such as DI, CDT, and ISI, with the highest AUC value.
A portfolio approach to research funding The outcomes from the portfolio approach are always at least equally impactful than the ones from the merit-based approach.
Anticipatory evaluation. How to incorporate an anticipatory technique into a theory-driven evaluation process. Results of application in a case study.☆ The article concludes with a discussion of the advantages and disadvantages compared to other techniques, along with lessons learned that may benefit other evaluators seeking to replicate this approach. Furthermore, we explore potential extensions and opportunities for further improvement in this research.
Fundamental problems in the peer-review process and stakeholders' perceptions of potential suggestions for improvement The importance of preserving the fairness and objectivity of peer review in the world of academic publishing is undisputed.
Research hotspots and frontiers of machine learning in renal medicine: a bibliometric and visual analysis from 2013 to 2024 The field of renal medicine is witnessing a surge in the application of machine learning. This analysis provides a comprehensive overview of the current status and emerging research areas in the field, as well as future trends and frontiers. Conversely, this study furnishes data on collaboration and exchange between countries, regions, institutions, journals, authors, keywords, and reference co-citations. This information can facilitate the advancement of future research endeavors, which aim to enhance interdisciplinary collaboration, optimize data sharing and quality, and further advance the application of machine learning in the renal field.
Public understanding of preprints: How audiences make sense of unreviewed research in the news This study provides initial evidence into how publics understand—or, more often, misunderstand— the term, paving the way for the development of such strategies and, ultimately, for more transparent and ethical science communication.
The Nobel "Pride" Phenomenon: An analysis of Nobel Prize discoveries and their recognition "These findings cast new light on the Nobel laureates' demographics, geographic and historical movements, and institutional affiliations, and have implications for research policy at institutions and national levels."
Who stands on the shoulders of Chinese (Scientific) Giants? Evidence from chemistry Our study sheds light on the propensity to cite research emanating from Chinese laboratories by pairing Chinese and non-Chinese articles well matched on attributes that plausibly capture the scientific quality of each publication. Focusing on elite researchers in a single domain-chemistry-we uncover the existence of a sizable citation discount for Chinese articles, relative to non-Chinese articles. Assessing the degree to which our results extend to other settings, and the reasons they might differ, represents a fruitful area for future research.
Specialization trends in economics research: A large-scale study using natural language processing and citation analysis When examining differences across fields of economics research, our findings reveal significant disparities in the content of articles, as well as in their citations and references. Regarding specialization, our analysis indicates that certain fields demonstrate an increasing trend towards specialization, while others show the opposite. To our knowledge, this article represents the first comprehensive attempt to document specialization within economics to such a significant extent.
Adoption and use of author identifier services: A French national survey The results of this national survey should help stakeholders to adapt their policies and to guide and support researchers more efficiently in the use of these tools.
IS DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION A PANACEA FOR CARBON REDUCTION? Our study confirms that digitization, as measured by digital word frequency, does not affect actual production and has no effect on carbon reduction. More practically, this study helps to remind business managers and policy makers that the DTI is not a panacea for reducing carbon emissions, but may also bring carbon rebound effects. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the collaborative innovation of digital technology and green technology in the future, and encourage enterprises to carry out greener DTI.
How does Nobel prize awarding shift the research topics of Nobelists' coauthors and non-coauthors? In this research, we explored the impact of the Nobel prize recognition on Nobelists' coauthors, with a specific emphasis on its influence on their research interests. Employing the APS dataset with more than 600,000 papers, our results substantiate that, compared to non-coauthors of the Nobelists, scholars, who have coauthored at least one paper with laureates on the prizewinning topic before the Nobel prize, exhibit a discernible reduction in the ratio of papers on the award topics after the Nobel prize. This observation implies that these coauthors gradually attenuate their involvement in researches concerning the award-winning domain and progressively venture toward new research horizons.
The disruption index suffers from citation inflation: Re-analysis of temporal CD trend and relationship with team size reveal discrepancies In short, our mixed method approaches consistently demonstrate that CI causes the denominator of CD defined in Eq. (1) to systematically increase as reference lengths increase over time, which causes CD to converge to 0.
Unleashing the Possibilities of Play: Analyzing the positive and negative consequences of multiplayer online gaming This research presented the multifaceted impact of multiplayer online gaming. The positive variables revealed four core factors: 'Cognitive abilities and collaboration skills,' 'Emotional well-being and enjoyment', 'Motor skills and attention control', and 'Social interaction'. On the other hand, the negative variables resulted in three core factors: 'Psychological and emotional distress', 'Escapism and coping mechanism', and 'Technology induced academic decline'. These findings suggest that multiplayer online gaming has a significant influence on both positive and negative aspects of individuals' well-being and development.
An empirical study of retractions due to honest errors: Exploring the relationship between error types and author teams Honest errors made by medium-sized teams are more likely to be data errors rather than other types of errors, than those made by other-sized teams.
Geographical Trends in Global Ophthalmology Research From 2002 to 2022 The content published in ophthalmology journals has un-dergone a paradigm change over time. Although research from the United States continues to be dominant, China's research productivity is rapidly increasing, whereas Japan's research output is experiencing stagnation. Despite the declining proportion of research from the United States, North America and Europe still maintain a dispropor-tionately high presence in prestigious academic jour-nals. Publications from Africa and South America were significantly limited, suggesting that resources can be allocated toward improving the quality and quantity of research in these regions.
Challenges in the Implementation of EU Risk Minimisation Measures for Medicinal Products in Clinical Practice Guidelines: Mixed Methods Multi-Case Study The inclusion of RMM information in relevant CPGs is remarkably limited. It may be explained by characteristics of CPGs and of RMMs as well as lack of connection between national regulators and organisations and authors developing CPGs.
Standardization and Standards: Safeguards of Technological Sovereignty? We come to the following conclusions based on our conceptual analysis of standardization and standards securing technological sovereignty underpinned by an explorative empirical analysis of 5G standardization. First, experts, particularly researchers, who are actively involved in standardization promote the integration of domestic technologies in future standards and help to reduce the influence of technologies generated abroad while keeping the use of standardized technologies generally open. Finally, international standards can be a powerful tool in public policies to promote countries’ technological sovereignty.
The effects of digitalization on production☆ We find that digitalization has a significant impact on the macroeconomic production function.
The effects of scientific collaboration network structures on impact and innovation: A perspective from project teams This study contributes valuable insights for scholars, institutions, and policy-makers aiming to enhance research team effectiveness.
Knowledge substitutability and complementarity in scientific collaboration This paper provides a new perspective and practical insights into team formation and management.
Science communicators, flat-eathers, or fitness coaches: who is citing scientific publications in youtube video descriptions? This underscores the challenge aca- demic channels face in attracting a wider audience.
Scientific knowledge role transition prediction from a knowledge hierarchical structure perspective This study investigated the role transition phenomenon of scientific knowledge in the process of the domain knowledge system, the two core issues are whether scientific knowledge undergoes a role transition and, if so, what type of role transition it belongs to, respectively labeled as Transition possibility and Transition type.
Inter- and intra-domain knowledge flows: Examining their relationship with impact at the field level over time Our findings highlight the importance of cross-disciplinary citation patterns and the positive correlation between extra-domain citations and higher scholarly influence. The policy implications of our findings are substantial. Future research could build on these findings by investigating the causal mechanisms behind the observed correlations and extending the analysis to a broader set of data sources and disciplinary classifications.
How do semiconductors, artificial intelligence, geopolitical risk, and their moderating effects shape renewable energy production in leading semiconductor manufacturing countries? In this research endeavor, we reveal the drives of renewable energy production in a panel of 13 leading semiconductor-producing countries for the period from 1999 to 2019.
Overcoming social and ethical challenges of AI through organizational resilience. A PLS-SEM approach This article empirically verifies the impact of OR on the social and ethical challenges related to AI in city governments.
Science for whom? The influence of the regional academic circuit on gender inequalities in Latin America Our findings suggest that policies aimed at strengthening the regional academic circuit would encourage scientists to address locally relevant topics while simultaneously fostering gender equality in science.
Mapping knowledge: Topic analysis of science locates researchers in disciplinary landscape The study of the compositions of scientific topic portfolios has given us a roadmap to achieve Bourdieu's goal of overcoming "the distinction [...] between the science of scientists and the science of scientific works" (Bourdieu, 2004, 58).
Gender differences in dropout rate: From field, career status, and generation perspectives Overall, our study offers insights into field development assessment, policy formulation to address gender disparities in dropout rates, and comprehension of dynamic scholarly behaviors across career statuses, fields and generations.
Doctoral capstone theories as indicators of university rankings: Insights from a machine learning approach The study makes headway in the empirical investigation into how theoretical frameworks of doctoral research may be related to university rankings, and its findings pertain to the management of educational and psychological research at doctoral level by means of learning analytics.
Governance of knowledge development in a public-private partnership: NASAs efforts to design the Space Shuttle Revealing wisdom at the intersection of governance of knowledge and innovation processes, the nonobvious findings indicate that knowledge development through PPP occurred in phases. The process included knowledge generation, knowledge filtration, and knowledge combination occurring within each phase. Moreover, the process was underscored by the division of labor between the private and public actors. Finally, the findings- knowledge generation, knowledge filtration, and knowledge combination occurring within each phase through division of labor and knowledge reinforcement occurring between phases- raise critical, yet unanswered questions, which in turn suggest additional "conceptual opportunities to extend established theories" (Mahoney et al., 2009; p. 1042).
A study of the index time of early access articles In summary, it appears that the influence of factors from the publisher (publisher, jour-nal, and online time of the article) on the index time is more significant than those from the database (WoS category and index type).
Analysis of citation impact of ORMS journals by DEA models The study aimed the analysis of the citation impact of a group of journals (80 ORMS journals in the case study) by DEA models.
The impact of pre-conference advice on academic talk effectiveness This evidence suggests that informing speakers about good presentation practices can substantially improve the effectiveness of conference talks.
Reliable individual differences in researcher performance capacity estimates: evaluating productivity as explanatory variable This all emphasizes the critical role of productivity in researcher performance capacity estimation. We argue that we should understand the measured construct as a mix of productivity, impact, and reputation (or other aspects targeted by the indicators) when productivity is part of the indicator set, rely on more or different indicators compared to the current study when the goal is to assess researchers' performance capacity more independently of productivity (i.e., to minimize the risk inherent in overemphasizing productivity, which is that researchers start churning out stuff just to have a high number of publications; cf. Bornmann & Tekles, 2019), or construct indicators that do not rely on the same products (e.g., annual output). We hope to have paved the way for other researchers to find sophisticated justifiable models for a variety of research assessment contexts.
The development of sudden infant death syndrome awareness scale-mother form and examination of its psychometric properties The study concluded that the six-item form of the SIDSAS-MF is a valid and reliable measurement tool for mothers with infants aged 0-12 months in the Turkish population.
Linkages among science, technology, and industry on the basis of main path analysis This study contributes to discovering the linkages among science, technology, and industry from the perspective of mutual citations among scholarly articles, patents, and products.
Limited diffusion of scientific knowledge forecasts collapse Our work highlights that restricted diffusion in science can effectively capture socio-epistemic bubbles. Complementing citation dynamics with diffusion patterns enriches our identification of robust insight in biomedical science, which can be readily improved by discounting bubbles and promoting convergent results sourced through social and topical diversity. Ultimately, our analysis underscores the relative importance of identifying the path of an idea's consumption over its point of production for predicting lasting, far-reaching impact.
Mapping trends and hotspots of research on COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness: A comprehensive bibliometric analysis of global research Our study identified geopolitical disparities and weak engagement from developing countries in the ongoing efforts regarding COVID-19 VE.
Citation counts and inclusion of references in seven free-access scholarly databases: A comparative analysis The results of this investigation lead us to conclude that, with the exception of Dimensions and Semantic Scholar, the databases examined incorporate citation counts solely as an impact measure, which does not make it possible to value the performance of scholarly outputs in a precise context.
Function and form of US cities The urban-function clustering results suggest that the travel behaviors in U.S. cities can be categorized into a few universal classes.
Bibliometric comparison of Nobel Prize laureates: a few suggestions The present study proposes a multi-dimensional approach for evaluating research impact, integrating various metrics, and highlighting the need for cross-database comparisons to ensure accurate assessments.
Spatiotemporal pattern of embodied carbon emissions from in-use steel stock in countries along the Belt and Road By developing a dynamic estimation method for urban IUSS-ECE, this study provides the first comprehensive evaluation of its spatiotemporal evolution in the B&R region from 1992 to 2020.
Bibliometric analysis of invasive fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) Finally, this bibliometric analysis of the global research environment on the invasive FAW contributes to the understanding of research patterns, collaborative networks, and novel areas of interest.
Policies to bring about social-ecological tipping points in coal and carbon intensive regions This article contributes to the global debate on accelerating decarbonization, focusing on the unique challenges of designing public policy interventions for CCIRs. The most important recommendation for designing policies to ensure a sustainable and just transition for CCIRs is identifying the right policy mix that can be established only on a case-by-case basis, depending on the intricacies of each CCIR. Among these, choosing appropriate narratives to focus the efforts of the local communities and government can have a great positive effect in mobilizing synergies towards positive SETPs. While we started from the hypothesis that innovation-focused policies' density should accelerate transition positive SETPs, current data do not offer enough support for this hypothesis.
Metaverse friends with social benefits: Effects of social identity on the intention to purchase virtual products through site attachment, user engagement, and public self-consciousness "This study has several implications for developing promotion strategies for digital stores, which are important for virtual brand managers and administrators."
BalancerGNN: Balancer Graph Neural Networks for imbalanced datasets: A case study on fraud detection Our study delves deeply into the complexities of fraud detection for highly imbalanced datasets.
Green investments and their effect on ESG ratings: An empirical analysis of Chinese publicly traded companies The findings imply that adopting green investments not only raises ESG ratings but also helps to lower environmental risks and enhance stakeholder interactions, thereby supporting the dual benefits of sustainability practices.
The economic cost of locking down like China: Evidence from city-to-city truck flows This paper studies how China's lockdown policy that tries to "nip COVID-19 in the bud" causally affects city-to-city truck flows.
Impact factors and publication times of original scientific research in radiology journals There is wide variation in the time from submission to publication in radiology journals.
Analysis of viewpoint evolution based on WeiBo data mining Firstly, this article uses Python and Gephi software to crawl and mine text data, and constructs a viewpoint update model.
"Meet me at the backdoor": A multiple case study of academic entrepreneurs bypassing their technology transfer offices The article concludes with some implications for university managers and policymakers related to how to address the multifaceted motivations for TTO bypassing.
Are large language models qualified reviewers in originality evaluation? Overall, the current research provides a new approach for using LLMs to conduct originality evaluation, a new dataset for examining LLMs' evaluation ability, and new conclusions for understanding LLMs' evaluation mechanism.
A comprehensive comparative analysis of publication monopoly phenomenon in scientific journals Our study of PM aimed to prompt academic practitioners to carefully consider the likelihood of acceptance in journals characterized by high PM levels.
Can money buy scientific leadership? The impact of excellence programs on German and French universities We find that this policy had a positive direct impact on scientific articles, international collaborations and collaborations with private companies.
Medical research and health care finance: Evidence from Academic Medical Centers In sum, the results presented in Table 5 paint a nuanced picture of compositional change in response to the health care financing cuts.
Evaluation of the Participation of Brazilian Women in Research in Oral Pathology and Oral Medicine This study highlighted the relevance of female participation in Oral Pathology and Oral Medicine research in Brazil.
Scholarly Productivity of School Psychology Faculty 2016-2020 The present study expands on efforts to understand the research trends of faculty members who publish in the area of school psychology. Because different fields have drastically different publishing expectations, those evaluating the dossiers of faculty members in different fields need to have normative data that allows for an appropriate evaluation. Finally, it is important for those entering academia to have a realistic understanding of the publication expectations and realities of the field.
Better job application systems: Objectively assessing measures of job performance from asynchronous video interviews We set out to propose design principles and evaluate an automated AVI system with the potential to increase objectivity while preserving efficiency and costs.
Research trends in Peruvian universities: proposal for a research agenda with a bibliometric approach This study provides an academic contribution because Peruvian scientific production has increased exponentially in recent years due to the new educational reforms in 2014 by Law 30,220, and this study analyzes the intellectual structure of the scientific pro-duction of Peruvian universities.
Free-riding in academic co-authorship: The marginalization of research students Drawing on participant insights, this study offers a range of recommendations to address and mitigate free-riding in academic co-authorship.
Navigating transparency: The interplay of ESG disclosure and voluntary earnings guidance We deduce that firms are using voluntary earnings guidance to counterbalance the adverse impact of ESG disclosure on transparency. The study provides new insights on the factors that determine voluntary earnings guidance through firms' involvement in ESG disclosure.
From audit to action: A case study on cultivating and sustaining organizational efforts in diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility The DEIA audit project successfully delivered a baseline evaluation of the library's DEIA work based on employee feedback, and the communication strategy involved multiple touchpoints with employees via several communication channels.
Variability and negligence: grant peer review panels evaluating impact ex ante The large and varied empirical material collected has enabled us to study societal impact assessments as a system of interact-ing elements. Specifically, we have explored how individual-level and environment-level factors influence each other, feed into, and are moderated by panel interaction processes. The policy implications of our study are that rules and for-mulas rather than guidelines should be used if the objective is to reduce variability in assessments. Introducing the concepts of productive and unproductive variability, we show that efforts to increase inter-rater reliability should focus on the latter. The productive variability caused by differences in reviewer expertise likely leads to more robust assessments.
A New Integrated Approach for Evaluating Sustainable Development in the Electric Vehicle Sector This study evaluates performance across five different supply chain sectors in Taiwan's EV industry, focusing on innovation capability, operation performance, and overall market efficiency, to analyze the performance variation in the sectors. The findings emphasize the critical role of control ownership and well-structured equity arrangements in the sustainable development of the EV industry, particularly in the charging station sector, where resource mobilization and market stability are key drivers of innovation.
EFL learner motivation and psychological well-being in online instruction: To spy the traces of resilience, autonomy, and engagement via path analysis This research examined the complex interconnections among motivation, psychological well-being, resilience, autonomy, and engagement among EFL learners in online educational environments in China. The results offer valuable insights for language educators and program designers, emphasizing the significance of promoting resilience, autonomy, and engaging online pedagogies to support EFL learners' motivation and psychological health in the face of the unique demands of remote instruction. This comprehension is especially important in evolving educational environments, where online learning remains a prominent teaching method.
Evaluation of metaverse-based digital transformation strategies via an interval-valued q-rung orthopair fuzzy methodology The study's findings include important implications for the literature, businesses, and the tourism industry about metaverse and real-world problems.
Research trends and mapping knowledge for maxillary sinus augmentation in oral and maxillofacial surgery This bibliometric study will serve as a guide for future research by illustrating the existing state of knowledge and limitations regarding the development of sinus lifting methods, given the constantly growing demand for implant therapy.
Global or regional: the hidden truth behind ShanghaiRanking's global university ranking by the subject of Law As identified in this study, it is partly due to the flaws of the Top journal indicator used in GRAS. Specifically, it would be beneficial to include more top law journals in the ranking, in order to enhance the regional and sub-discipline representation of legal studies. Future work can focus on more indicators and also consider how to better combine the characteristics of different subjects to customize the ranking of subjects.
Assessment of subject-normalized comprehensiveness of research-intensive universities The present assessment shows that the main difference between hundreds of leading research universities is whether their coverage of all areas of human knowledge is comprehensive or specialized, whereas their mean performance per subject is nearly indistinguishable.
Generalized g-index The new g(3) and g(4) appreciate the scientists who have publications with> >h citations more radically then the original g and g*, and even more radically than ga, α=2. The original g index is unique in some sense, but it can be also considered as a special case of g(n) with n=2, where n=2 was arbitrarily selected. The n values different from 2 including but not limited to 3 and 4 (discussed in the above case study), including fractional values of n, can be more suitable than n=2 in assessment of scientists.
The diversity and (dis-)similarity of Brazilian universities' research portfolios Our results imply that beyond internal diversity also dissimilarity and collaboration patterns across universities should be considered by STI policies.
Authorship transparency and equity in otolaryngology and maxillofacial surgery: current practices and the potential impact of large language models This study highlights the moderate to low adoption of standardized contribution systems in maxillofacial and otolaryngology journals, with a fair level of agreement between reported contributions and actual authorship.
Engagement That Sells: Influencer Video Advertising on TikTok The PE score has an intuitive interpre-tation; it captures to what extent a product is shown in the most engaging part of the video or how engaging the video is when and where the product is shown.
Knowledge Atlas and emerging trends on the impact of mindfulness on tumors: a bibliometric analysis Mindfulness may play an valuable role in cancer treatment. Further exploration may focus on the underlying mechanisms of mindfulness on tumors. This bibliometric analysis describes the current state and hotspots in this field and provides crucial leads for future scientific strategies and research directions. The specific mechanisms of mindfulness on cancer in the molec-ular level needs further investigation, and the application of mindfulness in different types of cancer maybe a promising direction for emerging research.
Journal article classification using abstracts: a comparison of classical and transformer-based machine learning methods Although the two approaches are not directly comparable, we conclude that the classification models show promising results in their specific scenarios, with variations across disciplines.
Does energy poverty undermine health spending in Africa? A comparative analysis of public and private healthcare spending The results indicate that energy poverty influences health expenditure in different ways.
The changing world dynamics of research performance Our findings illuminate significant regional dynamics and shifts in the global academic landscape, with a particular focus on the disciplines of Engineering, Life Sciences, Medical Sciences, Natural Sciences, and Social Sciences. One of the most striking observations is the marked ascendancy of Chinese universities, especially in the fields of Engineering and Life Sciences.
Analysis of the training, self-perception and information competence of young people in Spain in internet search strategies / Análisis de la formación, autopercepción y competencias informacionales de los jóvenes españoles sobre sus estrategias de búsqueda en Internet It is concluded that this population is failing in this information competence and that there is a digital divide that needs to be bridged as a matter of urgency.
Scholarly impact of student authorship in urology research Student authorship is increasing and positively benefits PI H-index.
Visible hands: The impact of subsidy withdrawal on new energy vehicle enterprises' innovation behaviors The findings are as follows: First, the year 2016 subsidy cancellation signal encouraged NEV firms to increase R&D investment to compete in a market without policy protection. Second, the withdrawal of subsidies reduced the appeal of symbolic innovations, as firms no longer sought subsidies for reputation alone. Finally, the impact of subsidy removal significantly boosted R&D investment among non-SOEs, which faced greater competitive pressure and had fewer resource advantages than state-owned firms.
Tourism usage of digital collaborative economy platforms in Europe: Situation, behaviours, and implications for the digital policies Using spatial econometric techniques, this study identifies regional inequalities in terms of the intensity of demand for accommodation offered on digital sharing economy platforms.
The 5-dimensional behavioural coopetitor profile: How to measure it? This research advances our understanding of the coopetitor profile and its components (Chiambaretto et al., 2020; Chim-Miki et al., 2024; Klimas, 2016, 2018; Yan et al., 2020), and coopetition features (Christ et al., 2017; Dorn et al., 2016; Jakobsen, 2020; Klimas, Sachpazidu, & Stańczyk, 2023), and enriches the behavioural approach to coopetition (Crick, 2021; Czakon, Klimas, & Mariani, 2020; Czakon & Rogalski, 2014; Lado et al., 1997; Sellitto et al., 2018; Stadtler & Van Wassenhove, 2016).
The environmental neuroactive chemicals list of prioritized substances for human biomonitoring and neurotoxicity testing: A database and high-throughput toxicokinetics approach In conclusion, this study serves as a novel database integration approach to prioritize environmentally relevant chemicals for further evaluation in relation to neurodevelopmental outcomes, while also incorporating considerations of chemical TK.
A novel synthetical hierarchical community paradigm for social network division from the perspective of information ecosystem We proposed the structure of SHCs in online social networks.
Evolution and response of flood disaster network public opinion based on an event logic graph: A case study of rainstorms in Henan, China Our study provides a technique for determining the dynamic evolution of network public opinion and a useful consultation for the government's upcoming response to network public opinion of natural disaster events.
How external factors influence organisational digital innovation: Evidence from China Our findings enrich the theory of digital innovation ecosystems and provide a reference for enterprises to seize external resources, and for policymakers to focus on policies and regulations that facilitate the flow of data.
Multi-feature fusion for the evaluation of strategic nodes and regional importance in maritime networks This provides actionable insights and guidance for stakeholders to build stability in maritime supply chains.
Content meta-analysis of a racial hereditarian research "bibliography" reveals minimal support for Bird, Jackson Jr., and Winston's model of "scientific racism" BJ&W's characterisation of their bibliography as evidencing wide scale "scientific racism" is therefore not compellingly supported by its contents. The reality is that their bibliography, considered in the overall context of millions of scientific publication per year, makes exactly the opposite point: actually, RHR is extraordinarily rare, even among papers examining human group differences. Thus, BJ&W's call for scientific societies such as the APA to further control RHR seems superfluous.
The impact of data elements on urban sustainable development: Evidence from the big data policy in China This study provides a comprehensive understanding of the interplay between big data policies and sustainable urban development through the lens of data elements.
Examining promotional strategies and trends in successful grant application abstracts: Moves and appraisal resources To summarize the main findings, the study identified a clear move pattern of grant application abstracts, which displayed no significant change over time. Move 2 (Niche) was given more weight as an implicit promotional strategy, more so than Move 6 (Benefits), which is associated with explicit promotion. Regarding appraisal resources, appreciation and upscaling stood out among the categories investigated, with appreciation showing an upward trend over time.
Integration vs segregation: Network analysis of interdisciplinarity in funded and unfunded research on infectious diseases This research provides a generalisable framework to examine the impact of funding in interdisciplinary knowledge creation. We urge funding agencies and policymakers to better recognise and reward interdisciplinary contributions. Funding agencies and research institutions should prioritise mechanisms that encourage intelligent risk-taking.
Educational games in nursing education: A bibliometric and content analysis Research on educational games in nursing education is on the rise.
Towards sustainable consumption decision-making: Examining the interplay of blockchain transparency and information-seeking in reducing product uncertainty Overall, this study's results are consistent with signaling theory [21], emphasizing blockchain transparency as a trust-building solution for consumer satisfaction to lessen the uncertainty about sustainable products.
Valuation of marine integrated disaster management amidst global warming in Southern Coast of Java, Indonesia The present study provided an insightful analysis of community preferences for integrated disaster management strategies in the Southern Coast of Java, Indonesia.
Generating societal impact from collaborations between universities and arts and culture organisations (ACOs): Evidence from a survey of arts and culture professionals in the UK Our empirical findings support the arguments proposed by the CVC framework, that different types of collaborations are associated with different value creation processes and with different beneficiaries of the collaboration.
Evaluation of green space influence on housing prices using machine learning and urban visual intelligence The empirical evaluation of the influence of green spaces on housing prices using both NGVI and AGVI provides a nuanced understanding of their complex economic impact.
Investigating the relationship between family socioeconomic status and online academic help-seeking behaviours: Internet self-efficacy as a mediator Understanding the impact of socioeconomic status on online academic help-seeking provides a new perspective for educators in shaping students' participation in online learning and academic help-seeking.
A geographic analysis and techno-economic assessment of renewable heat sources for low-temperature direct air capture in Europe Spain and Iceland appear to be highly promising locations for the future deployment of various LT-DAC heat source systems if the electric grid is decarbonized as planned or renewable electricity sources are used in the case of Spain. Norway is a promising country mostly for deploying an HTHP system while Germany faces primarily environmental and legal barriers to becoming a promising location for an IWH system in the future. Future research needs to address the limitations of this study by investigating real-life pilot projects, alternative technical designs, and their techno-economic and environmental impact as well as ideal locations within and outside of Europe identified from both the perspective of LT-DAC and the heat sources.
A causal analysis of environmental and financial performance: Differences between brown and green firms This paper re-examines the relationship between the financial performance (FP) and the environmental performance (EP) of firms operating in different (clean/green and dirty/brown) sectors, to rationalize the different findings advanced in the recent literature. Deploying non-recursive structural equation methods (SEMs) in a dynamic panel data setting, we find that only brown firms that perform better financially are able to improve their environmental performance (FP→EP), e.g. by investing more. Further work should address some of the limitations of the study.
Does mobile phone proficiency contribute to stock market participation? The role of payment convenience, liquidity, and social interaction This study pioneers in providing evidence that MPP has a significant and positive impact on SMP.
Evolution and effect of meeting abstracts in JCR journals In summary, the inclusion of MAs leads to a substantial and disproportionate increase in JIF for specific journals. This study is of great relevance for researchers and policymakers, because it helps to identify in which disciplines Meeting Abstracts have relevance and they should be considered for the calculation of indicators in bibliometric practices, and opens the door to research into their relationship with other documentary typologies within the social processes of scientific communication in different sciences.
Climate change and US Corporate bond market activity: A machine learning approach This study has demonstrated that Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) models significantly outperform other ML algorithms in predicting the impact of climate change on net purchases of U.S. corporate bonds.
Strategies to control corruption in economic development: The role of government spending and public satisfaction The empirical results clearly indicate that the economic development efficiency of the EU20 from 2017 to 2021 surpasses that of social development efficiency. For countries where economic development is effi-cient but social development is inefficient, corruption is a contributing factor. Conversely, in countries where social development is efficient but economic development is inefficient, GDP efficiency plays a significant role. From TFSE analysis, it is evident that corruption issues affect the effective fiscal management of the Swedish government, leading to in-efficiencies in both economic and social development, thereby impact-ing Sweden's overall economic efficiency. The European Union stands as one of the world's most significant political and economic alliances, and the findings of this study can serve as a reference and benchmark for countries in other regions.
An advanced meta-ranking for the expanding international business field - Journal status and future trajectories This advancement has the potential to bolster the long-term competitiveness of the discipline by expanding the scope of its scholarship.
Multidimensional policy citation features: Insights into policymakers' policy adoption decision-making This paper marks the first attempt to characterize the citation features of policymakers from a fine-grained and multidimensional lens, aiming to illuminate their policy adoption decisions. Our approach aug-ments the comprehension of policy citation as a powerful tool for elucidating facets of policy adoption. First, our study emphasizes the importance of latecomers learning from early practitioners or regions.
Four European typologies of older adults concerning environmental sustainability The conducted research leads to the following five key findings. Identification of four typologies among older adults: The study identified four distinct typologies of older people across five analysed countries, each with varying levels of engagement in Pro-environmental behaviours, Financial position, and Beliefs. These typologies can be strategically engaged in different ways to promote sustainability at the local level, including the use of renewable en- ergy (systems) as part of their sustainable practices. The findings of this study can help policymakers understand the nuances in the heterogeneity of older people and help them identify groups that need further support or that have already commenced on a sustainable pathway.
The decline of the wage share in value-added: What have we learned from North African firms? In this study, we analyze the impact of various factors on the wage share in industrial firms in three North African countries, based on World Bank surveys conducted between 2013 and 2020.
Limited consensus on what climate anxiety is: Insights from content overlap analysis on 12 questionnaires These results highlight the lack of uniformity in assessing climate anxiety and the need to properly define and operationalize this concept.
Effect of Qatar-based law amendment on pedestrians' behavioral intentions: A PLS-SEM based analysis The results of SEM model indicated that the pedestrian's behavioral intention is strongly influenced by the perceptions of law effectiveness, risk, and safety effectiveness.
Comparing impact of green open access and toll-access publication in the chemical sciences This study set out to refine, confirm, and expand upon previous strong theory and subsequent research studies in the area of research dissemination and impact, specifically through the lens of two important access models: green open access (GOA) and traditional toll-access (TA) models. Specifically, GOA publications benefit from higher rates of social media promotion and readership, leading to enhanced visibility and impact. Future research should continue to explore these dynamics, employing robust statistical models to further our understanding of how different dissemination strategies influence scholarly impact.
Survival Analysis of Glioblastoma: A Scientometric Perspective Considering the significance of monitoring the studies in glioblastoma patients, the current research has shown promising results in stratifying patient survival as a valuable tool for prognosis and prediction and eventually guiding treatment decisions.
Indexing status of orthodontic research published in presumed predatory journals: A bibliometric study The increasing volume of scientific journals and the dynamic landscape complicate the control of information within established scientific databases with orthodontic articles increasingly affected.
Does the coupling of digital and green technology innovation matter for carbon emissions? In a novel approach, this paper integrates the coupling of digital and green technological innovation into the regression analysis, utilizing panel data encompassing 30 provinces in China from 2011 to 2021.
The Bot Delusion. Large language models and anticipated consequences for academics' publication and citation behavior In the article at hand, we conducted a thought experiment to grasp the anticipated consequences of the rapid development of LLMs on the publication and citation system, the underlying normative structure, and their disruptive potential for the scientific system. In addition, we investigated how they might induce a bot delusion, and a stasis or catharsis on academia and scientific disciplines therein. Our three scenarios and science futures might provide working hypotheses or inspire other academics to reflect on the interplay between LLMs, the possible bot delusion on an individual and collective level, and the persisting structures of inequality in academia.
Dark tetrad traits in politicians and voter behavior: Joe Biden and Donald Trump in the 2020 presidential election "The findings underscore the importance of investigating such traits in politicians, especially during 2024-a global election year."
Does outward foreign direct investment and the green transition affect renewable energy penetration among European Union countries? Our conclusions assert that outward foreign direct investment does not contribute to a higher penetration of renewable energy, and we offer two possible explanations for this. To avoid incentivizing the relocation of these investments, which could lead to a decrease in productivity, we recommend the implementation of progressive tax rates that take into account the level of dependency and the temporal period of the investments. Our findings indicate that outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) does not contribute to a greater utilization of renewable energy, a conclusion we have framed within green productivity models.
Assessing the impact of modern streetcar on street robbery at street segment level: a longitudinal comparison in Cincinnati, OH In conclusion, our study reveals that street robbery decreased from pre-construction to post-construction of the streetcar in Cincinnati but became increasingly concentrated on a few street segments, including those with streetcar stations.
